It is excruciatingly obvious that the writer Helen Bailey died horribly because she was targeted by a manipulative predator at a time when she was emotionally vulnerable. Who wouldn’t be, having witnessed the drowning of their partner of 22 years and seen the future she had quite reasonably imagined eradicated? The real horror of this narrative is that Bailey died because she was perfectly normal, in the grip of perfectly normal emotions such as loss and grief, and unfortunate enough to fall into the ambit of a dangerous creature willing mercilessly to exploit those emotions to his own vile advantage. And that is all there is to say about the matter, beyond expression of satisfaction that at least the man is now behind bars.Yet, even in this extraordinary case, a smidgen of victim-blaming still creeps in. The Daily Telegraph has mused that “a lot of middle-aged women find themselves incredibly lonely”. The Daily Mail has pointed out that “middle-aged single women are incredibly vulnerable”, helpfully elaborating on what is meant by “middle-aged”. It means “older women” who are “in the autumn of their years”.Hang on? Autumn? Bailey was 51. At the time she met her murderer, she was 47. One of the many reasons why Bailey’s death seems so cruel is that she very clearly had so much life ahead of her, with so much potential for fulfilment and joy. That is what was stolen from her so callously, not a few sad decades of Eleanor Rigby decline. Her killer homed in on her not just because of her money, but her vivacity, talent and success Must we really believe that, at 47, a woman is going to grasp at whatever excuse for romance she can get, whatever the dark danger it may lead her into? It seems that we do. Sections of the media seem perfectly willing to use Bailey’s murder as an opportunity to reiterate that the grand old age of mid-40s renders women sad creatures who are pitiful and spent, almost inevitably unlovable and easy prey for psychopathic fantasist conmen. If anything makes “middle-aged women” vulnerable, it’s falling for all this ghastly negative reinforcement themselves.How many articles have there been about how awful it is that “middle-aged women” can’t meet “middle-aged men” because all the “middle aged men” are snapping up “younger women”? Tons. And how many articles have there been about how awful it is that “younger men” can’t meet “younger women” because all the “middle-aged men” are snapping them up? None.Women are culturally programmed to go into some kind of existential panic if they find themselves single in their 40s. Men? They’re culturally programmed to believe that whatever they do, they mustn’t get mixed up with an “incredibly lonely” and “incredibly vulnerable” woman in an existential panic. Which, frankly, is fair enough.The objectification of young female bodies is already widely viewed as unhealthy and destructive. It can rob insecure young women of physical joy in themselves, or lead them to place too much reliance on the power of their physical being and too little on the fulfilment of their emotional needs. But the real damage is done to women who, as soon as there’s a sag or a stretchmark, start believing that their body has suddenly become undesirable. The problem here is not age – it’s conditioned insecurity.The English Longitudinal Study Of Ageing, published this week, reported that sexually active women are most happy with their sex lives in their 80s, the significant caveat being that only one in 10 were still at it. The scientists behind the research say they think this is because women of this age are “happiest in their own skin”. Dear God, is this how long it takes women to become completely comfortable with their no-longer-youthful bodies? Is this how few actually make it that far? No wonder “middle age” starts so early.Other reports regularly feature women who say how much more confident they feel in their 50s or 60s, how great a relief it is to stop worrying about what others think of them and start pleasing themselves. I’m happy to admit that only now am I getting to a point where I’m happy with myself. My only regret is that it took me so long.'My happy ever after': how killer fiance duped grieving Helen Bailey I truly believe that the best possible memorial to Helen Bailey would be to reject these “autumn of her years” opinions, and to understand that Bailey’s killer homed in on her not just because of her money, but because of her attractiveness and vivacity, her talent and success, the love of life that had taken such a knock precisely because she was fully in touch with her emotions. These are all things that he wanted for himself and didn’t have.Above all, Bailey knew that she deserved to be desired and to be loved, despite living in a culture that told her again and again that she wasn’t. This awful, sexist, ageist propaganda, around us all the time – this was what let that terrible darkness into her life.Women end up beaten and sometimes killed because men love-bomb them, rush them into commitment, erode their feelings of self-worth and abuse them. It’s an established pattern whereby predators gain control over their partners: idealisation, devaluation, discarding. Sometimes the violence is physical, sometimes it’s psychological. A culture that continues to insist that women lose worth with every year that passes? That’s what primes people for emotional or actual annihilation, not “middle age”.