Police chiefs are calling for the strengthening of measures to detect and sack officers who physically abuse their partners.Although forces around the country should already be investigating staff accused of domestic violence, the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) wants to ensure consistency in dealing with allegations and zero tolerance if they prove founded. Jim Gamble, Acpo spokesman on domestic violence and an assistant chief constable on the national crime squad, said: "Forces do take allegations seriously. But we need to ensure a consistent and more proactive approach. If people don't think we take this seriously enough, how can we convince them to come forward?" The proposals include: · screening applicants to identify any with a history of domestic violence · schemes to encourage partners, relatives and colleagues to tell police management about suspected offenders · a chief police officer to be notified of all such allegations · officers suspected of domestic abuse to be suspended, and arrested in the same way any other alleged offender would be · alleged offenders to be prosecuted subject to the usual rules, even if the victim does not pursue the matter · officers convicted of domestic violence to be sacked, and disciplinary tribunals to consider dismissal an option, even if an officer is not found guilty by a criminal court · welfare programmes for all involved. However, representatives of rank and file officers cautioned that not all cases should be treated the same. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, which represents 28,000 officers from constables to chief inspectors, said: "You cannot presume every offence will lead to automatic dismissal. It is nearly, but not always the case. It would depend on the circumstances and if there isn't sufficient evidence to go to court then it is doubtful if it would go before a disciplinary tribunal. "And you cannot assume every allegation is true and should lead to automatic suspension. Each case has to be considered individually on its merits."