Thousands of inmates are being beaten, bullied and intimidated by prison gangs which are becoming increasing powerful and violent as the prison population soars, The Observer has found.The gangs are involved in everything from drug trafficking and illegal gambling to assault and murder. Some have become so powerful that members make hundreds of pounds a week from the jail drug trade. This money is put aside for when the prisoners are released or used to provide better treatment inside. Those who fail to pay their debts risk violence against themselves or their families. Last week a report into Liverpool's Walton jail, Britain's largest prison, found that on one wing nine of the ten prisoners felt threatened by the gangs. The Chief Inspector of Prisons, Anne Owers, warned that staff had been 'overwhelmed by the imported drug and gang culture'. 'It was clear that the gang culture of the streets outside had infiltrated the prison, resulting in both easy access to drugs and in bullying and intimidation,' said the report. 'For example, inmates who worked in the grounds were under pressure to collect items thrown over the wall by friends and family of bullying inmates. Anyone failing to do so could be assaulted or threatened or made to pay back the market value of the item. Threats sometimes extended to prisoners' families.' Walton governor Cathy James told The Observer: 'Liverpool has a very functional gang network. High-profile gangsters do not stop their operations simply because they are in prison.' The same situation is repeated across the country. Last month Ronnie O'Sullivan Sr, father of the snooker player, was accused of running a drugs ring from his cell in HMP Swaleside in Kent. Convicted of murder in 1992, O'Sullivan was alleged to have been part of a gang supplying cocaine, heroin and other contraband to prisoners. A report by staff accused him of terrorising other inmates and using his network of contacts on the outside to get money and drugs smuggled in during visits. Kimmett Edgar, research manager at the Prison Reform Trust, has identified two main gang types behind violence. 'There are imported conflicts from existing street gangs. Then there are power struggles between groups that effectively run sections of the prison and have internal conflicts over the control of territory. A lot of the violence within prison is the result of criminal activity and staff need to have sufficient numbers and training to control that behaviour.' A recent worrying development has been the rise of 'white supremacist' gangs, a feature of the US prison system. Racial differences have been found to be a significant factor to fights and assaults, with a disproportionate number of incidents involving prisoners of different ethnic groups. One such gang is known to have been behind the death of 19-year-old Zahid Mubarek, who was murdered by his cellmate while at Feltham Young Offenders' Institution. The public inquiry into his death, due to end in March, has heard that his killer, Robert Stewart, was part of a gang which murdered fellow inmates. Mubarek was killed on the day he was due to be released, and murders by other members of the group also took place on 'days of significance'. Stewart's best friend in prison, Maurice Travis, murdered another inmate on the victim's 17th birthday. Another friend of Stewart killed his victim on the day of his grandmother's funeral. Members of the group bragged about their killings in letters to one another. 'We are all evil,' Stewart wrote in one. Although most violence is believed to be drug-related, studies have found that power struggles between individuals and 'non-material interests', such as whether prisoners have shown 'respect' to certain gang leaders, are also major factors.