The jury in the case of three men accused of helping the July 7 London bombers was today dismissed after failing to reach a verdict in three weeks of deliberations.Waheed Ali, 25, Sadeer Saleem, 28, and Mohammed Shakil, 32, were the first people to be tried in connection with the 2005 attacks on London's transport network that killed 52 people.The three were today remanded in custody following the dismissal of the jury, which had retired to consider its verdict on July 14. Mr Justice Gross said he was working on the assumption there might be a retrial next year, while the Crown Prosecution Service said it was considering its position.The prosecution case rested on an alleged "hostile" reconnaissance mission that explored potential targets in London and was carried out by the three men with two of the bombers in December 2004. The group visited locations including the London Eye, Natural History Museum and London Aquarium.The prosecution told Kingston crown court that the trip was an "essential preparatory step ... to bring death and destruction to the heart of the United Kingdom". The defendants insisted they had been in London for social reasons, visiting the tourist attractions only for sightseeing. Ali argued that if the group had been scouting for targets, they would not have used their own mobile phones and cars, and what was described as a "mission" by the prosecution would in fact have been the "worst reconnaissance in history".Ali, Saleem and Shakil grew up in Beeston, Leeds, attending the same mosques, gyms and community organisations as Mohammad Sidique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer and Hasib Hussain, three of the July 7 bombers.They admitted holding extreme Islamist views and undertaking jihadi training in Pakistan. However, they played down the significance of the training, drawing a distinction between a readiness to fight to protect Muslim lands and the killing of innocent people in Britain. The three men were interviewed by police shortly after the bombings. Cell site analysis - which shows the location of a mobile phone when a call is made - demonstrated that all three of the men, as well as Hussain and the fourth bomber, Jermaine Lindsay, were in London on December 16 and 17 2004, in areas the prosecution said bore a "striking similarity" to where the suicide attacks would later take place.They were placed under surveillance, leading to their arrest in March 2007. When the men were charged, police said it was "highly likely" there would be further arrests. The dismissal of the jury means no one has been convicted in connection with the deadliest terrorist attack in Britain's history.