A woman was yesterday found guilty of using the "date-rape" drug Rohypnol to knock out a wealthy banker and film director and steal thousands of pounds of goods from their luxury flats.Selina Hakki, 37, a mother of two, targeted the men at plush London nightspots and encouraged them to take her back to their flats. She then spiked their drinks and suggested they retire to bed. While the men lay unconscious she helped herself to designer clothes, watches, clocks and cash. When the men awoke, they discovered their valuables had gone. Hakki, a married woman from Bow in East London, is believed to be the first woman to be convicted of using the drug against men. Outside Middlesex crown court Detective Inspector Paul Healy said Hakki had "thought nothing" of the consequences of administering a drug like Rohypnol. "Anyone with an allergic reaction could easily have died," he said. The court had heard how in September last year Alexander Jovy, a film director, met Hakki in the Aura nightclub in Piccadilly, in central London. Mr Jovy, 34, told the court he recalled little of the club but he had a memory of heading back to his flat in Maida Vale, west London, with Hakki in a taxi. He poured two glasses of red wine and popped into the bathroom. After he returned, Hakki suggested: "Perhaps we should go to the bedroom," but as he got up he collapsed. Mr Jovy, who received an Oscar nomination in 1998 for his film Holiday Romance, said: "I remember that very clearly. I just collapsed on the floor. I remember the glass of wine breaking. I was very confused." When he awoke he found that a Cartier clock, a back pack and video camera had been taken. But most disturbing was the disappearance of a £5,000 Rolex watch which his late father had given him as a 21st birthday present. Mr Jovy told the court the watch "really means everything for me". Mr Jovy went to Paddington Green police station. Samples of his blood and urine were taken and found to contain traces of Rohypnol. Back at his flat, Hakki's DNA was discovered on cigarette ends. Hakki was traced and the case was linked with a similar incident in May 2002 when a City banker, Volker Vogler, 38, met a woman at the Windows on the World bar in the Hilton Hotel on Park Lane, in central London. Mr Vogler went to chat with the woman, who turned out to be Hakki. She asked if she could go home with him. At the flat in Knightsbridge he poured two glasses of red wine - she favoured red because it disguised a blue dye added to the drug as a safety precaution - then went to the toilet. When he returned she encouraged him to finish off his drink. He told the court: "She had taken off a bit of her clothing and she said: 'Why don't you loosen up and go to the bedroom and I will follow you.' I got up, went into the bedroom and that's the last thing I remember." Next day he woke up feeling so groggy he was unable to go to work. Rubbish was strewn all over the kitchen floor and he discovered the black Versace jeans and jumper he was wearing the night before had been stolen, along with three pairs of shoes, an £850 Omega watch, a Tiffany alarm clock, cash and other items. Describing his condition when he woke, Mr Vogler, now 38, said: "I felt very dizzy, I could hardly walk, I almost fell over when I went to the bathroom ... This was certainly not a hangover, it was much more out of control." The jury took just 20 minutes to convict Hakki of causing Rohypnol to be taken, which carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. She sobbed as her barrister, Bernard Eaton, told the court she had undergone 15 years of psychiatric treatment after an "unhappy childhood". His plea for her to be given bail so she could spend Christmas with her children, six and 12, was rejected by the judge. She will be sentenced on January 17.