Police forces should be made more accountable to the communities they serve by replacing local police authorities with more "visible" elected police commissioners, the Tory leader, Michael Howard, proposed today.Mr Howard said a Tory government would scrap the current police authorities, which are made up of local councillors and magistrates, because nobody knew who they were. The new plan, which attracted comparisons with the American system of police sheriffs, is part of Mr Howard's attempt to focus on law and order ahead of the general election, which is expected on May 5. Critics of the idea say it could allow policing to be unduly influenced by a winning candidate with strong views on one issue and would lead to greater politicisation of policing. Lord Harris, who sits on the executive of the Association of Police Authorities, said the Conservatives seemed to be saying chief constables should be told what to do by a single politician. "That is overturning nearly 200 years of the way in which we have organised policing in this country to avoid the politicisation of policing decisions," Lord Harris told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.But Mr Howard, who was due to formally announce the policy later today in Manchester, insisted that chief constables would retain their "vital" operational independence. He told Today: "The commissioners will have the powers which existing local police authorities have. The trouble is, and it is no reflection on the people who are on the police authorities, they are good people, but hardly anyone knows who they are. "They are not very conspicuous or prominent. No one thinks if they are worried or unhappy about the way the police are operating I must go and talk to the police authority about it. They are not providing the local accountability we want to see."He said police had never been more accountable to central government, but there was a "gap between police and the local communities they serve". Mr Howard rejected comparisons with the US system, saying the "American sheriff is an operational policeman" and his plans were "quite different".In a newspaper advert at the weekend, Mr Howard said crime was "out of control". Earlier this week he revived the "prison works" message of the 90s, promising to build more of them and also set out tougher sentencing policies that would make criminals serve full sentences. Judges would set a minimum sentence - to be served in full - and a maximum to be served by those still considered a threat. The Tories have also promised to recruit 5,000 more police a year.Mr Howard confirmed today that Tory plans to send asylum seekers to an "island" for processing had been scrapped. But he was attacked for his stance on ID cards as Tory MPs prepared to abstain in a key vote. The Conservative leader has said he backs the measure against the instincts of key shadow cabinet colleagues, but the Tory home affairs spokesman, David Davis, announced Tory MPs would abstain because questions about the scheme remained. The prime minister, Tony Blair, believes the Tory leader has committed a strategic blunder that opens the way for Tory peers to join forces with Liberal Democrats in the Lords to kill the bill. Mr Blair told MPs yesterday the cards were the best way to fight terrorism, organised crime and immigration abuses. Mr Blair said: "By abstaining, the Tory leader will confirm he is too opportunistic to come to a principled position and too weak to lead his party in one direction or another."