The two unarmed women officers were called to the unremarkable pebble-dashed house on an estate in Tameside on Tuesday morning by a seemingly innocuous reporting of a burglary. It was the sort of call they dealt with on a daily basis and nothing seemed out of the ordinary, as the address was not known to officers as being of particular concern.However, when constables Fiona Bone, 32, and Nicola Hughes, 23, knocked on the door in Abbey Gardens, on the Hattersley estate in Mottram, they were confronted by Dale Cregan, 29, a one-eyed fugitive who has been on Greater Manchester Police's most-wanted list following his suspected role in the murders of 23-year-old Mark Short in spring, and the murder of his 46-year-old father David Short, three weeks ago.Police say Cregan leapt out of the house and threw a grenade at the two unarmed officers, who were both gravely injured, and fired a shotgun at them. He drove off at speed from the estate in a blue BMW one series car, before crashing it and handing himself in at the nearby Hyde police station, as emergency services raced to the scene. One of the officers died there and the other was pronounced dead in hospital. It is the biggest loss of police officers since the notorious 1966 murders in Ealing and is the first time two female officers have been killed.His alleged associate was arrested earlier this month at a park in Openshaw by armed officers following a tip-off, but still Cregan evaded police until Tuesday. However, some sources on the estate alleged Cregan had been seen drinking in nearby pubs in the last fortnight. It was impossible to verify these claims.While he was being sought by police the £25,000 reward for information leading to his arrest was doubled. His mugshot was beamed on to the big screens at Manchester City's stadium and on a van driven round the city centre as armed officers patrolled Droylsden and Clayton to search for him – all to no avail as detectives were faced with a wall of silence about Cregan.What is known for sure is that Cregan had links to the estate and the force had previously targeted the area with armed officers in a search for him. Cregan was wanted in relation to his suspected involvement in a grenade attack that killed David Short at his house in Clayton, east Manchester on 10 August, three months after the murder of Short's son Mark. Cregan had already been arrested on suspicion of his involvement with the Mark Short murder – he was shot in the neck as he played pool at the Cotton Tree Inn in Droylsden on 25 May – but had been released on bail.Three other men were also injured during the shooting. Four men have been arrested in connection with the murder of Mark Short, a muscular amateur boxer who, like his father, had a violent history. Two other men have been charged with David Short's murder and Ward has also been charged with murder and attempted murder.Prior to his death, David Short had been repeatedly alerted by police that his life was in danger and had begun wearing a bulletproof vest as far back as 2004. By this time, the Greater Manchester force had issued him with three Osman warnings – served when officers receive information to suggest someone is at risk of being seriously harmed or killed.Six years ago, David Short was jailed for six years for possessing a firearm with intent after he and his son drove a gunman away from the scene of where shots were fired. Mark Short appeared before the courts as part of his role in the incident, but escaped being detained in a young offenders' institution. In the aftermath of the shooting, David Short assaulted a man during a drunken row in the Garibaldi pub in Gorton and was convicted for wounding. As far back as the 1990s, he appeared in court accused of witness intimidation.The Greater Manchester police chief constable, Sir Peter Fahy, said hundreds of officers were involved in the search for Cregan and the force had executed 50 firearms warrants.He described it as "one of the darkest days" in the history of the force "and for policing in the UK as a whole." Fahy said he believed that Cregan was in a house in Abbey Gardens overnight and at some point in the morning he or someone else has made a call reporting the burglary and effectively luring the officers to their deaths. Fahy said they had no intelligence to suggest that Cregan had been "specifically targeting police officers".Fahy described the huge operation across Greater Manchester to find Cregan, with hundreds of officers and specialist units involved. The officers involved are "shattered" by what has happened. The chief constable said Cregan's alleged motive for the attack was unclear and claimed Cregan had been protected by a criminal conspiracy to harbour him. He admitted there had been concern that Cregan may target others while on the run.The address is not known to police and had not featured on their intelligence systems. As it was a routine call, two unarmed officers were sent to the house and there hadn't been any need to send armed officers there, Fahy added.A cordon was thrown around the area, on top of a hill, with residents having to leave their cars in a layby on the main A57. The force helicopter hovered overhead and a bomb disposal team was in situ, carrying out a controlled explosion nearby.More floral tributes were left at the police cordon last night. One note attached read: "To the families and colleagues of Fiona and Nicola. Our deepest sympathies. Your colleagues at Sankey police station, Cheshire Police."Another said: "Nicola, Thank You For The Smiles."Attached to another bouquet was: "RIP For Our Two Brave Fighters Fiona and Nicola. Sadly Missed By All. Our Thoughts Are With Your Families."One resident said 12 shots were fired and an explosion took place shortly after the police car arrived at the property mid-morning. Window cleaner Warren Sheppard was up a ladder nearby when the shooting happened. He said: "I heard about 10 shots quite close, bang, bang, bang, like that. I knew they were gunshots because sometimes there is clay pigeon shooting in the fields. "I heard a big explosion about 10 seconds after the shots. I got off the ladder, walked round, saw an empty police car. A car went speeding past to the main road." He went back to his van but could see the aftermath through a gap between two houses. "It was like something on the movies," he said.During his time as a fugitive, police issued a photograph of Dale Cregan with a fake onyx eye, although he had a number of different "ordinary" eyes in varying colours. He boasted to friends that he had lost his eye after being struck with a knuckle duster during a fight with police in Thailand, but it is not clear how he really lost it.Assistant chief constable Garry Shewan said Cregan had been arrested and bailed following the murder of Mark Short in May this year.At Ashworth Lane, the first person to lay flowers, Karen Hutchinson, said: "My heart goes out to the officers who've died. It's too close to home. It is hard when it happens on your doorstep."The force vowed to track down and bring to justice all those who had been sheltering and harbouring Cregan. Other people who were in the houseon Tuesday are said to be "helping police with their inquiries," Fahy added. Cregan is being questioned by detectives on suspicion of four murders.Fahy paid full tribute to both officers. Of Hughes he said: "Nicola enjoyed karate. She was bubbly and loved life and socialising. She was a chatterbox and was always smiling, even after a night shift when everyone else was a bit grumpy. She was a good listener and could not do enough for people. She was a lovely friend, and a great bobby."And of Bone: "When she first joined the shift she was quite quiet and reserved. However, she came out of her shell and had a great sense of humour. She was so happy with her partner and they were in the middle of planning their wedding. Indeed her partner only spoke to her this morning about the wedding invites and fellow officers gave her advice about how to make them on the computer."Her fellow officers said that they always loved being partnered off with her as she was always calm, collected and professional, and could defuse situations with her calm, gentle way. She was an excellent bobby, and cared about her job, and the community she served."