Police staff were once known as "civilians" and viewed by the public as little more than traffic wardens and typists. But today they account for a third of all the force's personnel and cover a wide range of professional and technical expertise, such as fingerprint experts, forensic investigators and station inquiry officers. Many of the 80,000 police staff are in higher management positions.The process of upgrading the skills of police staff to free up officers from routine duties - previously called civilianisation and now "workforce modernisation" - has been gathering pace. The potential has been explored by the Home Office, with a £13m fund to support 10 pilots around England and Wales, covering custody management, neighbourhood policing and investigations. The two-year programme is due to end this autumn.The Divisional Crime Investigation Team (DCIT) pilot being run by Surrey police in the Waverley area, which covers Farnham and Cranleigh, is one of the most ambitious. It involves police staff working closely with officers to investigate high-volume, repeat crimes, such as burglary and theft. Though supervised by officers, the investigation of lesser offences is moving outside a copper's traditional remit. Historic boundaries are shifting.The scheme has six teams, each with a detective constable managing a police constable, two or three dedicated staff investigating officers and an administrator-allocator. Staff work involves, for instance, taking statements and seizing exhibits. There is no need for the coercive powers that officers are traditionally trained in. The requirements of an investigating officer are a minimum of two years' experience in investigation.Investigating officer Adrian Russell works in a team that is sharing workloads and information and can cope with members being sick or on leave. He says: "In the past, if a constable was off sick, the case would sit on his workload and nothing would get done. Now, the detective constable will be aware of this and the allocator will share it out."Bob Quick, Surrey's chief constable, is an enthusiastic workforce moderniser who tries to balance public expectations with the need to change. He estimates that it costs his force £330,000 to recruit and train a constable, but 60% of their time goes on high-volume repetitious actions and 30% on routine clerical work. "They spend only 10% on exclusive tasks - complex problem solving, negotiating with partners and using coercive power. By developing a flexible workforce, with the right people undertaking the right jobs, police officers can concentrate on where they make the most impact - policing and managing investigations rather than routine tasks and administration."Quick is conscious of the tensions caused by the political emphasis on police officer numbers. He says: "I would like more flexibility over numbers so that I can configure the most effective mix of staff for my force. This would mean a marginal reduction in police officer numbers, but would increase overall staff numbers along with our operational effectiveness and improve the levels of service we can offer."Initial evaluation by the Institute of Employment Studies is encouraging. The DCIT showed the highest increase in detection rates in the country - 27.8% compared to a force average of 7.7% - with more crime being investigated than a neighbouring force (25.2% compared to 12.9%) and crimes being resolved at least 27% faster than the neighbouring force.But what do the coppers make of it? For Detective Constable Mark Woodall, the Waverley pilot has gone well. He says: "This is my first supervisory role, and working with police staff has been very beneficial. I have been investigating more crimes, quicker and with better results."Woodall reports a "spectrum" of views among fellow officers. "Some are concerned and do not understand the process, others think it's a great way of working." Funding runs out in November. But, given its success, Surrey police is seriously considering extending the scheme itself.