I get a bit twitchy whenever a reform-minded government decides to take on the police, curb their numbers or bad habits, cut their overtime budgets, too. The coalition is currently attempting to do all this with the 28,000 job losses signalled this morning.There's a lot of turbulence in British society at present, a lot of stress caused by lost jobs and opportunity, lost services – from buses to childcare – rising costs – such as petrol – and ill-ease about unfairness. All things considered we're a pretty law-abiding lot, but the thin blue line rests on assumptions, illusions even, that are often wafer thin.It's not that I go about my business burdened by undue fear of common-or-garden crime, though my local police team – itself a community policing novelty – is doing its best to frighten the neighbourhood out of complacency, real or imagined, despite falling official crime figures.Last month a "crime hotspot" sign appeared on the pavement 100 yards from my front door and stayed there (unstolen) for weeks. Then a community support officer (CSO) paid a call to warn my wife about all the burglaries and muggings in our street, crimes of which we had been largely unaware."The burglars put their hands through big letterboxes like yours and take the house or car keys," he told Mrs White. Nonsense, I said when I got home. Even if the keys were handy, you can't get your hand through that letterbox – as I proceeded to demonstrate from outside.Never mind, I'm sure it was well-meant. The local team left us alone for several days until yesterday, when a leaflet came through that provocative letterbox with the team's photo – two PCs and two CSOs – on the front page.Residents in our quiet late Victorian suburb had told the team "the following priorities are important to you", namely burglaries, theft from vehicles and antisocial behaviour. In response they had paid visits to "vulnerable residents" (that must mean me. Remember that, you lot) and offered advice. Now they are offering a couple of public meetings and something called "neighbourhood dog".It must be good stuff if there's a dog involved, though I can't shake the uncharitable thought that there must be more demanding neighbourhoods than ours to be paying such attention to. Indeed, there is one a mile away, 60s tower blocks now being replaced with something better, but still tough and troubled.None of these problems are going to be eased by the still-evolving impact of the recession and the cuts – cuts that Labour would have had to make but that the coalition has chosen to make faster and deeper to impress the banking community on whose loans we currently depend.Compare Amelia Gentleman's report in today's Guardian – a Commons select committee's encounter with the harsh new tests disability claimants face in Burnley – and Jill Treanor's account of the £110m worth of bonuses paid to Bob Diamond and other senior executives of Barclays investment arm, Barclays Las Vegas.A familiar tale, but troubling, and its evident unfairness weakens the social glue that holds society together. It gives hardworking, respectable folk doubts about the implied social contract that keeps us going.It also makes less hardworking and respectable folk – burglars, car thieves, investment bankers – bolder in assessing what they think they can get away with nicking from the neighbours or the shareholders.That's why I get jittery when I see a government taking on the police alongside everyone else. It is not a mistake Margaret Thatcher made in the turbulent 80s. Her complaint – the old Tory jibe – that Labour tries to solve problems "by throwing money at them" was not applied by her to the boys in blue.The result was that when they confronted striking miners in the long battle of 1984-85, the coppers waved their overtime slips at the strikers. There was no question of where their loyalty lay, or that of all but the most fastidious of police chiefs: with their duty to uphold the law against disorder and a reckless, desperate and doomed strike.How strong is that feeling now, I wonder? The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) is the publicly funded private body that drew up today's 28,000 job-loss estimate from its 43 member forces in England and Wales. Acpo is getting its wings clipped in the wake of its costly and improper undercover police exercise that saw officers penetrate green protest movements and a number of their women members.Some high-profile senior officers are in hot water for their handling of student demos, others for heavy-handed tactics in dealing with minority communities and/or terrorist suspects, another smaller group for its kid-gloves treatment of the News of the World over alleged widespread phone-tapping of celebs and politicians.No well-publicised dawn raids, arrests or leaked interviews for Rupert Murdoch's minions – the kind meted out to Tony Blair's lieutenants during the loans-for-honours affair. And wasn't Blair's appointee to head the Met, Ian (no relation) Blair, eased out after heavy briefing and an intervention by Mayor Boris?Blair is a silly man, to be sure, but he championed what Met traditionalists regarded as politically correct causes such as community policing – the folk now warning me about the letterbox – and taking rape allegations more seriously. Inhibited by his Lib Dem allies and socially liberal instincts, David Cameron has not disowned those policies either.So there is a simmering sense of resentment in the ranks, at all levels, over the cuts and the mysterious leaks about bad practice – the cop who answered a phone call and got four hours' overtime – that appear routinely in the rabid media, alongside similar yarns about town-hall pay and "gold-plated" civil service pensions.On Radio 4's Today, Paul McKeever, chairman of the Police Federation, the rank and file's formidable trade union, has just been complaining – in level-headed terms, too – about the anger and demoralisation of his members after unfair leaks and cuts.Defence faces 7% cuts, education 8%, the NHS none at all (actually huge efficiency savings), and the police a 20% reduction in government grants, he said. To save jobs, as Vikram Dodd and Alan Travis report today, they are facing overtime cuts on top of a two-year pay freeze and increased pension contributions.Tough medicine, and most of us are being squeezed one way or another. But the police have a particular function to perform for society, in quiet times and bad.Perhaps it's just that I can't shake off Cormac McCarthy's bleak, dystopian vision of the future since reading The Road. But it's not burglaries that trouble me – nasty though they are – but a fear of wider and deeper disorder.As with much else, I'm not sure that coalition ministers quite know what they're doing as they cheerfully fiddle with the catch on Pandora's Box.