A man accused of being a serial rapist told a court today that if he had been guilty he would have fled the country when police asked him for a DNA sample.Giving evidence for a third day at Maidstone crown court, Antoni Imiela said he had £4,000 in cash and could have gone to stay with relatives in Germany after he was contacted by officers on November 18 2002. "If I'd done the bloody thing I would have pissed off out of the country. I would have caught a ferry," he told the court.Mr Imiela, a railway worker, also said that if he had committed the rapes he would have used a condom from the beginning to avoid leaving evidence. "I think if I was the bloke who would be capable of doing that, unless something was mentally wrong or deficient, I'd say I was smart enough to use a condom. What would I want to rape a 10-year-old girl for?" he said.The 49-year-old, from Appledore, near Ashford in Kent, denies raping eight women and girls aged between 10 and 52 in south-east England. He also denies kidnapping, indecently assaulting, and attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham. All the offences are alleged to have taken place between November 2001 and November 2002. Mr Imiela was arrested after his DNA sample was found to match that taken from a 10-year-old girl who was raped in Ashford. Asked by Mark Dennis QC, prosecuting, about an attack on another girl of the same age in Birmingham - which happened two days after the defendant's DNA was taken for testing - Mr Imiela said he had been in the area at the time because he had decided to take a day off work. The defendant told the court he had picked up two "non-Muslim Kurds" who were hitchhiking at a service station on the M25, and agreed to take them to Manchester. He said he intended to visit a former boyfriend called Steve, who lived near Manchester, who he had not seen since 1987. Mr Imiela has already told the court that he has been gay for most of his life.However, there was no answer at the address and instead he went to Birmingham for "no particular reason", the court heard today. "That's your story, isn't it? You have absolutely no support for it at all," said Mr Dennis"None," the defendant replied.When asked by Mr Dennis to explain why more than 100 fibres linked to his clothes were found on garments worn by the girl, the railway worker replied that he thought he had been "well fitted up". Mr Dennis listed the fibres that had been found, including six pink nylon fibres that matched material in curtains at Mr Imiela's house. "That is quite a lot of fibres from five different sources which have similarities and no apparent differences. Can you explain that?" Mr Dennis asked. "I'd like to say I could. My explanation is that I have been well fitted up, as the term goes," Mr Imiela replied.He added that his explanation had the "proviso" that he might be able to prove it shortly. Mr Dennis then asked why it was - if he was innocent - that a trace of sperm had been found on the Birmingham victim's face as well as DNA on her hands which matched part of Imiela's profile. "A bit of a coincidence given the account that she gives of what happened which is being stripped in a car and forced to have oral sex," he said.The trial continues.