The family of a man stabbed to death by a violent paranoid schizophrenic patient have demanded a full independent inquiry into how the killer walked free from a psychiatric hospital just hours before the attack. John Barrett, 42, admitted killing Denis Finnegan as the 50-year-old banker cycled through Richmond park, south-west London, last September. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. But the Old Bailey heard yesterday that Barrett had been only a voluntary psychiatric patient - despite a history of mental illness, an 18-month spell in a secure unit for stabbing three other people, and fears about his deteriorating condition. This meant doctors had no power to detain him when he walked out of Springfield hospital in Tooting, south London, last September. He stayed overnight at a friend's home. The next morning, he bought a set of kitchen knives at a DIY store, took a taxi to Richmond park and jumped out on Mr Finnegan, as he passed on his daily bike ride, stabbing him repeatedly. The victim, a single man from Doncaster, South Yorkshire, was a Royal Bank of Scotland official. He was just back in his Putney home a month after a two-year career break touring America and Australia. Family and friends have produced a tribute book, Denis Rides On, from the emails and postcards he sent. The killing is one of a number of recent cases which have raised questions about mental health policy and the care in-the community scheme. Barrett spent 18 months in Springfield's secure unit, until October 2003, after he stabbed and seriously injured two male patients and a female nurse at an outpatients' clinic at St George's hospital, Tooting. An independent mental health tribunal approved his conditional discharge, despite the objections of David Blunkett, the then home secretary. But within months, his partner of 10 years, Jane Whittaker, was so worried about his deteriorating mental state that she alerted Springfield's crisis line, and the Home Office was considering his urgent recall. Last August, he launched a verbal assault on a stranger in Putney High Street, and on September 1, he returned to Springfield secure unit. But he was not sectioned, and was free to wander the hospital grounds unaccompanied, so he simply left. South West London and St George's mental health NHS trust, which runs Springfield, has launched an internal inquiry and has changed its procedures so those admitted to the secure unit cannot retain the right to leave at any time. But Mr Finnegan's brother, John Finnegan, 47, called for a full, independent inquiry. "If John Barrett had been properly cared for, Denis would be here today," he said. "Everybody involved in his care should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves. He was a dangerous man. He was in hospital the day before and he was allowed to walk away. This should never be allowed to happen again." Barrett was one of about 4,300 restricted psychiatric patients in England and Wales, of whom 3,000 are detained in secure hospitals, such as Broadmoor. The rest are on conditional discharge and their cases are managed by the Home Office's mental health unit. The mental health charity Sane estimates that mentally ill people are responsible for about 40 deaths a year. Marjorie Wallace, Sane's chief executive, said: "We are increasingly concerned at the number of seriously disturbed patients who are allowed to discharge themselves, abscond or simply leave psychiatric wards, sometimes to their own deaths, with failing efforts being made to protect either them or the public, or give adequate warnings to families, police or those entrusted with their care. "These cases act as a further blow to the care in the community policy, increasing the stigma for the majority of people who have mental illness who are never violent. "If the public cannot have confidence in the psychiatric services to make risk assessments and monitor those who may pose a risk to themselves or others, how can they retain their faith in the system?" Michael Howlett, director of the Zito Trust, which raises awareness of problems with care in the community, said: "This man [Barrett] had already been through the system. He was a restricted patient. He had already committed a serious offence. "These are the people who are supposed to be the most closely monitored and closely supervised in the community. You have every opportunity to stop them committing any more serious offences." Mr Howlett said mental health services must pay greater heed to the worries of families and friends. "This is one of the long-standing failures of community care, the failure to listen to people who know best, who see the early warning signs and know what they mean." Barrett was held in Belmarsh prison, south-east London, after his arrest, but has been transferred to Broadmoor. He will be sentenced next month.