Police finally entered the burned-out mansion of the troubled oil industry tycoon Christopher Foster yesterday but were no closer to solving the mystery over his four-day disappearance with his wife and teenage daughter.Officers began searching Osbaston House, at Maesbrook, near Oswestry, Shropshire, after structural engineers prevented its collapse. At one point officers were forced to withdraw when masonry began to tumble.Police confirmed they had found the remains of the family's three pet dogs in the hallway but declined to comment on reports that the animals had been shot. Two horses were found in a burned-out stable block shortly after the home and several outhouses were set on fire early last Tuesday morning.Superintendent Gary Higgins said: "There is extensive debris at the site and it will take possibly several weeks to complete this part of the investigation."Some detectives believe that a thorough search of the building will reveal the remains of Foster, 50, his wife, Jill, 49, and their 15-year daughter, Kirstie. They were last seen at a barbecue on Monday evening and appeared relaxed and happy. A photograph taken at the gathering, and released by police, shows all three smiling.Foster's sister, Anne Giddings, said she and other family members were desperately worried. "We are devastated. This just doesn't happen to your own family - it's like something you see on TV. We are all just in limbo at the moment - it's just hellish having to wait. My brother Roger is in pieces about the whole thing."Foster's main business, Ulva Ltd, which supplied insulated pipes to the offshore oil industry, had made him wealthy while he was still in his 20s. Neighbours have said that he enjoyed the multi-millionaire's lifestyle after moving into the £1.2m house four years ago, driving Porsches and Aston Martins, buying horses for his wife and daughter, and educating Kirstie at Ellesmere College, a £14,000-a-year private school in Shropshire.But it is now clear that Foster had been facing financial pressure after the collapse of his business and may have feared that his creditors were about to seize the property.By the middle of last year the business was alleged to owe suppliers £1m and the Inland Revenue a further £800,000. Foster launched another company, Ulva International, but an appeal court judge ruled that he had conducted "an asset stripping exercise" so that he could continue trading. The judge added that Foster "was not to be trusted" and "bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality".Administrators were appointed for the business on August 14 last year, but on September 26 Birmingham high court ordered that the company be wound up and liquidators be appointed.It appears that the liquidators were able to prevent Foster from selling or remortgaging his home, as Land Registry records show that a court order was obtained in October last year making clear that "no deposition by the proprietor of the registered estate is to be registered except under a further order".The liquidators obtained an interim charge on the property in May and Foster may have feared that his family were about to lose their home. The administrators referred calls to West Mercia police and the liquidator declined to comment. Police were last night examining Kirstie's computer after it was reported that she may have been talking online to friends in the hours before the fire.A spokeswoman for West Mercia Constabulary said: "We are aware that Kirstie had a computer and the use of that forms part of the inquiry."