Dissident republicans opposed to the peace process were blamed for a paramiltary-style murder in Northern Ireland early today.Jim McConnell was shot repeatedly by two masked men who entered his house in the mainly Protestant Waterside area of Derry shortly after midnight. He was taken to Altnagelvin hospital where he died from his wounds.The Police Service of Northern Ireland is investigating reports that the shooting was a vigilante attack. A tarpaulin has been erected and the area cordoned off while forensic officers examine the scene.William Hay, the Democratic Unionist assembly member for Foyle who is the speaker of the Stormont parliament, said he believed dissident republicans were responsible."That is worrying because you still have organisations out there who think the only way they can solve the problem of Northern Ireland is by killing someone and taking the law into their own hands," he said.If confirmed, it would be the first murder in more than six years by dissident republicans in Northern Ireland. Their last victim was David Caldwell, a civilian security guard at a Territorial Army barracks in Derry, who died after picking up a booby-trapped lunchbox left at the base in August 2002.Security sources today said McConnell, 38, had no connection to the security forces.Dissident republican groups opposed to the peace process have a presence on Derry's City Side and over the last 18 months have been actively targeting police for assassination. In late 2007 the Real IRA in Derry shot and wounded a Catholic recruit to the PSNI as he took his son to school in Derry city centre. The terrorist group has been responsible for shooting and exiling at gunpoint a number of alleged drug dealers operating in republican areas of the city.The former republican prisoner and Sinn Fein assembly member Raymond McCartney said: "The people in this city have overwhelmingly shown their support for the republican project as it's going forwards, and if these people are trying to step in to fill any vacuum which they feel exists then they have had their answer. So if this is coming from a group that calls themselves republicans then there is no support for their actions."A neighbour of the dead man said he was shocked by the shooting."I was awakened this morning around about two o'clock by the police and they told me then that the man had been shot," said the man, who did not wish to be identified. "I haven't really slept since, to be honest it's just unbelievable, it's a really, really quiet neighbourhood, you just don't expect that."A local parish priest, Father Joe Gormley, said the area was "in a very sad place" over the killing.The mayor of Derry, Gerard Diver, condemned the murder. "It certainly looks like a particularly grotesque and brutal shooting by masked men, something that harks back to the worst days of the Troubles," he said. "My reaction is one of complete horror; people will be shocked to the core about this."