Police were today questioning a man arrested on suspicion of murder after a teenager broke into a house and was stabbed to death.Detectives were given extra time to hold the 22-year-old after another man in his twenties and four youths in their teens were released following two days of questioning.The youth, who was named today as Tyler Peter Juett, 17, from Aspley in Nottingham, was found dying at the semi-detached house on the Heathfield estate in the city's Old Basford area on Friday afternoon. The exact circumstances of what happened remained unclear today but it is understood that he was confronted by a man at the property.A postmortem examination carried out yesterday showed Juett died from a stab wound.A broken garden fence and smashed patio door were still visible at the house today, which remained cordoned off as forensic officers conducted a search. Neighbours described the couple who live at the house as "good people", originally from Jamaica.Nottinghamshire police said attempted burglary was a line of inquiry, although the incident happened in the early afternoon when the house was occupied. Emergency services responded to a call from the house at 2pm on Friday and Juett was taken to the Queen's Medical Centre in Nottingham, where he died soon afterwards. Neighbours also dialled 999 to report a disturbance, as someone inside confronted Juett.A police spokesman said: "In an effort to establish the circumstances which led up to this death, we would ask anyone who was in and around Heathfield Road at 2pm on March 13 to cast their minds back to see if they can remember anyone acting suspiciously."Police patrols were stepped up in Old Basford as detectives continued house-to-house inquiries. Officers were also planning to examine CCTV footage from the area. The estate has seen several burglaries recently and the couple from the house helped out a neighbour who was targeted. Fazal Khan, 33, a computer technician, said: "They are good people who live in that house. They are very cooperative and nice."When somebody broke into our house the lady came round because we were not at home and called the police, and the police called my wife and she came home."This time, we heard there had been a burglary and when we came down here the police had blocked it off all the way. My wife was here and the police told her that the house had been burgled."Khan said the area was "70-80% nice" but had recently been plagued by vandalism, with garden shrubs and fences set on fire and youths breaking windows.Nottingham residents are at the most risk of burglary in the UK, with levels 63% above the national average, according to a table produced by Endsleigh Insurance last year. In 2006, the city was named the crime capital of the UK by the thinktank Reform, although officials in Nottingham claimed the study was flawed.