The activities of a conman, who allegedly posed as a police officer during the August riots, gaining access to victims of looting and broadcasting his experiences on Twitter, have been exposed after an investigation involving four police forces across the country.Inspector Winter, who had a following of more than 3,000 on the social networking site, gained access to a respite centre for officers at the height of the looting and rioting in London, where he gave broadcast interviews, as well as passing through police cordons posing as an officer.He claimed to work for the Metropolitan police in a specialist plain clothes unit and spoke of being an officer in his mid-30s who was involved in surveillance. He wrote in a blog: "I am also in the Territorial Army and have seen service in Iraq. So I thought I'd witnessed most things in the course of my career … but nothing prepared me for what I experienced on the front line this week."Winter was in fact a conman called Ellis Ward who used his Twitter profile to convince fellow police, the media and members of the public that he was a frontline officer.Ward pleaded guilty at Salisbury crown court to several counts of credit card fraud and is in custody awaiting sentence.He faces further charges after investigations by three other police forces, which are being led by the Hertfordshire force. Herts police said on Friday they were investigating claims that Ward impersonated a police officer, as well as allegations of theft and kidnap. The kidnap claim is understood to relate to giving someone a lift while posing as a police officer.A spokesman for Scotland Yard said the investigation into Ward, of Ware, Hertfordshire, was started by the Met police earlier this year and the force asked Herts police to arrest him on 2 February.Once in the custody of the police, it emerged Ward was wanted in Wiltshire for credit card fraud.Detectives are investigating how he was able to get through police cordons during the riots using false documents. His blogging attracted media attention and he wrote a first-person comment piece in the Daily Telegraph, as well as being quoted in a Guardian article.Ward also spent hours at a respite centre for officers in Walthamstow, north-east London, where he conducted broadcast interviews. He was later contacted to take part in a radio play about the riots.He disappeared from Twitter last year and those who thought they knew him said he was suffering from a serious illness. But it seems his absence was linked to growing suspicions about his identity.Ward was arrested by Hertfordshire police on 2 February on suspicion of impersonating a police officer. A spokeswoman for Herts police said following his arrest it emerged that he was wanted by Wiltshire police, who later charged him with several counts of credit card fraud.Ward pleaded guilty at Salisbury crown court earlier this year. He is due to be sentenced on 27 July for the offences.