On the evening of September 11, when the world had turned its attention to the terrorist atrocities in New York and Washington, Cressida Dick was in her office at Scotland Yard plotting exactly what she should do next in pockets of London.Although not a member of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch or the team sent to America to help relatives of the British victims, Commander Dick, 41, was to play a central role in the force's response to the attack, one which has not grabbed headlines or won plaudits, yet it was essential and successful. Tensions between London's Muslims and other communities were running high, and there were fears that this could erupt into violence. "It would be fair to say that five years ago we would not have known what was going on," said Cdr Dick. But by then the Met had established links - through independent advisers, community forums and family liaison officers - with ethnic minority communities. A campaign of calming and reassurance began, and her officers provided valuable intelligence to the anti-terrorist branch. Temperatures that had been high, began to cool. In September and October, the number of racial incidents increased, but not by an enormous amount - 6.4% more than in the same months in 2000. "I never felt things were as hot as they could have been," said Cdr Dick, a senior member of the Met's diversity unit, who is tipped to take over from the deputy assistant commissioner, John Grieve, as its head. "Post September 11 was a classic example of the good work that has been done. If you don't have effective links with communities, you cannot know what is going on. Our work is not about being nice to people or political correctness, it's about hard edged operations and practical policing." Cdr Dick knows better than anyone how much the Met has changed in the last three years. She left the force in the early 1990s and joined Thames Valley, then returned to London last year. There were, she said, massive differences at every level. "I was struck by the openness, and the desire to seek opinions from outside - the whole way that police officers approached their work, from community beat officers to borough commanders, right up the commissioner." The Met dares not boast about its achievements for fear that it will be accused of complacency, but the methods that it uses to police race and other hate crimes have been copied by countries all over the world. Scotland Yard has received high ranking officers from 29 countries in recent months, including China, Russia, Jamaica, India, Australia, Vietnam, France and South Africa. New York's police department has also sought advice. The problems remaining in London, though, are the priority of Cdr Dick, and she is the first to admit that the job is nowhere near complete. Three years ago, Sir William Macpherson accused the Met of "institutional racism" in his report into the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry, defining it as "the collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin". He said it was detected in "processes, attitudes, unwitting prejudice, ignorance and thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping". Cdr Dick argues that it would be extremely difficult for any organisation in the public or private sector to claim that it had rid itself of Macpherson's "institutional racism". And she admits there are still racist officers wearing the uniform. "It would be naive for any police commander to say 'I don't have racist officers'. It would be like saying we don't have any corruption." But she believes the force has made life "very uncomfortable" for those in the force who harbour such views, and with time, they will be weeded out. It will take the Met "years and years, rather than months and months", she said, for it to be in a position where the diversity unit, which includes the racial and violent crimes task force, is no longer needed. Recruitment and retention of black and Asian officers is a key area that needs attention. The force now has 1,205 ethnic minority officers, 4.42% of the total. The 10-year target set by the Home Office would mean the Met having 5,662 officers from those communities by 2009. Cdr Dick said it would be "ridiculous to deny that the Met has had an image problem", but she hoped this was changing. "We can say we have come a long way, but that's all," she added. "We still have a long way to go."