Mike Smith is a sex offender who served a 10-year jail sentence for abuse he carried out within his family. On release, he was sent to a hostel in London, under the supervision of the probation service.“The only people I associated with,” he recalls, “were other sex offenders. Some of them were child sex offenders. Some of them were rapists of adults. They were the only people I could relate to who were not judgmental, which is difficult because they are not appropriate people to be mixing with.”Not appropriate in the sense that Smith – who doesn’t want to give his real name or any details that could lead to him being identified – made a sincere commitment as part of his intensive rehabilitative therapy in prison not to reoffend. And he wanted desperately to keep to it, but it was made harder when he felt rejected by the rest of society and so thrown back on the company of other sex offenders.“I find it difficult to make new friends,” he admits. “When do you tell somebody about your past? I want to be honest.”There are 11,000 sex offenders like Smith in our jails, roughly 12% of the total prison population. In a week that has seen the jailing of Gary Glitter for sexually abusing three young girls, and further revelations about the depravity of Jimmy Savile, there is a temptation to lump together all sex offenders as paedophiles. But, of that 11,000, 10% are serving sentences for gross indecency with children.The picture is further blurred because reports from individual prisons suggest that the number of paedophiles behind bars is increasing due to Operation Yewtree, the police investigation set up in 2012 after the Savile scandal. It encouraged other victims who had remained silent about abuse for years, in the belief that they wouldn’t be taken seriously, to speak out. It also brought high-profile names including Rolf Harris, Stuart Hall and Max Clifford to justice for sexual offences against children.While there can be little sympathy for these men – and they are mostly men, with recent academic research from the Dunkelfeld Project in Germany estimating that about 5% of men admit to having a sexual attraction to children – the hardest fact to face is that the vast majority of them will one day be released. And, as taxpayers (it costs an average of £44,000 a year to keep someone in prison), as individuals who may one day be their victims, and, in relation to that 10% of the 11,000, as parents of young children, it is in all our interests that, once released, they don’t offend again.Yet we have no confidence this can be achieved. While public opinion may just about accept that some burglars, drug dealers, even murderers may be able, after spending a long time behind bars, to turn over a new leaf, when it comes to sex offenders, especially when regarded en masse as paedophiles, conventional wisdom is that reoffending is inevitable. They can’t help themselves.On Wednesday, at the Palace of Westminster, that prejudice will be challenged with the award of the annual Robin Corbett Prize for prison rehabilitation, established in memory of the campaigning Labour MP, who died in 2012, and administered by the Prison Reform Trust. This year it is going to the Safer Living Foundation.Based at HMP Whatton in Nottinghamshire, where all 841 inmates are convicted sex offenders (70% of them for offences against children), the foundation has been pioneering a new approach to rehabilitation, working with probation staff, academics from Nottingham Trent University, police and Circles UK, a not-for-profit organisation with Quaker roots.Smith is one of those who has been helped by Circles UK. Since 2007, at 14 locations around the country, it has quietly produced an 83% reduction in reoffending rates among the sex offenders it takes on.Like all those the organisation engages with, Smith was assigned one of its Circles of Support and Accountability (CoSAs). Made up of four or five trained volunteers, with professional supervision, they meet regularly with the sex offender (known as the “core member”) to hold them accountable for their behaviour and to support their transition back into the community.The twin elements are of equal weight and, as Smith recalls of his first meeting with his CoSA, the group was no soft touch. “I had to give a very frank and detailed explanation of my behaviour. Also part of the pattern that led me on to the course of offending was that I came from a very seriously abused childhood, both sexually and physically. I began to repeat the pattern of my own experiences.”Thereafter the questions put to him by his circle have been, he says, very challenging. “Without going into details: where do I get my sexual relief from? What do I fantasise about? How do I maintain appropriate behaviour? Sometimes it feels like I am being interrogated, and it is uncomfortable, but that’s par for the course.”Balancing that, though, has been encouragement – to join in with activities that make him feel no longer a pariah. “I have an interest in art, and reading: I have been out to the British Library, art galleries, we’ve met up for coffee. I can’t express how valuable that has been for me.”What makes the Safer Living Foundation unique is that it is the first example in the country where the circles’ process has been taken behind bars with sex offenders who are coming up to release. Elsewhere, the CoSAs (which receive Ministry of Justice funding) only start once the core member is through the prison gate, but it can take time to establish when experience teaches that the first 90 days after release is the peak period for reoffending.“People can be very frightened about going out into the community,” says HMP Whatton’s governor, Lynn Saunders. “At least when they are in prison, they say to me, someone cares whether I am dead or alive. Outside nobody cares.”In other words, because the rest of us categorise sex offenders as irredeemable, and so isolate them on release (by denying them housing, job opportunities and even running vigilante campaigns to get them moved on), our fears about their reoffending risk becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy.Sarah Blackner, a 23-year-old graduate in forensic psychology, is one of the community volunteers at HMP Whatton. Her training took place over three full days – plus an interview – but it was, she feels, worth it.“In the four meetings we have had so far with our core member, I can already see progress,” she says. “He’s very insightful about his emotions, sometimes so much so that he makes me realise how un-insightful I am about mine. That has enabled me to see the human being, not just the offences he has committed.”Some might regard recognising the humanity in a sex offender as a sign of weakness, or even of letting them off the hook. It goes against the grain. What Circles UK and the Safer Living Foundation do is move beyond such instinctive reactions. There is nothing in their work that seeks to excuse the damage done by sex-offending. Neither does it hold out the prospect of a “cure”. If an adult is sexually attracted to children, that cannot be wiped clean by a circle. But what these brave initiatives do show, statistically and unemotionally, is that many sex offenders can manage their impulses and behaviour, see how harmful they are, and learn how to identify and tackle the risk factors and triggers that have led them to offend over and over again.We may not want to hear this – and, curiously, the Ministry of Justice that funds Circles UK appears to do little to make its work better known – but we shouldn’t ignore it and leave our prejudices unchallenged. Again it comes down to self-interest.The two reports published this week on Savile’s crimes recommended a raft of measures to protect the vulnerable from sex offenders. How much more effective, though, if we could also open our minds to the idea that offenders can be helped to help themselves? “No more victims,” says Smith. “That’s one of the things Circles is about. I totally support that.”Peter Stanford is director of the Longford Trust for prison reform