He saw his best friend knifed by a gang of white racists. He was helpless as his soulmate slowly bled to death. He narrowly escaped the same fate himself.Six years after the murder of Stephen Lawrence, Britain has forgotten there was a second victim of that race-hate crime. Duwayne Brooks has not. Ever since he and Stephen were fatally pursued to the shouts of 'What What Nigger', Duwayne has lived in fear of the suspects and their friends. He was vilified, disbelieved and branded a liar by police. He found himself facing charges arising out of the protest march into Stephen's death. Ultimately he was, say his lawyers, made 'the phantom fall guy' for the botched case against the five suspects.' 'I lost my friend, but I have also been robbed of six years of my life,' he said last week. Duwayne, now 24, was talking to The Observer as the final touches were being added to what will be one of the most damning reports into British policing.' Duwayne has shunned publicity as he battled against post-traumatic stress disorder – as well as the justice system. Now as he begins to shake off his illness, he is angry. 'Angry and scared,' he said. 'I am frightened of the racists – but I am more frightened of the police. It feels like some are out of control and others cover up for them.  'I believe that if this inquiry fails to bring about change, people will not tolerate what is happening any longer. They will take to the streets and they will take their message straight to the police.' Duwayne says he is still being stopped and searched regularly. And he is convinced it is not only because he is black and driving a nice car. 'One officer said, "How are you Mr Brooks?" Another time I was told I was being stopped under the Prevention of Terrorism Act. Have you ever seen a black IRA man?' It is not surprising that Duwayne's anger is directed at the police. From the moment officers arrived at the murder scene Duwayne says he was treated with disbelief. He wasn't allowed to go in the ambulance with his friend. He was not offered counselling or help. In fact, police described Duwayne – clearly traumatised by what he had witnessed – as 'aggressive' 'uncooperative' and 'rude'. It was the start of what he saw as a demonisation, which culminated in his evidence being judged unreliable, thus allowing the suspects to go free. In a moving statement he said: 'I felt everything was depending on me and I was going in blindfold. I was alone on a big ship full of pirates who had me trapped. They said I was lying when I made a mistake. It felt like they were dragging me along in front of the sharks waiting for the right moment to let go.' But the main reason his identification evidence was called into question was because Sergeant Christopher Crowley had claimed Duwayne confessed to him that he had made a calculated guess at one of the identification parades. Duwayne angrily disputes this and he also wants to know why another officer, with known links to one of the defendants, was assigned to mind him during part of the Old Bailey trial. 'I found that really chilling,' said Duwayne. 'But none of this is being examined by the inquiry.' In fact Duwayne was very nearly denied any voice at the inquiry. He had to fight for recognition, and even then his written testimony was censored. The inquiry panel crossed out his conclusion: 'Ignorant racism in Mr Condon's force rubbished our chances of convicting the killers.' Curious, really, when Sir William Macpherson is expected to reach a similar finding later this month. 