The government's plans to reform the national DNA database were condemned yesterday by lawyers for the two innocent men whose European court victory forced ministers to change the rules.They warned that the decision to still hold DNA profiles of innocent people for 12 years failed to address key human rights violations, while the inventor of genetic fingerprinting, Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys, told the Guardian he thought the reforms were "minimal and disappointing".Stephen Cragg, the barrister who represented Michael Marper and a teenager known in court as "S" in the European court of human rights (ECHR) case, said the proposals – which would keep DNA profiles for six years for minor offences and 12 years for serious offences – did not account for the stigmatisation of innocent people on the database."The court said it was particularly concerned about the risk of stigmatisation, stemming from the fact that people who have not been convicted and are entitled to the presumption of innocence, are treated in the same way as convicted people", said Cragg. "But you are not going to feel less stigmatised by the difference between six and 12 years."Peter Mahy, the solicitor who represented the applicants in the case, said his firm has had "many thousand" calls from innocent people who want to be removed from the database, and that it was inevitable that further challenges would take place unless the plans, which are now out to consultation, were revised."The ECHR said it was very concerned about stigmatisation that comes from being on the database," said Mahy. "The plans do nothing to address that. All they do is cut the time you are on it but it is still blanket and indiscriminate. I do not think they [the ECHR] will buy it."The criticism comes as Terry Davis, the secretary general of the Council of Europe, the body whose members are subject to rulings by the European court of human rights, warned the government that it was legally bound to comply with the court's ruling in full. "A step in the right direction would not be enough," he said.The response comes after the Home Office revealed its latest plans for the retention of innocent people's genetic profiles. The plans were announced five months after a scathing ECHR judgment ruled that the indefinite retention of the DNA profiles of anyone arrested, whether they are acquitted or not, violated people's fundamental rights to privacy. In one of the clearest ever condemnations of British law, the court's grand chamber said it had been struck by the "blanket and indiscriminate nature" of the government's powers to take and keep DNA samples.Instead of holding the genetic profiles of innocent people until their 100th birthday, the Home Office has now offered to delete them, but only after six or 12 years depending on the allegation."The only thing that the government has addressed is the length of time the profiles are retained for", said Cragg. "The court complained about the fact that the measures were blanket and indiscriminate, but the government's proposals do not address this at all. Everyone who's arrested will still have their profiles retained."The Home Office proposals have been accused of flouting the judgment to provoke a compromise which would allow significant numbers of DNA profiles to be retained. "I think the government put these proposals out at the top end so they can then water them down and come up with something acceptable," said Mahy. "Innocent people should be treated as if they are innocent, not as suspects for years after they have been cleared. Innocent should mean innocent."An ECHR spokeswoman said the UK's response to the December judgment would be scrutinised at the meeting next month of the committee of ministers of human rights.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said the new proposals would ensure that the right people were on the database, as well as considering when people should come off it. "We will ensure that the most serious offenders are added to the database, no matter when or where they were convicted," she said.Jeffreys – whose discoveries have been used to establish what has become the world's largest national DNA database – said he was "disappointed" with the proposals."It seems to be as about as minimal a response to the European court of human rights judgment as one could conceive. There is a presumption not of innocence but of future guilt here … which I find very disturbing indeed."