A man who ran an illegal armaments factory converting replica submachine guns into lethal weapons was yesterday convicted of supplying guns used to kill eight people.They included Michael Dosunmu, a churchgoing teenager shot by mistake as he slept in his own bed in south London. Another weapon was used during the robbery in which PC Sharon Beshenivsky was murdered three years ago in Bradford.Grant Wilkinson, 34, was convicted at Reading crown court of buying replica MAC-10 submachine guns and converting them into lethal weapons. Police said his operation, carried out from a shed in Berkshire, was one of the largest they had ever discovered. They believe it produced 90 guns, some of which were used by teenagers carrying out murders on London streets.Wilkinson bought the replicas claiming to be involved in the making of a James Bond movie, and then turned them into lethal weapons which forensic scientists linked to 52 shootings across Britain.The gun factory produced weapons and bullets linked to nine murder scenes, including the shooting of PC Beshenivsky. Detective Chief Superintendent George Turner, who led the Thames Valley police investigation, said: "There can be no underestimating the impact of Wilkinson's actions - his conversion of imitation weapons allowed criminals to arm themselves with guns capable of killing and maiming people. We have significantly disrupted an organised crime group that had been supplying large quantities of automatic weapons and ammunition into criminal networks." Wilkinson paid £500 for the replica MAC-10s, which are made in the UK. After conversion, they were sold for £2,500, including ammunition. It is believed middlemen sold them on to criminal gangs.Wilkinson bought the replicas from Sabre Defence Industries, which had supplied previous Bond movie productions. Using the false name Wilson, he bought 90 guns and ammunition in batches and paid £55,000 in cash.But company director Guy Savage became suspicious of Wilkinson, who he said was "desperately disorganised", and secretly took his photograph on his mobile phone. The picture was later handed to police. Savage told the court: "He was acting in a way that made the hair on the back of your neck stand up." The gun factory was discovered by chance. Wilkinson converted the submachine guns into lethal weapons in two garden sheds behind a derelict property in Three Mile Cross, near Reading.One shed was used as a workshop and the other was sound-proofed as a firing range for testing. Police were called in July 2007 after tenants in a nearby house accidentally came across the sheds.Officers discovered expensive industrial equipment used to smelt and cut metals. They also found 27,700 spent cartridges at one shed and another site. The cartridges had been bought from gun clubs and could be converted into live ammunition.Before the sheds were discovered, police had already started to link several of the shootings. Days after the discovery, they linked the sheds to the production of weapons used in London shootings.Dosunmu was sprayed with bullets from a MAC-10 after his killers mistook him for his older brother, whom they had intended to kill in a criminal feud.His father, Rasak, 51, said: "You are talking about blood money - this is not a legitimate business or legitimate money. He is selling the guns to the underworld just to kill people and it's all because of greed." His mother, Shakira, 46, added: "I think he [the gun-maker] is as guilty as the people who are using the gun."Wilkinson used his profits to dine at upmarket restaurants and stay at hotels. He was convicted of a series of offences, including conspiracy to convert an imitation firearm into a firearm, conspiracy to sell or transfer firearms and ammunition, possession of a firearm with intent to enable another person to endanger life and possessing a prohibited firearm, namely a MAC-10 submachine gun. A second man, Garry Lewis, was cleared of all charges. For two years, guns from the factory were responsible for a fifth of the shootings in London, before which the use of MAC-10s had been rare. Turner added: "It is clear that the usage in crimes in the UK of MAC-10s can be directly linked to the factory at the Briars."Of the 90 replicas bought by Wilkinson, police fear that all were converted. Eleven were found at the factory or nearby, and 39 have been recovered after police investigations. Police yesterday offered a £10,000 reward for information leading to the recovery of the outstanding 40 weapons, with most feared to be in the hands of London gangsters.Claudia Webbe, of the Trident Independent Advisory Group, which monitors the way police investigate shootings involving black teenagers in London, said: "The availability of these weapons is clearly fuelling violence on our streets."The link between the shootings and the suburban machine-gun factory was made by forensic scientists examining thousands of bullets.Police say even their own firearms officers find they have difficulty in using a MAC-10 accurately.Wilkinson will be sentenced today.