From her bedroom window , Dorcas Fayemi can see the mouth of the stinking, filthy alleyway into which her grandson, Damilola Taylor, crawled and died last Monday.At 4.30pm that afternoon, as the winter sun set, Damilola popped into the local library to pick up two friends and started to stroll home. Minutes afterwards, with blood pumping from a stab wound to his inner thigh, the 10-year-old was dragging himself through the concrete labyrinth of his south London housing estate, struggling desperately to reach home. He never made it. The thick, weaving trail of blood left by the dying boy shows that he almost reached the top of his street - Blake's Road, a wide, well-lit street just 100 yards from where his grandmother sat waiting for him - but veered off instead into a dark stairwell. He pulled his failing body up two flights of stairs towards a walkway which led circuitiously towards his home but collapsed in the dank stairwell, against heaps of fetid rubbish and the stench of urine. Had Damilola struggled just a few yards further, he would have passed busy council offices. Had he run out into Blake's Road it is more than likely that a passing neighbour would have rushed to his aid. But locals are certain that the dying boy opted for the longer, more isolated route home because he was trying to escape. They believe that, not content with stabbing Damilola, his attackers then chased the boy through the streets. In a desperate attempt to get away, the terrified child bolted into the isolated, knife-scarred and graffiti-stained stairwell, unwittingly signing his own death warrant. 'The sight of that alleyway haunts me,' said his grandmother last week, moving aside her thin purple curtains and gazing desolutely down from her fourth-floor window. 'Oh my God, the thought of my boy trying to get to me and me not knowing to help him. How can I live with that? How can his mother?' Damilola was seen at 4.45pm on Monday afternoon walking home by a local woman. Just four minutes afterwards he was discovered by a group of local builders, drenched with his own blood and already unconscious. One man cradled the boy in his arms, another tried to stem the flow of blood and a third ran for an ambulance. It was too late. By the time he reached King's College hospital, Damilola was dead. 'I had only just got to know him, and how he's gone,' said Dorcas, pacing her spotlessly clean but strikingly empty flat, where she has lived for nine years. Before Damilola moved in with his family four months ago, it had been almost two decades since Dorcas had seen Gloria Taylor, her husband's sister, and her family, but she treasured the regular photographs and telephone calls she received from Nigeria in lieu of the aeroplane ticket she could not afford. 'Every day for t0 years I've been wanting to see Dammy. Ever since the day he was born,' she said. 'When Gloria asked to come and live with me, I was so happy - you should have seen me laugh. Dammy would have been 11 next week. A few days ago I was planning his birthday and now look. You know you're in London when the poorest people are kicked when they're down as far as they can go already. It makes me sick.' Damilola, youngest son of Gloria, a bank manager, and Richard Taylor, a personnel chief in the Ministry of Defence in control of an office in the new captial of Abuja, was born in Lagos on 12 December 1989. His siblings, Olugbemisolara, 23, and Tunde, 21, were born in England and lived for 10 years in the commuter suburb of Uxbridge. The family returned to Nigeria in 1982 after their father's fledgling business failed. They returned to Britain two years ago after the drug which controlled Beme's acute epilepsy became almost impossible to obtain in Nigeria. Gloria spent most of her wages trying to buy the medication on the black market but soon Beme was suffering to two or three fits every day and was unable to walk. 'The family was desperate,' said a friend. 'They knew the sacrifices they would have to make to send Beme to Britain where she could get the medication for free but they had no doubt that it was worth it. It's the African way: the family comes before anything.' After scrimping and saving, selling their car and forgoing every unnecessary expenditure for over two years, the Taylors raised the £5,000 they needed to send Gloria and her children to London. Richard was to stay in Lagos but would fly to England regularly to visit. On 4 August, Richard waved goodbye to his wife and children, gritting his teeth against the separation but already planning a Christ mas visit. 'All Dammy knew of England was what he had seen on the television,' he said yesterday. 'So I took out a globe and pointed out London and told him all about the place I remembered. Of course I didn't warn him about gangs and violence. I never saw anything like that in Uxbridge. London seemed a very safe place and so when Dammy went there he was enthusiastic. Very excited.' But despite the hope and optimism, in the months leading up to the murder of her youngest son, Gloria found modern-day London a gut-wrenching shock. The family moved into the three-bedroomed Southwark council flat which Dorcas shared with her 29-year-old son, Jordan Sayemi, on the top floor of Grovesnor Grove estate, the roughest in a group of five which together harbour one of the most violent reputations in London. The rundown flat is officially uninhabitable. Gloria stuck with her new way of life for the improvement she saw in her daughter's health, but family conversations were littered with references to returning home. Almost 70 per cent of households in the area comprising Gloucester Grove, North Peckham, Camden, Sumnar and Willowbrook estates are occupied by people from ethnic minorities. Almost half of the local children live in single-parent families and a quarter struggle by on less than £100 a week. The borough is the third most violent in London: more than 850 violent offences ranging from murder to mugging were reported last October alone, although locals estimate the actual number at three or four times higher. From their comfortable house in Isahi, Gloria now found herself sleeping on a sofa, while her two sons lay on the floor beside her. Instead of allowing her children to wander freely at night as they did in Africa, she had to forbid them from even leaving the flat alone after dark. Oliver Goldsmith, the local primary school which Damilola attended, has one of the lowest scores in the national league tables, with three in 10 lessons condemned as unsatisfactory by a recent Ofsted report. The headmaster, Mark Parsons, struggling to defeat the culture of bullying and ungovernable chaos, has expelled more than 150 pupils in the past year, over ten times the national average. One in three of those left have special needs, and just one in four gained the expected standard in English last year. 'I can't believe how much England has changed,' Gloria said, bewildered in the hours after her son's murder. There is no question that life on the five estates in Peckham is of a quality few could bear. Locals openly fear the gangs which roam the neighbourhood, gather in groups of up to 80 in dilapidated stairwells like the one where Damilola went to die. Community leaders complain that the unremitting violence creates a sense of despair which saps youngsters of the desire to achieve anything more. According to local people, Damilola was the vicitim of a new form of intimidation. 'Jucking' - or stabbing opponents once with a blade to intimidate enemies and show off to friends - is now an everyday occurrence on the estates. 'Jucking is so common that the only shocking thing about this incident is that it involved a little kid. Otherwise it's just what life is like here,' said Joseph Chileshe, 29, who has lived all his life on the North Peckham estate. 'It happens all the time. The kids get Stanley knives from shops or blades from school workshops and take them out onto the streets to use on each other.' The violence is gruelling and the stress of living in such conditions is unremitting. 'Living in environments like this turns us into second-class citizens, conditioned to violence and squalor,' said Ali Balli, chair of the Gloucester Grove Tenants' Association. The Tory government introduced its Single Regeneration Budget scheme in the mid-Nineties to deal with estates like these. Money was to be ploughed into refurbishing buildings which still had hope, and knocking down the rest to be replaced with high-quality flats. No one on the Peckham estates denies that the regeneration scheme was desperately needed, but official mismanagement, arrogance and poor planning on a massive scale tipped a community already surviving on a tightwire over the edge, generating chaos. It was 10 years ago that the problems in the five Peckham estates reached their nadir: drugs were rampant, violence was so common as to be unremarkable and burglaries were normal. But with the help of a massive police crackdown, the community pulled together. It took five years but in 1995, the battle seemed more or less won. Drop-in centres, youth clubs and nurseries were created to pull the community together, violence became rarer and drugs all but disappeared. For the first time it had become somewhere local people were proud to live. 'Everyone looking in at our community from the outside this week has assumed that the conditions leading to Damilola's death are endemic to this neighbourhood,' said Mike Rahman, development manager of the estates' Residents' and Tenants' Forum. 'They've said his death has added poignancy because the project was about to sort it all out. 'That couldn't be further from the truth. 'We'd sorted out our probems ourselves before this project began. It was the project that turned this area back into the war zone it was before.' As their homes were destroyed around them, locals were moved by the council without rhyme or reason into rat-infested, flea-ridden flats which were, more often than not, undecorated, unfurnished and unsuitable for accomodation. As the residents moved out, sometimes evicted with less than a weeks' warning, squatters moved in, bringing with them drugs, disorder and violence. There have been three attempted rapes in the past weeks in the abandoned, dark alleyways and countless muggings. Some tenants have been forgotten by the council: 50-year-old Mary Chipungu was left for 16 months alone in a block of flats without electricity or hot water. Squatters moved into the empty flats around her and she spent the last few months too scared to leave. In this climate of chaos and confusion, there was no one to control the gangs that once again took to the streets. Tightly knit communities who once knew everyone nearby and questioned any suspcious-looking strangers became too intimidated to open their doors. It was in this atmosphere that Damilola was bullied while his neighbours walked past, and bled to death while locals ran away because, said one of the men who tried to save his life, 'you don't interfere now unless it's your child. Although the Government is now talking about injecting more money into the area for the people - and not just the bricks that surround them - the problem is one that affects inner cities across Britain. Peckham was the testbed for the Single Regeneration Scheme. The Aylesbury estate nearby and the Elephant and Castle, up the road, are already committed to implementing the same blueprint soon. Al-Issa Munu, chair of the Elephant and Castle Links project, admits he is terrified of the effect the scheme will have on his own community. 'The Peckham scheme has clearly been a complete disaster and quite clearly created the conditions in which Damilola could be murdered,' he said. 'Damilola's death has shown us what can happen when communities are played with in this way. But our scheme is over four times larger. Does that mean we'll have four times as many deaths?' Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate