Detectives investigating a fire at the home of millionaire businessman Christopher Foster launched a murder investigation last night after it emerged that his wife Jill, whose body was found in the wreckage of the mansion, died from a gunshot wound to the head.Police said a second body, which was found nearby, along with a rifle owned by Foster, is that of a man who has yet to be identified.Superintendent Gary Higgins, of West Mercia constabulary, said: "The two bodies were found close to one another and the body of another dog found nearby. The dog has also been subject of a post-mortem examination, which revealed it too had been shot."Foster, 50, his wife, 49, and 15-year-old daughter, Kirstie, have been missing since fire swept through Osbaston House in Maesbrook on the Welsh borders early on Tuesday. The family had been at a friend's barbecue and had returned to the three-storey mansion on Monday evening. It is understood that Kirstie, who is still missing, was using an internet chatroom until 1am on Tuesday morning when the power was cut. Detectives say the fire started a few hours later, engulfing the house and outbuildings on the £1.2m estate. When emergency services arrived they found a horsebox had been parked in front of the electronic gates, with its tyres punctured.Yesterday there was speculation that Foster, an oil tycoon who owed hundreds of thousands of pounds, may have killed his wife and daughter before setting fire to the house and turning the gun on himself. Another theory was that the family had been killed by one of Foster's business associates who was owed money.But Terence Baines, a former director of Foster's company, Ulva Ltd, said he thought that was unlikely. "It's anyone's guess, but it seems that the people he owed money to are big companies and I can't see them behind something like this," said Baines. "[Maybe] he just flipped because the pressure of it was too much for him." Last night detectives said they were following up several lines of inquiry. An all-port alert remains in place. "Although it is now being treated as a murder, we are keeping an open mind as to the circumstances leading up to the incident," said Detective Superintendent Jon Groves of West Mercia constabulary's major investigation unit. "Police continue to work around the clock to establish the facts on what happened at Osbaston House that morning."Foster made his money developing insulation technology for oil rigs. But the businessman was branded "bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality" by a high court judge this year. Court documents show Foster's company, Ulva Ltd, which had gone into liquidation, faced legal action from one of its suppliers for thousands of pounds, and also owed about £800,000 in tax.Forensic teams entered the house on Friday but the fingertip search had to be halted on Saturday night amid fears that a section of the building could collapse. According to local people, Foster was a well-known and apparently popular figure, with his wife acting as company secretary for the family business. Neighbours said he drove two Porsches and an Aston Martin and had moved to Maesbrook from Telford about four years ago.Yesterday people gathered to say prayers for the family at nearby St John's church. Addressing the congregation, the Reverend Prebendary David Austerberry said residents had been "bewildered and stunned" by the tragedy. "It is hard to grasp exactly what has happened and it is clearly going to be some time before everything is revealed but today we pray for the Fosters and their family and friends who must be devastated by the events of early last Tuesday morning." He asked for the family of the Fosters "not to be overwhelmed by the uncertainties of last week" adding that those living in "idyllic" Maesbrook wanted to show their support for them and those involved in investigating the fire.Speaking after the service, retired farmer Sandy Simpson, 82, said: "We are shocked, absolutely shocked. It's not the sort of thing that occurs in a country district like this." Bryan Edwards, of Melverley, said: "Everybody is stunned. We want to support the people involved. It's very sad."