Police have carried out a controlled explosion on a rucksack carried by a man who evaded security measures to run on to the northern runway at Heathrow airport today.It showed there were no explosives in the bag, which the man had with him throughout the second major security breach at the airport in less than a month. The security alert caused the runway to be closed for around two hours, causing some delays to outgoing flights. Several domestic services were cancelled.The man was arrested at just after 2pm after breaching the runway, Scotland Yard said. He is thought to have gained entry by jumping over a fence. The runway - one of two at Heathrow – was closed."I can confirm that, at approximately 2.05pm, a man was seen airside at Heathrow airport on the northern runway," a police spokesman said. "He's been arrested by police, and he is currently in custody." Police sources said later that the incident was not thought to be related to terrorism in any way. There were unconfirmed reports that the man had run into the path of a plane.Today's security alert occurred a day before the Queen is due to open the new terminal five building.A Buckingham palace spokesman said there were no plans to cancel her appearance at the opening ceremony. "At this stage, there's no reason to expect that it will not go ahead as planned," the spokesman said.The prime minister, Gordon Brown, said the government was "determined to protect all passengers and all staff who go through Heathrow and every other airport".Around two hours after the incident, the airport's operator, BAA, said the runway had reopened. Heathrow, the world's busiest international airport, has been targeted by protesters angry at plans for the addition of a third runway and a sixth terminal. Last month, demonstrators opposing the proposals breached the airport's security to unveil a banner on top of a parked passenger jet. Protest organisers have threatened more direct action. In 2006, British authorities claimed they had thwarted a terror plot to smuggle explosives on to transatlantic flights.