There is not much sense in trying to make Mr. Matthews the scapegoat for the Whitechapel murders. Mr. Matthews may not be an ideal Home Secretary, but the best Home Secretary in the world could do no more than he has done in this particular case. These attacks upon persons merely obscure the real question, which is that of the organisation and government of the London police in general.The facts point to the conclusion that the London police is less effective in tracking criminals than the police of Paris, Berlin, or Vienna, not to say Manchester or Liverpool. England is the only country in which a man can live without "papers" – that is to say, without positive and tangible proofs of identity which are known to the police and recorded in a register. It is infinitely more difficult for a man to live under a false name abroad, or to take the plunge and reappear in another part of the country with an entirely new personality, than it is in England. The English system is on the side of the liberty of the individual.It is clear, however, that in a country where it is almost impossible for a man to conceal his identity, and where particulars about every citizen are recorded, it must be easier to lay hands upon a criminal. It is unlikely that we shall consent to borrow the foreign system. What, then, can we do? It seems pretty clear that Scotland Yard suffers from the over-centralisation and mismanagement which are so painfully visible in the War Office and the Admiralty; and perhaps no great improvement can be hoped for until London has its own government and manages its own police. Meanwhile the experience of other capitals suggests that steps should be taken in the direction of specialisation.The ordinary policeman who keeps order in the streets cannot, by the nature of the case, be a good detective. It is absurd to blame him for being a bad one; we should give up the attempt to make him one at all. In Berlin the "night-watchers", who would have been responsible for the non-detection of such crimes as the Whitechapel murders, are entirely distinct from the ordinary police, and their efforts are aided by the co-operation of a large number of "vigilantes", recruited from the criminal classes.Modern life has become a complex business, and crime has become a complex matter like everything else. The only remedy is specialisation. Modern burglary is met by Chubb and Bramah locks. Modern murder must be met by a detective force adapted to its purpose and scientifically specialised. Mr. Matthews is the mere figure-head of a worn-out system.