John Reid yesterday made a startling attack on the Home Office as he revealed that the department still did not know the whereabouts of hundreds of foreign prisoners who should have been considered for deportation.The home secretary said the department was "not fit for the purpose: averse to a culture of personal responsibility, technologically ill-equipped for an era of mass migration and led by officials that are incapable of producing facts or figures that remain accurate for even a short period of time". He said he was willing to sack senior civil servants responsible for the foreign prisoners fiasco. During a 2½-hour grilling by the home affairs select committee, he said: "I'm almost always defending the indefensible here. I do not think I have been given a fact or a figure in the past fortnight that has not been revised quickly in a very short space of time."He described the Home Office as "inadequate in terms of its scope, it's inadequate in terms of its information technology, leadership, management, systems and processes". His assessment of the government's premier domestic department raised questions as to the effectiveness of three previous Labour home secretaries, as well as four permanent secretaries, all of whom received honours.He said the department, especially its immigration department, was in need of a fundamental overhaul: "We are trying to face a 21st century problem with a late 20th century system". He revealed the police still did not know the whereabouts of more than 530 former prisoners subject to deportation orders a month after the manhunt started.He also disclosed that more than 200 foreign prisoners - more than previously thought - have committed further offences since they were wrongly released. It was disclosed that 20 serious offenders have reoffended since their bungled release, committing six sex crimes, 11 of actual or grievous bodily harm and three other violent offences. Other offences included six robberies, seven burglaries and 29 involving drugs. Only 37 of the 778 prisoners subject to a deportation order have been removed. Of the 37 foreign prisoners initially convicted of the most serious offences - murder, manslaughter, rape and child sex offences - eight remain at large. Mr Reid said he was willing for their names and pictures to be publicised to help catch them.Asked about the cabinet secretary's suggestion last week that no civil servants were likely to lose their job over the foreign prisoner releases, he said: "Don't count on it." Individuals found culpable would be disciplined. He also pledged to toughen the rules which dictate which foreign offenders are prioritised for deportation. This could be done in the short term without a law change, he said, to target offenders who had been given 12 months' imprisonment in one sentence or on aggregate. The current system is based on the number of prison sentences, which could mean people being automatically targeted for deportation after "not paying their television licence", he said.Mr Reid said he would introduce laws requiring prisoners to reveal whether they are foreign nationals. To slow illegal migration, he said, he wanted to see whether people could be barred from boarding planes if they did not have proper ID, especially if they were leaving a country whose citizens tended to overstay in Britain. He repeated the prime minister's promise that the presumption will be that all foreigners found guilty of imprisonable offences will be deported. Mr Reid said the senior immigration official alleged to have offered to speed up a Zimbabwean teenager's asylum claim in return for sex was now subject to a police investigation as well as an internal Home Office inquiry.