Police today named the missing Portuguese boyfriend of dead waitress Hayley Richards as being wanted for her murder."As a result of extensive enquiries conducted by my team, I am this afternoon naming Hugo Quintas as being wanted for the murder of Hayley Richards," Detective Superintendent Mike Veale told a news conference. Mr Quintas, 23, has not been seen in Britain since June 11, when Ms Richards's body was discovered in her flat in Trowbridge, Wiltshire. Mr Quintas was known to have boarded an aeroplane to Portugal at Bristol airport on the same day. "His present whereabouts are unknown, but my inquiries are focusing in Portugal and in Spain," Det Supt Veale said. "A European arrest warrant has been issued in respect of Mr Quintas and we are working closely with Interpol, the CPS [Crown Prosecution Service] and with foreign authorities to locate and arrest him as swiftly as possible," he added. Det Supt Veale, who is trying to piece together Ms Richards's final movements, said he knew she went to work at a restaurant in Trowbridge on Friday June 10. She left the restaurant with her mother, Christine, who also worked there, he said. They were driven home by a work colleague, who dropped Ms Richards off at her flat, which she entered alone at 11.15pm, Det Supt Veale said. "I believe Hayley was murdered in her flat," he said. Det Supt Veale said he particularly wanted to hear from anyone who had seen an L-registered black Rover 200 Sly car, which has now been seized, in the Trowbridge area in the days leading up to the murder. He added: "Our commitment to this investigation is total. We are determined to bring Hayley's killer to justice."Forensic teams are searching Trowbridge for the murder weapon, as well as any bloodstained clothes discarded by the killer. Forensic examinations have been conducted at the dead woman's flat and the house in which Mr Quintas lived in Trowbridge. A 29-year-old man who shared the house with Mr Quintas appeared in court today charged with perverting the course of justice. Joaquim Sergio da Cunha was remanded in custody until June 24. Ms Richards, who was three months pregnant, was found with stab wounds and a cut throat on June 11. She was killed a week after she had filed a complaint that Mr Quintas had assaulted her. She rang 999 late on the afternoon of Sunday June 5, reporting that she had been attacked by Mr Quintas. She suffered minor bruising, but was taken to hospital for a check-up because she was pregnant. Mr Quintas was not arrested at the time.The Independent Police Complaints Commission, the police watchdog, is investigating the handling of the assault complaint, including the two potential opportunities Wiltshire police had to arrest Mr Quintas last week. Mr da Cunha is accused of cleaning a property in Trowbridge and cleaning clothes to obstruct the police in their inquiries. Mr da Cunha is also accused of making false statements, Chippenham magistrates court was told. Mr da Cuhna appeared for his 10-minute hearing handcuffed to one of two dock officers. He spoke, via a Portuguese interpreter, only to confirm his name, age and address. He was remanded in custody to appear at Swindon crown court on June 24. No application for bail was made and reporting restrictions were not lifted.