The days of illegal flyposters bringing news of music, plays and political demonstrations to the streets of Britain could be numbered after a court yesterday issued anti-social behaviour orders against three of the industry's executives.In the first case of its kind, three staff of the "ambient" marketing company Diabolical Liberties were made the subject of interim orders following an application by Camden council in north London. An application for an order against a fourth employee was turned down. It means that the three, including the managing director, Tim Horrox, risk jail if they are found in future to have involved themselves in flyposting in that borough. While local authorities argue that flyposting is corporate vandalism and an urban blight, human rights groups argue that it is a vibrant and historic part of freedom of expression. Many artists and entrepreneurs fear banning the posters could damage counterculture, music and politics. Theatres and other entertainers have flyposted for centuries. But Highbury Corner magistrates, in north London, heard that Camden considered the practice of flyposting to be detrimental and a cause of harassment in the borough. District judge James Henderson was shown letters from local residents testifying to the discomfort the posters had caused them. The council claims it spends £250,000 each year cleaning up illegal flyposting, and has appointed a "boulevard manager" to remove the posters and track down the culprits. It has successfully used the threat of Asbos to make the music giants Sony and BMG stop flyposting in the borough. Before the case, there were warnings that stopping what is sometimes the only affordable publicity for small arts organisations and alternative groups could sound the death knell for independent theatres, alternative viewpoints and street culture. Roland Muldoon, the artistic director of the Hackney Empire, has said that his venue would not exist without flyposting. "This decision being pushed forward in Camden is terrible for theatre and arts venues because more councils will follow. Small venues will lose the lifeblood of affordable publicity." Liberty, the civil rights group, has also voiced fears that using Asbos to tackle flyposting could affect political diversity and freedom of expression. Malcolm McLaren, former manager of the Sex Pistols, has spoken out against banning the posters on aesthetic grounds. Diabolical Liberties has turned an illegal counterculture into a lucrative business, employing 100 people and having a turnover of £10m. Lawyers for Mr Horrox, James Heighway, Dominic Murphy and the fourth employee, Anna McAfee, argued that the interim order should not be issued because they said the council failed to follow the correct procedures. They claimed that the council had failed to consult and to liaise with the police as required by law. The judge refused an application against Ms McAfee, but said Camden had presented a prima facie case and was therefore entitled to the interim order against the others. "There is evidence that flyposting causes harassment and distress for those within the area and that this does amount to anti-social behaviour," he said. He also upheld the council's right to hold the four defendants responsible. "There is evidence that the four before the court to a greater or lesser extent have directed anti-social behaviour." A full civil hearing will occur in the next few months. Immediately after the ruling, company representatives said they would appeal. Afterwards John Thane, Camden's executive member for the environment, said: "This is anti-social behaviour and we don't just chase the men in the little white vans. Flyposting has nothing to do with culture. It has everything to do with money." Adrienne Merrill, communications director for Diabolical Liberties, said the Asbos would have a serious effect. "There are more live venues in Camden than almost anywhere else in the country. It is a terrible shame that Camden don't see cultural ads as relevant to the borough."