Police searching thousands of safe deposit boxes seized at three London centres on Monday have found up to £14m in cash, Scotland Yard said yesterday.Officers have also uncovered several works of Renaissance art, a haul of valuable jewellery, a gun and counterfeit passports, chequebooks and credit cards. The raids, backed by armed police, took place at centres in Park Lane, central London, and Hampstead and Edgware, north London, after intelligence identified them as being used by organised crime gangs. They remained cordoned off last night with armed police on the streets. The premises were all owned by Safe Deposit Centres, a company set up 20 years ago by two South Africans who have since become British citizens. Two directors of the company who were arrested on suspicion of money laundering offences were released on police bail yesterday and told to return in early September.A third director, who was arrested at Heathrow airport, was still being questioned last night. Officers from the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate raided seven addresses, including three houses in north London, as part of Operation Rize. It was the first swoop of its kind under the 2002 Proceeds of Crime Act. There are 10 safe deposit companies in London, all of which are now required to register with the Financial Services Authority under money laundering regulations which came into force last December.Detectives emphasised that the focus of their inquiries was the people who rented the boxes. More than 7,000 boxes were seized and police believe at least half may contain the proceeds of crime. Intelligence indicated links to criminals involved in paedophilia, firearms, drugs, fraud, human trafficking, prostitution and money laundering. Police have been inundated with calls from concerned box owners as they try to sort legitimate property from criminal proceeds. Owners have to show the provenance of their cash and valuables. Commander Allan Gibson said: "Operation Rize is a huge undertaking and we are still in an early phase of the inquiry. "Teams have been working around the clock to open all the boxes at the location and are progressing well, although we are likely to remain at the locations for some time."I am confident that this operation will have a damaging impact on organised crime in London and around the rest of the country." A Scotland Yard spokesman said it was the largest ever operation of its kind and it would take some time to establish the legitimacy of the cash and items recovered. He added: "This inquiry is focused on those individuals who are using these premises for criminal purposes. "Each safe deposit box will be handled and packaged individually by forensically trained staff. "We would like to reassure the public that all items will be carefully handled by police and stored at a secure location."