Figures published yesterday by the Ministry of Justice relating to the release and supervision of offenders under the multi-agency public protection arrangements (Mappa), show that 79 high-risk offenders out of the 50,210 offenders being supervised committed a further serious offence, with a number of others being returned to prison for breaching the conditions of their release licence. I'm no statistician, but, given that the number relating to those committing further serious offences amounts to 0.16% of those being supervised, I would have thought that this was a cause for modest pride in the work being done by our police, prison and probation staff – who are responsible for Mappa – rather than "a blow" to public confidence in how they were performing, as it was described by Alan Travis in today's Guardian.Of course if the Mappa arrangements were working perfectly then no one who was being supervised would reoffend at all, but how feasible is that? In the extreme we could stop all prisoners from reoffending by simply preventing them from being released from prison at all – and no doubt some will say "and a good thing too" – but to go down this road would not only mean that our criminal justice system would grind to a halt, but also the very principles upon which that system is based would be made redundant. In particular, we could wave goodbye to the idea that sentencing should reflect a proportionate response to the harm that the offender created, and also to the view that people can change – that they can be rehabilitated. There will always be those who want "life to mean life", and no amount of debate or argument will convince them otherwise, but can we really live in a society that is totally "risk free" as far as offenders – or indeed anybody else – is concerned? Knowing a little about the risk assessments that form part of Mappa, there is always going to be a chance of there being what are known as "false positives" and "false negatives". The former category relates to prisoners who seem – as it were – "risky" and therefore will not get release, even though they may never commit further offences at all, while the latter seem safe, get released, but end up committing more crimes. In this latter category we could place Anthony Rice, who murdered Naomi Bryant, and Damien Hanson and Elliott White, who murdered John Monckton. The families of Bryant and Monckton would have every right to feel angry and aggrieved by the circumstances that saw the release of prisoners who went on to murder their loved ones, although I personally have not heard them make public comment on these matters – but to what extent should the victims of crime or their families be allowed to determine how the criminal justice system works in general, or in relation to the release of prisoners more specifically? Isn't "justice" about balancing the needs of victims with the broader goals and ambitions that we might have as a society, and wouldn't favouring the former inevitably clash with the latter? In other words, would we not create a society in which justice simply becomes a cultural form of revenge – and moreover a revenge with no discernable end?In all of this, I remain intrigued by the release of the Norwegian serial killer Arnfinn Nesset in 2004, after he had served 21 years in prison for murdering 22 of his elderly patients. Twenty-one years is the maximum sentence for all offenders in Norway – no matter what crimes they have committed – and, as I say, while I am no statistician, that is less than a year served for each person that he murdered. Nesset has committed no further crimes, but shouldn't the very fact of his release suggest that we need to retain a sense of perspective on the figures that have been published today, and be more interested in how we can make the Mappa work even better than they clearly do?