A BBC children's television presenter was released on bail today after being arrested on suspicion of murder and of supplying class A drugs following the sudden death of his fiancee.Mark Speight, who presents the art show SMart, was held last night after the body of Natasha Collins was found in a bath at the couple's home.The presenter said in a statement that he had "nothing to do" with the death of his former co-star and was "absolutely distraught" by it.He said he was the only other person in the north London flat and that he immediately called the emergency services when he discovered his fiancee's body in the bathroom.Speight said he was assisting officers with their enquiries.The Metropolitan police are treating the death as "unexplained".A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Police were called at 1.20pm on January 3 to reports of a sudden death of a woman at a residential address in London NW8 [St John's Wood]."The woman, aged in her 30s, was pronounced dead at the scene. A postmortem will be held in due course, details to be confirmed."A man in his 40s was arrested at the scene. He has been bailed to return to a central London police station on a date in February." Police said a suspected drug overdose was one possible line of inquiry.The tragedy comes just days after the suspected drug-related death of the former Radio 1 breakfast DJ Kevin Greening. Speight and Collins had previously co-presented another BBC show called See It, Saw It.He has been a presenter of SMart throughout its 10-year run. His co-presenters have included Zoe Ball. Speight gained fame as, what his agent calls, "the extraordinary rubber faced presenter" of ITV Saturday morning show, Scratchy & Co. Speight is a trained graphic artist and a talented caricaturist. Model Kate Moss, who lives near Speight in Primrose Hill, was reported by the Sunday Mirror to have approached the children's TV presenter in a café to draw caricatures of her. The newspaper printed one of the discarded drawings he did for Moss and called it a "great resemblance". He has participated in Rolf On Art and other BBC programmes and toured the country with his Speight of the Art workshops. His agent's website also says Speight is keen on the "noble art of boxing". He participated in ITV's Celebrity Wrestling programme under the ring name, the Quickdraw Kid, but he broke his finger in the second edition. Speight and Collins are thought to have been in a relationship for four years, meeting on the set of See it, Saw It. Collins has been working as a model for the website of Essex company, Express Foam. In 2000, she played the shepherdess Betty Peep, a descendant of Little Bo peep, in the American mini-series The 10th Kingdom, alongside Rutger Hauer and Jimmy Nail. She also appeared in the ITV drama Real Women.Clive Doig, managing director of independent TV production company Brechin, which made See It, Saw It for three years from 1998, said Collins was a "very good young actress"."She was one of the three main actors on the series. She was a very good young actress and she was a lot of fun working with us."She was See, a court jester to the king, played by Mark Speight. I'm shocked to hear of her death. It's terribly sad."Speight's neighbour Eugene Boshoff, 23, a student, said: "When I came home, there were police standing outside. They just said somebody had died and asked if I had seen anything suspicious."