A second former Labour MP has been convicted of fiddling his expenses. Jim Devine, who succeeded the late foreign secretary, Robin Cook, as MP for Livingston, was found guilty by a jury at Southwark crown court on two charges of false accounting, involving false invoices for cleaning and printing work totalling £8,385. He was cleared on a further charge relating to a £360 bill for cleaning.The former backbencher, of Bathgate, West Lothian, was the first MP to stand trial in expenses scandal. He will be sentenced at a later date.Another former Labour MP, David Chaytor, was jailed for 18 months in January after admitting false accounting charges and a third, Eric Illsley, is due to be sentenced in the same court this afternoon. The Tory peer, Lord Taylor of Warwick, was found guilty last month of dishonesty and is awaiting sentencing.Devine, a former psychiatric nurse and union convenor, was alleged to have submitted the claims to clear an overdraft. His defence counsel, Gavin Millar QC, told the court that if Devine had wanted to clear his debts he would not have falsified invoices for just a few hundred pounds.The jury of six men and six women took two hours and 45 minutes to agree with the prosecution that on the two counts Devine showed a "woeful inadequacy" in abiding by the core principles expected of MPs.Peter Wright QC, prosecuting, had told them the case against Devine was very straightforward. The former MP made the fraudulent claims "with a view to gain for himself, or with an intent to cause loss to another – the public purse".The prosecutor said a guide known as the Green Book was readily available to MPs and clearly set out the rules on submitting expenses that must relate to parliamentary duties. It listed the fundamental principles to which MPs should adhere when making expenses claims, Wright told the court."These are based on concepts of selflessness, integrity, objectivity, accountability, openness, honesty and leadership," he said. "We say these are qualities of which Mr Devine demonstrated a woeful inadequacy."Devine was granted unconditional bail by Mr Justice Saunders, the trial judge, pending sentence.During the trial, he claimed that his former office manager, Marion Kinley, paid herself more than £5,000 from his staffing allowance without his knowledge. Sspeaking after the verdict, Ms Kinley said: "Justice has been done. The jury obviously saw through Mr Devine's lies. For legal reasons, I will not be making any further comment at this time."An employment tribunal in Edinburgh last autumn had already found in her favour. She said: "Far from receiving anything I was not entitled to, the employment tribunal judge ruled fully in my favour and, in November 2010, Mr Devine was ordered to pay me £35,000. To date he has still not paid up and is being pursued by my legal team."Devine protested his innocence from the witness box. At one point, the prosecutor Wright asked: "Mr Devine, are you just making this up as you go along?"He replied: "No, absolutely not."The former MP was described as a man who enjoyed drinking in the bars at Westminster and around his London home. Tom Watson, MP for West Bromwich East, told the court: "Jim was in there quite a lot."Devine claimed that fellow MP Steven McCabe had given him advice on expenses "with a nod and a wink".Devine began his career as a psychiatric nurse and became Scottish health organiser for the union Unison. He was chairman of the Scottish Labour Party from 1994 to 1995 and election agent for Cook, succeeding to his seat after the former foreign sectretary died while on a walking holiday in Scotland.At Westminster he sat on the science and technology committee, was parliamentary private secretary to then health minister Rosie Winterton and was also on the Scottish affairs committee.Simon Clements, head of the Crown Prosecution Service special crime division, said: "Jim Devine submitted invoices for services that he had neither paid for nor received. In doing so, he took advantage of the trust that had been placed in him by virtue of the public office he held."Submitting a false invoice is plainly dishonest, regardless of why it has been done or who has done it. We say there is no excuse for such conduct and, with today's conviction, it is clear the jury agreed."