A promising young footballer was killed in a street scuffle that began with a display of teenage machismo, the Old Bailey heard yesterday. Kiyan Prince, 15, who played for Queen's Park Rangers' youth team, collapsed after another boy stabbed him through the heart.The court heard from a police interview with a 16-year-old boy who admits Kiyan's manslaughter but denies murder.The older boy told police he knew Kiyan and greeted him when he saw him outside the London Academy, a secondary school in Edgware, north London, with another 15-year-old described in court as Witness A. Witness A had been "showing off his chest and stuff like that". He challenged Witness A, saying: "What you think you are, big?"Jurors have heard how Kiyan stepped in to break up a "play fight" between the killer and the friend.In his interview, the boy said he briefly joked with Witness A before going over to Kiyan and saying: "What, you think you're big as well?" Kiyan gave him a "playful punch" in the stomach. "Then I brought out the penknife to make him step back and get scared, just to show him I was older than him. He tried punching me again and then I grabbed him in a headlock because the second punch hurt. I tried to poke him in the arm."He told police he intended to give Kiyan "just a little scratch" with the knife.Asked why he had stabbed him repeatedly, he said: "To scratch him in the arm". He claimed that Kiyan had laughed at him after he struck the first blow and grabbed hold of his arm.The defendant told police that Kiyan and his friend were into football, but he preferred basketball. The pair were stronger than him, he said. "They are always big together and step up to me and are stronger than me," he told police. "I have got a rep [reputation] for basketball. If I have a basketball in my hand, I will start showing off."He was asked by an officer: "So, it is all about street cred?" He replied: "Yes."The boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, told police the stabbing was an accident. He cried during the interview as he said: "I did not know I had stabbed him in the heart." He said he hoped Kiyan's mother could forgive him. "I am terribly sorry. I know how my mum would feel."Kiyan's parents, Mark Prince and Tracey Cumberbatch, were in court to hear the evidence.Detective Sergeant Mark Whittam asked in the interview: "What possessed you to take a knife out of your pocket and stick it in?" The defendant replied: "I did not want to stick it in him. I did not want to kill him. I am thinking this is like a dream."When Kiyan collapsed he still did not think he was seriously harmed. He had been stabbed in the arm, stomach and heart and suffered a cardiac arrest before the air ambulance arrived.The boy said he had carried the silver Swiss army penknife with him every day before the attack on May 18 this year. "It's a pocket knife. I used it for everything."The trial continues.