The Old Bailey double child murder trial today began hearing forensic evidence in the case against the accused, Ian Huntley.Experts were testifying about evidence found in the hangar at Soham Village college, where the charred remnants of clothing worn by Cambridgeshire schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were found hidden in a bin. They were also due to tell the court about forensic evidence from Mr Huntley's red Ford Fiesta, which the prosecution allege he used to dump the bodies in a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk. The first witness was Helen Davey, a forensic scientist from the Forensic Science Laboratory based in Huntingdon. Ms Davey described how she was called to Soham Village college on August 17 last year following the discovery of garments in a bin in the building on the site known as the Hangar. The prosecuting lawyer Richard Latham QC first asked Ms Davey about Jessica's clothes. The witness explained that the first exhibit was a photograph of the right hand side and back of the Manchester United football shirt that had been worn by Jessica on the day she disappeared. After explaining the colouring of the red top with black edging, Ms Davey said that it had "appeared to have been cut up the right front from the hem to the neckline and across the front between the shoulders". It appeared to have been charred, particularly on the back, she said.She confirmed that chemical tests had been carried out on a possible piece of saliva on the top but no DNA profile could be obtained. The court was then shown a photograph of the other half of the shirt, which also showed charred markings. The scientist said it was possible to form a "perfect physical fit" between the two halves in a number of places and that, in her opinion, the two pieces of fabric once formed a single item. Mr Huntley, 29, the former caretaker at the college, denies murdering the 10-year-old friends but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. His ex-girlfriend Maxine Carr, 26, a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges she gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for the day the girls went missing, Sunday August 4 last year. Their bodies were found 13 days later.The trial continues.