Police began a murder investigation yesterday after a vicar was stabbed to death in the grounds of his churchyard.The body of the Rev Paul Bennett, 59, the vicar of St Fagan's church in Trecynon, near Aberdare, Rhondda Cynon Taf, was discovered by his wife shortly before 3pm.South Wales police last night arrested a 23-year-old man on suspicion of murder.St Fagan's would normally be lit for the evening service, but last night remained in darkness as detectives sealed off the grounds and forensic teams moved in.Chief superintendent Jeff Farrar, divisional commander for the area, urged anyone with information to come forward. "This is a horrific incident that will undoubtedly shock and alarm the people of Aberdare," he said."I would like to reassure the community that we have arrested a man, and are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident at this stage.""There is no further danger to the public. However, there will be a high-profile police presence in the area over the next few days both to provide reassurance and support to the community of Aberdare."Shocked village residents stood outside their houses watching as police stood guard at the church gates.The 18th century building stands at the top of a small hill in the middle of the village, surrounded by trees. Behind lies the vicarage, where Mr Bennett lived with his wife Georgina, 58, daughter Emma, 32, son Nigel, 34, and grandson John, 11.Police said that the vicar's family were "extremely distraught". Liaison officers were offering them support.Detectives were last night unable to give any further information about the cause of Mr Bennett's death, or be precise about his injuries, until after a postmortem examination. A Home Office pathologist had arrived to examine the scene.Mr Bennett came to the Church of Wales parish of St Fagan's four years ago after being vicar 0f parishes in the Rhondda valley.In his role he was responsible for St Fagan's church, in Trecynon, St Luke's church in Cwmdare, and St James' church in Llwydcoed.Parishioners spoke of Mr Bennett as a very popular member of the community whose efforts had increased the size of the congregation in the parish.Dave Davies, a regular churchgoer, said: "Paul's most remarkable achievement was how many children he brought into the church. A year ago you would have seen maybe three on a Sunday morning. Last week we had 29.""As a testament to what he done for the parish, last Sunday he had a congregation of 200 across the three churches."Marion Godsal, another of Mr Bennett's parishioners, added: "He wasn't just the local vicar. He was everybody's friend. Whether you went to church or not, he was there for everyone."Candlesticks have been set up in the church hall for parishioners to pray for Mr Bennett's family. A service was to be held at St Luke's church in Cwmdare at 9.30 this morning.The Archbishop of Wales, the Rt Rev Dr Barry Morgan, arrived last night to pray with parishioners. "I am just totally shocked and couldn't believe it, when I heard about it at 3pm this afternoon that Mr Bennett had been killed tragically in the churchyard.""I know how highly thought of he was, and a man of God, and that he personally really cared for other people.""This is an awful, awful thing to have happened. Over the coming days and weeks, I will ask for the church to be available for parishioners."Detective Superintendent Paul Kemp, who is leading the investigation, appealed for anyone who was in the area of the vicarage between 2-3pm yesterday to contact police.