The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Friday January 23 2004 An editing oversight in our report below removed the source of the information we used. Inquest, the campaign group, supplied the data and put us in contact with the families who appeared in the case studies. Inquest helps the families of those who kill themselves in custody and can be contacted on 020 7263 1111.Almost two people a week kill themselves in jail in England and Wales, while self-harm among prisoners is also rising dramatically.Today, as Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, blames the death toll on chronic overcrowding and poor treatment offered to those with drug problems, the Guardian publishes details of the 94 inmates who killed themselves last year - and of the seven who have taken their lives this year already. Ms Owers called for mentally ill people, one of the most vulnerable groups, to be taken out of the prison system all together . She said the rising prison population was having an 'insidious and chronic effect' on the system. She also highlighted a 30% rise in 'self-harming' by prisoners, such as cutting themselves, amounting to 7,700 incidents in the first half of last year.'He needed his medication. They failed him'Andrew McKee was 32 when he killed himself in Preston prison. His brother, James, found him in the cell they shared. He would probably only have had another month to serve of his six-month sentence. "He was a real family man. He had four kids, but it wasn't just them. It was aunts, uncles, nieces and nephews," said his sister, Valerie Little. Mr McKee, from Clayton-le-Moors, Lancashire, was schizophrenic. Diagnosed when he was 17, he had been on regular medication all his adult life. But when he went into Preston jail he stopped taking it. "That was what we really wanted to get to the bottom of - why he just stopped taking his medication when he had been on it for nearly 16 years," said Mrs Little. Mr McKee had been in and out of prison for years. In November 2002, he received a six-month sentence for burglary. He killed himself on February 27 last year. He would probably have been released in March or April. "I think the prison service failed him," said Mrs Little. "He needed to be on his medication and not enough was done to persuade him to go back on it. Prison officers should be more aware of how to deal with prisoners with mental health issues." An inquest was held into Mr McKee's death; his family say it gave them comfort. Mrs Little said: "We knew he didn't do it to hurt us - it was just because he wasn't on his medication."'Sarah was hardly more than a child'Sarah Campbell was 18 when she took an overdose at Styal prison, in Cheshire. It was the day after she was sentenced to three years; she could not cope. Her mother, Pauline, watched her wither on remand. "She was very distressed. She was cutting herself, her arms would be bandaged. She had ligature marks on her neck from where she had tried to hang herself," said Mrs Campbell. Sarah killed herself with prescription drugs on January 18 last year. It was the end of a promising life. She grew up in rural Cheshire, played tennis, went to the village school and then to art college. At 16, Sarah developed the heroin habit that lead to her death. In May 2002 Sarah and another woman began hassling a man in the street for money for heroin. "They were pestering him, but this man had a heart problem. He dropped dead. There was no violence, but Sarah was charged with manslaughter," said Mrs Campbell. Sarah was sent to Styal on remand, where she suffered withdrawal. "That should never have happened, it is very dangerous to come off drugs like that," said Mrs Campbell. By the time she was sen tenced on January 17 2003, Sarah had been free from drugs for around eight months. The next afternoon, she asked to see a prison officer. According to Mrs Campbell, there was a long delay before anyone saw her and at 4.25pm Sarah admitted having taken an overdose. She believes there was an unacceptable delay in the ambulance being called. Sarah died later in hospital. "I have no husband, no other children," said Mrs Campbell. "Sarah's death meant the end of my family." "Sarah was hardly more than a child and she found prison very difficult," said Mrs Campbell. "She told a prison officer what she had done. It was a clear cry for help, but they failed her. And I have had nothing but stonewalling - the system has also failed me."Victims of despair: The 101 inmates who took their lives