It is often said that a hallmark of a civilised society is how it treats its most vulnerable. We often say this about those we incarcerate, but this could equally be applied to those who have had a loved one killed through violence. And in my view, their treatment is far from civilised.I had always assumed that those bereaved by a criminal act, an act that represents the ultimate breakdown of society's rules, would receive back from that society the very best care and treatment. But when I surveyed more than 400 bereaved families I found out how far from the truth that was. I found that these families are often from the poorer sections of society. Many get into significant debt – on average spending £37,000 on such things as funeral costs, legal costs, or having to move home if it was a crime scene. These are costs they have not planned for and can ill afford. They get little help.I also found that there were severe and sustained emotional problems such as relationship breakdown, depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, leading to some turning to alcohol or losing their jobs. Yet they often had difficulty getting access to counselling – even for children who had seen a parent murdered.Then, as if this wasn't bad enough, over half of them said their journey through the criminal justice system was the most difficult aspect in the aftermath of their bereavement, and in many cases actually re-traumatised them.They told me of not being allowed to bury the body of their child because defence lawyers insisted upon autopsy after autopsy – so in one case a 35-day-old baby who was killed only got to be buried by her family on what would have been her first birthday. They told me of feeling they were an inconvenience if they asked to meet the barrister prosecuting the man accused of murdering their daughter, or having to sit next to an defendant's family in court listening to them joking during the trial.You may say I am dealing in emotions here and that the law allows for no such thing. But there are very hard-headed reasons to treat victims and their families better. We ask people not to go out and take the law into their own hands, that they come to court and give evidence, and that the crown prosecutes on their behalf. But if the public decide that their experience may be traumatic and they do not co-operate, then our entire system of justice is at risk.People often want to portray me as anti-offender because I speak up for victims. This is not the case. I don't want to take away rights from defendants – but I do want to ensure that victims and their families are treated better. People also often want to portray victims as people after vengeance who don't understand rehabilitation. This is not the case either. Victims want rehabilitation because they don't want what happened to them to happen to anyone else. But bereaved families' experiences require society to commit to their rehabilitation too.The system currently fobs victims off with charters, codes, and nowhere to complain when things go wrong. So that's why I am asking for some very basic rights for bereaved families to be put into law. Of course we can never take away the grief of what has happened to them, but we can then at least afford them some dignity and care through the criminal justice system.