Holly and Jessica were "loyal friends" who would have "stuck up for each other", their class teacher told the Old Bailey yesterday.The ten-year-olds were depicted as bright, responsible and active girls who were likely to be made house captains. They had been taught about dangers they could face inside and outside school, the court heard. Joy Pederson, who taught the girls for the year before they vanished at St Andrew's primary in Soham, said the pair were "good friends", though not "inseparable". Ms Pederson said they were both conscientious. "They took schoolwork seriously and did their homework," she said. She knew that if she gave them an errand to run, the task would be done. "They were mature in a sensible way - you could rely on them." Ms Pederson was asked if one of the girls was more "dominant". She replied: "Perhaps Holly", but said both had their own personalities. "They were very close, very loyal. They would have stuck up for each other. One would have tried to help the other out." The teacher said their parents were supportive, always attending parents' evenings. She said she would have recommended the girls as house cap tains in their next year. Ms Pederson said both girls were interested in football and Holly had joined an after school soccer club. She was also an excellent dancer. Jessica was a very good swimmer who competed for an outside club. Both girls had attended a "self-awareness" course, on which they had been given sex education, and learned about drugs and risks they might face. Ms Pederson said the course was "very much looking at supporting each other". Details of the girls also emerged in police statements made by their families. Mrs Wells struggled to describe Holly's eyes to police. She said they were a "bluey, greeny grey". She said her shoulder length hair tended to be blonder in the summer. Holly's mother also told police that Holly was susceptible to nose bleeds. The court has heard that Maxine Carr claimed Mr Huntley had told her the girls went into the house because one had suffered a nose bleed. Jessica's mother, Sharon Chapman, told police that Jessica was scared of the dark and was frightened of dogs. Mr Huntley told police he was brushing his dog when the girls passed his house. In her statement Jessica's older sister, Rebecca, said she had a typical "big sister rela tionship" with the ten-year-old. She said she used to do Jessica's hair because she was better than her mother at doing it. Rebecca said Jessica, who had another sister, Alison, sometimes copied what her older sister was wearing. Rebecca said her sister was "bubbly" but thought Holly the "more dominant" girl. "Jessica would do what she was told," she said. She also told police that Jessica liked football and was a fan of David Beckham. Jessica had a poster of the England team in her bedroom. She also enjoyed watching wrestling, "the Rock" being her favourite wrestler.