Professor Jennifer Temkin may have a family home in Hampstead Garden Suburb but she's well aware of what's going on in less sedate parts of the realm. She is, after all, a university lecturer, and students are part of the binge-drinking culture affecting almost every town centre in the UK. As the country's leading academic expert on the law of rape, she has seen more than enough evidence that prodigious consumption can leave unwary women vulnerable.That does not mean that some women are "asking for it", as jurors and police officers have been known to put it. "I don't think anyone asks to be raped," she says, crisply. But she concedes binge drinking is adding further complications to an area of law in which securing a conviction is already fiendishly difficult. "So many issues can arise," she goes on. "There's the situation where a woman has had one too many and agrees to have sex with someone she wouldn't consider otherwise. The fact is she did consent. If she regrets it afterwards, that's too bad. At the other end of the spectrum is the woman who has passed out through drink. The law has been clear on that for over 100 years. An unconscious person cannot consent. And once she passes from consciousness to unconsciousness, consent disappears."That principle is not spelt out in the 2003 [Sexual Offences] Act as perhaps it should have been," she says. "Drink is one of those areas where the law needs a little tweaking." In other respects, however, she regards current legislation as "quite good". Which is, perhaps, not surprising as she was a member of the external review group that took part in the Home Office's sex offences review between 1999 and 2000. In other words, she helped to pave the way for the act. "The trouble is," she adds, "the law in action is not living up to the law on the statute book."One problem is that defence barristers have frequently ignored rules, brought in six years ago, about bringing up a defendant's sexual history in court. And judges have allowed them to get away with it. "I interviewed 17 judges in depth," says Temkin, "and half of them didn't know that the use of such evidence is outlawed save in exceptional circumstances."Well, they should know now. Temkin's report on the issue of sexual history misuse, commissioned by the Home Office, was published online in July. "From what I gather," she says, "the government is going to make changes to the criminal procedure rules that will address this particular problem."And how has the bar responded? "Not very kindly to the press reports," she concedes. She's a trained barrister herself and law is very much the family business. She is married to Graham Zellick, head of the Criminal Cases Review Commission. Both their children are lawyers; both her parents were lawyers, as is her brother.Jennifer Temkin was born three years after the war, which meant that she arrived at the London School of Economics in the late 60s, when the "baby boomer" generation was making its voice heard. The LSE was a hotbed of revolutionary politics. "I was an observer of the phenomenon from the sidelines," she says. "From the point of view of my studies, the sit-ins were very disruptive."She did well enough, however, and went on to achieve a distinction in her masters degree and was called to the Middle Temple in 1971. But she never went on to practise. "I preferred the academic side of the law," she says, "and I was offered a lecturing job at the LSE." Her specialism came some years later. "Two male colleagues decided to launch a course on women and the law. I was happy to participate and, once I started swotting up on the laws of rape, the injustices leapt out at me. When we look back at the way rape trials were conducted in those days, I think they will be viewed as one of the most shameful aspects of 0ur legal system. At least the profession has now registered that. Judges and barristers will admit that it was bad. But that's not what they were saying at the time."Changing attitudes in the public is an altogether more complex and long-term problem, she feels. Along with social psychologist Professor Barbara Krahe, from the University of Potsdam in Germany, Temkin is writing a book on social prejudices and how they are linked to what she calls the "justice gap" - the yawning chasm between the number of rapes reported and the number of convictions. Only 5.6% of British women who take their complaint to the police see their assailant convicted. Many more decide to keep quiet rather than go through the humiliation of being interrogated in the dock."The police are excellent at dealing with issues when the spotlight is on them," Temkin says. "But they're not so good at seeing change through. They brought in sexual assault referral centres, staffed by women officers, but they're not everywhere and the investigation of the crime itself is still likely to be carried out by male officers with no training. Many women testify to having a horrible time. That's why, though record numbers of rapes are being reported, few go as far as the courts."For those cases that do, the UK conviction rate is little over 20%, the lowest of any European country except Ireland. Jurors, Temkin says, are as prone to the influence of what she calls "myths and stereotypes" as anyone else. Male jurors in particular. "Judges," she says, "believe it's women jurors who're responsible for acquitting defendants in rape cases. But the studies show it's men's attitudes that haven't moved on as much as one might have thought. While researching our current book, we've interviewed quite a few law students and you'd be surprised at the differences that still persist between male and female attitudes." Which does not bode well for the long-term narrowing of the justice gap.