Thousands of prisoners are at risk of re-offending because they do not get the support they need when released from jail, a charity report said today.Many find themselves homeless and hungry because they are not given advice and support on housing, benefits and debt, said Citizens Advice."The first few weeks after release are critical for ex-offenders; but the system is stacked against them," said David Harker, the chief executive of Citizens Advice."Many find it difficult to sort out practical problems such as benefits, housing and employment. Services can be difficult to access, and take far too long to activate."A third of prisoners lose their homes while they are in prison and half lose contact with their families, while a third also face mounting debts. Many are also left with no income for long periods on release. But the report, Locked Out, found that those who have access to independent advice are more likely to keep a roof over their head, maintain family ties, stop debt problems escalating, and sort out benefit and employment issues. At present the availability of such support is patchy. Citizens Advice Bureaux (CAB) provide advice in 43 of the 139 prisons in England and Wales, and 28 bureaux work with probation services.CAB said many prisoners face destitution when they are released - exactly the time when research has shown they are most likely to re-offend. The discharge grant has remained fixed at £46.75 for the last 10 years. This is meant to meet living expenses for the first week after release, but most ex-prisoners have to wait much longer for benefit claims to be processed. One CAB client waited eight weeks before getting any money. Remand prisoners and victims of miscarriages of justice get no money or support on release.Homeless offenders are more likely to re-offend, yet often newly released prisoners are automatically barred from housing waiting lists. Women prisoners face a particular Catch-22: their children will not be returned to them until they have a home, but they are unlikely to be re-housed unless their children are living with them.Two-thirds of prisoners re-offend. CAB's report is based on evidence from nearly 500 case studies from the charity's network; a survey of CAB prison and probation outreach services; and interviews with their clients in prison and on probation. CAB cited one case in which a man who had tried to commit suicide prior to being imprisoned was released with nowhere to live. After sleeping in his car in temperatures below freezing, he ripped a telephone off the wall in a police station in Somerset so that he could have a bed for the night. Citizens Advice is calling on the government to ensure that all prisoners have access to independent advice. It estimates that the cost of providing CAB advice to the whole UK prison population may amount to as little as £319 per person, compared to the £35,000 it costs to keep one prisoner in jail if they return.The charity said dealing with housing issues should become a core part of the induction process for new prisoners, so that they keep their home wherever possible. It also recommends that the discharge grant should be raised to at least £114.90 - the equivalent of two weeks' income support. "Financial stability in the period immediately following release is essential if an ex-prisoner is to resettle successfully into the community and avoid reverting to crime," Mr Harker said."Too often recently released prisoners are left without any means of support or stable accommodation. As a result, many may feel that they have little option but to return to crime. "Advice and support to help them get their affairs in order can play a major role in helping offenders resettle back into the community and break the cycle of re-offending."