Sir Paul Condon has considered resigning as Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police over the force's failure to catch the racist murderers of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence.Condon has decided to stay, according to a close aide, but is expected to come under heavy pressure to go when the final report of the public inquiry into the police murder investigation is published in December.The inquiry's chairman, Sir William Macpherson, is believed to have concluded already that police officers' racism played a part in their incompetence.Institutional police racism is believed by Macpherson to have hampered the vigour of detectives hunting the white gang that stabbed Stephen in 1993 and partly explains the series of blunders.The man Condon entrusted with the Lawrence case, Assistant Commissioner Ian Johnston, who also considered quitting, told The Observer: "I think it's fairly obvious why I considered resigning. There is a major loss of confidence from the way the initial investigation was handled and because of the massive degree of criticism directed at the Metropolitan Police. I would be amazed if others in similar positions didn't [consider resigning]."Until last year, the Met was adamant that it had done all it could to catch the killers. Condon missed most of his officers' major blunders until a Police Complaints Authority report highlighted them in 1997.Suresh Grover, spokesman for the Stephen Lawrence Family Campaign, said yesterday: "Both Condon and Johnston should resign because they failed to stop a cover-up of what went wrong in the first year. After that they never spotted the failings and racism among those officers and told Doreen and Neville Lawrence and the public everything was fine."Johnston accepts "unequivocally" that the police were incompetent and that "significant damage" has been done to black people's confidence in the Met.Ultimately Condon's fate rests with the Home Secretary, Jack Straw. Home Office Ministers are bracing themselves for a scathing report but are unlikely to sack him. They will probably let him serve out his term which expires in 2000 and start the operation to salvage the Met's reputation.An opinion poll released last week showed almost half of all Londoners have lost trust in the police since the inquiry began in March.The first stage of the inquiry into the policing of the murder ends tomorrow, having heard 88 witnesses over 56 days of evidence.The main issue between the Met and the Lawrence family now is that of corruption, which Stephen's parents say is another reason his killers are still at liberty.But the inquiry, say lawyers, has failed to call key witnesses on this issue. Macpherson has total power over the summoning of witnesses by the inquiry.Clifford Norris, the gangster father of suspect David Norris, was not called by Macpherson. If there was a web of corruption, as the Lawrences maintain, then Norris was at its centre.Also not called was Det Sgt David Coles, seen three times by undercover Customs officers meeting with Clifford Norris in 1987-88.Nor was a vital witness to the murder scene, Witness B, summoned. He says he recognised two people running away from where Stephen was murdered. His solicitor, Mark Bowen, confirmed Witness B would have testified if called. "It is important to examine the way he was treated and handled by the police," the lawyer said.The inquiry also did not call three youths who were seen driving past the murder scene, laughing and jeering. It is believed they had two passengers in the car.