Murdered financier John Monckton suffered "every householder's nightmare" when two robbers tricked their way into his home, the Old Bailey heard today.Mr Monckton died from multiple stab wounds after the men - one posing as a postman - forced open the front door of his multi-million pound house after he had removed the security chain. "What followed was an appalling episode of violence," prosecuting counsel Richard Horwell told the jury. Damien Hanson, 24, of no fixed address, and Elliot White, 24, from Shepherds Bush, London, both deny murdering Mr Monckton in Chelsea on November 29 last year. The men also deny the attempted murder of Mr Monckton's wife, Homeyra, 46, and wounding with intent. The court heard that Mr White, whose blood was found at the scene, had pleaded guilty to robbery. Mr Hanson denies all charges. Mr Monckton, 49, a senior bonds director with Legal & General, was left with multiple stab wounds to his chest while his wife was left "on the brink of death" after being knifed twice in the back.The court heard that the robbers' "small reward" has been a pair of earrings, two rings, a watch and a purse taken from Ms Monckton, whose jewellery they had allegedly targeted."The cost? One life taken and very nearly a second," Mr Horwell said.The robbers planned for Mr White to dress in a red Royal Mail jacket and call with a parcel addressed to Mr Monckton, the court heard.When Mr White called at about 7.30pm, Mr Monckton spoke to him on the intercom. As he was not expecting a parcel delivery he proceeded with caution, calling through the spy hole and then opened the front door with the security chain still on. "He looked outside and whatever he saw he must have been satisfied that all was safe and well," Mr Horwell said. The prosecuting counsel said Mr Monckton released the chain and came face to face with White. "The moment he had done, so he must have realised the terrible mistake he had made as once the chain had been released he tried to close the door," Mr Horwell said. "His wife joined him to add her strength to what was an unequal contest. They were pushing not just against the might of the first defendant but also against that of the second. "They were now so close to their prey they were not going to be defeated. Mr and Mrs Monckton were shouting 'No, no, no' but White and Hanson burst into their home." The jury heard that Mr Hanson was wearing a balaclava and armed with a knife and a firearm. The masked man ordered Ms Monckton "in a calm voice" to give him her jewellery watch and money, the court heard. The prosecution allege that Mr Hanson attacked her by the stairs leading to the first floor after she tried to reach a panic alarm button. Mr Horwell said that she shouted to her husband, who was fighting with Mr White by the front door, that she was bleeding. "Once Hanson had finished with Mrs Monckton he went over to White and Mr Monckton. Very soon afterwards White and Hanson left," he said.The jury were shown photographs and graphics of the house showing blood on the wall and floor. The couple's daughter saw part of the attack and came downstairs after the robbers had left. Mr Horwell said: "The sight which confronted that girl is almost impossible to imagine but she is a very brave girl and at her mother's request she rang 999 and closed the front door and put on the chain." He said that because Mr White's blood had been left at the scene, the scientific evidence against him was "so overwhelming that from the outset of his arrest he admitted that he was indeed one of the robbers". The court heard that Mr Hanson left behind no scientific trace of his presence at the scene and his defence was that he had an alibi. But Mr Horwell said Mr Hanson's movements and the nature of his association with Mr White put him at the scene "as if he had left behind his DNA". The trial continues.