 A transsexual serving life for manslaughter and attempted rape committed while she was a man is to be moved to a women's jail after the high court ruled that holding her in a male prison was a violation of her human rights.The 27-year-old prisoner, who can be identified only as A, was described by her lawyer as "a woman trapped inside a man's body". She is serving an automatic "two strikes" life sentence after being convicted of the manslaughter of her male partner in 2001, and of the attempted rape of a female stranger five days after her release from her five-year manslaughter sentence.According to her legal team, the attempted rape was linked to her frustration at the authorities' refusal to help her qualify for full gender reassignment surgery. Her life sentence tariff – the minimum period she must serve before being considered for parole – expired in 2007.Three years ago A was granted a certificate under the 2004 Gender Recognition Act which requires her to be recognised as a woman "for all purposes". A, who describes her birth as a boy as "a mistake", has developed breasts after hormone treatment and had the hair on her face and legs permanently removed by laser.But her efforts to undergo full gender reassignment surgery have been left "in limbo" because the Ministry of Justice and the prison authorities have refused to move her to a female jail, saying it would be too expensive and would leave her equally isolated. The gender identity clinic treating A will not approve surgery until she has spent time living as a woman in a female prison.Yesterday Deputy Judge David Elvin QC overturned a decision by the justice secretary, Jack Straw, to continue detaining A in a male prison. He said: "Her continued detention in a male prison is in breach of her rights under Article 8 (right to private and family life) under the European Convention on Human Rights".In a 30-page ruling, the judge noted that A lived her daily life on the vulnerable prisoners' wing as a female and "presents convincingly as a woman". He went on: "She lives as a woman, is treated as a female and is provided with guaranteed single cell accommodation."The judge said that "a written compact" existed between A and the Prison Service detailing what clothes and make-up she could wear, and when. "The restrictions placed on the claimant exceed those which would apply if she were resident in the female prison estate.""It follows that, so long as the claimant remains within the male prison estate she is unable to progress towards the surgery which is her objective."In evidence to the court A said that no one could take her female status away now. "Till the day I die I will be a woman. For me it is simply a reflection of how it should have been from the start."A, who has wanted to become a woman since she was 10, had accused the Prison Service of having confused attitudes. She said: "They will not consider me as a female until I have my penis removed – not withstanding my gender recognition certificate. Yet they resist moving me to the female (prison) estate which would enable the surgery to be arranged."The Ministry of Justice and the prison authorities had argued that A would be no more likely to be accepted by inmates at a female prison and that, if moved, she would have to spend long periods in segregation at an extra cost of £80,000 a year.They said that a move to a female jail might have a serious impact on her mental health and make it more difficult for her to win early release.But the judge ruled that decision to keep A in a male prison interfered "with her personal autonomy in a manner which goes beyond that which imprisonment is intended to do".He said there was no evidence that Straw had taken into account "the consequences of the frustration" of A's progress and the costs if she were kept in a male prison, adding: "It goes to the heart of her identity. It appears to be closely related to her offending behaviour."The judge was told that steps were already being put in place to transfer A to a female prison "as soon as possible".Her barrister, Phillipa Kaufman, told the judge that A had served her minimum jail term but had been told by the Parole Board that she remained an unacceptable risk to the public, still had "a great deal of work to do" and was "nowhere near release".A Prison Service spokesperson said: "We are disappointed at the judgment. We … will consider whether to appeal."