A lot of words and paper. The Stephen Lawrence inquiry report, 335 pages, encased in pink. The Metropolitan Police information pack including the Diversity Strategy full of 'practical changes that benefit Londoners'. The Home Office plastic folder containing Initiatives on Race Equality - 10 things the Government has done to combat racism. The statement of Doreen Lawrence. Three pages of A4 which she read in a halting, tired voice to the massed reporters. There were no copies to give out because she doesn't have a press office. 'What I see is that black people are still dying in the streets and the back of police vans.' She spoke for 10 minutes, never looking up from her prepared text. She was asked if the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, should resign.'I have thought about this really carefully,' she said, and then paused. 'The black community do not have faith in him. I think it is for him to examine his own self and see whether or not he has the support of the whole community.' Her husband, Neville, sat two seats away, separated from her by Imran Khan, their solicitor. Behind them stood their legal team, just obscuring the Stephen Lawrence banner so that all that could be could read was one word - Remember - followed by a glimpse of an 18-year-old man killed at a bus stop in south London. Two hours earlier they had been at the House of Commons. They had smiled then, laughing at the antics of the backbenchers catcalling their way through Prime Minister's Questions. When Jack Straw got up to speak they listened in silence. 'I think I can speak for the whole House when I say that Mr and Mrs Lawrence's campaign for the truth has been pursued by them with enormous dignity, courage and determination,' he said. 'I pay my personal tribute to them today.' As he spoke, Commons officials handed out a list of Home Office initiatives: the introduction of targets for the recruitment of ethnic minority officers, the development of a race equality grant, directives from the European Union. A country struggling to show it is doing something is trying, by God, is trying. The Home Office laid on the room for the Lawrence's press conference. Neville Lawrence thanked them. Across the road, Sir Paul made his defence at Scotland Yard, backed by large blue signs proclaiming 'policing diversity', 'protect and respect'. Repeated over and over. Outside, eager officials pressed sheaves of paper into willing hands. There were diagrams. Reported racial incidents? Up 68 per cent. The number of racially motivated crimes solved? Up 73 per cent. Each had a little rising blue and red arrow ending in a star burst, a bit like a supermarket special offer. A country struggling to show it is doing something. All the main events took place in a triangle of streets where powerful men make decisions that affect the likes of Doreen and Neville from south London. The Home Office, the House of Commons, Scotland Yard. And around the block we went. From Straw's polished, sincere performance, to Sir Paul's admission of an 'enormous sense of shame' but no resignation. To Doreen and three pages of A4. The clash of cultures is not just a black and white thing. It is about those with power and those without. And around the block we went. From 1991's Scarman Report on the Brixton riots, which was going to be a watershed, to 1999's MacPherson Report, which is going to be a watershed. From the 1980s Policy Studies Institute report on what citizens want from their police to Sir Paul's announcement yesterday that the citizens of London would be asked what they want from their police. At some stage, we must look up and think: haven't we been along this street before? And Sir William himself. Page after page of recommendations on the eradication of institutional racism, on training, on police practice. Page 327 will read as an epitaph: 'The overall aim [is] the elimination of racist prejudice and disadvantage and the demonstration of fairness in all aspects of policing.' A country struggling to show it is doing something. A clash of cultures. Those with power and those without. Just outside the triangle, Duwayne Brooks, Stephen's friend who had been with him the night he died, held his conference at a union building. He was asked for his thoughts and paused for 20 seconds. What to say at such a stage? 'When Mr Condon took up the job in 1991 he said he would eradicate racism. Today is 1999 and racism is still here and has played a big part in this case and in many others.' Outside Downing Street a black police officer stood and stared at the cameras. The police will do better. Behind Jack Straw sat Diane Abbott, a black MP. The Government will do better. On a bus to Vauxhall a young black man sat under headphones. The real world continues. 'This society has stood by and allowed my son's killers to make a mockery of the law and it seems like this society is going to stand by and support the inquiry,' Doreen said. 'To me institutional racism is so ingrained it is hard to see how it will be eradicated out of the police force.' And then she left, holding the hand of a white friend who led her down the corridor and into a side room. A woman worn out.