What is 'reasonable force'?You are not expected to make fine judgments over the level of force you use in the heat of the moment. Nonetheless, you should bear in mind that Le Creuset cookware, antique candlesticks and bottles of Armagnac could be expensive to replace, and a heftier weapon might be more appropriate. Sports bats, frozen joints of meat, Zulu spears, lead piping, coal scuttles, pokers and the business end of a vacuum cleaner might be easier to manoeuvre and may well be to hand. As a general rule, the more menacing the bastard looks, the harder you can hit him.Do I have to wait to be attacked?No, not if you suspect the scum is already pulling the cable from your laptop, or might be about to dislodge your plasma screen from the wall. However, you may want to wait until he has put it down before hitting him.What if the intruder dies?If you hit him on the head with a cricket bat and he subsequently dies, you will still have acted lawfully. Indeed, in these instances the CPS has very little case law to rely on, and we would welcome a couple of prosecutions to test the water. However, if you then decide to administer some Saudi-style justice by chopping off one of their thieving hands, you would be acting with very excessive and gratuitous force and could be prosecuted.What if I chase them as they run off?This situation is different as you are no longer acting in self-defence and it is too late to show the evil little swine who's in charge. However, you are still allowed to use reasonable force to grab your iPod and apply your foot to his neck until the police arrive. If you were fortunate enough to play a contact sport at school, use it! But if you are going to hit him, make it a good one - more than one blow might be construed as excessive.Will you believe the intruder rather than me?This depends on what you're holding in your hand when the police come round to take the benighted little scum away. If they have reason to suspect you might use it on them, your uninvited guest will be banged up in solitary before the neighbours hear a thing.Remember, it is a fact that very few governments have the guts to stand up to a lengthy assault by the Daily Mail, and even if you give him a hiding he'll never forget, you are unlikely to spend more than a few days in jail.