He was born Anthony Ashley-Cooper, heir to an illustrious title, a vast family estate in Dorset and a life of wealth and privilege. He died the 10th Lord Shaftesbury, allegedly intoxicated with drink and drugs, in a grubby fight, his body dumped in a litter-strewn gully overlooking the French Riviera.Yesterday, the tale of the British aristocrat's demise unfolded when his estranged wife, a former nightclub hostess and call girl, and her brother appeared in court in Nice on the Cote d'Azur.Jamila M'Barek, 45, - the earl's third wife - is accused of luring him to her flat in Cannes in November 2004 "consciously and without constraint, to accomplish his assassination" by her brother Mohammed M'Barek, 43. The prosecution claims she wanted him killed to avoid "looming financial disaster" caused by his plans to divorce her."She was an escort girl who loved the high life and wanted to preserve the social and financial status procured by her marriage to the Earl of Shaftesbury," stated the report by investigating magistrate Catherine Bonnici, read to the court. "She had an easy, even luxury lifestyle that was a revenge on her poor childhood. She chose the life of a kept woman, with multiple affairs with men she chose for their bank accounts and their assets," it said.Investigators claimed Ms M'Barek had admitted paying her brother €150,000 (£100,000) in a secretly taped conversation with her sister. This, they allege, was for carrying out the murder and taking the blame. They also say mobile phone records show that just two days before the murder, she visited the remote spot where Lord Shaftesbury's body was dumped.Mohammed M'Barek has confessed to "accidentally" strangling Lord Shaftesbury, 66, during what he said was a drunken argument.During a theatrical performance in the witness box, Ms M'Barek, denied planning or taking part in her husband's murder, or being after his money."Money, money, money, I'm fed up with hearing about money," she told the court.At the Shaftesbury family's 9,000-acre estate in Wimborne St Giles, Dorset, the 10th lord is remembered as a kind, paternalistic man, interested in bats and barn owls. But 600 miles away in Cannes they recall Le Lord as a very different man: one who lavished his fortune on young women and champagne in Riviera strip-joints, sleazy bars and nightclubs.Police admitted that when he was reported missing, they feared he had become victim of the local prostitution underworld that he "frequented assiduously".His remains were found five months later, six miles west of Cannes in the Vallon de la Rague. Only his boots and a scrap of his jeans were left. However, pathologists established that his injuries, including a double fracture to the larynx, suggested strangulation.Ms M'Barek repeatedly insisted the injuries had been inflicted in a drunken fight with her brother on what should have been their second wedding anniversary. She said the marriage had broken down after the earl began having testosterone injections to satisfy his desire for sex.She said her husband had arrived at the flat drunk and dishevelled and had attacked her brother, and that Mr M'Barek had responded by grabbing the earl's throat. "They were both as bad as one another. If one had been cleverer than the other this tragedy wouldn't have happened," she told the court.In her first statement to police she said that when Mr M'Barek realised Lord Shaftesbury was no longer breathing he "tried mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. Then he prayed". But in court she said her brother "went white and was sick" when he realised he had killed Lord Shaftesbury.Ms M'Barek became angry when she was accused of changing her story several times and was asked directly by the judge, Nicole Besset, if she had planned the murder and dumping of the body."Do you think we would have done all this in broad daylight if it was premeditated, calculated?" she replied.However, after two hours of arm-waving, pacing and wringing her hands, she was brought to an abrupt halt when it was revealed that her mobile telephone had been recorded two days before her husband's death near the spot where his body was eventually found. "Were you there?" asked the judge."I can't remember.""Were you there?" "No," she said.Later, she admitted it was "possible" she and her brother had visited the spot.Ms M'Barek, a mother of two, was born in France, one of seven children of a Tunisian mother and Moroccan father. She said she had given her brother the money to buy a house for their sick mother.At one point Mr M'Barek leapt to his feet to berate the judge for asking questions about the money. "We are a generous family. We are Muslims, it's not about money for us. Stop provoking me," he exclaimed.He expressed his apologies to the Shaftesbury family in English. "I say sorry to you. It was only an accident." And he added in French: "I am ashamed. I am living a nightmare. What happened between my brother-in-law and me was an accident, I swear it was an accident, a tragedy."He said he had been depressed and under the influence of alcohol and cannabis at the time, but that the earl was "excited and aggressive". "I don't know how it happened. It happened in a minute. I did everything to save Anthony; mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, heart massage, it was too late. He had left us."The case continues.