America has the world's largest prison population. It's not exactly news these days to mention this fact. After all, largely because of the way in which the war on drugs has played out here, the country long ago out-incarcerated Russia, China, Brazil, South Africa and all the other traditionally high-imprisonment countries. But a new report out by the London-based International Centre for Prison Studies explores just how extraordinary the numbers really are.ICPS researchers estimate that close to 2.3 million Americans now live inside jails and prisons, giving the US an incarceration rate of over 750 per 100,000. A Rip van Winkle or Austin Powers character who had gone to sleep 30 years ago and just woken up would read this number and think he'd somehow travelled in his sleep from America to the Soviet Union. Of course then he'd read the history books and realise the Soviet Union no longer existed ... and then the realisation would dawn on him that this is, indeed, his home.The huge incarceration rate detailed by ICPS makes even cynical prison watchers like myself - I have written three books on America's burgeoning prison-industrial complex - sit up and take note. In 1992, already a decade into the country's prison binge and the year before crime rates began plummeting in the US, 505 per 100,000 Americans were incarcerated - and that was viewed, at the time, as utterly unprecedented. By 2001, after eight years of falling crime rates, it had risen to 685; three years later to 723; and now to 751. And this rise is occurring not during a period when the public is listing crime as a top concern, as it was in the mid-1990s, but rather during years in which few people list fear of crime as their top concern.True, nearly 50% of Americans tell pollsters they remain "a great deal concerned" about crime and violence, even if it doesn't top their lists of scare-factors, but the issue doesn't resonate emotionally in the political arena in the way it did in the 1990s. Listen to the three remaining presidential contenders and none of them is really going out of their way to tout their tough-on-crime credentials.In other words, the incarceration engine, which began as a sop to conservative, "silent majority" public opinion is now running full-throttle independently of public demand. And since it's rising annually despite crime rates falling, there's no reason to think it will stop anytime soon. It's entirely possible that a few years from now the country will be incarcerating close to one in every 100 residents.If incarceration per se were responsible for lowering crime rates, by now America wouldn't just have better crime statistics than it had 20 years ago, it would have almost no crime. And, compared to other industrial democracies, the country would be a positive Eden - safe, free from violence, immune from illegal gun usage, certainly with a far less conspicuous drug problem than other nations. Of course, none of that is true. While America's crime rate has dropped, it's still higher in many categories, especially violent crime, than its peer nations, and many neighbourhoods continue to be riven by violence and gang activity.In other words, setting aside the political and moral arguments around such strategies as mandatory minimum sentences, in the detached, cold language of economics the marginal benefit of incarcerating all those extra hundreds of thousands of people in recent years has actually been pretty small. That doesn't mean there's no relationship between the high incarceration rates and the falling crime rates, but it does mean it comes with a terrible price tag. And it also means that other methods of reducing crime, such as increasing the number of mental health courts, investing more dollars in drug treatment programmes, and creating job corps in poor neighbourhoods, would likely deliver a far bigger bang for the buck.There's a law of diminishing returns in play with contemporary incarceration. At this point you've got to put huge numbers more people in prison to drive the crime rate down just a little bit. And that's both morally problematic - since the additional people being locked up tend to be low-end offenders who in other circumstances would be diverted into non-prison punishments - and economically extremely costly to taxpayers.In states like California, with high-cost prisons, each additional prisoner costs taxpayers well over $40,000 per year, upwards of $100,000 if the prisoner has major physical or mental heath issues. Even in low-cost states like Alabama the price tag will run to over $20,000. In other words, every extra 1,000 prisoners will cost between $20m and $40m per year. Add another 300,000, as has occurred between 2001 and 2008, and that's an extra annual expenditure of somewhere in the region of $10bn.That's not just a bad way to fight crime. It's also a lousy way to prioritise the spending of scarce government dollars.