The pictures in the hall of a smiling toddler and a fashionable teenage boy are the only evidence that Sally and her son ever lived as a normal family.In the last two years the boy in the photographs, a particularly vulnerable young man who suffers from autism, has been forced to leave his home, suffered a mental breakdown and had to abandon his education as a result of his mother's decision to do the right thing in a culture where police officers are routinely met with a wall of silence as they tackle gun and knife crime. Sally (her name has been changed) has been left to live among a gang who repeatedly bullied and targeted her son. She has suffered violent attacks, constant intimidation and death threats after telephoning the police when she discovered her son was storing a firearm in his bedroom.Finding the weapon helped detectives convict two men for murder and track six other shooting incidents, all of which involved the gun. "They would never have found this weapon without me," she said. "But I feel like I've been treated as a criminal." Terrified for her life after receiving death threats she was told by one officer: "Don't worry. They've never shot a mother yet."Sally's son was one example to add to the growing evidence that younger teenagers living in inner-city areas where street gangs prevail are being intimidated into storing firearms by older hoods.The government has responded with a three point action plan against gun crime, including tougher punishments for those who force minors to store guns. To tackle witness intimidation the Home Office formed the National Witness Mobility Service to "arrange the timely and effective relocation of witnesses living in social housing", and teams are also in place to identify and help young people at risk of being sucked into gang culture.But Sally's story suggests the policies are not feeding down to the grassroots. It was her son, who had a mental age of 11, who was arrested and charged, while the older man who gave him the weapon remains at large.Sally was expected to give testimony against her own son in public gaze and despite asking to be moved from the area remains at her address. It was one morning two years ago that her son left for school telling her: "Mum, whatever you do, don't look in my room."Already concerned at the bullying her son was suffering at the hands of gang members and aware the autism made him more vulnerable, she went to his bedroom where she discovered a large bundle, wrapped in a sock and hidden in a rucksack. Inside she found a black handgun and ammunition.It had been in the house less than 24 hours. Her son confessed that he had been called out the night before to meet a gang member who ordered him to store it. As text messages on his mobile phone revealed, the same man had been intimidating him for months."My son didn't know it was a gun," she said. "When I opened the bundle I was just in shock. My son has a mental health worker because of his autism. She told me to phone the youth offending team."Within an hour a detective called her to say his officers would kick down her front door to get access to the firearm. "I said please don't do that, I'm on my way home. He said he was going to arrest my son, and I said he has special needs, he has a mental age of 11, he always comes home, please don't arrest him at school, he will come home."A few hours later the school rang to say her son had been taken from his classes and arrested. "That was the end of his education. He never did his GCSEs and has had no education since," his mother said.The boy spent that night in a police cell before appearing in court the next day charged with possession of a firearm and ammunition.In a statement seen by the Guardian the teenager provided information to detectives. He denied knowing there was a gun in the bag, and said he had been told to look after it by someone who regularly bullied and intimidated him. A property was raided but no one else was charged in connection with the discovery.Police and crown prosecutors decided that it was in the public interest to charge Sally's son. They acknowledged the danger he was in and placed him a safe house but she remained in the area and in the weeks that followed the intimidation and threats began.On the day of her son's appearance in a crown court Sally received two calls on her mobile at 7.30am. "A man's voice said 'you are going to die ... bitch'." She informed the police who said they would flag her address up as sensitive.A DVD film of rappers singing about killing anyone who grasses was posted through her letterbox, her car was trashed with concrete blocks, she was threatened repeatedly and asked to reveal where her son was, and one of his friends was stabbed to frighten him into giving away the boy's whereabouts."I was going through all this and everyone kept saying my son was going to prison. I said he is not going to prison. He knew nothing about it. There was no DNA on the gun, he was bullied and frightened."Charges against her son were dropped when she refused to give evidence in court. "If he had been an obnoxious unruly boy with a criminal history it would be different," she said. "But I knew he was being bullied, I knew they had been coming to my house threatening him. He was not the criminal."Shortly after the case he suffered a mental breakdown. On the wall of the bedroom in the safe house he had scrawled: "Someone please help me, get me out of here."Today he is still unable to return home and suffers from deteriorating mental health. In a statement he said: "Before this happened I really loved going to school. I'm not allowed to go to school now, and I have received no education whatsoever since arriving [at the safe house]. It has been very difficult for me." Recounting how he was involved in storing the weapon, he said: "When I got home I did begin to panic about what might be in the bag. I was arrested the following day. I told police who had given me the gun but as far as I am aware he has not been arrested. In fact people just keep calling my mum asking where I am and what I have said to police."A police source said the issue of rehousing witnesses was complex and far from perfect. He said temporary accommodation was often offered as a first resort, but that could mean bed and breakfast rooms which not everyone would accept."In a perfect world we would have a number of suitable flats available so that we could move people quickly into suitable accommodation. But it's not a perfect world." He said officers were now trying to work with Sally to find her a suitable new home.