So the court of appeal has decided: Frances Inglis, the woman convicted of killing her brain-damaged son Thomas in January this year by injecting him with heroin, is a murderer.Almost three years ago Thomas was hurt during a fight outside a pub and then, in circumstances that remain unclear, he fell or jumped out of the ambulance that was trying to take him to hospital. He was left in a "vegetative state", but there was still some hope. He could communicate by blinking and hand-squeezing, although he had to be fed through a tube. His mother however, sitting at his bedside, could see only, "horror, pain and tragedy," she said. "For Tom to live that living hell – I couldn't leave my child like that."Her first attempt to kill him just a few weeks after his accident failed and she was arrested and released on bail. Determined to end what she saw as her son's enduring misery, she tricked her way into the hospital in November 2008 and injected Thomas a number of times with a syringe full of heroin. "I held him and told him that I loved him," she told the jury at her subsequent trial. Her explanations cut no ice. They found her guilty of murder.After she was sentenced to life imprisonment her eldest son Alex read a statement outside the court. "I want to say that all of the family and Tom's girlfriend support my mum 100%." He said that all of those who loved and were close to Tom saw his mother's act as "a loving and courageous act". An act of mercy no doubt.The judge, Brian Barker QC, was unmoved. In his summing up he told Inglis that there was "no concept in law of mercy killing". He said what she did was still a killing, "no matter how kind the intention". He was right of course. But murder?The judgment handed down this morning by the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, is a powerful one, a masterclass in judicial rhetoric. In dismissing Inglis's appeal against conviction Lord Judge said: "There is no doubt at all that the appellant was subjected to great stress and anguish, but dealing with it briefly and starkly, there was, as our analysis of the evidence underlines, not a scintilla of evidence that when the appellant injected the fatal dose of heroin into her son she had lost her self-control."Yet the judges were fully aware of the medical reports on Inglis which suggested that, "at all the relevant times" she was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, a fact that surely undermines their ultimate conclusions.But vagaries abound in the criminal justice process. Anyone spending serious time in the long-term prison system soon becomes aware of the obvious injustices that litter the wings and landings. The two decades I spent cramped among the ranks of the country's malcontents and misfits certainly afforded me privileged insights into the often odd workings of the system. A man gets a seven-year fixed term sentence for dousing his wife and her lover with petrol and burning them to death – and laughs about it on the exercise yard. When he gets parole first time around other prisoners scratch their heads. ("That can't be right.") Another man gets life for setting fire to a pair of curtains in a derelict church and spends decades inside, serving more time than most murderers. ("That can't be right either.") What has happened to Frances Inglis is one such vagary and almost beyond understanding.This woman deserved justice – but she also deserved mercy. Her trial judge gave her an absurd tariff, the minimum time she must serve in prison, of nine years. The court of appeal has reduced this figure to five – but she could spend many more years inside if she gets tangled up with the prison psychology department and they decide that she is not addressing her "offending behaviour".Wherever she is today I know what her fellow prisoners will be saying. "Frances Inglis, a murderer? That can't be right." And I agree. The appeal court judges have let her down. Her appeal deserved to succeed. I lived among murderers for 20 years. Frances Inglis is no murderer.