Nine British soldiers were cleared yesterday of trashing a pub during a mass brawl in the Cyprus resort of Ayia Napa that left five people injured. A judge at Famagusta district court ruled that prosecutors had failed to prove beyond any reasonable doubt that the servicemen, who had been celebrating finishing tours of Iraq and Afghanistan and were set to return to the UK, were responsible for the chaotic scenes at the Bedrock Inn.Their defence lawyers told the court they had not been involved in the trouble at the Flintstones-themed bar in February, which saw bottles, tables and chairs fly as soldiers clashed with locals, but had stayed behind to help injured comrades and were arrested when police arrived. The soldiers from the 2nd Royal Regiment of Fusiliers were all "out of bounds", because service personnel were banned from the town centre after the rape and murder of Danish tour guide Louise Jensen by British servicemen in 1994.Tension has simmered between British soldiers and locals for some time in Ayia Napa. The court in Paralimni heard that a soldier was attacked, possibly with a baseball bat, by a local at or near the Bedrock Inn. Soldiers then stormed the bar to "back up" fellow servicemen, and possibly to find the culprits.The bar owner, Kyriakos Hadjiyiannis, told the court 20 soldiers rampaged through his bar. He had a chair smashed over his head, then locked himself in the toilets until police arrived. Four people needed hospital treatment.During the trial Thansis Loizou of Famagusta CID said he was "sure" the accused were the ones responsible. The bar owner, who has filed a lawsuit seeking £4m in damages, broke down in tears and told the court the men were guilty. But Judge Elias ruled there was not enough evidence to link the soldiers to the offences, ruling that there were too many inconsistencies in accounts of witnesses about who had attacked them, and that the identification process leading to the arrest of the soldiers was flawed.Fusilier William Sewell, 21, from Manchester, was cleared of grievous bodily harm, malicious damage and breach of the peace. Fusiliers David Ramage, 21, from Manchester, and Daniel Brayne, 22, from Birmingham, were cleared of charges of assault occasioning actual bodily harm along with malicious damage and breach of the peace. Fusiliers Damien Heywood, 27, Andy Evans, 21, and Dean Rushton, 21, all from Manchester, Gary Farrell, 23, from Newcastle upon Tyne, Christopher Wenham, 19, from London, and Ashley Hughes, 19, from Birmingham, were all acquitted of malicious damage and breach of the peace.Captain Nick Ulvert, deputy spokesman for British forces in Cyprus, said the verdict was "fantastic news. This trial has gone on for an extremely long time and it has built up the pressure on them. They are very, very happy indeed to have been found innocent." Around 3,000 British military personnel are stationed in Cyprus. The nine acquitted soldiers, described as "heavily decorated", will be allowed to rejoin their units in the UK.A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: "We extend our sympathies to those affected by this incident. The conclusion of this civilian case means that the army can now consider whether any internal administrative action should follow."