A quarter of boys aged 14 to 17 can be classified as prolific or serious offenders, according to a Home Office study published yesterday. The 2003 crime and justice survey suggests that there are 3.8 million "active offenders" at any one time in England and Wales. This is as many as one in 10 of the male population aged 10 to 65 and is a far higher estimate of the size of the "criminal classes" than any previous study. But the research confirms that most grow out of crime, and that a small minority of the most prolific offenders are responsible for most crime. The survey says while prolific offenders account for 2% of the population - and number around one million people - they account for 82% of all crime. The peak age for offending is among 14- to 17-year-old boys, with 40% of them regarded as active offenders, that is they admit committing one offence in the past 12 months. A quarter are classed as "serious or prolific offenders". A prolific offender is defined as having committed six or more offences in the past year. The crimes can be as minor as not paying a bus fare, a play ground scuffle, or stealing sweets or lipstick from a shop, and as serious as burglary, car theft and drug dealing. The 2003 crime and justice self-report survey, based on interviews with 12,000 people aged 10 to 65, says about 13% of teenage girls could be classed as serious or prolific offenders. The research shows that most offenders give up crime without any contact with the police or courts, and only a third are arrested. Only 1% of offences end in a court appearance. Although teenagers are the most prolific offenders, 1.6 million over-25s admit involvement in crime in the last year. While the most common offences among teenagers are scuffles and "non-injury assaults", the older generation are more likely to be involved in car crime or burglaries. Drug dealing was most common among the 18 to 25s. The Home Office minister Hazel Blears said the study justified the government's approach of targeting the 100,000 most prolific offenders. But Richard Garside, of the Crime and Society Foundation, an independent thinktank, said the research challenged the "reassuring myth" that a small number of persistent offenders commit most crime.