A man with serious mental health problems who stabbed two Big Issue sellers to death in a frenzied attack has been sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum of 12 years.John Ward, 23, of no fixed address, pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility after killing Wayne Busst, 32, and Ian Watson-Gladwish, 31, in Birmingham city centre on 11 January.Appearing before the city's crown court via videolink from Ashworth hospital, a high-security mental health facility, Ward spoke only to enter pleas to both charges.Mrs Justice Thirlwall, sentencing, told Ward he was considered by psychiatric experts to be an aggressive and "exceptionally dangerous" man."I do not know whether you will ever be released," she said. "That will be a matter for others."Peter Grieves-Smith, prosecuting, described how shocked commuters making their way home from work watched in horror as Ward plunged 20cm (8in) knife into his victims.He had met the pair – fellow drug users – for the first time a few hours earlier, after getting off a train from London. CCTV showed the three men chatting and walking in the hours before the attack.Grieves-Smith said psychiatric experts for both the prosecution and defence agreed that Ward had paranoid schizophrenia and that this lay at the root of his actions that day.Ward told psychiatrists he had heard voices "screaming in his head" telling him first to kill himself. He told Dr Panchu Xavier at Ashworth hospital that "he didn't want to do anything but 'the voices wanted me to kill everyone'", the court heard.When Ward first arrived in Birmingham he went to a supermarket and bought a kitchen knife and some alcohol. Later he acquired a bag of heroin, which he smoked. Grieves-Smith said Ward's previous history meant he was "in the habit of carrying a knife for his own protection".Shortly before 6pm, as Ward stood with Busst and Watson-Gladwish while they sold copies of the Big Issue, he struck. He later told Xavier that at this point "the voices were going mad, screaming at me 'kill yourself'. The voices were saying kill random people."Just before the attack, a commuter noticed Ward acting strangely and, as he passed, saw him "conceal something up his right sleeve, and clasp it in his fist", said Grieves-Smith. CCTV later showed what the prosecution said was Ward fiddling with the concealed knife as he walked towards the two magazine sellers.Ward struck Busst first. A postmortem examination revealed the cause of death to be a 16cm wound to his chest, struck with such force that it damaged bone.As his first victim cried for help, Watson-Gladwish tried to intervene and was stabbed twice, in the abdomen and in the chest. Grieves-Smith said neither man had defensive wounds.Passersby including an off-duty nurse tried to comfort the two men and stem the bleeding. Thirlwall said she had been struck by the actions of these people who went to the men's aid and "who do what they can in very difficult circumstances".Paramedics and two doctors were quickly at the scene and carried out open heart surgery on Busst in the middle of the street, but both victims died at the scene.