  Michael Henning, pictured on the day of the attacks - 7 July 2005. Photograph: John Stillwell/PASurvivors of the 7/7 attacks have been giving harrowing accounts of the moment a suicide bomber detonated his device on the underground train in which they were travelling.Michael Henning, a commuter who was travelling in the carriage behind Shehzad Tanweer when the bomber blew himself up near Aldgate station, said the explosion "feels completely real to me now as I speak"."One moment you have had the sense of reality as you know it – an everyday Tube travel – and the next it's all changed," he said.Henning told the inquests into the 52 victims of the four bombings that he had been travelling in the third carriage of the train and, because he was standing at the front of his carriage and Tanweer at the rear of his, they were only feet apart when the bomb exploded.Watched by relatives of some of those who died, he described the "intense rushing sound" of the explosion, which blew him to the ground, followed by a thick and disorientating darkness."I remember the questions in my head – 'what is this? what is this?' – as I'm being twisted and thrown down to the ground, and then I realised it was a bomb."It's strange the thoughts that go through your mind, but I think it was one of those completely British understatements: 'Oh, this isn't good.'"The carriage was pitch black and initially in eerie silence. "I remember thinking that I must be dead," he said. Soon some of the shocked survivors began to scream. Some battled to open the carriage doors, while others shouted that they should all keep calm.Struggling to control the emotion in his voice, Henning told the high court in London that at one point he had looked into the carriage in front, the site of the explosion."I could bear it no longer. It wasn't out of a ghoulish intent, it was in an intent to help. I could see people moving and in pain. It's a very difficult image to hold."After what he described as "a very long time", he and a number of fellow survivors had managed to evacuate the carriage, and as he walked up the tunnel past the point where the bomb had exploded he saw three bodies on the track. "They only had their underwear on and their skin was greyed," he said.He had passed a fellow survivor, holding the head of another victim who was apparently badly injured. "I stared at her face for what seemed like an eternity. I have never seen such a forlorn look, such a desperate look."At this point, Henning said, he had realised that it was his job to summon help from the emergency services, but when he made his way to the platform at Aldgate he found a group of eight to 10 firemen standing in a huddle, their equipment at their feet."I went up to them and asked them why weren't they down there? There were people dying down there. I know I looked a mess but they wouldn't look at me." He said they had seemed "embarrassed" not to be helping. He had asked the same angry question of a second group of firefighters, and a third, before he was eventually told that they were concerned about secondary devices."I thought of the people sat on the carriages, if there had been a secondary device, why leave 500 people just sitting there to take the full brunt of that? There's people that may have survived if they had got urgent medical responses there and then."My view is that even if those who were too severely wounded to survive, some of them died in agony for 20, 30, 40 minutes, and at least they should have had the dignity of having some morphine or something of that nature."Henning told the court, presided over by Lady Justice Hallett, that he had since had counselling for post-traumatic stress.John Gray, another survivor who he had been travelling at the front of the second carriage, at the opposite end to Tanweer, described the "crunch noise" of the bomb, after which the windows of the carriage exploded, sending shards "flying around like bullets". It was so dark, passengers were barely able to see their mobile phones in front of their faces, he said."I thought I was going to die," he told the inquest. "All I could hear was people screaming. Round the area where I was you could feel people bumping into each other, running around. I thought that was it, to be honest."Another survivor, Camilla Kingsland, said in a statement that she had been unable to forget what she had seen while evacuating the second carriage. "I am haunted by some of the images I saw, and I have been affected by the thoughts that I left people behind in the dark," she said.Earlier, the inquests heard statements from family members about each of the seven people who died in the Aldgate bombing. Denise Baisden, the mother of Lee Baisden, said her "one of a kind" son had been planning to marry his boyfriend when he was killed and that his death had left "a massive hole" in their lives.Benedetta Ciaccia's father, Roberto, described her as "a beautiful, sweet, Italian girl who greatly loved life", and who was also only weeks away from marrying her fiance.One family member, John Taylor, chose to give evidence in person, speaking in a trembling voice about his daughter Carrie, who just three days before she died had been appointed full-time to a dream job at the Royal Society of Arts."It was devastating that she had only just started to reap the benefits of all her hard work when she died so tragically on 7 July," he said.