Anybody who blames the probation service for the failures that led to Daniel Sonnex being free to join Nigel Farmer in the savage slaying of French students Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez has little understanding of what being "under the supervision" of the probation service actually means.Even high-risk offenders, (Sonnex, for some inexplicable reason, had been categorised as "medium risk" by the prison authorities,) are allowed an inordinate amount of time free from any kind of restraint on their movements. When people are released from prison "on licence," it means that they are obliged to obey certain requirements listed on the licence, terms to which they must literally sign up before they can go free. The most basic obligation on every licence issued is the stipulation that the licensee must report regularly to a probation officer. Usually that means once a week, but it could be more depending on the level of assessed risk posed by the individual concerned. There may be other "conditions" set down on the licence – maybe a bar on drinking alcohol, or a ban from visiting a certain areas. (In some cases that may mean being barred from entering a particular town or county or a number of counties even.)For those assessed to present the highest risk of reoffending, several agencies combine resources to maximise the monitoring capability available – known as MAPPA – or Multi Agency Public Protection Arrangements, involving the police, the prison authorities and the probation service. But even then a great deal of personal responsibility and trust is placed on the person released on licence not to behave in a way that causes harm and distress to others. The idea of the licence is that any violations of the conditions can lead to the supervising probation officer "breaching" the licensee and returning him or her to prison. But of course the probation officer and any other agencies involved have to be aware of violations taking place. A failure to report at the allotted time is an obvious one. But once a licensee is out of sight, what then? Between reporting sessions, which in any case rarely last more than an hour and usually a lot less, the licensee could be up to anything. And Sonnex was a good licensee, always turning up for his appointments on time or early, "polite and smartly dressed".The key here is assessing risk before the offender leaves prison. It should not be forgotten that the probation system generally works well: the majority of people "on licence" are not even remotely likely to cause the kind of carnage perpetrated by Sonnex and Farmer. What needs to be looked at closest in this case is the failure of the prison authorities to assess Sonnex correctly. He should never have been released as a "medium risk" licensee. The young, recently qualified probation officer assigned to monitor him never stood a chance of effecting any useful "supervision," not without being instructed to hold his hand 24 hours a day.The fact is a prison landing is like a goldfish bowl. Everybody knows who the most dangerous prisoners are, but nobody is allowed to say, not in the official dossier anyway. SIRs (Security Information Reports) about prison conduct may be written up for the security department by anyone working in a prison but these are meant only to serve to maintain "good order and discipline" on the landings and no doubt there would have been many submitted about Sonnex. But such reports are not relevant to what happens once a prisoner is released, nor are they meant to be. And in any case such subjective judgments are open to scrutiny and could be challenged by a prisoner's legal team – so are kept out of main dossiers. That needs to change. A prison doctor did note of Sonnex that he "feared that his reaction to events meant he could kill". Apparently this was not shared with prison staff. But all reports are available for all staff to look at and discuss during inter-department case meetings. It is inconceivable that someone with the capacity for violence that Sonnex demonstrated in his butchery of the French students would not have given some indication of his potential to cause harm in his everyday prison behaviour. That doctor should have raised his concerns with the highest prison authority, expanding on his views and if necessary other experts should have been called in to make further in-depth assessments. Instead Sonnex was allowed to appear to have "improved" by attending "offending behaviour," courses and paying lip service to addressing his use of drugs. He managed to get his boxes ticked so the prison authorities could justify letting him out early. This was not the fault of any particular individual but the result of the level of disingenuousness that the current "management of offenders" breeds. The failure to provide a full picture of who Daniel Sonnex really was and then to spit him out "on licence", into the responsibility of a relatively inexperienced officer who already had over 100 other cases to supervise, was a criminal justice disgrace if ever there was one.