Appeal court judges yesterday backed sentences, alleged to have been excessive, against 11 Asian men convicted for their part in the Bradford riots that left more than 300 police officers injured.The sentences of four men were cut, but relatives said they had no faith in the justice system and the courts had treated Asian youths unfairly compared with others sentenced for public order offences. The judgment from Lord Justice Rose was greeted with tears by the mothers of some of those serving between four and six-and-a-half years for throwing missiles at police. But the court said the original trial judges had been wrong not to have taken into account the origins of the riot, which was the fear Asians felt after white racists entered the city. The probable trigger, the appeal court said, was the stabbing of an Asian man. The riots on July 7 and 8 2001 caused £27m worth of damage, brought 1,000 police on to the streets, further damaged already poor race relations in Bradford, and damaged Asian confidence in the police. Bradford was the third northern town in 2001 to be hit by riots, after Oldham in May and Burnley a fortnight before.Police banned the avowedly racist National Front from marching in the town, but white racists still turned up. Lord Justice Rose said: "The origins of the riot began in the fear within the Asian community of racial attacks from right wing elements." He said there was understandable anxiety at the presence of the far right, but violence was aimed at the police who were there to protect them. Trouble centred on the mainly Asian Manningham area, with police coming under attack from petrol bombs and stones. Stolen vehicles were driven into police lines, and West Yorkshire police had to rush in 400 officers from other forces as they lost control of the streets. Lord Justice Rose, sitting with Mr Justice Aikens and Mr Justice Mackay, said: "The riot was of the utmost gravity." He said the riots were not premeditated, but as the violence continued it became more organised: "There were clear signs of organisation among the rioters, some of whom were communicating by mobile phone ... What began as spontaneous became marked by premeditation." Lord Justice Rose praised Asian elders who tried to restrain the young. Asian elders were key in convincing youngsters wanted by police to hand themselves in. More than 100 have been sentenced for the offence of riot. White youths from a disturbance two days later were charged with the lesser offence of violent disorder and received lower sentences. The appeal court said those disturbances had been less serious. Asians were angered by the severity of the sentences because most gave themselves up and pleaded guilty, and some had never been in trouble with the police before. The sentence of Parveez Najeib was cut from four to three years. He was captured on video making a throwing motion, but no missile was visible. Shakeel Qazi's sentence was cut from four to two years, because the trial judge did not sufficiently take into account psychiatric reports which said he in effect suffered from diminished responsibility. Two other sentences were cut from four to three years, and nine months was cut off a sentence of two years nine months. Last year the home secretary, David Blunkett, described as "whining" complaints about excessive sentences and branded rioters as "maniacs". After the verdict Sonya Khan, 24, whose two brothers failed in their appeals, said: "I thought we would find justice in Bradford but we never found it there. So we came here, but I don't think there is any justice at all, because what he has decided is totally wrong." Saarah Ali, the mother of Shazad Ali, whose sentence was cut from four to three years, said: "The violence was not justified, but the outcome is not justified either. It just feels like the judges have thrown us a few crumbs." Lord Ouseley, who conducted an investigation into the racial divisions that plague Bradford, said yesterday's judgment would not help the city move on: "It won't help assuage Asian people's lack of confidence and trust in the police, or people's belief that they will get fair treatment. "People believe the Asian boys in Bradford got a raw deal, especially those who have been free of criminal activity before." Imran Khan, solicitor for most of those before the court yesterday, said he was pleased at part of the court of appeals judgment which said the origins of the riots should have been taken into account: "The community has been saying the context in which the riots took place should be taken into account by the courts. "The court today has recognised that the sentencing judges were wrong to exclude the origin of the riots, the fact that racists had come into Bradford and understandably, the Asian community felt they had to defend themselves."