Every woman in the article below was killed by her partner or ex in one year - and yet how many of their stories do we know? Few are reported in the national press, and at Guardian Weekend we wanted to discover who these people are, and what happened to them. The list makes shocking reading.Initially, there is the number. Up to 120 women are killed by their partners each year. For December 2003 to December 2004, the period of our research, we found 68 cases that had resulted in convictions for murder or manslaughter, or in which the perpetrator had committed suicide (many cases are still ongoing, or have yet to come to court). All those women, young and old, but mostly young, smiling for the camera, their lives unlived, yet to be killed by the men they may have loved.Next there is the level of abuse most of the women endured before death: years of violence, physical and verbal assaults, harassment, intimidation and bullying. Some of the men who killed them were subject to restraining orders or facing charges of assault, but the authorities didn't do enough to protect those at risk. There are the ordinary situations that might explain upset, but not murder: an affair, the suspicion of an affair, a misplaced phone call, the woman's desire to separate. There are the murderers who kill their children too.But perhaps the most shocking thing is the sentencing. Time and again, men who kill their wives get short sentences because courts believe a woman's infidelity, or even her "nagging", is bound to provoke a husband to commit murder. A recently reported example is Paul Dalton's killing of his wife, Tae Hui. Dalton punched her, she died, then he cut up her body with an electric saw, and stored the pieces in a freezer. He was cleared of murder on the grounds of provocation; the judge said that he had suffered "no little taunting on her [his wife's] part". Dalton received just two years in jail for her manslaughter, but got three years for what many might consider the lesser crime of preventing a burial. He is appealing against the sentence.Last month, new guidelines were drafted by the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, which promised tougher sentences and said that nagging, or a man's discovery that his wife was unfaithful, did not justify a lighter sentence. But from the evidence we found here, the overwhelmingly male judiciary has a long way to go if it is to stop appearing to consider it understandable, or even reasonable, for men to kill their partners.Here we list 68 women killed by men, two women killed by their female partners, and 10 men killed by women. The reasons men and women kill those close to them are very different. Women most often kill their husbands because they are themselves the victims of domestic abuse and can no longer cope - as in the famous case of the late Emma Humphreys, who killed her violent husband and was released on appeal. Or, more rarely, it's for money - the "black widow" syndrome - or when a woman has a history of domestic violence towards her partner.The much more common story is of men who kill their wives, girlfriends, lovers and exes, and many have tried to work out why. Men commit almost all violent crime in the UK - 90% - but why do so many kill their intimate partners? Defence lawyers and judges often claim that wife-killers are just ordinary men who snap in a moment of extreme provocation. But this is quite unusual: there is only a small number of men who murder their partners without having previously used violence against them.Far more common in murder cases is a history of violence by the offender against the victim. This may not have resulted in a criminal record, as often domestic violence is not reported to the police or courts or even friends; on average, according to Canadian research, a woman is beaten 35 times before her first call to the police. Our list represents the tip of the iceberg: not all domestic violence ends in murder, and for every woman killed there are thousands more who suffer years of abuse - one in nine women in the UK is severely beaten by her male partner each year.In a new study, Professors Rebecca and Russell Dobash of Manchester University found that male murderers who used violence against their female partners tended to have more "conventional" backgrounds than, say, men who murder other men - they tended not to come from difficult homes, or to have fathers who used violence against their wives. However, they were likely to have used violence against previous or current partners - they "specialised" in violence against women.Often, as is made plain from our evidence here, the state of the relationship is a catalyst for the killing. In many of the cases in our list, either the woman was in the process of leaving the relationship or it had already ended; this is considered particularly dangerous if the woman initiated the break-up and the man contests it. The months around separation from a violent partner are crucial."The thread that runs through this," say Dobash and Dobash, "is the man's sense of ownership of the woman, and his control over the continuation or cessation of the relationship."Indeed, men's power over women is at the heart of this depressing story. Very often women are killed when they challenge that power, by trying to separate from their partners, or seeing someone else, or doing something that their partner doesn't want them to do. Perhaps we should not be surprised by the fact that two men a week kill their partners, when courts say that women can consent to sex while almost unconscious, when rape itself has a conviction rate of 5.3%, when twice as many men now visit prostitutes than a decade ago. Britain is not getting any safer for women, however many get to be CEOs.Violence against women is mainstream - the British Crime Survey from 2004 shows that an astonishing 50% of all adult women have experienced domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking. (It was only in 1991 that it was made illegal for a man to rape his wife.) And we use euphemisms about domestic violence against women such as "a row that got out of hand" and "a volatile relationship", which make abusive relationships sound equal, just a bit of sparring. Press reports say, "Police are treating it as a domestic incident", as if that makes it a lesser crime.As long as there is a perception that violence between people who know each other is none of our business, and in fact is publicly acceptable, nothing will change. Actor Sean Connery said, "Sometimes there are women who take it to the wire. That's what they are looking for - the ultimate confrontation. They want a smack." (He claimed the quote was taken out of context.) Mike Tyson, the former boxer and convicted rapist who last month enjoyed a lecture tour around Britain, hit his ex-wife Robin Givens in the face and described it as "one of the best punches I ever threw". And the late George Best, lamented as a flawed hero in reams of tear-stained articles last month, said in support of fellow woman-beating footballer Paul Gascoigne, "I think we all give the wife a smack once in a while." He certainly did so himself.So how much is our society colluding with this? When we lionise abusers, feel sorry for those who kill women who nag, and sentence men who've killed their lovers to paltry terms in jail, you have to ask: are so many women killed by their partners because society lets men get away with it?Audra Bancroft, December 8 2003 Bancroft, 36, was murdered by her boyfriend, Gary Walker, a policeman, in their flat in Burton-upon-Trent. She was four months pregnant, and sustained more than 50 injuries. Walker, 40, was sentenced to life imprisonment in October 2004.Geraldine Paxford, December 9 2003 Paxford, 53, a mother of two, sustained more than 100 injuries over two days of violence from her partner, William Barcock, 45, in Cowley, Oxfordshire. Barcock admitted hitting Paxford with a mug, pulling out her hair and breaking her ribs. He was ordered to serve a minimum of 13 years for her murder. Judge Hall told him, "It wasn't the first time you attacked her. You had broken her ribs on a previous occasion. People had tried to keep her away from you but she succumbed, went back to you and you killed her."Gemma Horstead, December 16 2003 Horstead, 20, was found dead in the Manchester bedsit she shared with her boyfriend, Richard Butcher, 40. Butcher had hanged himself. Their bodies were too decomposed for pathologists to determine the cause of Horstead's death, but the coroner believed she had been put in the position in which she was found (her hands neatly folded across her chest). He concluded, "I find it hard to think it was a suicide pact. All I can do is talk about possibilities - and it's possible her life was ended by Butcher."Lisa Higgins, Christmas Eve 2003 Higgins, 25, and her two young daughters were stabbed to death at home in Wolverhampton. Higgins' partner, Spencer Smith, 30, hanged himself while on remand for their murders in Blakenhurst prison. Higgins' mother said she had begged her daughter to leave Smith: "He made Lisa's life hell for six years."Clare Mace, Christmas Eve 2003 Mace, 23, a police officer, was stabbed to death by her estranged husband, Richard, 26, at home in Clayton-le-Moors, Lancashire. He was found dead with his wrists cut in the bathroom.Catherine Campbell, Christmas Day 2003 Campbell, 43, from south Wales, was found dead in a hotel in Goa the day after beginning a holiday with her partner, Adrian Duggan, 37. She had been stabbed in the neck and chest. In August 2005, a court in Goa found Duggan guilty of murder and sentenced him to life imprisonment. Duggan, who maintains his innocence, is planning an appeal.Louise Beech, December 29 2003 Beech, 24, was beaten and strangled by her estranged husband at their home in Gosport, Hampshire; he then stripped and had sex with her body, before attempting suicide. Shaun Beech, a 41-year-old navy reservist, denied murder but admitted attacking his wife. In November 2004 he was found guilty of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, and sentenced to seven years' imprisonment; the jury accepted that he had been severely depressed at the time of the killing.Christine Longworth, January 1 2004 Longworth, a 36-year-old mother of five, was killed by her 16-year-old boyfriend, Joseph Parr, on New Year's Day. She was stabbed and died of internal bleeding at her home in Gateshead. Her body was not found until January 27. Parr was jailed for life in October 2004.Nicola Edge, January 2 2004 Edge, 31, was stabbed in the neck with a kitchen knife by her girlfriend, Tracie Grundy, 39, in Birkenhead, Merseyside. Grundy was convicted of her murder in July 2004 and sentenced to life; she was ordered to serve a minimum of 13 years.Constance Fish, January 2 2004 Fish, 70, died in the bath at her home in Croydon. Her husband of 53 years, Ernest, 74, hit her over the back of the head with a baseball bat and then took an overdose. He survived, and in August 2005 was sentenced to three years for manslaughter.Susan Peters, January 9 2004 Peters' body was found at her home in New Brighton, Merseyside, by police. She and her three-year-old daughter had been stabbed several times. Her husband, Ian Peters, a navy chef, was sentenced to life for their murders in November 2004, and ordered to serve at least 27 years. Susan was 29.Julie Borrowdale, January 11 2004 Borrowdale, 36, died when her estranged husband, William, 41, stabbed her 30 times in front of their 15-year-old son. He attacked his wife as she sat in the driver's seat of her car, outside her home in Sawston, Cambridgeshire. He was jailed for life in December 2004; the court heard how he had previously attacked his wife with a bottle in a pub.Emily Bates, January 24 2004 Bates, 21, was stabbed 23 times by her partner, Kieron Carpenter, 30, at their flat in Wisbech, Cambridgeshire; he then attempted suicide. At Northampton crown court, Judge Charles Wide said, "You ended a young, happy, promising life. She was just emerging from the relationship with you in which you accept you were possessive and dominant." In March 2005 Carpenter was sentenced to life, to serve at least 13 years.Azmat Bismal, January 25 2004 Bismal, a 35-year-old mother of six, suffered years of violent abuse before her husband, Mohammed, 34, strangled her at their home in Luton. In 2002 she had gone to a women's refuge; in 2003 her children had been placed on an at-risk register. Mohammed was sentenced to life in February 2005, to serve a minimum of 14 years and 74 days.Anupama Damera, February 1 2004 Damera, a 36-year-old radiologist, was found stabbed to death in a car in Ipswich. Her husband, Jayaprakash Chiti, 41, a surgeon, jumped into the River Orwell holding their two-year-old son; both died. They were survived by their 11-year-old son. In July 2004 a coroner recorded two verdicts of unlawful killing and one of suicide.Case removed on going to press for legal reasons.Anne Jalland, February 6 2004 When Jalland, 40, a care worker, apparently disappeared from her home in Harlesden, north-west London, leaving her 13-month-old daughter behind, her estranged husband, Raymond, 58, repeatedly appealed for her return. In April he was charged with her murder; in June 2005 he was sentenced to life. He is appealing. Her body has not been found.Irena Pearson, February 13 2004 Pearson, a 50-year-old mother of two, was beaten to death at home in Poole, Dorset, by her husband, Maurice, 56, who later led appeals for help in finding her killer. He was found guilty of her murder and sentenced to life in September 2004.Debbie Hodgkiss, February 14 2004 Hodgkiss's body was found in a flat in Nottingham beside the body of her friend, Daniel Staniforth. The pair, both 36, had been murdered by Hodgkiss's ex-partner, Brian Tedds, 46. Tedds, who had previous convictions for violence, was jailed for life in June 2004 and told he must serve at least 20 years.Chantelle Lynch, February 17 2004 Sixteen-year-old Lynch was stabbed to death by her girlfriend, Shantelle Campbell, 18, at Campbell's home in Coventry. Lynch died from a single stab wound to the chest. Campbell, who has never denied the killing, was convicted of murder and sentenced to 12 years in September 2004, reduced on appeal in March 2005 to nine years because of her history of overdosing and deliberate self-harm.Melanie Horridge, February 27 2004 Horridge, 25, a mother of three, was attacked as she pushed her baby in his pram in Chorley, Lancashire. She was repeatedly stabbed in the neck and bled to death. Her ex-partner, Bevon Williams, 27, a professional cricketer, was charged with her murder and jailed for life in July 2004.Karin Brookshaw, March 10 2004 Brookshaw, 47, was murdered "in a jealous rage" by her partner, George Wilson, at their home in Shrewsbury. Wilson, 53, who admitted to unlawful killing by strangulation, claimed he had not meant to harm Brookshaw. He was convicted of murder in November 2004 and told he would serve a minimum of 14 years.Odell Rowlands, March 18 2004 Rowlands, 45, was stabbed by her partner, Peter Middleton, 59, who cleaned her wound and then fell asleep next to her body at their flat in Skegness, Lincolnshire. Middleton was found guilty of murder in December 2004 and jailed for life, to serve a minimum of six years.Sally Rose, April 9 2004 Rose, 26, was killed by her partner, Andrew Tinley, 35, at their home in Paignton, Devon. Exeter crown court heard that Rose had poured a pan of boiling water over Tinley's lap as he slept on the sofa, and that Tinley had then hit her over the head with an unopened champagne bottle. Tinley, who has three children, admitted manslaughter and was sentenced to five years in December 2004.James Donoghue, April 23 2004 Donoghue, 35, was shot as he watched TV at home in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, by Christopher Reed, 53, who was having an affair with Donoghue's wife, Elizabeth, 40. They were both convicted of his murder: the court heard how Elizabeth had directed Reed to her husband by a mobile phone call, and earlier persuaded her husband to take out a £144,000 life insurance policy. Both were sentenced to life and told they would each serve 30 years. She is appealing.Bharana Krishna Namoonty, April 30 2004 Namoonty's body was found in a Coventry hotel. The 29-year-old PhD student had been strangled by her boyfriend, Emachi Eneje, 24, who was arrested after crashing his mother's car as he left the hotel. Eneje had twice been hospitalised for mental health problems, and pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility; he was detained indefinitely in a secure hospital.Bronwen Jones, May 14 2004 Jones, 55, was hit in the head and strangled by her husband, John, 69, at their home in Rhyl, north Wales. She had been her husband's registered carer. He then went to Benidorm on holiday, and was arrested a week later on his return. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of provocation, claiming he was angry that his wife had been too drunk to go on holiday. He was sentenced to six and a half years in October 2004.Sarah Jane Dudley, May 16 2004 Dudley, 33, a mother of two, was burned to death when her ex-boyfriend, Anthony Frost, pushed a lit carrier bag through the letterbox of her home in Bargate, Derbyshire. Frost, 47, told Nottingham crown court he had called Dudley but dialled incorrectly and flew into a rage when a man answered. He denied murder, but admitted manslaughter and reckless arson; he was jailed for 10 years in December 2004.Hayley Davenport, May 19 2004 Davenport, 23, was shot by her lover, 32-year-old drug dealer Jarvis Mayfield Johnson, at her home in Wolverhampton when she tried to end their relationship. She was found the next day by her two small children. Johnson was jailed for life in September 2005 and ordered to serve at least 25 years.Nicola Finch, May 21 2004 Finch, 38, died at the home she shared with her husband, Adrian, 47, and their two children in Crediton, Devon. After months of verbal abuse, she had been stabbed to death using three different knives. In August 2004, Finch was found hanged in his cell in Exeter prison while awaiting trial for murder.Kevan Oram, May 26 2004 Oram, 41, was stabbed by his wife, Julie Telford, 39, in their caravan near St Austell, Cornwall. Oram had suffered brain damage following a road accident, and had the mental age of a teenager. In January 2004, he had been cautioned by police for common assault after attacking and threatening to kill Telford; police had been called after further incidents in February and April. Telford admitted manslaughter on the grounds of provocation and was jailed for four and a half years in April 2005.Roger Osliffe, June 6 2004 Osliffe, 35, was stabbed by his wife, Catherine, a week after their honeymoon, at home near Clitheroe, Lancashire. Preston crown court heard that the couple had a "stormy and volatile relationship". She was found guilty of manslaughter in February 2005 and sentenced to five years.Tae Hui Dalton, June 7 2004 Dalton, 38, was found by her husband's parents in a series of packages in a freezer at the couple's home in London. Paul Dalton had punched his wife, then cut up her body with an electric saw. He told the Old Bailey he had suffered years of provocation from his wife and did not mean to kill her. Mr Justice Gross said, "You lashed out at your wife in the course of an argument and in my judgment after no little taunting on her part." He was cleared of murder, but convicted of manslaughter and preventing a burial, and sentenced to two and three years respectively. He is appealing.Nyarai Nyamatanga, June 16 2004 Nyamatanga, 22, was found dead in a car in Leigh, Wigan; she'd been killed with a stab wound to the neck. Her partner, Leon Katina, 30, who had moved from Zimbabwe with her, was found hanging in the couple's flat. A coroner's inquest concluded in June 2004 that there was no third party involved.Hazel Dix, June 19 2004  Dix, 54, was stabbed and dismembered in her kitchen in Redditch, Worcestershire, by her husband, Glyn, 50. He had already served a life sentence for the murder of Pia Overbury, a mother of two, in 1980. Dix, who admits stabbing his wife, is receiving treatment for schizophrenia; he is due to be sentenced next week.Gareth Evans, June 24 2004 Evans, 18, was stabbed with a kitchen knife by his girlfriend, Hayley Wallbank, 18. Cardiff crown court heard that he had told her he had sex with her friend while she was downstairs in their flat in Crosskeys, south Wales. She was convicted of manslaughter in March 2005, and will serve six years in youth custody with two years on licence. The court heard that she had a history of self-harm.Anna Duncan, July 3 2004 Duncan, 30, was killed by her former boyfriend, Craig Donaldson, 29, at his flat in Aberdeen following an argument over the custody of their two children, who partially witnessed the attack. Duncan suffered more than 35 stab wounds. Donaldson pleaded guilty and was jailed for life in March 2005; he was ordered to serve at least 14 years. An inquiry into police handling of the case is ongoing, following concerns raised by Duncan's family.Jacqueline Johnson, July 18 2004 Johnson, 43, was stabbed in the leg and left to bleed to death in her flat in Windsor. Her partner, Stephen Bird, 53, later admitted manslaughter and was sentenced to six and a half years.Janet Courtney, July 19 2004 Courtney, 47, was found dead at her home in St Anne's, Lancashire, by her daughter. A wheelchair user, she had been strangled. Her husband, Brendan, 49, pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility and in February 2005 was detained indefinitely under the Mental Health Act.Charles Shaw, July 30 2004 Shaw, 33, was stabbed in the throat by his girlfriend, Jenny McAdam, 29, at their Liverpool flat. She had a history of mental illness and in August 2005 was found guilty of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. She has been detained indefinitely at a secure unit in Cardiff.Natalie Jenkins, July 31 2004 Jenkins, 24, was killed by her former partner, Mark Redwood, 31, during a "ferocious" attack at his home in Risca, south Wales, after they argued over their four-year-old daughter. Redwood, Chester crown court heard, had once cut off his finger and sent it to an ex-fiancee; he was jailed for life in February 2005.Abigail Rowan, August 1 2004 Rowan, a 32-year-old mother of one, was stabbed more than 20 times by her boyfriend, Michael Taylor, 45, at their home in Eversley Cross, Hampshire. Her body was discovered on a neighbour's doorstep. Taylor admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, claiming he could remember nothing of the murder, but was convicted of murder and jailed for life in June 2005. Witnesses said that Rowan was often seen with bruises and had become withdrawn.Stuart McKibbin, August 9 2004 McKibbin, 40, was killed in a house fire started by his girlfriend, Amanda Hewitt, 32, in Burry Port, west Wales. Hewitt was jailed for seven and a half years in August 2005 for manslaughter. She is appealing.Nusrat Ali, August 16 2004 Ali, 25, was stabbed to death with a kitchen knife outside her house in Middlesbrough by her husband, Amir Shazad, 30. They had had an arranged marriage in Pakistan in 1999, but had little contact until he moved to the UK in 2003. He pleaded guilty to murder at Teesside crown court and in February 2005 was sentenced to life, to serve a minimum of 10 and a half years.Gregory Robertson, August 16 2004 Robertson was stabbed with a knife by his girlfriend after a barbecue in Hitchin, Hertfordshire. Wendy Mathias, 30, stabbed Robertson through the lung and heart, and was found guilty of murder in June 2005. She was jailed for life and told she must serve at least nine years.Adele Corpe, August 21 2004 Corpe, a 33-year-old mother of two, was stabbed to death by her boyfriend, Edward Kearney, 46, at their home in Riddings, Derbyshire. He pleaded guilty to murder at Nottingham crown court in November 2004 and was jailed for life. He had convictions for violence and assault dating back to the age of 14.Barbara Dhillon, September 4 2004 Dhillon, 49, was bludgeoned to death by her husband, Sat, 49, at their home in Crewe, Cheshire. Her body was discovered after he committed suicide on a nearby railway line. An inquest jury recorded a verdict of suicide and unlawful killing.Vincent Keningale, September 13 2004 Keningale, 61, was stabbed by his wife Doris, 43, after they argued in the kitchen of their home in Newport, south Wales, over her plans to launch a jewellery business. She said that she had not intended to kill him, but he "was so aggressive I could not cope any more". Cardiff crown court heard how she had suffered years of verbal abuse. She admitted manslaughter and was given a three-year community rehabilitation order.Lorraine Macdonald, September 14 2004 Macdonald, 43, was stabbed 12 times and strangled by her husband at their home in Bognor Regis. Shaun Macdonald, 38, admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, after telling Lewes crown court that he was haunted by his service in the armed forces. He was jailed for four and a half years in July 2005.Ann Edwards, September 21 2004 The body of Edwards, 44, was discovered by police at her home in Northwood, Kirkby. She had sustained more than 50 injuries to her head and neck, caused by forceful impact with the floor or wall. Her partner, Robert Gallagher, admitted her murder and was sentenced to serve a minimum term of 11 years in March 2005. Her daughter Joanne told local reporters she had begged her mother to leave: "She was too scared and she stayed."Christine MacCowan, September 22 2004 MacCowan, 54, was attacked at home in Balmedie, Aberdeenshire, by her husband, Hamish, 55. He hit her with a sledgehammer before strangling her with a tie. His defence told the court that he had been suffering from a depressive illness. He was found guilty of culpable homicide and detained at a medium secure facility at the Royal Edinburgh Hospital.Margaret Gardiner, October 4 2004 Gardiner, 55, apparently disappeared from her home in Helensburgh, Scotland. Her body was never found, but after a forensics team searched her house, her husband, John, 58, told police she'd fallen on concrete steps, causing a fatal head injury; he said he'd then disposed of her body in the River Leven. He was jailed for six years for culpable homicide, plus six years for perverting the course of justice. He is appealing.Natalie Cox, October 4 2004 Cox, 75, was assaulted by her husband in their home in Ammanford, south Wales, and died nine days later in hospital. The prosecution decided not to press charges of murder or manslaughter, but Charles Cox, 78, a wheelchair user, admitted grievous bodily harm with intent in May 2005. Last month he was made the subject of a guardianship order under the care of Carmarthenshire council.Pauline Jones, October 8 2004 Jones, 53, from Cwmbran, south Wales, was killed with a claw hammer by her former boyfriend, Melvin Stewart, 45, after she refused to resume their relationship. In September 2005, he was found guilty of murder and jailed for life.Nicola Johnstone, October 10 2004 Johnstone, 23, and her partner, Kevin Braid, 41, were killed by her ex-husband at Braid's home in Leslie, Fife. Former soldier Shaun Alexander, 32, stabbed Johnstone eight times, and stabbed and hit Braid with a crowbar. The high court in Edinburgh heard that Alexander had constantly followed his ex-wife after they separated; she had applied for a restraining order, which had not been granted by the time of her death. In June 2005, Alexander was jailed for 20 years, increased from 17 years after the Crown appealed against the leniency of the initial sentence.Vicky Reay, October 17 2004 Reay, 19, was strangled by her boyfriend, Andrew Maguire, 34, at her home in Hexham, Northumberland. He told police his cousin had told him to do it because she "knew too much" about his criminal activity. Maguire, who confessed to her murder, hanged himself days later in Durham prison.Julie Harris, October 19 2004 Harris, 41, was stabbed to death by her former partner, Andrew Millard, 42, after he broke into her home in Cheltenham. Hours before, she'd asked Gloucestershire police to arrest Millard, who was the subject of a harassment order; she was told they had "other commitments". He was sentenced to life. In 2000, he had been jailed for three years for stabbing his then girlfriend in the face, and in 1994 to five years for stabbing his wife's friend. An inquiry into police handling of the case is ongoing.Linda MacDonald, October 20 2004 MacDonald's body was found at her home in Buckfastleigh, Devon; she'd been beaten with an iron bar. Her husband, Hibiekoun Hien, 54, who'd recently emigrated from Burkina-Faso, pleaded guilty to manslaughter. He was jailed for five years. The court heard that he'd become depressed and disoriented, believing that MacDonald, 53, was going to kill or sell him.Ela Maisuria, October 22 2004 Maisuria, 46, was stabbed to death in Southall, Middlesex, by her husband, Prabodh, 52. Her body lay undiscovered for several days, during which time Prabodh begged for help in finding her killer. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of provocation, but in June 2005 was sentenced to life for murder; he was ordered to serve at least 13 and a half years.Paula Owens, October 22 2004 Owens, 41, was strangled and stabbed in the chest by her partner, Anthony McCormack, 54, in their home in the Wirral. She was six months pregnant. He was convicted of murder and destruction of the child she was carrying, and sentenced to not less than 20 years. In 1998 he had served five years after cutting an ex-girlfriend's throat; he had faced a charge of stabbing Owens in 2003, but was cleared due to insufficient evidence.Amanda Lewis, October 24 2004 Lewis, 42, died from a single stab wound at her home in Suffolk. Her husband, Gareth, 43, who said he could not remember killing her, pleaded guilty to manslaughter due to diminished responsibility. Ipswich crown court heard that he had a history of depression. In June 2005 he was sentenced to three years and four months.Mary Crilly, October 31 2004 The bodies of Crilly, 40, and her partner, Brian Smith, 47, were found at their home in east Belfast. Smith, a former prison officer, had shot his wife dead before killing himself. Crilly's 15-year-old daughter was treated for gunshot wounds; her 21-year-old son, also in the house at the time, escaped injury.Jenni Gordon, November 15 2004 Gordon, 15, was strangled and left to die in sub-zero conditions in a lane near Dunfermline, Fife, by her boyfriend, Kenneth Fraser, 16. He said in court she had told him she had contracted chlamydia. He was sentenced to life in June 2005, to serve a minimum of 20 years. He is appealing.Simon Neglia, November 18 2004 Neglia, 29, was stabbed five times by his girlfriend, Anna Gray, 35, at their flat in Hatfield, Hertfordshire. She told Luton crown court that the attack was in self-defence after Neglia tried to drown and strangle her. In July 2005, she was jailed for six years for manslaughter by reason of provocation.Mandy Skedd, November 22 2004 Skedd, 30, a childminder, was looking after two children at her home in Nottingham when she was stabbed by her ex-partner, Mark Odeyemi, 47. He left a note on her body saying, "Tell Eddie thank you", a reference to her new partner. He pleaded guilty to murder and was sentenced to life, to serve at least 21 years and five months. Paul Mann QC, prosecuting, said, "It is the Crown's case that the defendant could not come to terms with the break-up. He became possessive."Jeanette Willsher, November 23 2004 Willsher, 48, was stabbed by her husband, Christopher, 53. Plymouth crown court heard that the couple had a happy marriage until his physical and mental health began to deteriorate; he'd become impotent and urged his wife to sleep with other men. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. He was jailed for six years.Valerie Page, November 24 2004 Page, 51, was bludgeoned to death with a paperweight by her husband, David, 45, at their home in Winchester, Hampshire. He admitted to her murder and in April 2005 was jailed for a minimum of 22 years. He had previously been jailed for killing his father with a rolling pin.Margaret Lyon, November 27 2004 Lyon, 65, was bludgeoned to death with a claw hammer by her husband, John, 56, at their flat in Ramsbottom, Greater Manchester. He pleaded guilty to murder and in June 2005 was sentenced to life imprisonment. Det Insp Bill Beddows said, "The murder of Margaret Lyon is the tragic result of domestic violence over a number of years, and I want this case to be a warning to other people who are suffering from domestic violence to take action before it is too late."Alison McNally, November 27 2004 Kevin McNally, 48, was found holding a cushion over his wife's face at their home near Gateshead. He was charged with murder, until prosecutors accepted a plea of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility: psychiatrists agreed he was suffering from depression. He is awaiting sentencing.Maria Jones, December 2 2004 Jones, 36, was stabbed nearly 100 times by her husband, Graham, 40, at their home near Stockton. The court heard how Maria was so afraid of her husband, a police officer, that she kept a knife under her pillow. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, claiming his wife had taunted him over an affair with a younger man. He was sentenced to eight years. Judge Peter Fox QC said, "I take into account fully the provocation you suffered arising not only from your wife's blatant infidelity, but the taunting about it you received from her."Margaret Wood, December 2 2004 Wood, 52, was stabbed to death by her husband, Derek, 60, at her home in Darlington. Their bodies were found next to each other; he had been suffering from depression and had died from self-inflicted stab wounds.Allan Baxter, December 3 2004 Baxter, 31, was stabbed in the back by his partner, Jayne Richards, 34, at their home in Wigan, Greater Manchester. She was found guilty of murder in July 2005 and sentenced to life with a minimum term of 10 years.Lisa Price, December 5 2004 Price, 25, was stabbed with a kitchen knife by her 52-year-old husband, Christopher, at a friend's house in Blackpool. He pleaded guilty to her murder and was sentenced to life in June 2005, with a minimum term of 14 years. Preston crown court heard that the relationship was volatile. After sentencing, Lisa's mother said, "As soon as she started coming home with black eyes, I pleaded with her to leave him."