The jail sentence for computer hackers should be raised from six months to two years and the police should be allowed to extradite criminals who hack into British computer systems from overseas, a committee of MPs said yesterday. The all-party parliamentary internet group (APIG) wants the government to toughen up the laws surrounding computer crime and warned that the police are insufficiently resourced to deal with the growing problem of cyber-crime. In its review of the Computer Misuse Act, which was introduced in 1990, the APIG yesterday recommended that the basic sentence for computer hacking should be raised to two years which would allow extradition proceedings to be brought against offenders. Aggravated hacking currently carries a maximum five-year sentence. "We are convinced that it is important to send a clear message that society now takes hacking offences rather more seriously than in 1990," the report said. MPs also want the government to introduce a new offence to cover so-called denial of service internet attacks. This form of attack, where websites are targeted by a sudden surge in traffic which causes them to crash, has become a daily menace for companies that use the web to do business. In the run-up to the Euro 2004 football championship several UK-based gambling websites were contacted by criminals who threatened to crash their websites with denial of service attacks unless they paid a "ransom". The APIG wants a new offence in the Computer Misuse Act of impairing access to data which would carry a penalty of two years' imprisonment to meet this new threat. The APIG, however, warned that any new offence would have to take into account legitimate cyber-protest where supporters of a cause all access a website at the same time in order to stop it being used by other people. MPs also called for a new offence to be created in order to catch people who engage in "phishing", where criminals send out unsolicited emails asking for personal details such as bank account numbers and passwords. The APIG wants the government to introduce a new offence of false representation as it revises the Fraud Act. Clive Gringras, head of the e-commerce group at lawyers Olswang and a witness to the APIG inquiry, said the new law would "hit phishing right in the face with a big mallet". "When the Fraud Act is revised we want to make sure that all internet frauds are cov ered," said Richard Allan, Liberal Democrat IT spokesman and a member of the APIG. "People feel that the law is ineffective in responding to online fraud." The APIG also wants to see more prosecutions brought against companies that switch people's internet access from free call numbers to premium rate numbers without their knowledge. Premium rate dialling has been used by the online porn industry for years as a way to raise money from users, but it is now being used by criminals who switch people's internet connections over to premium rate numbers without their knowledge. Customers can run up phone bills of hundreds of pounds before they realise their internet connection has been switched without their consent. The APIG want the industry regulator Icstis to bring more prosecutions for the offence. The APIG also admitted that the police are under-resourced and called on the government to simplify the law governing private prosecutions so that companies can bring their own cases to court. "The Crown Prosecution Service at the moment is not prioritising these cases," said Brian White, Labour MP for Milton Keynes North East and member of the APIG. "All we are saying is use the expertise that is there."