Witnesses who fear retribution from criminals should be allowed to conceal their identities when testifying in court, Nottinghamshire's chief constable urged yesterday.Steve Green made the call in an interview with the Guardian, as he pledged to do everything in his power to catch the killers of 14-year-old Danielle Beccan, shot dead in Nottingham on Saturday. Danielle, who had no gang or criminal links, seems to have just been in the wrong place at the wrong time. Mr Green, who visited the murder scene and talked to people in the St Ann's area yesterday, acknowledged that witnesses might be scared, but hoped that the shocking murder of a child would spur them to come forward and help police. While he conceded that Danielle's murder was a devastating blow, he claimed his force was having considerable success in stemming the rising tide of drug and gun crime in Nottingham in recent years. The former army officer and advocate of tough policing called on other public agencies and the community to work together to help police to defeat the gangsters and stop young people being dragged into gun culture. "Danielle's murder was a dreadful, horrible crime, and I, like everyone else, feel great anger that an innocent girl's life has been taken away," he said. "But I'm determined to turn that community anger into help for our investigation. A lot of people are coming forward to make statements and there is a real possibility that there is such outrage at this murder that any reservations people have about helping police will be put aside. "The witness protection scheme is not perfect. But if people have concerns about giving evidence, we will do our utmost to help them. I accept that if one person makes a statement that person may have a problem, but if 100 people make statements then the criminals have a problem. "I say to Danielle's killers: Give yourselves up now, because we will catch you, and you will go to prison for a very long time." Mr Green said government should consider new moves to let witnesses' identities be withheld in court if there was a risk of a revenge attack. Nottingham has suffered seven gun murders in the past two years and an average of one shooting incident a week last year, and Nottinghamshire police force has come in for criticism in recent government reports. But Mr Green said his force's Operation Stealth was making significant impact on guns, and its comprehensive drugs strategy was clamping down on dealers and keeping addicts away from crime. Gun crime is down 40% month on month, but Mr Green admitted there were still problems, and he insisted policing alone could not challenge gun culture."That has to be done in partnership with other public agencies and the focus now needs to shift to local authorities, schools, youth services, to protect young people and create diversionary activities, things to do, places to go, to stop young people being dragged into gun culture."