Detectives investigating internet threats to kill Gordon Brown yesterday arrested a fourth man. The 24-year-old was held in Blackburn, Lancashire, under the Terrorism Act 2006.Police say the arrest is linked to those of three men detained in the last fortnight over threats to kill Brown and his predecessor, Tony Blair.Written threats emerged on an extremist jihadi website in January this year, purporting to come from a previously unknown group calling itself al-Qaida in Britain. Police say no bomb-making or other terrorist equipment has been recovered, and it appears there is no evidence of a plot to carry out any threats.Yesterday's arrest came after a dawn raid on a flat behind a halal butcher's shop, where local residents said the man - who is white - lived alone. Specialist counter-terrorism officers are examining the address in Whalley Range, north of Blackburn town centre. Whalley Range is a quiet residential street near Percival Street, where officers searched a house after the earlier arrests.Police community support officers were distributing leaflets in the area explaining the anti-terror operation to residents and seeking to reassure the public. Two men were arrested at Manchester airport on August 14 as they prepared to board a flight to Finland. A third man was held in Accrington, Lancashire, on the same day. All three are in their 20s. Police have until tomorrow to charge the trio or seek an extension to their custody.A police spokeswoman said: "The arrest is part of an ongoing investigation by Lancashire constabulary and Greater Manchester counter-terrorism unit."The suspect is a white male, sources confirmed. He is not the first white person arrested for an alleged terrorism offence.Chief Superintendent Andy Rhodes, from Lancashire police, said: "This is a very sensitive time for all our communities and we are working hard to ensure everyone is kept up to date with as much information as we can give."We will endeavour to carry out any searches as quickly as possible to minimise impact on the area concerned. However, inquiries of this nature are complex and may take time to resolve."I would like to thank local residents affected by the arrests for their cooperation and ask that they remain patient."Abdul Qureshi, chairman of the Lancashire Council of Mosques, said: "If there is a real security issue, people will always support and cooperate with the police. But a lot of people are put in custody and are actually innocent, and that has created anxiety in people to ask 'What is the investigation about'? "Have people just gone on to the internet and read about things, or are they actually planning on doing something?" Bastwell ward councillor Sajid Ali said: "The local residents are quite happy with the way the police have treated the whole incident. The Asian officers make a difference. When the Asian officers are there and explain what's happening, it's more of a relief."