A man convicted of supplying Mark Duggan with a gun has denied ever doing so.Kevin Hutchinson-Foster appeared via videolink from Maidstone prison to give evidence at the inquest into Duggan's death. His fatal shooting in London by police, who claimed he was holding a weapon and preparing to open fire, triggered the English riots in summer 2011.Hutchinson-Foster was sentenced to 11 years' jail after a jury convicted him of supplying the gun to Duggan on 4 August 2011.When asked by Ian Stern QC, representing the armed officers, why Duggan wanted a gun, he replied: "Is that meant to be a trick question or funny question or something?"  Mark Duggan. Photograph: Rex FeaturesPolice claim Duggan travelled in a minicab from Tottenham to Leyton to pick up the gun, and that the two men were in repeated mobile phone contact throughout the trip. During a four-minute stop in Leyton, Duggan was seen being handed a shoebox.The jury at the trial of Hutchinson-Foster heard that Duggan collected the BBM Bruni Model 92 handgun 15 minutes before he was shot dead. That jury could not reach a verdict, but he was found guilty earlier this year after a retrial.On Tuesday Hutchinson-Foster said: "I never met Mark that day."He admitted using the same gun in an attack on a barber six days before Duggan's shooting. He pistol-whipped Peter Osadebay with the gun at the Lagoon salon in Dalston, east London, on 29 July. Traces of Osadebay's blood and Hutchinson-Foster's DNA were found on the gun when it was retrieved from Ferry Lane on 4 August.The shoebox was found in the minicab and had both Duggan's and Hutchinson-Foster's fingerprints on it, as well as those of Desire Cox, Hutchinson-Foster's girlfriend at the time. The gun was in a black sock with the toe end ripped to expose the barrel, and the heel open to expose the cocking lever at the back.Hutchinson-Foster said it was likely the gun he used to to attack Osadebay was the same one found close to where Duggan was shot by police on 4 August. He said he did not know how it came to be there. He refused to name who supplied him with the gun.Hutchinson-Foster was on licence as part of a prison sentence at the time of the alleged supplying of the gun to Duggan.He said the repeated phone calls with Duggan was because Duggan wanted him to follow him to Tottenham to look at some cannabis.