On a day when the latest youth unemployment figures give a further cause for alarm, two photographs in today's newspapers invite readers to pass judgement on Britain's young.One shows the "machine gun arsenal" found under the bed of a 15-year-old in east London. The other is the Guardian's centrefold Eyewitness photo (see above) of friends of Negus McLean, another 15-year-old from the East End, who was stabbed to death at the weekend.I prefer the second. Not because the first photo is trivial or sensational. The cache of weapons, which the child – at 15 they're still more kids than adults – was hiding for two older youths convicted this week of a foul murder, represents a serious challenge to our society.As in Sierra Leone, it is posed by children and adolescents getting access to very lethal weapons and treating them like video games.In this instance, two of them, hooded members of a gang called the London Fields Boys (not a tribute to Martin Amis, I hope), used an Agram 2000 9mm sub-machine gun – it was apparently favoured by Croat special forces in the Balkans – to spray a takeaway cafe from bicycles. You may have seen the CCTV footage on the news.Agnes Sina-Inakoju, a 16-year-old from a good home, was shot dead as a result of this action, attributed to a feud between two of London's teen gangs – there are 205 of them, with 15,000 members, claims the Evening Standard. She was a wholly innocent victim.Heartbreaking – but not, alas, unique. When we look at grainy, smiling photos of the slain, their innocence (not always the case) is an important factor in our mental calculation of how we should feel. But even the guilty have grieving mothers.All the parties mentioned here so far, guilty and innocent, are from ethnic minorities. One of the killers, both of whom were sentenced to 32 years in prison (that's expensive) this week, was Algerian, the other was black.Agnes's family is Nigerian, and she had been insufficiently discouraged by Dave'n'Nick's hand-wringing about Oxford's biases to abandon her ambition to study there. Good for her. What a waste.But the kids in the Eyewitness photo are surely more typical of the young. A mixed bunch, looking sad about the loss of their friend, protecting his little brother, it is said, in another teen gang attack, but also looking vulnerable as kids often do beneath the "I'm hard, I'm really hard" bravura.Today's unemployment figures are a further source of discouragement, though most of our near neighbours in Europe have this problem, too – some far worse than we do thanks to labour market rigidities that make it expensive to hire and hard to sack. Sorry about that, but it's true.Today's Times (paywall) carries a laudable feature explaining how hard it is to crack the jobs market in a flat growth market with an uncertain future. The paper's page one photo is of a 20-year-old from Portsmouth with 10 A to C GCSEs, who is keen to be a dental technician. Mentors have advised her to get rid of the facial piercings and the baggy clothes when going for interviews: smart advice.But it will take more than fashion advice – or even renewed economic growth – to bring the youth jobs market into better balance. There are too many with insufficient skills and, I suspect, insufficient realism about the world of work. I heard snatches of a teen conversation over a garden wall the other day which made imprudent assumptions about entitlement.The first thing the grown-up world can do to help them is call them to order. Clothes, DVDs, bedrooms with TV sets and all the electronic kit, they have so much but many of them also so little. Not enough parental time, not enough clear boundaries. No wonder they feel lost, and look so lost in that Eyewitness photo.Teachers went on strike the other day because they were fed up with trying to teach unruly pupils. For God's sake, isn't someone responsible? The head, the education committee, the parents, Ofsted, Michael Gove? Yet we collectively flinched, shrugged and moved on. It's not good enough.Is that surprising when Wayne Rooney, a man paid £250,000 a week, effs and blinds at a TV camera and suffers nothing more serious than a two-game suspension and the loss of a sponsorship contract with Coke worth three weeks' pay?Rio Ferdinand, and others who should know better, defended him, claimed he was being picked on for being Rooney. Just kidding, were we, Rio?The infantilisation of young men in western society is currently a theme of books and columns, though the rot is not confined to the young in a culture that sustains the geriatric Silvio Berlusconi in high public office – also tolerated with a shrug by many Italians.Most generations of angry teenagers get through it eventually and find something useful to do with their lives. That will probably be the fate of some of the teenage gang boys and even their better–educated comrades in the so-called "black bloc", who should ponder that cache of machine guns and realise that trashing Fortnum & Mason does not qualify them to rule the streets in the event of serious civil disturbance.But the real lesson for grown-ups, surely, is not to be afraid of the young. They need firmness and fairness, they need to be around adults – a full set of parents would be nice – who are not afraid to discipline them, not middle-aged rivals in the petulance stakes. "Tough love," some call it.Sensible parents know that Wayne (what's his problem?) Rooney isn't a role model for their kids, but not all kids have sensible parents and some have sub-machine guns under the bed.We can't rely on the craven, venal men who run the Premiership to administer appropriate discipline by ways of fines, suspensions and disdain.So when David Cameron (he seems to have enjoyed good parenting) has finished lecturing Oxford, he should find time for a firm but fair admonition to Rooney, officer class to NCO.It may do young Wayne good, it will certainly cheer me up and it may serve to reassure disconsolate youngsters that Agnes Sina-Inakoju had a better handle on life than her murderers.