An assault charge against England star Steven Gerrard was dropped today but he will still face trial on a charge of affray over a fight in a nightclub last year.The Liverpool captain was committed to Liverpool crown court to appear on 3 April for a plea hearing during a brief appearance at North Sefton magistrates court in the seaside town of Southport, around seven miles from Gerrard's home in Formby.The charges relate to an incident at the Lounge Inn a few hundred yards away from the court building in the town centre in the early hours of 29 December last year. Gerrard had been in the bar with friends celebrating Liverpool's 5-1 defeat of Newcastle United earlier in the day, which had strengthened the club's bid to win its first league title since 1990.Businessman Marcus McGee, 34, a father of two children, suffered a broken tooth and cuts to the face during a melee at the nightclub.At a previous hearing Gerrard, who spent more than 12 hours in custody after being arrested near the Lounge Inn, indicated he would be pleading not guilty.Today the 28-year-old spoke only to confirm his name, address and date of birth during his appearance in the wood-panelled art deco courtroom.Five other defendants were also committed to the crown court on affray charges by chairman of the bench Dr Pamela James for a plea and case management hearing on 3 April. No formal pleas have yet been made.The maximum sentence for affray, which is to use or threaten unlawful violence such as to cause a reasonable person to fear for their safety, is three years in prison.Gerrard's co-accused are Ian Dunbavin, 28, from Southport, John Doran, 29, from Huyton, and Paul McGrattan, 31, John McGrattan, 33, and Robert Grant, 18, all from Liverpool. The affray charge against Ian Smith, 19, from Liverpool, was adjourned until later this month.The prosecutor said assault charges were also dropped against John Doran and Ian Smith. A charge of assaulting a police officer involving Paul McGrattan, 31, on the evening of the bar brawl was adjourned for three months.Two of the other defendants are footballers - Dunbavin is a goalkeeper and Grant is a midfielder for Accrington Stanley.Gerrard, who was awarded an MBE last year, arrived at court after the other six defendants. Wearing a charcoal grey suit, a white shirt and black tie he shook hands with his co-accused and stood chatting with them for 15 minutes before the case began.After the hearing he left court to be ferried away by a driver in a black BMW. He did not make any comment to fans or waiting reporters.A handful of Liverpool supporters gathered outside the court. Pensioner Joyce Power waited with her friend for the proceedings to conclude. "We are both Liverpool fans," she said. "We just stopped by as we were on our way into Southport." Another supporter, wearing a Liverpool scarf around her neck, said she had not slept as she was worrying about Gerrard appearing in court.The seven defendants were bailed on condition they did not interfere with witnesses in the case nor attend the Lounge Inn except by prior arrangement with their solicitors.Gerrard, who grew up on Huyton's Bluebell estate, has been capped 70 times for England and has captained his country four times. He has an honorary fellowship from Liverpool John Moores University.Liverpool FC said in December that the club would support Gerrard, saying: "Steven has been an outstanding servant to Liverpool for the last 10 years and the club will give him all the support he needs at this time."