A man accused of killing two unarmed police officers in a gun and grenade attack changed his pleas on Tuesday to admit murdering them.PC Fiona Bone, 32, and PC Nicola Hughes, 23, died within moments of Dale Cregan luring them to the scene of a spurious burglary in Hattersley, Greater Manchester, last September.The 29-year-old fugitive shot each of them in the chest as they walked up the garden path of a house he had taken over the night before. He then fired a further 30 bullets at the officers as they tried to take cover.Once they were dead he threw a fragmentation grenade towards their bodies and then drove to Hyde police station, Greater Manchester, to hand himself in. He told the counter clerk: "I'm wanted by the police and I've just done two coppers." Police released images of Cregan handing himself in.Cregan, who still denies two other murders, had pleaded not guilty to killing the officers at the start of his trial at Preston crown court. Nine co-accused denied charges including murder and attempted murder.On Tuesday, on the fourth day of proceedings in the trial, Cregan informed his defence team that he wanted to plead guilty to two charges. After a lunch break, he stood impassively in the dock as the clerk asked how he now pleaded to the charge of murdering PC Bone on 18 September last year. "Guilty," he replied.He was then asked for his plea on the charge of murdering PC Hughes. "Guilty," he said again.Relatives of both officers had been in court to hear Nicholas Clarke, QC, prosecuting, give a detailed account of their final moments.They had also watched footage of them bounding towards a police van at Hyde police station and setting off to what would prove to be a trap.However, none of them were in court one to see Cregan's change of plea in relation to their loved ones.Clarke had said that at the time of the double murder the gunman was already being hunted in connection with the murders of Mark Short, 23, and his father, David, 46, earlier in the year. Mark Short was shot dead at the Cotton Tree public house, Droylsden, east Manchester, on 25 May. His father died after being chased around his home by two gunmen on 10 August.Cregan laid a trap for the two officers by ringing 999 and telling the operator someone had thrown a concrete slab through a rear window at 30 Abbey Gardens, Mottram, and run away.He claimed he had seen the direction of the offender's flight and would be able to point it out to any officer who attended.As the operator assured him an officer would be dispatched, he said: "I'll be waiting." He appeared calm, composed and in control of himself.PCs Bone and Hughes set off from Hyde police station in a marked VW transporter van. PC Hughes was at the wheel. Aside from PC Bone's Taser they were unarmed.Cregan, holding his Glock pistol, had a clear view of them as they entered the cul-de-sac at 10.52am."Cregan's carefully laid plan had been successful," said Mr Clarke. "He had lured two unarmed officers to his door and he was armed, ready and waiting for them."As Nicola and Fiona walked through the small front garden, he opened the front door and immediately fired his Glock."Both officers were shot to the chest. The body armour they were wearing protected them and the bullets did not penetrate."The officers made a tactical retreat, PC Bone moving to the right – out of the line of fire – and her colleague turning to run up the path. As they retreated, more shots were fired. PC Hughes was shot, just below her armoured vest, in the middle of her back, and was immediately paralysed, causing her to fall forwards onto the path."As she was falling or lying flat on her stomach, she was shot three more times."Clarke went on: "Cregan then turned his attention to PC Bone. She was trapped in front of the lounge and he discharged 24 shots at her. Some struck the officer, others the house. She managed to draw and fire her Taser, but it was discharged into a hard surface, probably the paving."Such was the speed of the attack upon the two officers that only a matter of 31 seconds had elapsed between Nicola Hughes switching off the engine of their vehicle and Fiona Bone firing the Taser."Most of the bullets struck her body armour or the wall at the front of the house, but she was the central target."Fiona was shot between five and eight times, receiving a total of eight gunshot-related injuries … She was killed by a perforating shot to the upper side of her chest."Cregan was not finished, said Clarke. He turned back to PC Hughes who lay paralysed on the floor and shot her six more times, in the back and the side of her head. Four of the shots caused potentially fatal wounds.Finally, just before speeding away from the cul-de-sac in a BMW, he launched a fragmentation grenade towards the garden where the officers were lying prone. The grenade caused further injuries to PC Hughes but did not contribute to her death.When he arrived at Hyde police station he told a police officer: "I dropped the gun at the scene and I've murdered two police officers. You were hounding my family so I took it out on you."