Police can't do everything we expect of them. As the nature of modern society has fragmented and the techniques available to wrongdoers have multiplied with IT innovations, this has become even more true. So Monday's announcement by home secretary Theresa May of radical reforms to policing is an opportunity not to be ignored.Since most crime is local and most problems we experience are local, protecting the provision of local support makes sense. But I worry that the home secretary's assumption that volunteers can fill the gap between expectation and delivery is based on a view of neighbourhoods that does not match the complex social fragmentation often loosely and inaccurately described as a "community".Community cohesion is almost a contradiction in terms. Many of the same community will be at each others' throats for historical and more recent political, clan or family reasons. Community activists do exist the length and breadth of Britain, and from many ethnic groups. For 12 years I have sat (voluntarily) with a diverse group of them as independent advisers to the Metropolitan police on race. Now, every borough has its own similar group. That's progress for a force that is overwhelmingly white. But we're still in the foothills of a mountain range of awareness of difference that seems to grow with each step we take.The call for local police volunteers is a move away from those gated communities protected by private security, whose residents drive through the gates in locked cars, indifferent to the problems they pass on the street. It is a welcome move towards the common interest. JS Mill said you wouldn't expect to swim or ride a horse without practice. So, too, citizenship takes practice.But what are we asking these volunteers to do? In support roles, as special constables do now, they can be very useful – at film premieres, manning help desks, and offering extra hands for major incidents. The best-trained patrol on their own, and some make it into fully-fledged police ranks. The age range for volunteers is from 18 to more than 65, and even criminal convictions may not bar entry. So it's inclusive.And although serving officers may mock them, the more contact ordinary people volunteering have with the police, the less reluctant their friends and family are to provide essential local intelligence.And yet the wider vision of what police are for – and capable of, with diminished resources – cannot be answered through a call for volunteers, a consultative paper, and legislation in two months. The last royal commission on policing was nearly 50 years ago. Policing has changed dramatically, along with the nature of crime and disorder, especially with the spread of drug and alcohol abuse, internet fraud, and other forms of antisocial behaviour. This takes experience and subtlety to address in more than a short-term way."Reassurance policing" deals with low level "signal crimes" of the kind volunteers can help beat officers to address: graffiti, intimidation by groups of youths on a corner, and adding presence to trouble spots. Deeper unrest requires a collective response that local authorities and other agencies must see as part of their remit as well.Yet our oversimplified view of police as there to cut crime persists, reinforced by both fictional media and politicians' rhetoric. Only a few brave senior coppers dare to challenge that for fear of losing resources and public confidence. Before drastic cuts of a haphazard kind across the 43 forces, let's have a proper debate in a royal commission. I'd volunteer to help with that.