In her article on buildings security, Anna Minton devalues crime prevention practice, and the Secured by Design award (SBD) in particular (CCTV increases people's sense of anxiety, 31 October). To receive an SBD, homes must meet a minimum security standard and footpaths, parking and gardens are designed to make potential offenders vulnerable, reducing the risk of crime.Describing an SBD development as "oppressive", Minton complains that "the gated estate had small windows, reinforced steel doors and grey, aluminium, military-style roofs". SBD does not, and never has, required gated communities, nor any of the features she complains about, which are usually the choice of the architect and client.Claiming that "high levels of security … characterise our public buildings" and that "this is because security has become a prerequisite of planning as a result of SBD" ignores the facts. Security became a factor in planning because of high crime, poor-quality security fittings used by builders, changing risk, and the Crime and Disorder Act, which required public authorities and police to have a crime prevention agenda. SBD is a police initiative owned by the Association of Chief Police Officers.Minton states: "SBD is funded by the 480 companies that sell the goods needed to meet the required standard." This is misleading. The research and publications supporting SBD are paid for by fees raised from security companies that make all types of security products, not just for construction, and which are tested to prove their crime-prevention value. Products for SBD homes, as long as they meet the same British standards, do not have to be sourced from these companies. Minton fails to mention that this arrangement makes SBD self-financing and not a drain on the public purse.She claims that, "despite caretakers being much more effective … they are not acknowledged by SBD". But we recommend concierge entrances, caretakers and ongoing community management for multi-occupancy buildings. CCTV is not a requirement, but we do say that CCTV installed for a specific high risk – such as underground parking – must be monitored.Minton's claim that "despite the all-pervasive influence of this policy, there is no evidence to support it" is unsustainable. Independent research shows that SBD properties suffer 50% less burglary: just upgrading the doors in Glasgow social housing reduced burglary by 20%; residents report feeling safer; and car-related crime can fall by 25%.The recent Future Homes Commission report states that 43% of people view security as the most important aspect of homes. SBD is about reducing crime and the fear of crime through a blend of design and realistic physical security, and many thousands of homes currently benefit.Alan McInnes is director of ACPO Secured by Design If you wish to respond to an article in which you have featured, email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit