The former Labour MP Eric Illsley has been jailed for 12 months at Southwark crown court after pleading guilty to charges of false accounting concerning nearly £14,500 in parliamentary expenses.He was told by Mr Justice Saunders, who is hearing all the cases arising from the expenses scandal: "These offences were committed in breach of what was the high degree of trust placed in MPs by the authorities in the House of Commons only to make honest claims."Beyond that, the commission of the offences which came to light as a result of the police investigation into parliamentary expenses has tarnished the reputation of politicians and parliament."It is vital that people feel able to trust our legislators and their use of public funds."The judge said Illsley's crimes were less serious than those of former Labour MP David Chaytor, who was jailed for 18 months last month, but he bore a small but significant part of the responsibility for the public's loss of trust in MPs.He said: "Mr Illsley's offending went on for longer, but it resulted in a smaller loss to public funds. Significantly it also did not involve the creation of false documents to support the claims."Wearing a charcoal suit, white shirt and a blue tie with red spots, Illsley showed little reaction when sentence was passed.After the judge told the dock officer to "send him down", he bent down to pick up his overcoat and brown leather holdall and slowly turned around.The disgraced former MP made the short walk to the door of the dock in Court 1, which leads to the cells, and waved over his shoulder to a friend in the public gallery.Chaytor, the former Labour MP for Bury North, is serving 18 months after admitting false accounting last month. The Tory peer Lord Taylor of Warwick was found guilty after a trial in January and is awaiting sentencing.Illsley had earlier denied charges brought under the Theft Act amounting to £25,000 but subsequently admitted three charges of false accounting, arising from claims made for his second home in Lambeth, south London. The claims concerned utility charges, council tax, telephone and telecoms bills, and maintenance invoices.Illsley, an MP for more than 20 years, was a National Union of Mineworkers' (NUM) official before entering the Commons. He resigned his Barnsley Central seat earlier this week following intense pressure to stand down after he pleaded guilty in January. Had he remained an MP and been sentenced to less than 12 months, he would have been entitled to stay on in the Commons.The month's delay after his admission of guilt meant he was able to continue to receive his parliamentary salary, amounting to £5,400.His resignation came as he claimed the stewardship of the Chiltern Hundreds, the traditional means by which MPs quit their seats. They constitute the lands surrounding three Buckinghamshire villages and disqualify an MP, ironically in Illsley's case, because they technically constitute an office of profit under the crown. The purely nominal role was originally bestowed on the official responsible for maintaining law and order in the Chiltern hills.Illsley, 55, who has two adult daughters with his wife, Dawn, was born in a council house in Barnsley, South Yorkshire. He has always lived in the former mining town, apart from when he studied law at Leeds University. He worked for the NUM for nearly a decade, including during the 1984-5 strike. He joined the Labour party in 1979 and was elected in Barnsley Central in June 1987. Last May he had a majority of more than 11,000.Weeks after the election he was suspended from the party when he was charged over his expenses, but he remained popular locally as an independent constituency MP. Labour is expected to hold the seat at a byelection on 3 March.