Channel 4 News anchor Jon Snow is making his computer game debut in support of the broadcaster's Disarming Britain season examining the effect of gun and knife crime on Britain's streets.An animated Snow features in the scene of a violent crime in the online game, which is called Dead Ends and was specially commissioned by Channel 4 to raise awareness of the dangers and consequences of street crime. The game which went live yesterday centres on a new gang recruit called Keith Wilcox and a police detective investigating a gang killing. Dead Ends involves interrogating witnesses, chasing suspects, passing gang initiation tests and navigating dangerous streets.Snow recorded scripted dialogue especially for the project and has taken part in a Making Of documentary about the game that will be shown on Channel 4's website. In the documentary Snow says: "I'm extremely excited. I've never been in any kind of a game before. I think computer games are a fantastic means of communication – everybody plays them and I think they're a terrific way of getting messages through." Produced by RollingSound, which works to provide multimedia out-reach projects to young people, the online game was made through collaborations with young people, ex-offenders, the Metropolitan police and youth workers. The process was managed by digital marketing agency Profero.Disarming Britain is a special season of programmes about the increasing use of violence and weapons by young people on UK streets, and includes a five-part series featuring Cherie Booth called The Truth About Street Weapons which begins on Monday 30 June.This documentary will follow the work of Dr Tunje Lasoye, an accident and emergency consultant at King's College Hospital in South London, who specialises in treating the victims of stabbings and shootings. The season will also feature a one-off drama, called Fallout, adapted for TV and updated by playwright Roy Williams from his original stage play.Fallout deals with issues of race and law-and-order stemming from the murders of Stephen Lawrence and Damilola Taylor.Another Dispatches will focus on Helen Newlove, the widow of Garry Newlove, who was kicked to death outside his home in Cheshire.A film with the working title Kids, Knives and Broken Lives will use personal testimonies from teenagers across the UK to explore the issue of gun and knife crime.· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.· If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".