Watching the news channel with my wife the other day I was gobsmacked to hear a youth worker having a go at footballers in the context of last week's riots. I know people like to give football a bad press (when they're not busy glorifying its star performers), but to suggest that football is somehow responsible – or reacting irresponsibly to the violence – doesn't make any sense to me.This man casually pedalled the usual footballer stereotypes – we are all overpaid womanisers who are a negative influence on the youth of today – tar-brushing an entire profession by the actions of a few. He suggested that instead of footballers tweeting about the riots they should instead donate money to his charity.How ironic that a youth worker who, presumably, is battling against the prejudice being spouted at certain sections of our society – namely young black males from inner cities – is happy to stereotype the football fraternity.While media, public and politicians desperately search for someone to blame the riots on, invariably pointing at each other, it is interesting how many people have called for footballers to stand as role models and speak to the youth of today. But I would question if footballers really are the best people to speak to those involved in the chaos. Putting aside the fact that the rioters and looters seem to be made up of a wide cross-section of society – male and female, from young kids to the middle-aged, from the unemployed to those with respectable jobs, from all ethnic backgrounds – I do wonder why everyone thinks that a statement from Rio Ferdinand or Wayne Rooney would change the nation's fate.I have tackled the misnomer about footballers being role models in a previous column and, as I wrote then, I still believe that parents should be the main role models for their children. I'm not sure that the youth of today relate to footballers. While it is true that most of us have had a council estate upbringing, most now live away from those communities, enjoying a lifestyle that is light years from the kids we are talking about. For me personally it's been 25 years since I was living at home, for Rio it's been at least a decade. In that length of time much has changed, we are different generations using a different language and a completely different way of communicating.Watching the TV coverage of the riots I heard some people involved say they were angry about the government cuts and the effects they have had on community life. Are those same people really going to listen to a millionaire footballer living in a plush mansion telling people who are struggling to make ends meet on a council estate to calm down?Rio and Wayne have both tweeted about the riots, as have a host of other celebrities. One tweet in particular that I read about was from a well-known radio broadcaster who said that he hoped all the rioters died of cancer. Strewth. I can guarantee that if a footballer had written that it would have been condemned as deeply irresponsible, yet another example of why footballers are bad for society. One rule for footballers, another for radio DJs?For those footballers who do use Twitter and comment on a daily – sometimes hourly – basis it makes sense that they would also express opinions on the events that have made global headlines. After all, if you can be bothered to comment on the colour of your shoelaces, then why wouldn't you comment on riots? But I can't help thinking that football can play a much more helpful – and active – role in helping communities by really engaging through local projects. I don't just mean the annual club hospital visit where Sky TV turns up, films a few cutaway shots of players standing next to hospital beds and then asks the star striker about the big game coming up on Saturday. I mean time and effort invested in building a relationship with those communities of which the football club is a part.To my mind, long-term engagement with a community is far more beneficial than someone on Twitter taking two seconds to type: "Stop the violence." Make a relationship with the community first and your message will carry far more influence. And although we will inevitably gawp at the astronomical amounts spent ahead of the transfer deadline and wonder if a greater percentage of club finances could go towards community work, I do think that donating time can be as powerful as getting the chequebook out. To that end I am pleased to hear that Bristol City, located in a city affected by the riots, have plans to greatly expand their own community projects this season.As to who should be commenting on the politics of it all, to my mind it has got to be left to the individual to make that decision. Other than games having been called off as a result of the riots, there isn't an obvious link between football and the disorder. I think we all agree that football could do more socially but I'm not sure that making grand pronouncements to a generation so far removed from our own experience is really the way forward.David James has donated his fee for this column to charity