"Every step you take, I'll be watching you," sang the pop trio, The Police, in 1983. Now the real law enforcement agency is using satellite technology to do just that.Officers will keep tabs on paedophiles, domestic abusers and other prolific criminals 24 hours a day, thanks to an innovative tracking scheme launched in three pilot areas in England yesterday. A total of 120 offenders, 40 each in Greater Manchester, Hampshire, and the West Midlands, will be fitted with devices that can pinpoint their position to within two metres. An alert will go off if the offender, given the device as a condition of prison release or alternative to jail, breaches restrictions - for instance, if a child abuser goes near a school playground, if someone with a history of domestic violence approaches a victim's home, or a burglar is out on the prowl. David Blunkett, the home secretary, unveiled the scheme in Manchester, describing it as a "prison without bars" that he hoped would cut crime and give the police and probation service a tool with which to protect the public. Devices will be linked to a satellite global positioning system (GPS), backed up in some cases by mobile phone. A step beyond electronic tagging, the device can tell its monitor where an offender is at any given time, displaying their location to within two metres on an Ordnance Survey map. Electronic tags register whether the wearer leaves a designated area - say, breaks a curfew - but cannot show where he or she has gone. GPS has been used to monitor offenders in several US states but this is its first use in Europe. Mr Blunkett has set a target of cutting crime by 15% by 2008. He said: "The government is determined to be at the cutting edge of technology in the drive to make our communities safer and ensure more effective sentencing of offenders. "Our sentencing reforms were not just about being tougher on the most serious offenders. This technology will allow us to develop and promote the tough community sentences, which are vital if we are to prevent reoffending and give non-violent offenders a chance to serve an effective sentence in the community." The year-long trial costs an average £68 a day per offender. If successful, it will cover up to 5,000 prolific offenders at large in England and Wales, and could even be used in open prisons. Domestic abusers, and prolific offenders such as car thieves, robbers and burglars, and some juveniles, will be among those fitted with the devices; only Manchester will monitor paedophiles. West Midlands and Hampshire will use passive tracking, which records locations retrospectively, downloading data at certain times of day. Manchester will also use hybrid tracking - monitoring offenders in real time to enable police to act quickly if they enter an exclusion zone. Police and probation services were enthusiastic about satellite tracking, which they hope will add an extra layer of intelligence as well as deterring persistent reoffenders and making it easier to protect potential victims. Liam Bradshaw, the assistant chief constable for Essex and a spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said: "All forces are aware of some individuals whose offending levels can inflict misery on local communities. "Having greater levels of information and intelligence about the movements and behaviour of these individuals will be beneficial in preventing and solving crime and protecting the public." Robert Mathers, the chief probation officer for Manchester, said: "Satellite tracking looks to be a promising tool, particularly in the protection of victims of domestic violence and sex offences." Others who work with prisoners and ex-prisoners warned the scheme should not be seen as a catch-all solution. Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: "This will prove a very expensive resource and therefore must be limited to those offenders that pose the highest risk of harm to the public. "Satellite tracking is another form of control which, by itself, will not prevent crime. It must be seen as part of a package. It's also critical that it's not used as a substitute for treatment, supervision and surveillance." Mark Leech, the founder of the national ex-offenders' charity, Unlock, and editor of Prisons Handbook, said: "I wish the Home Office would focus more on resettlement needs that actually prevent crime, such as ensuring discharged prisoners have access to housing, employment and financial assistance, rather than gathering evidence and intelligence by tracking which only comes into play once the victim has already suffered."