Community leaders yesterday admitted that the estate where Damilola lived and died suffers severe deprivation -but they insisted that huge efforts are being made to improve the situation. Residents claim that for years the area has suffered from an acute lack of investment. Housing and shopping areas have fallen into neglect. Violence is common, drugs a massive problem and inter-gang rivalry a worrying feature. Many locals believe they struggle to get work because employers are put off by their address. Though the latest statistics show that crime in general is down in the London borough of Southwark, violent crime is up. There were 854 instances of violent crime in October - 54 more than in the same month last year. The Bishop of Southwark, the Right Reverend Tom Butler, described the North Peckham estate as one of the toughest in Europe. But he said there was also cause for optimism that there could be a brighter future. He said: "There is a lot of effort going into that estate. A lot of people are doing a lot of things. I wouldn't want the people to be scarred by being told that they are living on the worst estate in Britain. Hopefully, things are changing there." Southwark council began a major scheme to demolish 3,000 homes on four estates in the area and rebuild 2,000 new homes as part of a £260m project. So far 454 new homes for council tenants have been built. Damilola's home would have been included in the next phase of redevelopment. One resident said: "We're glad this is happening now but it's too late for Damilola. The council and the government have a lot of explaining to do. They've let this area become ruined." Former government minister Harriet Harman, who is the local MP, said more work was still needed. She said: "I think it is about working together with the local community, the local council and the police to try to improve the physical environment and improve the opportunities for people to work. "That has been going on, that has been inching forwards. The local community has been shattered by this savage murder." Superintendent Rod Jarman, Southwark's borough commander, rejected the portrayal of Peckham as a place of violence. He said: "Young people don't realise how dangerous weapons can be, and what can be a very minor injury can easily turn into death. That's a danger we need to get across to people carrying any weapon." Yesterday residents were begging photographers not to take pictures of the smashed up abandoned vehicles that litter the estate. One said: "We don't want it to appear any worse than it actually is". The home secretary, Jack Straw, is due to visit the estate tomorrow. Community leaders are bound to give him plenty of food for thought. Related stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November: Head defends bullying record 29 November: Boys murder should be wake-up call - Straw 29 November: Death of a school boyUseful links Metropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate