The Conservatives today step up their campaign against lax bail policy by pledging to make the release of violent and persistent offenders more difficult - and make public safety a factor in all bail decisions.Amid concern about crimes committed by young men on bail, the shadow justice secretary, Nick Herbert, claimed that the average fine imposed on those who fail to answer their bail is £60, the kind of sum levied for drunkenness or failing to pay the London congestion charge."The current system is not working - bail is too easily granted, frequently breached and improperly enforced," he said. "Public confidence is undermined when bail conditions are routinely breached, offenders hold the criminal justice system in contempt and new victims of crime are created unnecessarily. It is time to tighten the bail laws and put public safety first."His policy document, Public Safety First, published today, demands a "strong presumption" against bail for those previously convicted of serious offences, people charged with murder, persistent offenders and suspects who have previously breached bail.Judges and magistrates would be allowed discretion in "exceptional circumstances"; government lawyers have warned ministers that any blanket bail ban would almost certainly fall foul of human rights law. Jack Straw, the justice secretary, is reviewing bail policy at Gordon Brown's instigation after a police inspector, Garry Weddell, killed his mother-in-law and himself while out on bail pending trial for killing his wife.The Tories would also seek to enforce bail terms more effectively. A new offence of bail breach, punishable by imprisonment, would be created, reinforced by magistrates and judges having more information on defendants' bail records. Tagging of potential risks and third-party bonds to cover sureties would also be introduced. No cost estimates are given.Current law enshrines a "general right" to bail except in specific circumstances, but concern has been voiced that 60 of the 450-plus murder suspects charged in 2008 were bailed after being charged. Four-fifths of violent crime suspects get bail - 65,000 against 14,000 held in custody - according to figures complied by the Conservatives.Measures to tighten up bail conditions and improve coordination in the system have already been adopted in Scotland.The Tory policy statement was designed to coincide with a memorial service this weekend to mark the first anniversary of Garry Newlove's murder. The father-of-three was kicked to death by three drunken teenagers, whose ringleader had been released on bail that day pending sentencing for assault. Straw was criticised at the weekend for a "shocking lack of consultation" over plans to open hundreds of bail units, to be run by private contractor Clear Springs, in residential areas.In an interview on the Today programme this morning, Sally O'Neill QC, chair of the criminal bar association, said she thought that although the Tory proposals sounded sensible, in practice they would not work in a way that was fair."The presumption of bail is one that is consistent with the presumption of innocence. Until someone has gone through the trial process, you have to assume that someone is innocent. There is no reason for an assuming, just because of what someone is charged with, that you remove any right to bail," she said.O'Neill said that suspects were granted bail on the assumption that they would attend court and not commit any offences before their trial. "If there is a real fear of either of these happening, they will not be granted bail," she said.But Herbert told the programme that reform was necessary because figures suggested that one murder in six was committed by someone on bail.