Biker wars are coming to the UK. The number of "outlaw motorcycle gangs" in Europe is growing fast and many of the most dangerous could soon arrive on our shores. The EU law enforcement agency Europol has warned the continent's police forces to prepare for violent turf wars as Comancheros, Rebels, Vagos and Mongols expand their operations.Here in the UK we often dismiss biker gangs as ale-swigging social clubs for bearded men – and many are – but the self-identified "violent one percenters" are far from harmless. "They try to present themselves as biker enthusiasts," says Italian organised crime specialist Antonio Nicaso. "Sometimes they have a very strong public relations side saying they are just bikers trying to raise money for charities. They are very sophisticated criminal organisations." So who are they?Hells Angels"There are really only two kinds of motorcycle gangs in the world," explains expert Tony Thompson, author of two books on biker gang culture, "There's the Hells Angels and then there's pretty much everybody else. All those other gangs are either allies of the Angels or they're not." The Angels have been here in the UK since the late 60s.OutlawsSworn enemies of the Hells Angels, the Outlaws were the original outlaw motorcycle club, founded in 1935. According to Australian expert Duncan McNab, the UK was left to the Hell's Angels and Outlaws to fight over in a deal struck at the end of the Scandinavian biker wars of the mid-90s.RebelsKnown for drug and arms trafficking, the Rebels are Australia's largest motorcycle club and clearly expanding. According to Europol spokesman Soren Pedersen: "There are some Rebels who have started living in England. We don't know what they're doing there."VagosAnother product of California in the 60s, and another ally of the Outlaws, the Vagos have yet to be sighted in the UK, but have established a base in Scandinavia with five official chapters. They wear green and their club logo is the Norse god Loki riding a motorcycle.MongolsFormed in the late 60s in east LA, the Mongols are allies of the Outlaws, and definitely expanding. Nicaso describes them as the most dangerous and violent gang of all. Europol confirm a nomadic chapter of Mongols has recently been spotted in the UK, possibly setting up drug trafficking or money laundering operations.