Police are investigating claims that Jose Mourinho, Internazionale's coach, punched a gloating Manchester United fan in the face as he left Old Trafford on Wednesday night after seeing his team crash out of the Champions League.For the duration of the match, as he prowled the touchline that was once the scene of some of his greatest triumphs with Porto and Chelsea, the crowd taunted him with chants of "sit down Mourinho" and "you're not special any more".It has been alleged that as he left the ground with his team to get on to their coach, he punched a fan who was goading him. Inter Milan immediately denied the incident had taken place, claiming none of the officials who were surrounding the former Chelsea manager had seen him confront or hit anyone."At 11.55pm on Wednesday 11 March 2009 a man reported he had been punched in the face on Sir Matt Busby Way, outside Old Trafford football ground," said Greater Manchester police in a statement yesterday. "Police are investigating a report of common assault. Inquiries are continuing." A police spokeswoman confirmed that investigating officers had requested CCTV footage from Manchester United. United confirmed they were aware of the allegation but said the club would be making no further comment. Inter Milan said in a statement that at the end of the game, Mourinho "gave interviews to the European media, signed autographs and watched the penalties of the Roma v Arsenal game before saluting Ferguson in his office. After giving the last interview to Inter channel, he entered the team bus that was parked outside the dressing rooms and hence it was a very calm post-game experience."The match had been billed as a personal duel between Mourinho and Sir Alex Ferguson, who prior to Wednesday's match had only beaten Mourinho's teams once in 13 attempts. Mourinho, who declared himself to be "a special one" after he arrived at Chelsea and before winning back-to-back Premier League titles, had suggested he would like the Manchester United job one day in the run-up to the game.The Portuguese manager's arrival in English football after winning the Champions League with Porto in 2004 was a gift to journalists. As well as winding up opposing fans, he became embroiled in a series of disputes with football authorities, referees, opposing managers and Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich.At Inter, he has also had a series of bruising encounters with the press and opposition fans, despite taking the team to the top of Serie A. "I'm not angry," he told Italian journalists after Wednesday's game. "This is the kind of match after which, if anyone has anything to criticise my team about, they would have to kill me first because Inter were fantastic tonight."