Ministers have privately conceded that their criminal justice plans for judge-only trials in cases of jury intimidation and those involving complex fraud face defeat tonight at the hands of a cross-party alliance.The House of Lords is expected to vote down all the government's proposals to restrict jury trials for the handful of cases each year where juries are given 24-hour police protection and for the 15 to 20 serious fraud cases heard in the courts each year. Home Office ministers are already resigned to the fact that they will probably have to try to overturn the defeats in the Commons in September. The Tory home affairs spokesman, Lord Hunt of Wirral, who is to lead the defence of jury trial tonight, has told the Guardian that the government's proposals are deeply flawed. "The central part of any criminal justice reform should be to ensure that the system enjoys the confidence of the public," he said. "Research shows that people overwhelmingly trust juries as part of a representative justice system. Yet the government, against all the evidence, still wants to abolish jury trial in many serious cases." In an attempt to avert defeat tonight, Lady Scotland, who has replaced Lord Falconer as a Home Office minister, is expected to claim there is a danger of new miscarriages of justice. But the move is unlikely to appease critics, including Labour rebels who have repeatedly broken ranks on the issue of jury trials. Ministers say the need for reform is demonstrated by new research showing that juries who have been threatened and given special police protection are more likely to convict. In her first interview as criminal justice minister, Lady Scotland said that in every case where there had been attempts to "nobble" the jurors it would be for the judge to decide whether to sit alone. "Criminal, sophisticated gangs are using everything at their disposal to interrupt the proper judicial process," she said. "Jurors who are subject to jury protection appear to have a higher rate of conviction than those who do not. That is something that gives us cause to pause, because we want to guarantee as far as we can that there is parity of treatment and no matter how sensitive these cases are they must be given the same sort of opportunity as any other case." Tony Blair and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, have claimed that the Met spends 26,000 officer days a year protecting juries from intimidation. Meanwhile, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced that police numbers in December reached 132,268 - the highest since records began in 1921. More than 5,000 extra officers had been recruited since 1997 and they were well on their way to exceeding the target of 132,500 officers by next March, he said.