A criminal psychologist who advised police over the "honeytrap" designed to establish if Colin Stagg killed Rachel Nickell "vigorously denied" acting unprofessionally, a disciplinary committee was told yesterday.Paul Britton, who is often regarded as a model for the television character Cracker, faces seven allegations of acting in breach of the British Psychological Society's code of conduct. But at a preliminary hearing it was claimed that Mr Britton was told the controversial honeytrap had been approved at the highest levels within the Metropolitan police and had been checked by FBI profilers. Mr Britton's legal team levelled criticism against the BPS for taking the best part of 10 years to bring the case and against the Met for not providing crucial documents and witnesses. The hearing began in dramatic fashion when Mr Stagg stormed out of the committee room because of a delay. He barged into Mr Britton on the stairs outside the room and mouthed "you pervert" at him before leaving the BPS's headquarters in central London. The three-man hearing was told how Mr Britton was approached by the police to help them find the killer of Rachel Nickell, 23, who was stabbed 49 times while walking on Wimbledon Common in south London in 1992 with her two-year-old son. When Mr Stagg became the prime suspect, Mr Britton gave his expert opinion on the honeytrap involving an undercover police officer, known as Lizzie James. She befriended Mr Stagg and encouraged him to speak about his sexual fantasies. Mr Stagg was charged with murder but in 1993 the case against him was thrown out by Mr Justice Ognall at the Old Bailey, who described the undercover operation as "wholly reprehensible". The collapse of the case called into question how police used profilers and the following year Mr Stagg complained about Mr Britton to the BPS. Yesterday part of Mr Britton's version of events was given for the first time. In a statement to the committee, his solicitor, David Hooper, said his client had not taken part in the operation lightly. He said Mr Britton was told it had been approved at "the highest levels within the Met" and that the Nickell murder was "at the very top" of the attorney general's list of priority cases. Mr Hooper said Mr Britton had been told he should not concern himself with questions about whether any evidence gathered in the operation was admissible in court. He was also, Mr Hooper said, instructed not to take any notes. The operation, said Mr Hooper, had been reviewed by the offender profiling unit at the FBI's headquarters at Quantico, Virginia. Mr Brit ton's approach was "strongly supported" by an FBI expert. Mr Hooper said it was unfair that the Met was not now supporting Mr Britton. It also emerged that two of Britain's best-known profilers, Adrian West, who helped police catch Jill Dando's killer, and David Canter, of the renowned centre for investigative psychology at Liverpool University, had produced reports criticising Mr Britton's methods. Mr Britton's defence argued that the case ought to be thrown out because so much time had elapsed since the complaint. Mr Hooper said the delay had led to financial hardship and health problems. The preliminary hearing is expected to decide tomorrow whether Mr Britton should face a full disciplinary committee. If found guilty of professional misconduct Mr Britton, 56, a chartered psychologist and associate fellow of the BPS, could be expelled. The hearing continues.