The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday June 11 2003Rob Green, nephew of the murdered anti-nuclear activist, Hilda Murrell, and a staff intelligence officer at naval HQ, Northwood, during the Falklands conflict, has asked us to point out that he was not "the person who passed the order to sink the Argentinian destroyer, General Belgrano", as we wrongly stated in this report. This claim was made by Tam Dalyell in a parliamentary debate in December 1984, and Commander Green claimed at the time that the MP had been misled. Commander Green was part of a team sending intelligence about the Belgrano's whereabouts to the fleet in the South Atlantic, but the order to attack was sent by operations and not intelligence. Furthermore, Commander Green was off duty when HMS Conqueror was sent that order. The reference in the same piece to the Argentinian ship being a destroyer is also wrong. It was a cruiser. ----------------------------A man was arrested yesterday in connection with the murder of an elderly peace campaigner whose death nearly 20 years ago provoked conspiracy theorists to accuse the security services and the nuclear industry of involvement. West Mercia police said last night that a man was detained in connection with the 1984 murder in Shropshire of 78-year-old anti-nuclear activist Hilda Murrell. Theories surrounding Ms Murrell's death have varied over the years. One suggestion was that she may have been killed by a burglar, while another linked her death to people sent to her home to search for top-secret documents belonging to her nephew, a naval intelligence officer. The nuclear industry was also under suspicion. Ms Murrell's nephew, commander Rob Green, who passed the order to sink the Argentinian destroyer General Belgrano during the Falklands War, commented on the arrest from his home in New Zealand last night. "I had been informed by West Mercia police that this was going to happen," he said. "I don't know any more details. I have to trust in the police process." The half-naked body of the spinster was found on March 24 1984 in a coppice six miles from her home in Shrewsbury. Ms Murrell had been stabbed and left to die of hypothermia. Someone had masturbated on her underwear. At least two authors have claimed Ms Murrell was killed by a team working for security services who had bungled a search of her home. Ms Murrell had been preparing to give evidence in the public inquiry into the proposed Sizewell B nuclear reactor. It later emerged the pro-nuclear lobby had placed protesters under surveillance, although Ms Murrell was not on a leaked list of "targets". Labour MP for Linlithgow, Tam Dalyell, claimed in December 1984 that she had been killed by "men of the British intelligence" looking for documents concerning the General Belgrano. Commander Green has dismissed this notion. Police investigating the incident in 1984 and again in 1994 ruled out any security service involvement and said they were convinced Ms Murrell was killed after disturbing an intruder at her home. In April last year police announced they were conducting a "cold case review" and said they would re-examine 3,000 statements, 500 police reports, 6,000 lines of inquiry and more than 3,000 exhibits. It was reported they were seeking information from a 56-year-old man who was an itinerant with a criminal record for deception, and whose whereabouts were unknown. Two MPs who have cam paigned for the case to stay open are Mr Dalyell and Liberal Democrat MP for Shrewsbury and Atcham, Paul Marsden. In 2000, they persuaded then home secretary Jack Straw that new DNA tests should be carried out. "I have always thought that the truth would emerge as a result of some deathbed confession, the crisis of conscience of someone," Mr Dalyell said last night. Mr Dalyell said he still believed the murder could be the work of security services. "I think it's possibly a low level security operation that went wrong," he said. Mr Marsden said he had an open mind on conspiracy theories but he was glad the case might soon be concluded. "It [the case] has been a running sore for the people of Shropshire, it's the only unsolved murder in the area in modern history," he said.