Farmers' leaders called for action last night over fuel theft after a woman died following a raid by diesel thieves.Rosemary Dove, 68, collapsed shortly after dialling 999 when she and her husband came across an intruder at their farmhouse in Bishop Middleham, Co Durham.Supplies of low-tax red diesel, used for tractors and other agricultural machinery, are increasingly being targeted by criminals because of rising costs at the fuel pumps.Gangs are thought to be growing bolder and more sophisticated. Whereas in the past they would siphon off a tankful, now they sometimes take thousands of litres at a time. Mrs Dove and her husband Frank were returning home on Sunday night when they spotted a man trying to steal diesel from a pump at the side of their farm. While Mr Dove went to confront the intruder, his wife went inside the house to telephone the police and alert relatives on a nearby farm.A Durham police spokesman said: "Mrs Dove complained of feeling unwell immediately after making the 999 call and collapsed on the floor of her farm. She was later pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics."The couple's son Michael joined his father in chasing the thief's pick-up truck and cornering it, but was knocked into a ditch by the driver and injured when he tried to approach.Detective Chief Inspector Paul Harker, leading the investigation, said: "At this stage it's not clear exactly how many people were in the pick-up. We urgently need any help that will lead us to those involved in this tragic series of events, which have left the Dove family absolutely devastated." Richard Dodd, a Northumberland farmer and the north-east director of the Countryside Alliance, said the theft of red diesel had been rising at an "alarming level" over the last six months. "Diesel fuel has a value far more than it ever used to. It was 11p a litre three years ago, now it's 70p. The trend probably started up six months ago. The criminals have come out and found rich pickings in the countryside."These gangs realise this is a commodity and they can also sell it readily. Because the price of diesel elsewhere is so expensive, they'll probably always be able to find a market with someone trying to cut costs."Tim Price, spokesman for rural business insurer NFU Mutual, said the company had seen a 20% increase in the number of claims for red diesel this year. "A few years ago, thieves would just fill up their own diesel tank but now they are much more organised, stealing thousands of litres in one go," he said. A Durham police spokesman confirmed there had been an increase in fuel thefts across the county.