The family of a man who died after confronting a gang of youths in his street last night releaseda letter from his daughter in which she praised her father as a "strong, loving man".Garry Newlove, 47, was attacked outside his home in Warrington, Cheshire, late on Friday after the window of a mechanical digger he had hired was smashed by the gang. He died from a head injury in Warrington hospital on Sunday with his family at his bedside.Cheshire police last night charged three teenagers with his murder. Two 15-year-olds and one 16-year-old will appear at Runcorn youth court today. Three other youths have been released and one other 18-year-old man arrested yesterday is helping police with their inquiries.A letter from Mr Newlove's youngest daughter, Amy, 12, which she had written as he was being treated in hospital and was too ill to visit, was released last night. In it, she praised her father as a "strong, loving man" and urged him to be strong "as I love you too much to believe that you won't go without a fight".She said: "You have always been there for me when I am down and you always put a smile on my face (even if it is a rubbish joke.) I can't get across how much I will miss you and I don't know what I would do without you. You mean the world to me and I wouldn't change you for the world." She said he was "the best dad that anyone can wish for". The letter ends: "From your darling daughter who loves you so much and from the whole family. We love you and don't give in."Mr Newlove also had two older daughters, Zoe, 19, and Danielle, 16. The family had been due to travel to Lanzarote for a holiday tomorrow.Neighbours said they had been trying to tackle antisocial behaviour in the road for more than a year. Cheshire police said that in May Mr Newlove had met officers to discuss youth disorder and the possibility of setting up a Neighbourhood Watch scheme.There have been a dozen incidents of antisocial behaviour reported to police in Mr Newlove's street this year.His friend Mike Roscoe, who has known him since the age of 16, said Mr Newlove's killing was all the more sad because he had been given just a 10% chance of surviving stomach cancer around 11 years ago, but had been in remission for a number of years."His death is so tragic, especially as he had fought against cancer and had been in remission for so long," Mr Roscoe said. "He was the nicest man, who loved his home and family and liked nothing more than a few pints in the pub."He said Mr Newlove's wife, Helen, was distraught. "They were looking forward to their holiday, and now he is gone."A tribute placed near to where Mr Newlove was attacked reads: "A true hero. Trying to take our street back. Standing up for what's right. God bless."Chief inspector Martin Cleworth, who is leading the investigation, said: "The officers involved are as sickened as anybody would be ... I would appeal to any young people who were present on Friday night to search their conscience and consider whether they know anything about the death of this father of three daughters."Speaking of the attackers, Mr Cleworth said: "I've described them aptly as a pack because it's a suitable way that this attack can be described. He had come out on his own - confronted by approximately 15 of them. He's been assaulted and he's been on the floor and repeatedly assaulted while he's been on the floor."Cheshire police said additional patrols were now working in the community and officers were keen to speak to anyone who may have witnessed the incident.