Portuguese police searching for the missing British toddler, Madeleine McCann, are studying CCTV film from a service station a few miles from where she disappeared.The tape was reported to show a woman with a girl fitting Madeleine's description. It is feared the three-year-old was abducted from her family's hotel room in Prai de Luz in the western Algarve, six days ago. The woman was said to be urging the girl to say "thank you" to staff but she had appeared reluctant, apparently wanting to say something else. Staff at the Galp service station became suspicious and contacted police.The Galp service station is the first stop on the N22 motorway, which cuts across the Algarve towards Spain, which is less than an hour away. Portuguese police are said to be focusing their search on the possibility that Madeleine was abducted by an organised paedophile network. However, the investigative Policia Judiciaria (PJ) have not commented publicly, hinting only that they have narrowed down their lines of inquiry. The force has come under intense criticism for its handling of the case but refuses to reveal details of the investigation amid an information blackout because of unusual Portuguese laws. The British media has been critical of the investigation and the refusal of police to publicise a reported efit they have of a suspect.Hopes about the value of the efit decreased today however, as reports suggested it only showed a crude outline of a long oval face with hair but no facial features. Police have shown the image to local shopkeepers. Earlier today, the uncle of the missing three-year-old, urged everyone to rally together to find his niece instead of attacking the Portuguese police investigation. John McCann, the brother of Madeleine's father, Gerry, said that he did not think criticising the police was a "good avenue" to follow.Mr McCann, from Glasgow, who has recently returned from Portugal, told BBC News: "Please, let's focus on what can be done now, any information, let's get on with working on that."Tonight a statement from Madeleine's parents, Gerry and Kate, both doctors from Rothley, Leicestershire, said they "remain positive" and continued to hope for her safe return. The couple did not appear but said in a statement read by a representative of the Mark Warner Ocean Club hotel: "We are grateful to all of those currently taking part in the search for our daughter Madeleine. "At present we are channelling all of our emotions and all of our efforts into the steps that are being taken to secure Madeleine's safe return. "We continue to remain positive and we thank the media for their ongoing support to publicise the search for Madeleine."Madeleine's parents were eating an evening meal at a nearby restaurant in the hotel complex when she disappeared from the room in which she had been sleeping with her brother and sister, twins aged two. It emerged last night that British police and behavioural experts were working with Portuguese officers to try to solve the mystery of Madeleine's disappearance. Two staff of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, one a police detective with experience of heading investigations, flew to Portugal yesterday to give an insight into how a child abductor might have acted and how he or she may now be thinking.The possibility that an abductor may be British are also being investigated, reports said. At a chaotic press conference last night, Portuguese police officers defended their investigation and said it was not their fault that the law meant they could not divulge more information. Chief Inspector Olegario Sousa, who is leading the investigation, said his officers had been following 350 leads and interviewed more than 100 people. Five hundred apartments and an area nine miles around the resort had been searched. "We're doing everything we can", Mr Sousa said.The British ambassador to Portugal, John Buck, also defended the Portuguese police last night. This morning, the Portuguese ambassador to Britain, Anton Santana Carlos, repeated his defence of the officers leading the hunt for Madeleine, saying they made easy scapegoats but were "very qualified, very competent". Mr Santana Carlos conceded on BBC Breakfast that making public a possible efit of a suspect might help to catch them, but said that the laws relating to investigations had to be observed."It's not a mirror wall that can be changed from one day to the other. This principle is enshrined in our constitution so we cannot change it easily," he said.Both Gerry and Kate McCann have given emotional appeals for information and to anyone who may have taken their daughter to release her unharmed. Today, John McCann said that after the initial devastation, both parents were coping well with the support of family who were helping them look after their twins, Amelie and Sean."Obviously we were all devastated then and there was a feeling of helplessness, but in the last few days they've had a lot of support and they've been buoyed by that support both in Portugal and at home," Mr McCann said. "They're much more positive about things that can be done to get Maddy back." While the British media have been critical of the Portuguese authorities, the Portuguese media have given prominence to the possibility of a British abductor and some columnists have questioned the parents' decision to leave their children unsupervised, even if they were nearby and regularly checking on them.