James Hanratty, who was hanged for murder 40 years ago, was the victim of an unfair and "fatally flawed" trial, three court of appeal judges were told today.At the beginning of a courtroom bid to clear Hanratty's name and have his conviction quashed, his barrister, Michael Mansfield QC, said the trial process in 1962 had been distorted. This, he said, was in "large measure" due to the actions of the senior police officer in the case, detective superintendent Robert Acott, who is now deceased.Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, sitting with two other judges in London, is reexamining the safety of Hanratty's conviction in a hearing expected to last 10 days. Hanratty, 25, went to the gallows on April 4 1962, for the notorious A6 murder in Bedfordshire, in which married scientist Michael Gregsten was shot dead and his mistress, Valerie Storie, a laboratory assistant, was repeatedly shot and left for dead.It was alleged that after surprising the lovers in a cornfield in Dorney Reach, Berkshire, Hanratty forced them to drive to Deadman's Hill, south of Bedford, where Miss Storie was raped and they were both shot. Since his execution at Bedford prison, Hanratty's family and supporters have fought to prove that, though a petty crook, he was not a killer. The Hanratty case - one of the country's longest-running alleged miscarriages of justice - was recently referred back to the appeal court by the criminal cases review commission. Opening the appeal before Lord Woolf, Lord Justice Mantell and Mr Justice Leveson, Mr Mansfield told a packed court: "Put shortly it comes to this: 40 years ago, in April 1962, almost to the day, James Hanratty was executed and he was executed at the end of a near month-long trial. "And, we say . . . the material that provided the foundation for the conviction that led to the execution was in fact fatally flawed. It was fatally flawed in the sense that there was extensive and inexcusable non-disclosure." Mr Mansfield said that the non-disclosure amounted to 17 grounds of appeal, but they could be distilled into three groups. One related to identification evidence, including that of the main eyewitness, Miss Storie.Another centred around the finding of two cartridge cases associated with the murder weapon. Prosecuting counsel said the revolver was found on a bus. However, the cartridges were found in room 24 of the Vienna hotel, west London, where Hanratty had stayed for one night in August 1961, Mr Mansfield said.The third group related to what the prosecution had described as a suspect or late alibi: "In other words the change that took place between what Hanratty told the police in the first place, that he was in Liverpool, and a development of that which led to him saying at the trial that in fact he had been in Liverpool and Rhyl." "These were the three main strands upon which the crown relied," said Mr Mansfield, who argued that the case against Hanratty was founded on evidence and inferences that were "highly tenuous". His conviction was based largely on Miss Storie's recollection of the voice of her attacker. She saw him for only a few seconds during the six-hour ordeal, and failed to pick him out of the first police identity parade. Hanratty said that at the time of attack he was 400km (250 miles) from the scene, in a bed-and-breakfast in Rhyl, north Wales. The landlady backed up his claim, and in the years after his execution, numerous witnesses came forward to support the story. The court has heard that the prosecution will seek to rely at the appeal on findings of the appellant's DNA on two exhibits, a fragment of Miss Storie's underwear and a handkerchief wrapped around the murder weapon. Mr Mansfield will argue that it is impossible to exclude the possibility that the DNA had been deposited as a result of contamination.An appeal against conviction was heard by the court of appeal on March 13 1962, but dismissed. Hanratty, who was among the last people to go to the gallows in Britain, told his family: "I'm dying tomorrow but I'm innocent. Clear my name." Miss Storie, now 62, has been confined to a wheelchair since the attack. She is not expected to give evidence at the appeal. The hearing continues.