Sex in Liverpool is a 24-hour business and prostitutes have been known to proposition would-be punters in broad daylight outside the city's Anglican cathedral.But with the guarded blessing of the home secretary, David Blunkett, Liverpool could be the first city in Britain to set up a legal managed zone for sex workers. An earlier zone in Edinburgh, since closed, was technically illegal. The zone, in an area yet to be defined, could be in use as early as the autumn and put an end to a trade that flourishes around Crown Street and near Liverpool Women's hospital. Rosie Campbell, a voluntary outreach worker, said: "For years, the women have asked why they could not have a managed area where they would be left to their own devices." Councillors are emphatic that any part of the city where prostitution would be tolerated would be far removed from residential areas. In his green paper today, Mr Blunkett has not given a green light to red light areas, but has offered local councils discretion to set up zones if they think they can make them work. Liverpool, possibly thinking of a clean-up before its year as Capital of Culture in 2008, has been considering the idea for some time. The public has been widely consulted and zones have cross-party support. Councillors will today meet researchers who have drawn up details of the areas best suited for the sex trade. "I welcome the development," said Flo Clucas, Liverpool city councils' executive member for community safety. "It will mean we can put into effect what people of the city have said they would like to see trialled. But we not just looking at a tolerance zone here. It will be properly managed, with much of the emphasis on getting people out of prostitution." Research carried out at Liverpool's John Moores University, based on more than 1,000 replies from residents, businesses and sex workers, showed that 83% were in favour of a managed zone, with 91% saying it should be away from residential areas and more than 50% saying it should be distant from businesses. Pete Clark, a senior lecturer in public health at the university, said: "The main point of the consultation was that zones should be in a small industrial area inside the city centre."