A young gang of 21st century "Oliver Twists" used cutting edge technology to pick the public's electronic pockets, a court heard yesterday.Armed with a carefully disguised "skimmer" and special video cameras, they spied on cash machine customers withdrawing their money. Once account details had been "lifted" and transmitted to nearby accomplices equipped with a laptop, the downloaded data was used to clone cards and pocket thousands of pounds. Unfortunately for them, a passing police patrol spotted them one evening behaving suspiciously at an after-hours cash machine lobby, Southwark crown court in London was told. The six Romanians - four still teenagers and all illegal immigrants - were arrested and their hi-tech tools seized. But the modern day Fagin, who dreamed up the sophisticated con and recruited them with promises of £200 pay-offs, was never traced. Passing sentence, Judge Christopher Elwen said references by defence counsel to disappointed down-and-out clients turning to crime after discovering London's streets were not "paved with gold" after all, had a distinct Oliver Twist ring. "Charles Dickens's hero was also down on his luck and became embroiled in a thieves' kitchen run by, among others, a much older man known as Fagin," he said. As an interpreter grappled with his analogy, he went on: "He trained and sent young boys, people much younger than you are, into 19th century London to pick people's pockets. "But while I understand the problems of immigrants, legal and illegal, and of asylum seekers, they are, however, no excuse for drifting into crime." Mioara Danciulescu, 18, of Beckton, east London; Vasile Sandhu, 21, of Canning Town, east London; Vasile Istoc, 18, of Stepney, east London, and Vasillica Ivan, 21, of Tottenham, north London, were each jailed for three years. Nicolai Avram, 17, of no fixed address, received an 18-month detention and training order. The judge recommended that all but Danciulescu should be deported on their release. They and a sixth defendant - Ina Ivan, 18, of Leyton, east London, who will be sentenced next month - admitted one count of conspiracy to defraud between January 1 and July 10 this year. Earlier, Mark Fenhalls, prosecuting, told the court the gang was caught by chance. A police patrol in central London spotted the defendants behaving suspiciously outside a branch of HSBC. The court heard losses totalled £8,000, but police said the figure would have been much higher had not the gang been caught when it was.