A truce has been called in the battle between Britain's most senior judges and the home secretary following a deal under which David Blunkett has formally promised that he will consult the judiciary before he publishes major new law-and-order legislation.The "peace terms" are to be published in a formal protocol which will set out relations between the judges and the politicians in the absence of a decision to create a fully-fledged ministry of justice. The decision of Lord Irvine to step down as lord chancellor - he fought the judicial corner in several turf wars with Mr Blunkett - is also expected to ease the tension. The deal was struck at a meeting this week between the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, and Mr Blunkett. Lord Irvine's replacement, Lord Falconer, was also at the meeting. Home office sources described the protocol as "an olive branch" to the judges and said that both sides had agreed to make a fresh start in their relationship. They had "agreed to disagree" for example over some key parts of Mr Blunkett's flagship criminal justice bill, to be debated in the Lords next Monday. Lord Falconer said yesterday that he accepted the government had not yet got right its arrangements for consulting the judges on new legislation as a matter of routine. He hoped the new protocol would improve these arrangements: "I hope that this will allow us to meet the welcome requests from the senior judiciary for input into draft legislation. "Their contribution on the operational detail is important and valuable," he told a criminal justice policy conference in London. In his speech on the changing role of the judges, Lord Falconer stressed the government's commitment to the independence of the judiciary when it came to individual cases. But he argued that it was equally within parliament's rights to lay down some limits on how their discretion should operate in general. "Some of these cause more controversy than others. "Judges generally do not, for example, like minimum sentences. "On the other hand, from time to time, and it has been exceptional, parliament has the right to take a view on the relative seriousness of different offences. "The most recent example is the five-year minimum sentence in respect to firearms." Lord Woolf is expected to repeat his fears that such new minimum sentences will ratchet up the prison population even further when peers debate the second reading of Mr Blunkett's criminal justice bill on Monday. Last week the lord chief justice suggested there had been a breakdown of trust between the judiciary and the government. Earlier this week a high court judge, Mr Justice Collins, whose asylum ruling was criticised by the home secretary, said that Mr Blunkett's attack showed a "regrettable failure to appreciate the constitutional position".