Bounty hunters are being paid thousands of pounds to track down and punish women who have run away from their families, before returning them to homes where they are imprisoned, beaten and even murdered.An increase in breakdowns in South Asian families has led to a surge in the number of women fleeing domestic violence, sexual abuse or the threat of forced marriage. The result is that, although bounty hunters were once rare and always members of the immediate community, white males and even women are setting up businesses to secure the large sums Asian families are prepared to pay. 'Bounty hunters are not an urban myth,' said Philip Balmforth, Britain's leading expert on forced marriages who has spent 15 years with West Yorkshire Police's race relations department. 'Wherever you get an Asian community, someone sets up a business to bring runaway women back home. 'While it was once the case that bounty hunters were Asian men, it now includes men of all races, and increasingly women too. Women can get access to female refuges while white men can sometimes get information where Asian men cannot, because they are not suspected.' A conference is being planned by the Children's Society to discuss the problem. 'Career bounty hunters are unlicensed thugs, prepared to use an unpredictable level of force to secure their fee,' said Ulfat Riaz of the Children's Society. 'Demand for their services is growing, largely because of the increase in the number of marriages that break up and the increasing cultural clashes between the generations.' Jack and Zena Briggs have had to move home 27 times since their secret wedding in 1994 after her family hired a bounty hunter to avenge - by death, if need be - Zena's decision to marry a white man. When Jack and Zena (not their real names) decided to elope, they knew there would be problems but hoped that eventually her Bradford family would accept Jack as his family accepted her. However, a death sentence still hangs over the couple. Bounty hunters even punished them by terrifying Jack's elderly mother, who was dying of cancer. 'Every time there's a knock on the door your pulse quickens,' said Zena. 'Every time the phone rings, you're thinking, is this them? Have they finally found us? Is this another trick call to lure us to a rendezvous where we'll meet our deaths?' Runaways, the Briggs's account of life since their elopement, was published with a foreword by former Beirut hostage John McCarthy. 'When a car slowly pulls up at the side of you, you try not to freeze. Your palms begin to sweat, your breathing becomes rapid, your heart starts beating 10 to the dozen,' Zena said. 'Is this someone just innocently asking for directions? Or could it be your executioner wanting to make sure it's you before he grabs you and pulls you into the car?' Jack has ceased to be surprised by the determination of Zena's family. 'I now realise how naïve I was in the early days,' he said. 'They were such a loving, lovely family. It never crossed my mind they would see our elopement as the trigger of a never-ending quest for our murder.' Most victims never speak out, making it impossible for police to press charges. Other women are discovered and killed before they can be helped, like the heavily pregnant Anita Gindha, a 22-year-old Londoner found strangled last April, the victim of a suspected honour killing. Bounty hunters pay taxi drivers and shop owners to carry photographs of the women and contact them with any information. They put pressure on employees in employment centres and benefit agencies to give out confidential information and infiltrate refuges and hostels. Kully Kaur, for eight years a support worker for Nottingham Asian Women's Aid, believes some families are unaware of the harm a bounty hunter might do to their daughter: 'These men are often not known to the family at all, who hear about them through word of mouth. They might not even know if the bounty hunter is violent or not.' Some campaigners see signs that, as Asian women become more independent, bounty hunters are resorting to increased levels of force. Kaveri Sharma, a legal adviser at the Newham Asian Women's Project in London, said: 'Because women are becoming harder to intimidate, this could mean bounty hunters using more force, or families telling them that, if the girl won't come home, they should not let her continue living.' But the hidden nature of the business makes it almost impossible to tackle it, says Jasvinder Sanghera of the Karma Nirvana shelter, a project run by Refuge. 'No one knows the extent of the problem, because no Asian family would ever admit to hiring a bounty hunter,' she said. 'Families keep it a dead secret to protect their honour.' It is not illegal to hunt down an individual and, while harassment, intimidation and violence are against the law, there has never been a case where a woman who has been returned to her family has spoken to the police.