I can vividly remember the moment I realised that people were frightened of my brother. I was 18, and my boss at the time was telling me about how a couple of days earlier he had taken his little girl down to the local playground. My brother, who loves slides and is severely autistic, had been there. "I was frightened that he would hurt my little girl," he told me. I'm still not sure why he told me this (generally local people had been kind and understanding), but it made me want to hit him. Perhaps he was admitting his own weaknesses, but to me it felt like an attack. It made my heart hurt that my gentle, smiling, beautiful brother should inspire fear like that. It made me angry that this man felt his ignorance was worth sharing.I imagine the fury and hurt I felt then is something akin to how the family of Faruk Ali are feeling, only more so, days after their autistic son was allegedly beaten in the street by two police officers as he was outside his house, in slippers, helping the binmen to collect rubbish. Collecting rubbish probably made him happy – many autistic people enjoy organising and systematising, and for his simple enjoyment of this task to be disrupted in such a seemingly violent way simply because he looked "suspicious" must have been incredibly traumatic.Similar, perhaps, to the reaction of autistic teenager Josh, who was shackled by police in 2008 for refusing to leave a swimming pool."My son doesn't cry," Josh's father told the Observer last year, when the court of appeal found that his treatment was inhuman and degrading. "But when they brought him home, he ran upstairs and crouched in a corner, sobbing uncontrollably. He wouldn't sleep for nights. As a parent, that tears you apart." It tore me apart just to read it. It has haunted me. My brother loves swimming too, and like Josh he sometimes gets "stuck" in places and has trouble leaving. It worries me that one day it might happen to him. It is not a concern that anyone should have in a modern, civilised society.Disabled people and their relatives will be acutely aware of the fear and ignorance of which the general public can be capable. That this can sometimes turn into violence – that the simple act of a human being acting "oddly" or "weirdly" can shift the tone of an encounter from a simple meeting in a public place to one charged with aggression – is a terrifying prospect.For the mother of Andrew Young, a man with Asperger's syndrome who was killed by a single punch after pointing out that cycling on the pavement was dangerous, this nightmare came true. Some people with Asperger's believe that it is very important to follow rules, but telling someone so can hardly be construed as "menacing", as his killer alleged. He was sentenced to four and a half years in prison – a pathetic sentence, for a pathetic person.It's stating the obvious, but sometimes autistic people behave in ways that "neurotypical" people will perceive as strange. It sounds glib to state it, but I have always been grateful that my brother is, objectively, very handsome. It means that people are kinder, that they smile at him in the street. A carer of his told us that often, when they are out and about, teenage girls will check him out, only for him to start flapping his hands or hooting or bounding down the pavement. It made me laugh to hear it but it also makes him vulnerable. The National Autistic Society estimates that there are almost 700,000 people in the country who may have autism. They are vulnerable too.And it's not just autism, but people with mental illnesses, people who have certain mobility problems, people with conditions such as Tourette's and OCD; basically anyone whose behaviour might not fit the majority definition of "normal".In January, in North Carolina, a teenage boy who was having a schizophrenic episode was shot dead by police. In the same month, two California police officers were found not guilty of beating a schizophrenic homeless man to death as he cried for his father. Last year, in Maryland, a man with Down's syndrome was suffocated to death while being arrested after refusing to leave a cinema.I could keep listing cases, but it would become a repetitive litany of desperate circumstances. I'm starting to think that the police need to train up their own "crack team" of recruits who are sensitive and educated enough to deal with disabled people on a day to day basis, but such a thing would be an absurdity. The police are supposed to be there for everyone, but as things stand, and in the light of the disability discrimination, institutional racism and the victim-blaming of sexually assaulted women, I'm wondering who they're really there for at all. They don't seem to have been there for Faruk Ali and his family, and they definitely weren't there for Josh and his dad.There was something else I felt that day, alongside the anger and the hurt from being told that my brother appeared dangerous. It was shame. Illogical and unwarranted shame. Shame that he and by extension we were different from the other ones, and that that difference caused them discomfort. I never want to feel that way again, and nor should anyone else.