Rapists who in the past would have attacked strangers are now targeting potential victims in clubs or pubs, a police rape expert said yesterday.Detective Chief Inspector Richard Walton, who heads the Metropolitan police's rape project, said advances in DNA technology mean that men who rape strangers now have a much smaller chance of escaping justice. As a result, potential rapists are more likely to strike up "some sort of relationship" with their victims. This turns the crime into acquaintance rape, where the issue becomes not the rapist's identity but the more difficult one of whether the woman consented. The number of reported stranger rapes has remained constant over the past 20 years, while numbers of acquaintance rapes have soared. DCI Walton heads the Met police's Project Sapphire, a team of specially trained officers and detectives set up two years ago to improve rape investigations and victim care. He was speaking at the launch yesterday of a crown prosecution service consultation on improving the handling of rape prosecutions, aimed at tackling an attrition rate which sees only one in 13 rape reports end in conviction. The consultation, launched in London by the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, and the director of public prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith, follows a report last April from the independent inspectorates for the police and CPS, which found that the system failed rape victims at all stages. The report concluded that more sensitive treatment of victims was crucial to securing a conviction. It recommended introducing specialist prosecutors for rape cases, better training for police and prosecutors, and instructions to prosecuting counsel to challenge offensive cross-examination by defence counsel. There is already a nationwide network of specialist rape prosecutors who will follow a case from start to finish. A key finding of the report was that rape victims were more likely than other crime victims to lose confidence in the criminal justice process. Only one in five rape victims reports the crime, and many who do report it decide not to give evidence or retract their allegations before trial. Ms Harman said: "The justice gap between the number of reported rapes and the number of convictions shows quite clearly that we must do more to support rape victims through the often traumatic criminal justice process." She said that each year the number of convictions for rape was growing, but that the increase was not keeping pace with the rise in reports of rape. Since 1985 reports of rape had increased by 400% but convictions by only 40%. Sir David said: "What we are anxious to do is make sure victims of these crimes are supported from the moment they pluck up the courage to go to the police to the moment the case is concluded at crown court. Our view is that many victims fall out before the case ever goes to court because they lose confidence in the process." Ms Harman said a change in the law last July allowing vulnerable or intimidated witnesses to give evidence by video link was working well.