A police force failed to properly investigate an allegation of rape and let the victim down "by basic policing errors and lack of adequate support", an independent investigation has found.Beth Ellis disclosed her plight in the Guardian in 2008 when she agreed to publish her journal, using a pseudonym, detailing how she had been mistreated by South Wales police.She went to the police, she says, to disclose for the first time that she had been sexually assaulted years earlier as a child by her stepfather.The Independent Police Complaints Commission said today a detective from the force and his supervising inspector had been disciplined for their failures. Months had been taken to obtain statements, appointments missed, key files had been lost, and a single detective constable handling the case had been left virtually unsupervised.Officers claimed to be too overworked to pay full attention to the case, and after an inadequate investigation, prosecutors turned it down. Ellis said yesterday: "It is really galling that because of this mess, the person involved has got away scot-free."Her life story, Bad Things in the Night, is to be published next month by Ebury Press, after a publisher spotted literary merit in the published extracts from her Guardian journal, and the IPCC launched its investigation.As a result of the findings, two officers from South Wales police have been given written warnings and another has received words of advice, the IPCC said.Detective Constable Wayne Cleaver and Detective Inspector Wayne Thomas got written warnings. One of the complaints upheld was that policy statements from the Crown Prosecution Service in London, urging that rape cases be taken more seriously, appeared to being having little effect on the ground.The report says: "DC Cleaver openly admitted in interview that he had no knowledge of the CPS policy for prosecuting rape cases at the time of this investigation." It was also "inexcusable", the report said, that he was unaware of the existence of a recently introduced special rape unit where traumatised victims of sexual assault could be interviewed.Thomas, his inspector, said he recalled little about the case, and did not see the necessity for a senior officer to oversee "historic" rape investigations, as distinct from recent ones. He could not remember a single rape case that had come in during his time where a special liaison officer had been appointed to support the victim. He said: "It's fine to have it written as a policy but it's a different thing when it comes to practice." He added that he had "constant battles with the command team about CID resources" and had been working 10-11 hour days and weekends on other cases.The investigators said Thomas's approach "enabled delays … to be overlooked and lines of inquiry to be ignored". They found he "abrogated his responsibility to provide appropriate levels of supervision and support for his staff".The results of the IPCC investigation largely vindicate the protests made to the Guardian at the time by Ellis, but the case remains unresolved. It was not possible, for legal reasons, to re-arrest and re-interview her stepfather, who has never been convicted. The IPCC commissioner for Wales, Tom Davies, said today: "This woman has been let down by basic policing errors and lack of adequate support. Allegations of the nature made to South Wales police are difficult to investigate, but that is no excuse for not getting the basics right or providing the support needed to help people through exceedingly difficult circumstances."Chief Superintendent Tim Jones, head of professional standards at South Wales police, said: "We fully accept that we failed to provide adequate levels of care to the victim in this instance. The initial investigation was not of the standard that we would expect."Over the last few years, we have moved on a great deal in this particular area, and the support now provided to victims of sexual assault in South Wales has been recognised as some of the best available throughout England and Wales."