The brother of a young actor in the Harry Potter films today admitted attacking his sister over her relationship with a Hindu man.Afshan Azad, 22, played Padma Patil, a classmate of the wizard apprentice in the blockbuster films based on JK Rowling's books. Her brother Ashraf, 28, from the Longsight district of Manchester, admitted one charge of assault occasioning actual bodily harm as his trial was due to begin at Manchester crown court.The court heard that during the assault, he branded his sister a "slag" after he overheard talking on the phone to her boyfriend. Scared, she fled the family home by climbing out of a bedroom.He will be sentenced for the assault on January 21, following pre-sentence reports.Their father, Abdul Azad, 54, was found not guilty of making a threat to kill his daughter on May 21. He was bound over to keep the peace for 12 months. Ashraf Azad was also formally found not guilty of making the death threat against his sister.Richard Vardon QC, prosecuting, told the court: "The prosecution allegation in essence is she was the victim of a wholly unnecessary and unpleasant assault by her brother. The reason for the assault, apparently her association with a Hindu young man, that apparently being disapproved of by her family who are Muslim. Specifically she spoke not only of assault but also of threats to kill, made jointly by her father and brother."Vardon said her father was woken by his son shouting: "Sort out your daughter. She's a slag." He continued to further assault her, in disputed Bengali, shouting, "Just kill her.""The assault continued. There was a discussion where she was being called a prostitute," the prosecutor said. Afshan Azad made a statement to police in which she said the threats to kill her continued.Reading from her police statement, Vardon added: "My father began saying he would do it - a reference to kill her - as he did not want his sons to have her blood on their hands and he would do time for it." He said then she began to feel "very scared".He said although Azad had been in touch with her solicitors, she had always indicated that she did not support the prosecution against her family and they had been unable to locate her to issue her with a witness summons which would have compelled her to attend court.Initially she told police she had come to them for "help and protection" but would not come to court because a prosecution would "not be of assistance" and she feared it would put her in "genuine danger". The prosecution said she later made "retraction statements" in which she tried to "gloss over" the threats to kill by claiming that English was her first language and that her father spoke a Bengali dialect and she found it "difficult to understand the nature of his heavily-accented Bengali."She gave a statement to the two suspects' lawyer, saying: "I dearly love my father and brother. The proceedings have caused me no end of distress and if it goes ahead it will make things much worse for me."She claimed she was not fluent in Bengali and that the threats she had alleged were actually her father saying "over my dead body" that she would be allowed to go out with a Hindu man.Explaining the prosecution's reasons for allowing not-guilty verdicts on the allegation of a threat to kill, Vardon added: "The prosecution have thought long and hard about their position. We remain, and were confident that given the deliberate absenting of the witness, there was no bar to the prosecution proceeding."Azad's father calmed down by 10pm on the night of the assault to offer her painkillers for her injuries. But he said he was going to force the complainant into a forced marriage of some sort, the court heard.Chudi Grant, defending Azad snr, said, "He has always emphatically denied any wrongdoing but he is content to be bound over to keep the peace because at the forefront of his mind is the welfare and happiness of his daughter. He has no issue in keeping the peace. In his role as a father he intends to do what he has done for many many years and support her in whatever she endeavours."The court heard the Azads were not a "tribal family" and they were fairly liberal, supporting her acting career which was not "consistent" with a "conservative Muslim family".Judge Roger Thomas QC told her father he was effectively being warned about his future conduct. He said he could not give a firm indication of the final sentence for her brother. But he added: "Violence in the home is all too prevalent and that sort of violence, domestic violence, even for a man such as you can result in imprisonment."Azad was studying for her AS levels at Xaverian College in Rusholme, Manchester, when she was first cast in the 2005 film Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, which she described as "the best experience of my life. The first day we had to do a cast read-through, where we go through the whole script," she said later. "I was a bit starstruck. I was a big Harry Potter fan."