A man with severe learning difficulties was subjected to hours of violent and humiliating torture by a gang before being force-fed 70 painkillers and marched to a railway viaduct where he fell to his death, a court heard yesterday.Steven Hoskin, described as a child in a man's body, was beaten, burnt with cigarettes, made to wear his own dog's collar and walked around on a lead in the hours before his death. Truro crown court was told that the gang of five friends convinced themselves that Mr Hoskin, 39, was a paedophile, though he had no convictions. They daubed graffiti on the walls of his flat, where the torment took place, including the phrase "Fucking nonce should be hung".The court heard that they forced Mr Hoskin to admit that he was a child abuser and three of them acted as judge, jury and executioner, marching him to the viaduct in St Austell, Cornwall, in July last year.Darren Stewart, 30, Martin Pollard, 21, and Stewart's 17-year-old girlfriend, who cannot be named, deny murder but have admitted causing actual bodily harm. Two boys aged 16 and 17 deny actual bodily harm. All five are from St Austell. Sarah Munro QC, prosecuting, said: "Mr Hoskin was vulnerable, a child within an adult's body. His death came at the end of months of mental and physical abuse by Stewart, and to a lesser extent his girlfriend, and at the end of an evening when he was subjected to hours of the most humiliating, painful and terrifying torment, in which all five played a part."She said the assaults became worse after the two youngest left and Stewart and his girlfriend forced Mr Hoskin to gulp down a dose of 70 painkillers. They were joined by Pollard in hatching the plan to kill him by walking him to the viaduct, by which time he no longer had the will to resist.Miss Munro said: "He was walked along the railway line to the point where he was forced and bullied into falling to his death. Mr Hoskin had never shown any suicidal tendencies, and chillingly, he had a lifelong fear of heights. The top of that viaduct is the last place he would have gone willingly."Stewart and Pollard admit falsely imprisoning Mr Hoskin in his flat. Stewart's girlfriend and the other two youths deny this. Stewart denies intimidating a teenage witness.The trial continues.