Police today described the brazen murder of a couple in broad daylight in a quiet Lincolnshire village, fuelling speculation that they were the victims of a professional revenge killing.Joan and John Stirland were shot dead at their seaside bungalow in Trusthorpe on Sunday. Lincolnshire police today said witnesses had described two men in blue boiler suits running or walking to and from the house around the time of their murder. Witnesses also told police they had seen a dark-coloured saloon car parked near the house with its hazard lights flashing. A burning Volkswagon Passat was discovered at 3.30pm on Sunday about two miles from the murder scene. The car was taken for forensic tests, police said. They appealed for witnesses who had been in the area between 2pm and 4pm.The couple's bodies were discovered at 9.30pm on Sunday. Lincolnshire police said the fact that the shocking attack had taken place "in broad daylight on a beautiful summer's afternoon" suggested "an element of pre-planning". They appealed for local businesses to preserve CCTV tape from July 30 onwards to assist police in determining if the murderers or their associates had visited the area before the attack. Mrs Stirland, 53, was the mother of Michael O'Brien, a convicted murderer jailed for life at Nottingham crown court last month. She and her husband, John, had moved to Trusthorpe in April in an attempt to make a fresh start. O'Brien had shot and killed Marvyn Bradshaw, 22, outside the Sporting Chance pub in Top Valley, Nottingham. When his sentence was handed down, O'Brien threw a glass of water over the public gallery and yelled abuse at the victim's family. "Your son looked like a doughnut, with a big hole in his head," O'Brien yelled at Bradshaw's family. "I know where you live." Lincolnshire police said they were working with Nottinghamshire police to see if there was a connection with Bradshaw's murder. Mr and Mrs Stirland had not given evidence at O'Brien's trial, and were not part of a witness protection scheme, police said. Police were continuing their forensic and ballistic investigations, and did not yet know what type of gun had been used in the murders. Appealing for witnesses, Lincolnshire police said they "could not rule out the possibility, however unlikely, that the killers are still on the east coast".