A teenage girl was kidnapped from a train, robbed, beaten and kicked, and pushed into a stream by a gang of seven who were given prison sentences at Luton crown court yesterday. The 18-year-old was so scared she thought she was going to die in the attack near Luton last May. She was first assaulted on a train, then taken to a park before being left to find her own way in the dark with a fractured eye socket and severe bruising. Police said she had been treated "worse than an animal" in "some sort of callous game".The ringleader of the gang, Jonathan Campbell, 18, of Luton, was sentenced to a total of seven and a half years in prison after pleading guilty to kidnap, grievous bodily harm and robbery. His former girlfriend, Claire Thomson, 22, also of Luton, was given seven years after admitting kidnap and grievous bodily harm. Campbell's sister, Samantha Campbell, 22, a mother of three, and Kieran Britland, 20, both of Luton, were sentenced to seven years in prison. They had been convicted of kidnap and grievous bodily harm at a trial in October. Lisa McMullen, 19, of Luton, was sentenced to five and a half years for kidnap. The three women wept in court. Vickie Tyler, 20, of Luton, and Charlene Weemes, 20, of London Colney, Hertfordshire, both admitted perverting the course of justice. Tyler was sentenced to six months in prison, with three months for breaching a community order to run consecutively. Weemes was sentenced to nine months. Before sentencing, the judge, Barbara Mensah, made the group watch the CCTV video of the start of their attack at Leagrave station, near Luton, which she said was enough to make anyone feel ill."This was an ugly, cruel and completely mindless attack. It was an unprovoked, mindless attack of great viciousness," she said. "It was sadistic, it was humiliating, it was violent and it was late at night." She told Jonathan Campbell he had not been "man enough" to respond appropriately when his victim fought back after he grabbed her on the train and so "pathetically resorted to violence". The court heard the victim was friends with Tyler and Weemes and had met Jonathan Campbell and Britland at a hostel she was staying at in St Albans. The group teased and taunted her, then took her on a train to Leagrave, where her ordeal began. She was attacked at the station, then taken to a park, where she was beaten and taunted and forced to lick Jonathan Campbell's trousers. He had told her that the gang were going to "get her lost" and kill her.Mensah told Samantha Campbell, whose lawyer had pledged that she would not offend again for fear of being separated from her children: "You didn't think about your children that night you decided to abandon them and go to the station."