You reported that "urgent talks between Ministry of Justice officials and chief constables are under way to use hundreds more police cells as emergency prison accommodation" (Rush to find spare cells as prison population spirals to new record June 18). Last October the Home Office arranged to use 400 police cells as emergency accommodation. Now, with prisoner numbers reaching new heights, "the National Offender Management Service has started urgent negotiations to use hundreds more as a stop-gap".But, even after Lord Falconer's welcome announcement of an early release scheme, the use of police cells looks set to continue. As you reported, the package "may not be enough to stem the rise in the prison population", and "Operation Safeguard - the emergency arrangement to use up to 500 police and court cells each night - will remain in place until the end of the year" (1,500 to be released early as prison crisis bites, June 20).Using police cells to hold convicted and remanded prisoners is a wholly unacceptable way to deal with the prison crisis. Police cells have no facilities for detoxification, counselling or support for vulnerable prisoners. One-third of all prison suicides occur in the first week of custody, and deaths of prisoners have risen alarmingly this year as detention in police cells has increasingly become the norm for newly received inmates.You also reported on the growing use of court cells. "A special agreement has already been reached with the court service for six centres to be used ...The ministry is trying to negotiate for two more crown court centres for prisoners who are now in effect queuing to get into jail." Court cells are even less suitable than police cells - they are not designed to hold prisoners overnight, they are simply intended for prisoners to sit in during the day while they wait to go into court. A typical cell has no natural light and is little more than half the size of a Victorian-built prison cell; when a mattress is placed on the floor, the end curls up against the wall.The government clearly hopes that using police and court cells will only be a short-term expedient until new prison places are built. But this is a forlorn hope. Unless permanent steps are taken to reduce the use of custody, the courts will continue to fill new places with ever more prisoners, providing no relief for the prison system. Any solution must involve tackling sentencing head on.The law should be changed to require sentencing to take account of prisons' capacity. Legislation or new sentencing guidelines should remove prison as an option for low-level crimes and should cut the length of sentences for all non-dangerous offences. Increasing prisons' ability to rehabilitate a manageable number of prisoners would increase public safety. In my 35 years working with offenders, I have repeatedly seen how prison overcrowding turns out prisoners who are more likely to reoffend.Trying to manage the prison population is like running down an escalator which is moving ever more rapidly upwards. It is time to stop the escalator.· Paul Cavadino is the chief executive of Nacro, the crime reduction charity.paul.cavadino@nacro.org.uk