Derrick Bird was concerned he was about to be sent to prison for tax evasion, and that his brother and solicitor were conspiring against him, before he went on a shooting rampage in Cumbria, an inquest has heard.The 52-year-old taxi driver killed 12 people and injured 11 others as he drove around west Cumbria on 2 June last year. He had repeatedly stopped his Citroën Picasso car, called victims over as if to ask the time, then simply blasted them with a shotgun. Bird shot himself later that day.Jury inquests into all 13 deaths have begun and are expected to last six weeks.Opening the inquest, coroner David Roberts said the lives of many people were "touched in ways they could never have imagined" after the shootings.A picture emerged on the first day of a man with irrational thoughts who bore grudges against his taxi-driving colleagues and friends at a sub-aqua diving club.His first victim was his twin brother, David, who he wrongly believed was conspiring against him. Bird then travelled to the farmhouse of his 60-year-old solicitor, Kevin Commons, in Frizington and shot him dead.At the opening of the inquest at Lillyhall, near Workington, the senior investigating officer, Detective Chief Superintendent Iain Goulding, said Bird arranged a meeting with Commons to discuss his finances. He said Bird had been worried for some time about his involvement with Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs over tax payments and he had "developed irrational fears" of prison. The fears were made worse by the belief that his brother and solicitor were conspiring against him.But a police inquiry showed his contact with HMRC was routine and his affairs were in order.Goulding said there was an increased amount of contact between the brothers. On 30 May, Bird phoned David 44 times, although most of the calls went unanswered.The brothers met at David's farmhouse in Lamplugh on the morning of 31 May, a bank holiday, for what witnesses described as "a serious conversation".Goulding said: "Derrick Bird had developed irrational fears ... that his brother and solicitor were conspiring against him. He indicated that he was attending a meeting on 2 June when he believed he would be arrested immediately and would go to prison after that meeting."Goulding told the inquest that shortly after midnight on 2 June, Bird told his friend Peter Leder: "You won't see me again."Bird went to David's house in the early hours and shot him repeatedly, causing wounds to his head, chest, neck and back. He then travelled to Commons's house and fired two shots through the windscreen and roof of the solicitor's car as Bird blocked the driveway with his taxi. As he ran back to his house, Commons was shot in the head.Bird then travelled to his friend Neil Jacques' house and asked for the return of a shotgun he had sold the previous night. Goulding said it was a more accurate and self-ejecting weapon. However, Jacques was not at home so Bird left without it.At 10.27am Bird went to a taxi rank at Duke Street, in Whitehaven, where he had been "subject to ridicule because of his personal hygiene and the cleanliness of his taxi", Goulding said. The last vehicle on the rank belonged to Darren Rewcastle, who was in a nearby sandwich shop. Bird called him over and as he lent down to the passenger window, Bird shot him at close range in the face and neck. A second shot hit 43-year-old Rewcastle in the abdomen and he died of multiple gunshot wounds.Bird drove to the front of the taxi rank and spoke to Donald Reid, who noticed the gun and turned his back. A single round was fired at Reid. He crawled along the taxi rank, near to the body of Rewcastle where Bird fired two further shots in quick succession, Goulding said. Reid survived.Paul Goodwin, who was driving past, picked up police officer Mick Taylor and they pursued Bird. He drove to Scott Street and stopped alongside Paul Wilson, who was walking towards the police station. As he looked in the passenger window, Bird fired once, hitting him in the side of his face, but he also survived.Wilson was able to tell the police the identity of the gunman. At this point, 10.31am, a marked police van joined the chase.In Coach Road, taxi driver Terence Kennedy and passenger Emma Percival, were shot at. Both survived but Kennedy had to have the lower portion of his right arm amputated.As the police van approached Bird, he "raised his gun and pointed directly towards the windscreen", Goulding told the jury. The police officers ducked down and the gunman sped off towards Rottingham and St Bees. Later, armed officers lost Bird in roadworks.In Egremont, Susan Hughes, 57, was walking up a hill carrying shopping when Bird pulled alongside and shot her. Witnesses said he seemed to get out of the vehicle and was "physically wrestling her while holding the rifle". He shot her again in the head.At 10.53am, he reloaded the weapon and shot Kenneth Fishburn, 71, at Bridge End, causing neck and head injuries. Moments earlier, a witness had said hello to Fishburn as he passed.Four minutes later, Bird approached Leslie Hunter, saying: "Can I have a word with you mate?" He shot Hunter at close range as the victim leaned into the vehicle, but he survived.Bird then turned on to the Thornhill estate and approached 15-year-old Ashleigh Glaister, firing a gun at her, but missing. He reversed his car towards her as she ran off.At 11.02am, Goulding said Isaac Dixon, 65, was between Egremont and Haile checking mole traps. He was shot in the chest and hip at close range and his body was found on a grass verge.Five minutes later, Bird went to Wilton and the home of Jason and Deborah Carey, from the Solway sub-aqua diving group, where he was a member. Goulding said Bird had "a number of differences over the use of a boat and diving practices. He bore grudges against some of the committee members."Bird sounded the horn, but Carey was asleep after a night shift. His wife went to answer the door, but the car had reversed out of the drive.Almost immediately, he was alongside Jennifer Jackson, 68, who was walking to meet her husband. She was shot in the chest and head. Bird continued to Town End Farm, where Jackson's husband, James, 67, was talking to neighbour Christine Hunter-Hall.Bird fired at Jackson as Hunter-Hall's husband pushed her to the ground. She was shot in the back, puncturing her lung.By 11.18am, Bird approached the Red Admiral pub at Calder Bridge where 31-year-old Garry Purdham was working on a gateway near the family farm. He was shot dead by Bird.Estate agent James Clark, 23, was driving back to his office after a cancelled appointment when he received a mobile phone call warning him about the gunman. At around 11.22am Clark was shot in the head and his Smart car was found overturned with its wheels turning.At 11.27am, a Land Rover driven by Harry Berger was three-quarters of the way through a single track bridge near Seascale seafront when it was forced back by Bird. Witnesses heard shouts then two gunshots. He survived by shielding his face but suffered injuries to his right arm.Bird drove towards the seafront and Drigg Road, where cyclist Michael Pike, 64, was shot at close range. He was found still on his bike slumped against a wall.Nearby, Jane Robinson, 66, was delivering Bettaware catalogues door to door. She leaned into Bird's passenger window and was shot in the head and neck at 11.28am. Witnesses said she was flung back from the force of the impact.Six minutes later, Jackie Lewis, who was out walking, had a .22 round fired at her. Despite a bullet being lodged in her brain, she survived but has no recollection of the incident.Bird then took a circuitous route to Eskdale, almost colliding with several cars. Tourist Fiona Loretta was walking towards the King George IV pub at 11.50am when Bird approached. She was shot in the mouth and suffered internal injuries. Loretta ran to the back of the car and sought help from a doctor who was at the pub.Three minutes later, at SIMS travel, Robert Preston and his colleagues saw Bird point the gun out of a passenger window at them. The shot missed.Within 100 metres, Christine Alty and her family were walking when she heard a loud bang and a whoosh of air by her face. At 11.55am, Nathan Jones and Philip Moor were leaving the Hollins campsite with a dog. Bird shot Jones in the face and he had a .22 bullet lodged in his right cheek, but survived.Samantha Chyrstie and her boyfriend, Craig Ross, had stopped to take a photograph when Bird approached Chyrstie asking her if she was having a nice day. "As she began to respond, Derrick Bird shot her, causing multiple injuries to her jaw, pallet and eye socket," Goulding said.Ross got out of the car and confronted the gunman, who pointed a rifle at him and told him to drive away, which he did.The couple saw two cyclists, Philip and Ann Lowe, and warned them about Bird, who at that moment passed by, firing at them and narrowly missing Philip Lowe's head.Goulding said Bird had collided with a number of vehicles and a dry-stone wall, badly damaging his car. The tyre fell of its wheel at Doctor Bridge, in Boot, and passers-by approached to help. He told them to go away and ran off towards Oak How woods with a rifle where he knelt down and shot himself in the forehead. Police dogs and armed officers found his body at 1.36pm.Goulding said spent shotgun cartridges were found in the car and six live .22 rounds were found in his trouser pocket along with a magazine. He said he ran out of shotgun ammunition after killing Jane Robinson in Seascale. In total, 29 shotgun cartridges and 18 rifle cartridges were discharged.Goulding said Bird was permitted to have 1,500 rounds of .22 ammunition and a search of his house showed he was well within the permitted quantities. He said the deeds of the homes were prominently placed in the kitchen.The hearing continues.