Three people arrested in connection with the murder of the British student Meredith Kercher in Perugia must remain in prison, an Italian judge ruled today.Judge Claudia Matteini said there were "serious indications of guilt" that warranted keeping the three in jail for up to a year while the investigation continues. Amanda Knox, who was Ms Kercher's American flatmate, Ms Knox's boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, and Diya "Patrick" Lumumba have all been in prison since Tuesday, but have not yet been charged.In a 19-page ruling, the judge said that Ms Knox, in her meetings with prosecutors, had accused Mr Lumumba of killing Mr Kercher. But Ms Knox had "confused memories, as she had taken hashish in the afternoon," the ruling read. Ms Knox told prosecutors that "Patrick slipped off with Meredith ... on whom he had a crush ... in the bedroom, where they had sex." "She (Knox) added that she could not remember if (Meredith) had been previously threatened but that it was Patrick who killed her," the ruling read. "She made clear that in those moments ... she heard Meredith scream so much that she, being scared, covered her ears." A lawyer for Ms Knox, Luciano Ghirga, said he had warned his client against making unfounded accusations. He said she had given "three versions and ... it is difficult to evaluate which one is true." "We told her that it would be worse than assassination to accuse an innocent person. We explained to her what slander means in Italy and we'll see," Mr Ghirga said.Under Italian law, suspects can be kept behind bars without being charged if a judge rules there is enough evidence to jail them and there is a chance they might flee, repeat the crime or tamper with evidence. "They could easily have left the territory of the state to escape the investigation," the judge wrote, noting that Mr Lumumba is from Congo, Ms Knox is American and Mr Sollecito could have enlisted his girlfriend's help to flee. The 21-year-old Ms Kercher, a student at the city's University for Foreigners, was found dead in her bed in the apartment she shared with Ms Knox last Friday. Her throat had been cut and police said she was killed as she fought off a sex attack. The coroner said Ms Kercher was stabbed in the neck. Judge Matteini said it was not yet clear who might have dealt the fatal blow, but said that Mr Sollecito's footprints were found in Kercher's room, and identified the murder weapon as a knife with an 8.5cm (3.3in) blade. In her reconstruction of the incident, the judge said Ms Knox, who worked for Mr Lumumba at his Perugia bar, let the two men into the apartment with her keys. "Then something went wrong," Judge Matteini wrote. "The two (men) demanded some kind of sexual act, which (Kercher) refused to do. She was then threatened with a knife, which Sollecito always carried with him, and with which Meredith was stabbed in the neck." One of Mr Sollecito's attorneys, Luca Maori, said he planned to appeal the decision. "We didn't expect it," he said. Although he said he had not yet read the ruling, he said the defence team was "perplexed" by the judge's decision.Ms Knox originally told police she had not been at home on the night Ms Kercher died. However, the Italian daily Corriere della Sera earlier this week published extracts from what it reported was a subsequent statement in which Ms Knox said she had been with her flatmate and Mr Lumumba at the house. According to the account, she heard screams and thuds coming from Ms Kercher's bedroom after Mr Lumumba entered it. She covered her ears to shut out the noise and later went to sleep at her boyfriend's flat.Tiziano Tedeschi, representing Mr Sollecito, yesterday said his client had answered all the questions put to him. "He's innocent," he added. The 24-year-old Italian first backed his girlfriend's claim that they had been together on the night. He later told police he had been alone at home until Ms Knox joined him at 1am.