Detectives leading the hunt for the killer of a south-east London teenage boy yesterday appealed for fresh witnesses as they examined CCTV film of local streets.No detailed description has yet been issued of the young male attacker, who seized an advertising board, forced his way into a bakery shop and wrecked the premises. During the onslaught on Saturday morning, 16-year-old Jimmy Mizen received a fatal slash wound to his throat. He died in his brother's arms after being attacked with a shard of glass when he refused a challenge to fight. It is not clear whether the victim knew his attacker. The area surrounding the shop, in Lee, has remained cordoned off since then.The investigation is being led by Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons, of the Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime command. "CCTV footage has been gathered from the surrounding area and we have been conducting house-to-house inquiries," he said yesterday. A forensic science examination had recovered "significant material". "We have spoken to a number of important witnesses, but believe there are still people out there who saw the incident, or events that led up to it, because the area would have been busy at that time. It is these people I am appealing to. You may feel what you saw was of little consequence, but I ask you to call our incident room on 020 8721 4205 and let us make that judgment."Jimmy celebrated his birthday last Friday and yesterday would have been his last day at school. "Jimmy showed great maturity and refused to react to the antagonistic actions of the suspect," Lyons said. This incident is not being linked to any ongoing police investigation, neither does it have any racial or gang element."Jimmy was the 13th teenager to be murdered in London this year. He had gone out that day to buy his first lottery ticket.He was due to have attended a school leavers' mass yesterday at St Thomas More Catholic comprehensive in nearby Eltham. His grieving family joined pupils at the service instead. Afterwards his parents, Barry, 56, and Margaret, 55, paid tribute to Jimmy. "He was happy-go-lucky, loved his family, loved his guitar and playing rugby in the garden," his mother said. Her husband added: "He was a dear, dear, sweet young man, we loved him dearly. On the night of his birthday he was going out with his friends and we cuddled him. That is just a great, great memory." Asked about the parents of her son's attacker, his mother said: "What can you really say to them? You can imagine, that's their child, they held that boy in their own arms as a baby. They must be in pain. It's so painful that their child has been so cruel and so wicked."