For a country still basking in the euphoria of a World Cup final victory over Germany, the fatal shooting of three unarmed police officers in Shepherd’s Bush, west London, on 12 August 1966, provoked profound shock and disbelief. This surely was the sort of crime that only happened in other parts of the world.Parole has now been granted to Harry Roberts, the man who killed two of the officers and has been in prison for 48 years. The Police Federation has reacted angrily and the debate about life sentences, retribution and rehabilitation has been reopened.Sgt Christopher Head, DC David Wombwell and PC Geoffrey Fox, had been checking out a suspicious-looking van with three men inside it when the shots were fired. The men fled but one of them, John Witney, was swiftly traced. Once his alibi had crumbled, he named the other two, John Duddy, who was caught on the run in Glasgow, and Roberts, who became the subject of one of the biggest manhunts ever mounted in Britain.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The bodies of the police officers are removed from the scene where they were shot dead in Shepherds Bush, west London. Photograph: PAHis face was everywhere and his notoriety led to a macabre football-terrace taunt: “Harry Roberts, he’s our man. He shoots policemen, bang, bang, bang!” He was finally caught, after 96 days at large, living rough in a Hertfordshire forest close to where he had been evacuated as a child in the second world war.All three men were convicted and jailed for life at the Old Bailey.Capital punishment had been abolished the previous year, otherwise Roberts would certainly have hanged. The judge, Mr Justice Glyn-Jones, jailed him for a minimum of 30 years for what he called the “most heinous crime for a generation or more … I think it likely that no home secretary, regarding the enormity of your crime, will ever think fit to show mercy by releasing you on licence.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  The 1966 Guardian report of Harry Roberts’ sentencing at the Old Bailey. Photograph: Guardian News MediaThe then home secretary, Roy Jenkins, described the killings as “a threat to the whole fabric of society”. The prime minister, Harold Wilson, attended a Westminster Abbey memorial service for the murdered officers.Roberts was a former soldier from Kennington, south London, who had decorations for service in what was then Malaya. After leaving the service, he turned to serious crime and specialised in robbing post offices. Witney claimed that Roberts’ policy was “leave no witnesses”.The shootings prompted debate about the lengths of the 30-year sentences handed out two years earlier to the Great Train Robbers, who had not carried firearms. The argument among some career criminals was that taking a gun on a robbery would now make little difference to the length of a sentence.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Harry Roberts arrives at court to give evidence at the trial of a man accused of supplying the guns used in the police shootings. Photograph: Bentley Archive/Popperfoto/Popperfoto/Getty Images“We shot them because they were going to nick us and we didn’t want to go to jail for 15 years,” Roberts told the Guardian’s Nick Davies in a prison interview in 1993. “We were professional criminals. We don’t react the same way as ordinary people. The police aren’t like real people to us. They’re strangers. They’re the enemy. And you don’t feel remorse for killing a stranger.“I do feel sorry for what we did to their families. I do. But it’s like people I killed in Malaya when I was in the army. You don’t feel remorse.”His reputation followed him from jail to jail. He broke off a relationship with a former girlfriend who visited him and told her not to waste her life, he sat O levels in English language and literature, and took some engineering courses. Witney was released on parole in 1991 and was beaten to death in Bristol eight years later. Duddy, who fired one of the three fatal shots, died in jail in 1981.While inside, Roberts made various plans to escape but none came close to fruition. One of his fellow inmates in Parkhurst, Wally “Angel Face” Probyn, an expert escaper, suggested that Roberts was never really serious about getting out. “We made replicas of Lugers out of wax and cotton reels and they were absolutely perfect. But then Harry got in a panic and put the guns in the toilet so the screws found them … I really meant to escape whereas Harry didn’t. It was just a game.”He would now seem to be serious about finally leaving jail and the news has prompted an angry response from across the police service.“I am appalled to learn that police killer Harry Roberts is being released from prison,” said Steve White, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales. “This decision by the parole board is a slap in the face for the families of the three police officers he brutally murdered who, once again, are forced to re-live their pain and loss. It will spark fury among everyone in the police family who will feel badly let down.”If Roberts, now 78, does finally walk out of Littlehey prison in Cambridgeshire after nearly half a century, he will remain, whether he likes it or not, forever in the public eye.