On April Fools' Day, 15 years ago, 300 prisoners filed into the chapel at Strangeways prison, Manchester, to attend the Church of England service. They heard a sermon from a visiting Church Army preacher, and at 11am, the prison's chaplain, Noel Proctor, rose to continue the service.What happened next was tape recorded, along with the sermon. The transcript of the tape reads thus:Noel Proctor: "After that remarkable message that has ..."A prisoner (later identified as Paul Taylor): "I would just like to say, right, that this man has just talked about the blessing of the heart and how a hardened heart can be delivered. No it cannot, not with resentment, anger and bitterness and hatred being instilled in people." (noise, over which) A prisoner: "Fuck your system, fuck your rules."Proctor: "Right lads, sit down."(More noise)Proctor: "Right lads, down. Down. Come on, this is no way to carry on in God's house."(More noise)A prisoner: "Fuck your system."Proctor: "Right lads, sit down. This is completely out of order. Sit down."A prisoner: "Why is it [out of order]? It's been waiting to happen forever. It will never change."Proctor:  "Come on. This is terrible."(More noise; banging, shouting, cheering)Proctor: "All of you who want to go back to your cells, go to the back of the church please."A prisoner: "What? You're a fucking hypocrite, you."Proctor: "I'm trying to help you, to keep you."A prisoner: "Leave it, mate."(More noise until microphone goes dead)And so began the biggest riot in British penal history. Twenty-five days later, when the last five protesters surrendered peacefully, the cost of the uprising became clear. Two men, a prisoner and prison officer had died. Much of the gaunt Victorian jail, located near the heart of Manchester, had been destroyed and would cost over £100m to be rebuilt. The revolt had spread to 20 other prisons in the UK. And eventually, 23 Strangeways prisoners would receive a total of 140 years imprisonment for their part in what the Home Office described on that April Sunday as "a serious disturbance".On that first day, hundreds of prisoners took to the roof of Strangeways. There is a perception still that prisoners fought a battle with staff to gain control of the jail. The truth is, prison officers were ejected from the chapel, and the rioters then began to errect barricades to prevent staff from re-taking the place of worship. They expected an assault by the control and restraint teams that would be assembled, from Stangeways and surrounding prisons. One prisoner, Alan Lord, serving a life sentence for murder, entered the roof space of the chapel to observe operations. To his astonishment, he saw that prison officers had evacuated the jail; upon which, the barricades were taken down and, using keys taken from the staff who had manned the chapel, the rioters began to "liberate" the remaining hundreds of prisoners contained within Strangeways. The subsequent inquiry into the disturbance concluded that staff should not have abandoned the jail with such haste. The atmosphere among those who took to the roof was like a carnival. Police quickly sealed off the area and, for the next 25 days, the prisoners began to dismantle the prison by day, before retiring to the rooftops for the evening to entertain the hundreds of Mancunians - not to mention the assembled media ranks - who gathered nightly to observe the spectacle.Immediately after the protest, the government appointed Lord Woolf, a high court judge with a liberal reputation, to head the public inquiry into the disturbances. The inquiry, the most far-reaching examination of the penal system ever commissioned, had two stages: the hearing of evidence, in Manchester and Taunton (the latter to investigate prison protests in Wales and the south-west); and a series of public seminars, chaired by Woolf and the late Judge Stephen Tumim. The latter, now sadly deceased, was widely regarded as the first of Her Majesty's chief inspectors of prisons to fulfil his duties in a truly conscientious manner. Lord Woolf's report was published in February 1991. It was widely hailed as the most radical reassessment of the prison system in the 20th century. As the Guardian put it at the time, it was a blueprint for the restoration of "decency and justice into jails where conditions had become intolerable". Woolf's brief had been to establish how the protest occurred; what steps could be taken to prevent a future occurrence; and to recommend improvements to the prison system.The report concluded that conditions had indeed been intolerable and that Strangeways prisoners felt, with some justification, their complaints had not been listened to. Woolf made 12 main recommendations. Access to sanitation for prisoners should be implemented by 1996. At the time of the riot, prisoners were forced to "slop out" - to urinate and defecate in chamber pots in their shared cells. He said there should be "improved standards of justice" within prisons - including access to an independent complaints monitor. The first Prisons Ombudsman was appointed. Woolf also suggested that new prisons should be smaller, more manageable units.Kenneth Baker, the then home secretary, welcomed the report and promised to implement many of the reforms. Slopping out was quickly abolished - all cells had internal sanitation by the mid-90s. Payphones were introduced into jails and play a vital part in maintaining family relationships. Then in 1994, Michael Howard became home secretary and introduced the mantra "prison works" into the lexicon. What happened next makes dismal reading for those who believe that reform leads to repentance.In 1990, the prison population stood at 43,000; today, it stands at 75,000. Geoff Dobson, deputy director of the prison reform trust, says that chronic overcrowding continues to affect almost every aspect of the prison estate. The Woolf Report concluded that prisoners in 1990 spent far too much time in their cells - 23 hours a day in many cases. He urged that more attention should be paid to giving prisoners more "purposeful activity". Dobson says: "A decade after the Woolf Report, prisoners spent just 10 more minutes a day engaged in purposeful activity than they did in 1990."Of the prisoners who were tried for their role in the Strangeways riot, all bar one have served their sentences for related offences. The exception is Alan Lord who, along with Paul Taylor, was recognised as being a main ringleader. Alan is still in prison to this day. He has served 25 years thus far, 10 years over his recommended tariff - despite the fact that, since Strangeways, it is accepted that he has been a model prisoner.The last word should go to Lord Woolf, now the Lord Chief Justice. Speaking to a Prison Reform Trust conference 10 years after the riot, he said of prison overcrowding: "It debilitates the whole system ... We are still struggling to find a cure notwithstanding the expenditure of vast sums of money."He added: "As a nation we cannot allow overcrowding- to be the position for the next 20 years. We must manage things better." · Nicki Jameson and Eric Allison are the co-authors of Strangeways 1990. A Serious Disturbance (Larkin publications)