Home Office proposals to release prisoners early in order to ease record prison overcrowding were today welcomed by prison reformers.Last night, it emerged that Home Office officials were considering several options - including an extension to tagging - in an attempt to solve the problem. It is understood the proposals could mean that criminals sentenced to four years may be released after 18 months, while a two-year sentence would mean only six months being served. "The position at the moment is that we are monitoring the situation closely," a Home Office spokesman said. "There does remain capacity in the system for space, and we are expanding further. No decisions have been taken yet." The plans mean prisoners would be released early under a curfew and electronic tag, in addition to the automatic release half way through all sentences of less than four years.The Prison Reform Trust said it would be supportive of an increase in tagging, provided any dangers to the public were comprehensively assessed. Many of the problems at the heart of the growing prisons crisis could only be solved by looking "outside prison walls", the organisation's director, Juliet Lyon, said. "The Prison Reform Trust would support an extension of tagging if it was coupled with thoroughgoing risk assessments and proper supervision," she added, saying that more than 90% of those tagged did not reoffend. Ms Lyons said questions needed to be asked about why the problem of prison overcrowding was only being addressed as jails were reaching their uppermost limits. "The solution to this crisis, and many others, lie in drug treatment, mental health care, cutting unnecessary remands and recalls to jail and community service for offenders," she added. It is understood half the 70,000 people sentenced to less than four years each year for crimes such as burglary, fraud and theft would be eligible for the scheme. Sex offenders and those who had committed violent crimes would not be eligible.The prison population has risen to a record 77,599, an increase of 226 since last Friday.Charles Bushell, the director general of the prison governors' association, said overcrowding was a particular problem in London and the West Midlands.He said it meant inmates had to be moved further north, spreading the problem elsewhere, and added that around 3,200 people were currently out on early release tagging schemes."It [tagging] works in doing what it is supposed to do - and that is to get people back into society. It does so in a way that constrains them, particularly in the evening when they might be out causing trouble," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, told the BBC that the overcrowding was a "result of bad planning", and said more prisons should be built, while the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said the government's prison policy was "in tatters"."It is a total mess," Mr Oaten added. "The length of sentences should be set to punish and rehabilitate, not as a panic measure when prisons become overcrowded."Today, the Times reported that 174 prisoners had been locked out of jails in London and the West Midlands this week because of a lack of prison spaces.