Distressing mobile phone video footage of part of the prolonged and brutal assault on two young boys by brothers aged 10 and 11 on waste ground near Doncaster was shown in court today.The few seconds of film shows the older of the victims, who was 11 at the time, lying on muddy ground, his face almost completely obscured by dirt and blood.His arms are crossed in protection over his chest as his attacker, who was himself only 10, jabs him with what appears to be a stick and taunts him. The boy on the ground yells, "Ow! Ow!" but does not attempt to escape.The footage was shot by the older of the two brothers, then aged 11, on a phone stolen from the victims, Sheffield crown court was told.It formed a key part of prosecution evidence outlined this morning as a sentencing hearing began. This is the first time the full details of the crime, seen as one of the most shocking in the UK for some years, have been outlined.The attack on a Saturday morning in April last year on the edge of Edlington, a former pit village in South Yorkshire, left the boy shown in the film close to death. He was only saved when the younger boy staggered to nearby houses, also covered in blood.Many details of the attack are too distressing to report. Along with their severe physical injuries, the boys were humiliated, forced to perform sexual acts and repeatedly threatened with death."Are you dying now?" the older attacker asked his nine-year-old victim as he choked him with a length of clothes line. At another point, the older attacker urged his brother to "just get a brick and then we'll end it".After luring the victims to a quiet spot with the promise of seeing a dead fox, the brothers began the attack without any warning.The victims, the court heard today, had their faces and heads repeatedly stamped on and kicked and were struck on the head with bricks and stones, one weighing 13kg. They were stabbed with sticks, punched, burned with cigarettes and had their necks cut with broken glass.The brothers, who cannot be named for legal reasons, "were acting as a team from the beginning to the end", Nicholas Campbell QC, prosecuting, told the court.Both attackers laughed and egged each other on throughout the assault, which took place in two isolated locations and lasted more than an hour.They forced the boys to eat nettles. The nine-year-old boy was made to lick the shoe of the older brother after the stamping left it coated in blood,The attack only ended when the brothers, who had lived in Edlington for less than three weeks after being moved from their family home in Doncaster to foster accommodation, said they had to meet their father.By that stage, the older victim was semi-conscious and near death after part of a ceramic sink was hit against his head. The younger boy was pretending to be dead after pushing a stick into his mouth when ordered by his attackers to kill himself.After he raised the alarm, a member of the public found the other boy, severely hypothermic and dressed only in a T-shirt. Police believe that if he had been left much longer he would have died.The brothers pleaded guilty in September to grievous bodily harm with intent as well as other offences relating to robbery and the sexual element of the attack.Campbell told the judge, Mr Justice Keith, that it had been extremely hard for the victims to give police details of what happened to them."What happened to [the boys] … was both physically painful and emotionally traumatic; it was frightening; in addition, what they endured was humiliating and embarrassing," he said.The court also heard about an attack the previous Saturday in which another 12-year-old boy was lured to the same area and punched, kicked and forced to strip. He ran away after a man walked past and asked what was happening.Despite the attackers' age, the case is being heard in an adult court because of the seriousness of the crimes, although the judge and barristers are not wearing wigs or gowns.The brothers, now 11 and 12, were in court today, wearing shirts and ties. Neither showed any visible reaction when details of the attack were read out, although the younger boy shifted repeatedly in his seat and looked across at his brother.The three-day sentencing hearing is expected to conclude on Friday.