Emdadur Choudhury decided the best way to cause the maximum level of insult to his "enemies" – and presumably publicity for his cause – would be to burn some replica poppies and chant slogans such as, "British soldiers burn in hell!" during a public Remembrance Day service.He, along with this fellow protester Mohammad Haque, were arrested under public order offences and, nearly four months later, Choudhury has been found guilty of causing "alarm and distress" and fined £50, and a £15 victim surcharge.The tabloid newspapers are, of course, outraged: Only £50? The court of public opinion demands a harsher punishment: A bigger fine! Prison! Maybe, whisper it ... deportation?On the other side of the Atlantic, the Westboro Baptist Church was told the government would not stop it protesting at soliders' funerals, making its case that every death is God's punishment for the US's tolerance of homosexuality. No doubt the church's victims feel equally sickened and disgusted by such protests: whether we are grieving the loss of a loved one or remembering those who died in the first world war, the last thing we want to have to deal with is a group attempting to hijack our public gathering for their own purposes.The reason for the difference in the two approaches is obvious: in America, freedom of speech is protected – at least, the government can pass no law that would interfere with people's right to freedom of expression. It cannot legally punish people for being rude. It can't ban people from being insulting.In the UK by contrast we do, in fact, prohibit certain types of insults. There's no specific law against burning poppies – or burning flags, for that matter – but because being on the receiving end of an insult tends to cause alarm and distress, and causing alarm and distress is something people can prosecute you for, it becomes a question of the public interest. But is it in the public interest to prosecute?It's easy to focus on the effects of governments prohibiting free speech and forget about what happens when people take it upon themselves to do what a government cannot. The recent assassination of Shahbaz Bhatti in Pakistan for his outspoken condemnation of the country's blasphemy laws was a depressing and demoralising turn for the worse in a country growing increasingly intolerant of difference. In explaining the assassination, the group responsible told BBC Urdu: "We will continue to target all those who speak against the law which punishes those who insult the prophet. Their fate will be the same." Indeed, liberals and minorities in Pakistan face a situation in which politicians – the only people who can change the country's laws – are now too frightened of their internal terrorists to act.If Pakistan and America represent two extremes of the possible approaches to freedom of speech, I find myself dismayed that UK tabloids, with their populist intolerance of any sort of Muslim protest coupled with their continual support for the armed forces, seem so quick to argue for ever-greater intolerance and ever-harsher punishments. In attempting to defend one part of our culture we hold precious, the tabloids are embracing methods and values that, if taken to their natural conclusion, would see themselves censored or driven out of business.We may be closer to the American model than the Pakistani model, but we need to be less quick to add to the growing list of exceptions in what would otherwise be absolute freedom of expression and more wary of the consequences of pandering to populist sentiments. It might not be fashionable to be pro-America, but if they can put up with the Westboro Baptists for the sake of freedom of speech, why can't we?