Two men were jailed for life today for murdering a shopkeeper during a robbery at his village store.Gurmail Singh, 63, was hit over the head with bottles of wine from the shelves of Cowcliffe Convenience Stores in Cowcliffe, Huddersfield, in February. He died in hospital the following day.Muawaz Khalid, 20, and Nabeel Shafi, 18, were convicted of murder last month. Three other men were acquitted following a six-week trial at Bradford crown court. The court heard that the robbers made off with sweets, cash, cigarettes and alcohol.Khalid, 20, was told today he must spend at least 21 years in prison while Shafi, 18, was given a 20-year minimum term.As the two men were sentenced Shafi shouted: "That's not right. I'm innocent. I never touched anyone. You've got the wrong guy." His supporters in the public gallery joined in the shouting.The court had heard that the shopkeeper was attacked on the night of 20 February after he refused to "meekly hand over his property, his hard-earned money".Umare Aslam, 20, Shoaib Khan, 18, and Rehman Afzal, 18, were cleared of murder.Khalid and Aslam were convicted of robbery and Khan found not guilty. Afzal and Shafi had admitted robbery at an earlier hearing. The jury was told that Khan had admitted a charge of assisting an offender.According to the prosecution, Singh died as a result of a "robbery gone wrong". He was hit at least seven times in an attack that ripped off the turban he always wore as a devout Sikh.Singh had built up the shop as a retirement business after working in a mill and a factory for 40 years.The court was told that smokers outside the Shepherds Arms pub opposite the shop realised something was wrong when two of the men ran away. One bystander, David Singh, trapped the robbers by holding the door closed as they tried to smash their way out.Two other onlookers, Christopher Stoney and Christopher Baker, tackled the robbers as they fled through the back of the shop, but were unable to stop them escaping.During the melee, the shopkeeper lay on the floor, severely injured.The jury had been told that when he arrived in Yorkshire from India in 1963, Singh worked in a mill and then for a pipe-making firm.Five years ago he took early retirement and invested in the convenience store, where he was a popular figure. He worked long hours, opening the shop at 6am and closing at 9pm. He would deliver newspapers or groceries to customers who were unable to leave their homes.There had never been any trouble at the shop until an attempted robbery – foiled by Singh – two days before the fatal raid. Two men had been involved and Singh suffered minor injuries.Twenty days before the robbery, Khan had been released from custody after being involved in a fight with another man, whom he punched and kicked in the head. He denied organising the robbery.