On Tuesday, Alastair Irvine, 25, will appear at Santa Ana Central Court to face a charge sheet including stalking, vandalism and firearms offences. If convicted, the Lord Chancellor's younger son faces up to 15 years in a US penitentiary. 'We know who his daddy is and we don't give a damn,' said an Orange County police officer. 'He's going down.'LA law certainly has some lessons for the Lord Chancellor's department on fast-track justice. If the local constabulary had its way, Mr Irvine, who will plead not guilty on all counts, would be incarcerated without the bother of a trial. Over here, the media is hardly less cavalier.A mood of Schadenfreude, diluted with crocodile tears, seeps from some newspaper reports. Assumptions of culpability are laced with musings on the pressures facing children of the famous, particularly those defined by their Pugin wallpaper and bumptious ways. But who can know what drove Alastair Irvine to crack cocaine addiction and, from his rehab clinic, to the tanning parlour where he allegedly offered Nicole Healy flowers and a Rolex watch before threatening her boyfriend? Lord Irvine, like any parent faced with such catastrophe, must feel helpless. Once, bombastically, he compared himself to Cardinal Wolsey. The cardinal, stripped of power, died on the way to face his trial. The Lord Chancellor, also powerless for maybe the first time in an autocratic life, is compelled to look on as his son faces the dock. Or, as a statement from his office puts it: 'The US legal process must take its course.' The rest, if Lord Irvine had his wish, would be silence. When the Mail on Sunday first revealed that his child was being treated for drug addiction, he referred the matter to the Press Complaints Commission. On that occasion, the dispute was settled privately. This time, the matter seems clear-cut. When the son of a man at the pinnacle of this country's legal structure falls foul of a foreign jurisdiction, the public has a right to know. Given the gung-ho ways of Orange County law enforcers, publicity of the Irvine case might even serve as safeguard to the defendant. Whatever the outcome, Lord Irvine's public position will be unaffected. If having a substance-abusing child compromised the careers of the powerful, George V would have had to go, driven out by the louche ways of the former Duke of Kent. So would swathes of landed gentry and Cabinet Ministers. In minor cases, parental reactions vary. Lord Steel berated himself for being an absentee father when his son was sentenced to nine months for growing cannabis, Jack Straw chose dignified sternness after William's cannabis sting, and Tony Blair, faced with Euan's drinking spree, resorted to 'hilarity' and Longfellow. They are the fortunate ones, spared the sort of tragedies as common in Westminster as in hellish, needle-strewn estates. Ian McCartney, Paul Channon, Peter Shore and Reginald Maudling all saw their children die. Such clusters mean nothing. Drug addiction is too disrespectful of class, status and political divide to supply any pattern of what went wrong. Even so, in the Irvine case, the media have offered predictable psychological profiling, hinged round supposed tensions between a high-achieving father and a less bright second son. There is, naturally, no shred of evidence that the Lord Chancellor's success makes him a less than ideal father. On the contrary, there are some unreported hints that he might be quite good. 'Young Blair', whom he allegedly sends off in avuncular fashion to fetch the drinks, revered him enough to overlook all arrogance or folly. On the public front, the Lord Chancellor's record as a family man is fine. His department shifted the focus away from promoting marriage to supporting relationships in general. It introduced some changes to enhance the status of lone parents and to grant parental rights to unmarried fathers who register a baby's birth. To that extent, Lord Irvine is good for children. As for drugs, he has made no comment on government policy. So perhaps the public interest dimension stops there. Not according to the Daily Mail, which has burrowed through the formative years of Alastair Irvine, with unexpected help from his old school. Short of unearthing some Molesworth-style essays, complete with blots and D-grades, a senior teacher could hardly have been more precise about Mr Irvine's mediocrity. The Mail, meanwhile, concludes, on the basis of no evidence, that his crack addiction stemmed from cannabis use and warns again that David Blunkett's move to soften the law is bad. But there is no proven transition from soft and hard drug use. Citing such a bogus linkage is to make unfair political capital from private grief. Family disasters, bereft of any defining logic, are as preordained and as random as car crashes. Good parents produce difficult children and vice versa. Lord Irvine's political allies and enemies, knowing that, will feel only sympathy for him and for his wife. Those colleagues should recognise also that the Irvines' sorrow does have a political resonance. The Government has become increasingly adept at foisting on to parents not only the sins of their children but also the shortcomings of the state. Having children now entails the compulsory sideline of being an auxiliary law enforcement officer. Any parent failing in this task will face a sliding scale of penalties. The lowest is a parenting order, applicable if your child is very defiant, swears a lot or plays truant. Fines are the next step, then prison. Mr Blair was so impressed by the deterrent effect of jailing Patricia Amos for her daughters' truancy that he proposed docking child benefit from parents of persistent offenders. How, he should ask himself, are poor parents supposed to elicit perfect behaviour from disturbed or struggling children when the Lord Chancellor could not? If Lord Irvine is not to blame, and he is not, then why are they culpable? And why is outrage so selective? The US jail's statement that Mr Irvine's cellmate may be a rapist or a murderer will, rightly, horrify his father's colleagues. But in the crammed prisons of England and Wales, the desperate are slung together, irrespective of danger. Twenty young prisoners have committed suicide in the past decade. Others have been killed in their cells. A report by the Prison Reform Trust this week will spell out the failings of the prison service, already presiding over unsentenced children locked up round the clock, insufficient drugs treatment and mentally ill inmates left to rot. Anne Owers, the chief prisons inspector, thinks conditions in some jails are now so degrading that they risk breaching the Human Rights Act. No one would want for Alastair Irvine the worst rigours of a penitentiary in a country whose punishments are even less merciful than ours. For now, he is innocent. If he should be found guilty, only the cruel could fail to wish, for his parents, the solace of knowing that he will be offered safety, help and hope. That is the minimum right of the son of a powerful man. Lord Irvine's Cabinet colleagues should ask themselves why the children of the poor and the weak are routinely offered less. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk