Police are usually enthusiastic about the benefits of CCTV surveillance, but rank and file officers appear far less happy when spy cameras are set up to catch their own misdemeanours.A CCTV camera is being installed in a police station kitchen to catch officers who do not wash up. The fourth-floor kitchen at the police station in John Street, Brighton, has been strewn with rubbish, spilled food and dirty crockery since a recent refurbishment."What a waste of public money," one officer told the Argus newspaper in a text-message tip-off. "Tough on crime, tougher on causers of grime."Brighton's new police commander, Chief Superintendent Graham Bartlett, today defended the move, saying the camera would deter the "small minority" of his officers committing antisocial behaviour. "Eight hundred divisional police officers and staff have access to a new kitchen and rest room facility at Brighton police station," he said. "Unfortunately a small minority of people have been misusing the facilities, which were provided by public money."I have therefore had to reluctantly take the decision that, in order to protect these facilities, we will use an overt camera to dissuade people from spoiling the facility for others. I'd much rather be spending our police budget on neighbourhood policing than on any repairs which may arise in the future. No additional money was spent on the camera as it was already owned by Sussex police."The decision was a last resort. An email was sent and posters put up around the station requesting officers to behave themselves. It was only when the censures were ignored that the decision was taken to install the camera.Critics said police should be able to keep a kitchen tidy without the need for surveillance cameras. Brian Stockham, the chairman of Sussex Police Federation, said his members believed the move was excessive. "The mind boggles as to what abuses of facilities could be monitored by the service in future," he said. "[CCTV] is a time-consuming device which at first sight appears a modern solution but does involve time and effort to use."Des Turner, Labour MP for Brighton Kemptown, was more hopeful that the camera might work. "Maybe it'll encourage the police to mend their ways in the kitchen," he said. "This gives a new meaning to the phrase, the Filth."