A nurse who filmed himself raping two patients while they were unconscious in A&E has been jailed for 18 years.Andrew Hutchinson, 29, carried out the assaults on women aged 18 and 35 who were brought in to the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford, where he worked, after drinking too much alcohol on a night out.Thames Valley Police (@ThamesVP)Andrew Hutchinson, 29,sentenced to 18 years in prison today for sexual offences in Oxfordshire http://t.co/zXn26bKf8Z pic.twitter.com/1ymkdmpTRAApril 27, 2015He also recorded himself sexually assaulting two other unconscious women while volunteering in the medical tent at a music festival, Oxford crown court heard. The nurse’s crimes came to light after he was arrested for voyeurism having been caught filming girls as young as nine at a leisure centre in Oxfordshire. Police searched his home and found footage of the sex attacks on his phone and computer. His victims were unaware of what he had done until detectives traced them. One of the rape victims said: “I think that what he has done is much worse than doing it in the street because I had no idea what was happening, so I had no opportunity to fight back.” The attacks took place in curtained-off booths with colleagues just metres away. Another victim said she no longer trusted men after learning he had filmed her naked, while a third said: “I feel pure hatred towards him.”A girl filmed at the leisure centre said she was too frightened to go back there and one of his teenage victims said: “The long-term effect of being a victim of this degrading and embarrassing crime will stay with me for the rest of my life.”The court heard that hundreds of other voyeuristic pictures were found of women it had been impossible to trace, including upskirt shots taken on the tube while Hutchinson was working as a volunteer at the London 2012 Olympics. In another incident at the hospital, Hutchinson filmed up a woman’s skirt as his colleagues tried to save her friend. Police said they had traced all the victims they could identify but asked anyone else with concerns to contact them. Hutchinson, from Garford, Oxfordshire, admitted 27 charges of rape, sexual assault, voyeurism, outraging public decency, making indecent images of children, theft of medical equipment and theft/possession of ketamine. Several of his victims were in court to see him sent to prison and some wept as his crimes were described. Judge Ian Pringle QC, the recorder of Oxford, told Hutchinson, who sat with his head bowed throughout the hearing, that his crimes were “despicable”. He said: “When they [his victims] were unconscious requiring your help and your assistance as their nurse, you raped them and you filmed it. It is impossible to conceive of a greater breach of trust in our society than that.”DCI Mark Johns, the senior investigating officer fromThames Valley Police CID, said in a statement: “I have no doubt that Hutchinson would have continued to offend had he not been arrested, so I am delighted that this prolific offender will now be behind bars for a significant period of his life.“This has been a particularly complicated, unusual and sensitive case as the victims of his sex offences were not aware that offences took place because they were not conscious. I would like to thank the victims for the great courage and dignity they have shown during our investigation.”It has also emerged that a student nurse claimed Hutchinson had behaved inappropriately towards her in 2009. Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust investigated the allegation, but it was not substantiated and therefore not passed on to police at the time. The trust is reviewing its procedures to establish whether more could have been done to stop Hutchinson. The court was told he had no previous convictions of any kind and was thought to be a reliable and diligent medic.The trust said that since his arrest, Hutchinson had not worked there and was no longer employed. Catherine Stoddart, the chief nurse, said: “I am shocked and horrified by the way in which Andrew Hutchinson has betrayed the patients he was entrusted to care for and his colleagues, who also trusted him. “Now that the court processes are complete, we will be carrying out a thorough internal review to see if anything could have been done to prevent Andrew Hutchinson from committing these crimes and to recommend any improvements that could be made to either working practices or the physical environment if appropriate.”