A Premier League footballer today denied punching a young woman in the face after she objected to him groping her bottom.Marlon King, who plays for Wigan Athletic, is accused of breaking the 20-year-old student's nose after she rejected his advances in the Soho Revue nightclub in London last December.The victim alleges that the 29-year-old striker shouted "you're not even in my league, love, I'm a multimillionaire" before "smashing her in the face with a clenched fist".The player – identified as the assailant by a football coach and other witnesses in the club – insists he is the victim of mistaken identity, and today drafted in his half-brother and wife to give evidence in his trial at Southwark crown court.A witness has told the court he thought King was on "drink or drugs" shortly before the attack, but the footballer said he had "never been near drugs" and was not drunk on the evening in question.He told the court he was out celebrating the news that his wife, Julie, was pregnant with their third child, and had drunk no more than three vodka and Red Bulls.The prosecution counsel, Roger Daniells-Smith, accused King of "decking" the student after being "rebuffed" by her and her group of friends. "I suggest what happened was you were rebuffed by these girls who didn't want to know you … they weren't impressed by your wealth and status," said the barrister."What rebuff? There was no rebuff," said King, who denies the charges of sexual assault and actual bodily harm. He denies having any contact with his alleged victim but admits he was in the club.Daniells-Smith suggested King had deliberately changed his appearance in preparation for his court appearance, removing a prominent gold tooth he had had fitted. King said the dental work was a coincidence.The barrister said there could be no case of mistaken identity because all of the witnesses agreed the attacker was wearing a black cap, and King and his three companions were the only people wearing caps in the club that night. One of King's friends is almost 20 stone and much taller than him, another is significantly shorter, and his older brother, Dean Everett, was wearing a red cap. King said the group were not the only ones wearing caps.Asked why he answered "no comment" to all questions when interviewed by police after his arrest, King said he had been following advice from his solicitor. Daniells-Smith suggested it was odd that King would take a solicitor to the police station despite claiming he had no idea what he was to be interviewed about. King said he had been advised by his agent to take a solicitor.Trevor Burke QC, for King, showed the jury CCTV footage that he said backed up his client's story. The footballer was shown leaving the club at 2.58am, 20 minutes before the victim's friend phoned the police to report the assault.The judge will sum up tomorrow morning.