A former binman pleaded guilty today to murdering twin sisters and an elderly couple as it was revealed he had made lists of other people who police believe he may have been planning to kill.Mark Hobson, 35, of Selby, North Yorkshire, pleaded guilty at Leeds crown court to killing his girlfriend Claire Sanderson, her twin sister, Diane, and pensioners James and Joan Britton.The bodies of the 27-year-old sisters were found on July 18 last year in the flat Hobson shared with Claire Sanderson in the village of Camblesforth, near Selby. Only a few hours later police found the bodies of Mr Britton, an 80-year-old retired railway surveyor, and his wife, 82, at their home in Strensall, near York.The prosecution said that Claire Sanderson had seemed to be smitten with Hobson but some months prior to the murders, Hobson had told a fellow refuse collector that he had picked the "wrong sister". Having already beaten Claire Sanderson to death with a hammer, Hobson lured Diane Sanderson to the flat in a telephone call. When Diane Sanderson arrived at the flat she was sexually assaulted and strangled while her sister lay dead in another room. Paul Worsley QC, prosecuting, said that on July 17, Diane's boyfriend, Ian Harrison, who was also a friend of Hobson's, came to the flat and noticed the smell of the decomposing bodies. Hobson told Mr Harrison the smell came from a problem with the drains and offered to let his friend stay overnight.The next day, Mr Harrison and the twins' father, George, returned to the flat and found it open, with Hobson gone. Inside they found the twins' bodies wrapped naked in plastic bags. Both had been subjected to brutal hammer attacks and Claire Sanderson, who had 17 head wounds, had been dead for several days. It remains unclear why Hobson, who had a history of violence, killed the Brittons, who the prosecution said were "frail", although the attack may have been linked to a possible plan he had to flee abroad. Detectives were initially cool on linking the murders as there were no apparent connections, but DNA samples proved a link and a manhunt was launched for Hobson involving hundreds of police officers. After eight days on the run and sleeping rough, Hobson was arrested near a petrol station in a field six miles from York after a tip-off from a member of the public.Today, flanked by two prison officers, Hobson bowed his head and appeared to be close to tears as he muttered "guilty" four times as each of the counts was put to him. Some 20 relatives of the twins were in court. At a hearing last month, his lawyer said Hobson admitted responsibility for the deaths but today's plea and directions hearing was Hobson's first opportunity to enter a formal plea.Mr Worsley said the circumstances surrounding the murders were "horrific and chilling". The court was shown notes written by Hobson that suggested he may have pre-planned the twins' murders and was also planning to kill their parents, George and Jackie. Mr Worsley said one of the notes "may refer to a plan to kill George and Jackie in their own home - George in the garage and Jackie in the house". Another note refers to another couple and the words "disable all!", with the word "disable" underlined. The prosecution said there were "disturbing episodes" of violence in Hobson's past and he had a number of convictions for offences, although none of these had resulted in a custodial sentence. In 2002, Hobson stabbed a man, who was a love rival, five times in the chest in a daylight attack in front of shoppers, leaving him with a punctured lung. Hobson admitted grievous bodily harm and escaped jail, receiving a community punishment. In another incident, Hobson was seen putting a knife to a man's eye in 2003 and two different women said he had beaten them. There was also evidence he was violent towards Claire Sanderson before the killings and one witness said he had seen Hobson standing on her chest holding a 30cm butcher's knife to her neck. The witness had disarmed him. Claire Sanderson worked at a paper factory and Diane, who lived with her parents in East Cowick, near Selby, worked as an assistant manager at a home furnishing shop. Mr Britton was a former second world war Spitfire pilot and he and his wife had been married for 58 years and had two daughters.The court heard that Hobson also had a proclivity to use straight and gay chatlines and had made 68 such calls in June and July last year. Hours before killing Claire Sanderson, Mr Worsley told the court Hobson rang a sex line at 12.28am and left a message advertising himself. The message said: "Hi, I'm Mark. I'm 34 years old and I'm solar powered. Other people say I'm bald. I like a laugh in life. I'm living on my own at the moment. I'm contracting for six months and I've got a two-bedroom house. I'm single in life but know I just want to meet somebody to have a laugh and a giggle with." Mr Worsley said the message showed Hobson had planned Claire Sanderson's murder at least several hours before killing her. Five women had replied to the message.