The woman whose head was found by two sisters playing on a beach in Arbroath has been identified as a migrant worker, police said yesterday. Officers were trying to contact the relatives of the 36-year-old, whose severed hands were also found on the beach.The woman's identity was discovered after she failed to appear for work and her employer contacted the police. She had been in Scotland for about 18 months and shared a flat in Brechin, about 15 miles away, with eastern Europeans.Police have been talking to members of the local Polish and Lithuanian communities to try to establish her movements over the last few days. Her severed head, which was in a plastic bag, was found on Tuesday.The senior investigating officer, Chief Inspector Graham McMillan, told a press conference that the woman was a foreign national who had been employed as a casual unskilled worker. "We were led to a flat in Brechin by her employer, who had reported her missing," he said. "At the moment, the flat is sealed off and we are undertaking forensic examinations. We are trying to contact next of kin."We've got a fairly complex and prolonged investigation ahead of us and are seeking the help of the public to establish the woman's movements over her last few days, her lifestyle, and anyone who witnessed anything suspicious." The coastguard has also found possible human remains on the shore at Carnoustie. They have been taken to the police mortuary in Dundee for forensic examination. The woman was identified after the police had issued a description of her as being white, with brown eyes and shoulder-length brown hair and a distinctive circular scar on her forehead.There is a small eastern European community in the area, rising to about 5,000 people during the fruit-picking season in the summer. The migrants work in a range of occupations including farming, horticulture, factory work and the catering and hospitality industry.George Allan, of the Arbroath Citizens Advice Bureau, said the migrant community consisted mainly of Poles and Czechs, "with the occasional Russian and occasional Spanish or Portuguese" worker. His impression was that relationships with the local population were good.Mairi Evans, a councillor for Brechin, said the growing population of migrant workers had integrated well. Pat Millar, the Arbroath community council chair, told the local Courier that she had been amazed at the coverage. "One of my concerns is that this could leave Arbroath with a permanent stigma."Scotland has seen other violent attacks on eastern European workers. In July 2005, a 21-year-old Czech fruit picker, Marek Smrz, was stabbed to death with a steak knife by a heroin addict in Arbroath. Adam Gallagher, 18 at the time, was convicted of the killing.