Police urgently appealed for information yesterday about the father of a young bride who was found shot dead in her home less than two months after her wedding.Terry Rodgers, 55, had moved into his daughter Chanel's home a few weeks after giving her away at her wedding. He has not been seen since last Friday, the day Chanel's body was discovered by her husband, Lee Taylor.The public was warned not to approach him, particularly as the gun used to kill the 23-year-old has not been found. Superintendent Stuart Wright of Nottinghamshire police, who is leading the murder inquiry, said concern was also growing about the wellbeing of the missing man."It's crucial for us to speak to Terry Rodgers, who despite widespread media coverage has not come forward," he said."This is his daughter who has died and only by gaining vital information which pieces together what happened and why she was killed can her family hope to come to terms with what has happened."Police across the country have been given Mr Rodgers' description, while specially trained officers and relatives are comforting Mr Taylor, 22. A statement issued on his behalf last night said: "We were a newly married couple and I am devastated."We were very happy and looking forward to a long life together. Tragically, this will no longer happen. I am in a complete state of shock and request that my family and I be left alone to grieve."Mr Taylor discovered his wife's body at their home in Huthwaite, near Sutton-in-Ashfield, at around 1pm on Friday. Neighbours said she had only recently moved there from the family home in nearby South Normanton.Her father, whose security business was allegedly failing, moved in with them after the wedding seven weeks ago. Friends said she had become anxious and withdrawn.One, who did not want to be named, said Chanel had been bubbly and happy when she lived with her mother, Anne, and worked as a trainee in a salon. But four years ago her father, who had lived away for a while, moved back into the family home.Huthwaite residents left their houses seven weeks ago to watch as the bride and her father were taken to her wedding by vintage car.Police gave few details of Mr Rodgers' relationship with Chanel at a news conference in the Nottinghamshire force's HQ, but said the rest of the family were distraught.Supt Wright said: "I personally saw Lee on the night of the murder and he couldn't come to terms with what has happened, and said it felt like this had happened to someone else."The tragic thing is that this has happened to Lee, but of course it is not just Lee; it has affected the whole of Chanel's family and friends, in particu lar her mother and her two brothers. It has to be said that there is also widespread concern for Terry Rodgers, of whom we have no confirmed sightings subsequent to the incident _ I am making a direct plea to Terry Rodgers to come forward."