An alleged gangster accused of murdering PC Sharon Beshenivsky three years ago yesterday admitted robbery at the travel agency where the rookie officer was shot at point-blank range. But Mustaf Abdullah Jama, 28, denied murder and illegal possession of a pistol and machine gun during a panic-stricken escape from the scene on a busy street in central Bradford. He watched intently from the glass-screened dock at Newcastle upon Tyne crown court as the jury was told of the four "deliberate, callous and unnecessary" shots in November 2005 that also left Beshenivsky's colleague, PC Teresa Milburn, with serious chest injuries. Guarded by three prison officers, he followed computer images from scores of CCTV cameras, which tracked a seven-strong gang's route from London to Universal Express in Bradford, after a reconnaissance, which was also caught on film. Robert Smith QC, prosecuting, claimed that Jama was one of three ruthless men who jumped on the firm's counter and tied up and pistol-whipped three of its staff, shouting abuse and demanding cash. He told the court that two of the raiders, Muzzaker Shah, 24 at the time, and Jama's brother Yusuf, now 22, had already been convicted of murder, robbery and possessing guns. "The third man," Smith told the jury of five women and seven men, "is the accused, sitting in the dock. He was party to an attempt to rob the premises and to do so, with others in the gang, he went armed with a 9mm self-loading pistol, a Mac 10 machine gun and a knife. "You may think that people who carry firearms in order to commit such crimes know the consequences. Someone may be shot. Even if he did not fire the trigger, he is as much guilty of murder as the man who did." The court heard that the long-distance raid from London had been planned using information from another gang member, Piran Ditta Khan, then 58, nicknamed "Uncle" and still on the run, who knew that large amounts of cash used for international money transfers were often held by Universal Express. When the group met at a terrace house in Leeds before the raid, Smith said, they were met by a decorator, 33-year-old François Baron, who later told police that some of them had spent the evening drinking champagne and vodka and visiting a brothel with £80 vouchers from Uncle. The Jama brothers arrived early the following morning and joined a session of "getting on a high" before setting out for Bradford. The court was told Baron heard the exchanges: Muzzaker Shah: "Uncle, is it safe?" Piran Ditta Khan: "Yes, it's safe, genuine." Shah: "How much can we get?" Khan: "Minimum £50,000, maximum a hundred grand." Smith told the court there was general excitement and shouts of "Let's go do it." Shah used the nickname "Peshi" and boasted that his tattoo of five stars showed him to be a gangster controlling 80 people. But the raid was a debacle, the court heard, with the agency's money banked earlier in the day, and the unexpected confrontation with police. The jury was told that Milburn, then 37, and Beshenivsky, 38, a mother-of-three with two stepchildren, who had been a full-time PC for only nine months, had responded rapidly when one of Universal's staff pressed a silent alarm. The gang escaped, the court heard, firing a final shot in the street, but were in a very different mood when they returned at 5pm to their Leeds base. Police were already feeding a car registration number taken by a Bradford taxi driver into computers that linked it to the CCTV system in both cities and on the M1 motorway. Smith told the court that Shah had confronted Uncle while other gang members hastily cleaned and hid the guns and destroyed evidence. Baron heard him say: "You didn't tell us there was a police station nearby." When the TV news reported that a police officer had been murdered, the group swore in apparent panic, Smith said. They shaved their heads and borrowed white spirit from the decorator to burn clothes worn during the raid. The trial heard that the group dispersed, some leaving in cars, which were tracked by CCTV, while Mustaf Jama went to Leeds station. Smith said he had bought a ticket to Sheffield, which was later recovered with his fingerprint on it. The court heard three other men had been convicted for involvement in the raid, although they had not entered the agency but served as drivers and potential backup. Faisal Razzaq, 25 at the time, and his brother Hassan, 26, had been convicted earlier for possessing firearms and Raza Ul-Haq Aslam, 25, for robbery, said Smith. Mr Justice Openshaw debarred anybody with a close connection to a friend or family member working for, or serving in, the police from the jury for the trial, which is expected to last three weeks. The trial continues today.