Detectives investigating the murder of a young boy whose torso was found in the Thames in September 2001 today arrested a man in Dublin.The Metropolitan police said that a 37-year-old Nigerian national had been arrested by the Garda in connection with the inquiry. He has been taken to a police station in Ireland, where he remains in custody.Scotland Yard detectives hope to take DNA samples from the man to compare to the DNA of the boy, who was aged between four and seven.The man was held in Dublin. He is believed to have been in the city for several months at least, and his home was today being searched by officers from Scotland Yard. Detectives believed the boy, who they named "Adam", was the victim of a human sacrifice. His torso, clothed in orange shorts, was found floating in the Thames, near Tower Bridge, on September 21 2001. By identifying traces of pollen in the boy's lungs, police were able to establish that he had not been in London for long before his death. Forensics suggested that his head and limbs had been severed with sharp knives. Last week, detectives said that DNA tests developed to identify September 11 victims could help trace the boy's killer. Bone fragments used in a potion that the youngster swallowed shortly before his death in a suspected human sacrifice have been submitted to New York's medical examiner. Police hope that techniques used to identify the remains of some of the World Trade Centre victims will help them to identify the person who created the concoction. The brew, found in the boy's lower gut, also contained quartz, clay pellets and very small samples of rough gold. In March, Metropolitan police officers working on the case travelled to Nigeria to chase up vital new leads after forensic evidence revealed that "Adam" came from a specific region there. It was revealed in January that he was from within a 100 mile by 50 mile corridor between Benin City and Ibadan. Soon after the body had been found, Arsenal FC's Nigerian star Nwankwo Kanu made a televised appeal for information to help catch those responsible. Last April, the former South African leader, Nelson Mandela, also made an impassioned worldwide appeal for anyone with information about "Adam" to come forward. However, despite extensive inquiries, police have so far been unable to identify the boy.