"Thou shalt not grass" used to be the 11th commandment for criminals. It might be a cliche, but there was indeed a time in Britain where there was honour among thieves and a robber would rather spend 20 years in jail than rat on his mates.That all changed in 1972 with a character called Bertie Smalls, who is the subject next week of a documentary that charts the emergence of the supergrass in modern criminal life. Once Smalls, a big-time armed robber from the aristocracy of London crime, had "turned", dozens more followed suit.Now, it seems, the acceptance of the informer has not just affected the criminal world but is a feature of society at large. From being a land where betraying a trust was regarded as unforgivable, Britain has become a nation of grasses and sneaks who are able to rationalise their behaviour on the grounds that "everyone else does it".Derek Creighton "Bertie" Smalls is always credited with being the first "supergrass" in Britain, the first to give the police name after name of his associates and provide the evidence that would send dozens of them to prison to serve long sentences. Criminal historians may dispute this as there have been informers of one kind or another ever since there has been crime - the Kray twins, after all, were partly sunk three years earlier by their one-time adviser, Leslie Payne, who spilled the beans on them. But certainly Smalls represented change in legal thinking on the subject.An agreement was drawn up with the then director of public prosecutions, Sir Norman Skelhorn, that gave Smalls complete immunity from prosecution in exchange for his help. He duly assisted the authorities in obtaining convictions against 21 of his former associates and saw them dispatched to jail for a total of 308 years. As he concluded his evidence against some of his former friends in one of the committal hearings, they sang to him: "We'll meet again, don't know where, don't know when..."His help to the police had an immediate effect. The number of armed robberies dropped from 65 in 1972 to 26 the following year. The taboo was broken and, suddenly, all the "staunchest" criminals were lining up to give evidence in exchange for short sentences and a new life.The rules had changed and, crucially, the arrival of the supergrass coincided with the cleaning up of Scotland Yard by the then commissioner, Robert Mark, at a time when many detectives were bent and when the sort of coppering seen in the recent television series, Life on Mars, was fact, not fiction.Some of the informers wrote books justifying their exploits. Maurice O'Mahoney, who called himself and his memoirs King Squealer, had a high old time as an informer, living in what became known as "the grass-house" in Chiswick police station and boozing away on brandy and beer with his girlfriend while he came up with the names of his old mates. For a while, everyone seemed to be at it - until it became clear that some very unsavoury characters were using the supergrass system to settle old scores, and their evidence became less and less credible to juries. People still inform, but there is no longer the frenzy of the supergrass era around it.Having to hideLast week, I bumped into a former armed robber from those days and we spoke about Smalls and all the other supergrasses. "But was it worth it for them?" he asked. "Everyone they gave evidence against is out now - if they're still alive - and all the supergrasses are still having to hide. They can't go back to their old manors, they can't see their old friends. It might have seemed like a good idea at the time, but who wants to live that sort of life?"Which is perhaps a question that the new breed of people who inform on their friends by selling stories about them to the newspapers might ponder.Years ago, it was a very odd "friend" who sold a story to the media about a former lover or an ex-wife. Now they, too, queue up to sell the inside story of what was once a close relationship - just like Smalls and King Squealer did. Where once such behaviour was regarded as unacceptable, now it is justified on the same grounds that the people who followed Smalls used: "Everyone else does it."So, in exchange for money - usually much smaller sums than they are promised - people are prepared to become the social equivalent of the supergrass, equally unaware of the fact that, while they may do some damage to the person on whom they inform, they will probably be doing just as much damage to themselves in the long term. Who wants to hang around with someone who might one day rat on them?Informing on our neighbours and colleagues is also encouraged now in a variety of other ways. Know of someone not declaring all their earnings, or claiming disability benefits to which they are not entitled? Ring this number. Know of someone watering their lawn when there is a hosepipe ban? Ring this number. And it's amazing how many people did during last summer's hot spell.There is a fine line here. What, you might ask, is the difference between being a supergrass and being the much more benign "whistleblower" on whom the Guardian so often relies?The distinction is that the supergrass is carrying out their trade for selfish reasons - to keep themselves out of prison, get revenge on a former friend, make some money - while the whistleblower should be engaged in what they are doing for the better of society and to expose a real wrong.In prison, informers are still kept apart from other inmates, along with paedophiles and ex-police officers. In the wider society, people are often unaware of who has informed on them - always seen as one of the most disturbing elements of living under a totalitarian government. There have been a couple of murders of supergrasses over the years, but such killings are rare and crop up more often in American movies than in real life.So does Smalls - if he is still with us - ever wonder whether he made the right choice in deciding to "talk and walk"? And do all the other people who got such satisfaction at the time from informing on much lesser offenders, or on their former pals, wonder in those dark nights if the betrayal was really worth it in the end? · Duncan Campbell is a Guardian senior correspondent and former crime correspondent. The documentary, Supergrass, will be shown on BBC2 at 9pm on Sunday· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"