   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Police were continuing to piece together the last movements of the murdered landscape architect Joanna Yeates as it emerged that she may have been seen leaving her home with two people on the night she vanished.Detectives are investigating the possible sighting of 25-year-old Yeates by the landlord of the mansion house in Bristol where she lived around 15 minutes after she is believed to have arrived home.Police released CCTV footage of Yeates buying cider from an off-licence earlier that night and revealed that a £10,000 reward was being offered for information leading to the conviction of her killer.Officers also moved to dispel any impression there is a rift between the force and Yeates's family.Her father, David Yeates, has expressed the suspicion that police may know more about the murder than they are letting on, but the detective leading the investigation insisted that the family had told him they had "total confidence" in the inquiry.Yeates disappeared on the night of Friday 17 December after spending the early part of the evening drinking with colleagues at a pub near Bristol city centre. On the way back to her home in the affluent district of Clifton, Yeates stopped and bought cider and then picked up a pizza at a supermarket. Police believe she got home at around 8.45pm.She was reported missing on Sunday 19 December when her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returned home from a weekend away and found the flat they shared empty.Her body was found on a roadside verge on Christmas morning and a postmortem examination revealed she had been strangled.The final definite sighting of Yeates was when she paid for the pizza at Tesco, a five-minute walk from the flat.But police yesterday confirmed they were investigating a report from her landlord, former English teacher Chris Jefferies, that he saw three people leaving the flat at around 9pm on that Friday. It is possible that one of the three was Yeates but Jefferies was not able to say if they were men or women.Yesterday Jefferies refused to give more details to reporters of what he had seen.However, another resident of the block where Yeates lived, Geoffrey Hardyman, 78, said: "He saw people coming out after dark as he was parking his car. I don't think he was really paying any attention but just assumed they were from Joanna's flat. He didn't know if they were male or female."The release of the CCTV footage from the Bargain Booze convenience store, where Yeates bought cider, fills in another piece of the jigsaw.One clip shows Yeates breezing into the shop, allowing the door to swing closed behind her. She appears to be smiling and is clutching an object, possibly a purse, in her right hand. Her purse was left in her flat when she disappeared. She is also wearing the light-coloured coat that was also found in her flat.In a second clip she is at the till paying for her cider. Again she seems to be animated and cheerful.The police said they had received a good response from the public to appeals for help.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the investigation, said: "There are a number of lines we are following up. One of these concerns reports that several people were seen or heard in or around Joanna's flat on the night of her disappearance."We know that there were a number of people in the Canynge Road area [where she lived] on the night of Joanna's disappearance. We want to hear from any of these people or anyone else with information."Apparently responding to the suggestion from Yeates's father, David, that police knew more than they were letting on, Jones said: "We have, of course, been keeping in contact with Joanna's family and keeping them informed of our progress."Late last night, I received a message from Mr Yeates in which he stated he and his family had total confidence. Indeed, Mr Yeates said: 'We truly believe that you will identify the person who killed our daughter.' I am, of course, grateful to have the support of the family."They, and the general public, can rest assured that myself and my team will leave absolutely no stone unturned in our attempts to find whoever killed Joanna and to bring them to justice."The search of Yeates's home and of the spot where the body was found was continuing. The blue front door of her flat was taken away for examination.Police are also carrying out more house-to-house inquiries in the area as people return after the Christmas break.Tomorrow police are expected to be out in force, two weeks on from the day of Yeates's disappearance to try to find more witnesses.• This article was amended on 21 January 2011. The original described Clifton as a suburb. This has been clarified.