Penyfan View and Forsythia Close - innocuous addresses on the tight-knit Gurnos council estate in Merthyr Tydfil, south Wales. But in the attics of two terrace houses in these streets lay a terrible secret, the bodies of three infants.Local people were shocked at the macabre discoveries and the arrest of Ann Mahoney, a 64-year-old grandmother, pillar of the community, school governor, charity fundraiser and retired nurse, on suspicion of murder of the three babies found at her former and current homes. Mrs Mahoney, an anti-crime campaigner and winner of a 2001 citizen of the year award, worked so hard to improve life on the estate for everyone, young and old, that the mother of a boy who played on her football team described her as a cross between Sir Alex Ferguson and Mother Teresa. But on Tuesday she was taken into custody and on Wednesday detectives were given another 36 hours to question her. Yesterday, neighbours gathered outside another of Mrs Mahoney's former homes, at Crab Apple Close, also on the Gurnos estate, as police in white boiler suits, with a ladder, torches and backpacks, and accompanied by sniffer dogs trained to seek out human remains, arrived to begin a further search. Grass and shrubs were trimmed back and covers erected in the garden of the corner site in Crab Apple Close, where Mrs Mahoney lived for almost 30 years, before moving to Penyfan View and then to Forsythia Close, where she lived alone at the time of her arrest. The search will continue today. A South Wales police spokesman confirmed it was a murder inquiry and appealed for anyone with information to come forward. He did not think any other properties would be searched. Who the infants were, their age, when and how they met their deaths, and how long their bodies had been in the attics remain a mystery. Police believe they died not months but years ago. It is not known whether they were boys or girls or whether they were related. Pathologists think the baby found at Penyran View was full-term, but have failed to establish a cause of death. Experts are carrying out DNA analysis and further tests on all three bodies. They are also examining whether any of them could have been killed by an abortion. The investigation began on March 20. A family storing boxes in the loft of their new home in Penyfan View found a suitcase containing an infant's corpse. It was not until Tuesday that detectives questioned Mrs Mahoney. She was arrested and the two other babies' bodies recovered from the attic of her current home. Mrs Mahoney, who has lived on the Gurnos estate all her life, nursed at Prince Charles hospital, Merthyr Tydfil, for 20 years until 1983, and latterly worked as a carer for the elderly. Rob Thomson, a hospital spokesman, said: "Her standing in the community is second to none. She is a well-known personality, involved in so many things." At the 3G Development Trust, a charity tackling deprivation, Mrs Mahoney did everything from raising money for diabetes sufferers to running the under-12s football team. The mother of one of the young footballers said: "The boys love training with Ann. She could be as tough as Sir Alex Ferguson, then as kind as Mother Teresa when they needed a gentle touch." Neighbours were stunned at the arrest. Sara Lee, 22, who is pregnant, said Mrs Mahoney was a "lovely person" who adored children and was knitting shawls and cardigans for her new baby. David Jarrett, a local councillor, said he knew Mrs Mahoney well as a governor of Goetre infants' school. "Almost everybody would know her or recognise her, and that [her ar rest] makes it all seem so much more shocking." Police refused to admit her two daughters, Nicola Mahoney, 34, and 40-year-old Patricia Williams, when they arrived at the Forsythia Close house on Wednesday night, but the women later left with their mother's tabby cat. A family liaison officer has been brought in to offer support to Mrs Mahoney's relatives. A police spokeswoman said this was standard practice. Detective Superintendent Paul Kemp, who is leading 30 officers on the case, said: "The woman is currently in custody at Merthyr police station, where she is being questioned in connection with all three discoveries, which are as yet unexplained. At this stage, we are not directly linking anyone else with the inquiry." Chief Superintendent Trevor Morris, Merthyr divisional commander, said: "The woman is a well-known member of the local community who has carried out a lot of good work for many different causes. We want the support of the community and we know they will help us. We don't want any sense of panic. That would be quite wrong and quite unnecessary."