A chief constable accused of undermining local morale by saying that his force was "reeling from murders" admitted yesterday that he had been wrong to talk of a crisis.Steve Green told Nottinghamshire police authority that his interview with the Sunday Telegraph 10 days ago, which triggered a national debate about police budgets, had not been his "finest hour". He also withdrew the impression he had given that entire murder inquiries were to be farmed out to neighbouring forces because his own detectives were overwhelmed. Mr Green told the authority at County Hall in Nottingham: "With hindsight I was wrong to accept the word crisis during the interview, but nevertheless investigating murders is a major challenge to us. "In spite of all that has been said let us not lose sight of the fact that we are coping. We have considered a number of options but it is not currently envisaged that the force will be farming out any murder inquiries in their entirety." Mr Green's comments came as the duel between his force and a small but ruthless criminal underworld in the city of Nottingham flared up again in court. One of the gang who murdered local jeweller and grandmother Marian Bates taunted police with sneers about a murdered officer after he was given 13 years in jail. Dean Betton, 24, who was in the getaway car during the jewellery raid in September 2003, clapped ironically at the sentence and then asked detectives in the public gallery: "How's Ged Walker?" Walker was a police dog handler dragged to his death by a stolen taxi in Nottingham two years ago. A second gang member, Craig Moran, 23, who had watched Mrs Bates's shop for a day before the raid, was also given 13 years at Stafford crown court. Mr Green was criticised yesterday by the Labour leader of Nottingham city council, Jon Collins. In a letter read out to the police authority, Mr Collins said: "It can be no value to the city as a whole, facilitating the kind of reportage that has resulted again in Nottingham being unfairly described as 'assassination city'." Further details meanwhile emerged of Mr Green's dealings with the Sunday Telegraph, which he had described to the Labour MP for Nottingham North, Graham Allen, as taking place under "extreme duress". In a letter to Mr Allen, the Sunday Telegraph's editor, Dominic Lawson, said: "It had been made clear to us by a number of Mr Green's senior colleagues that [a police operation in Nottingham] had been badly compromised more than a month ago and Mr Green admitted as much to us on tape. "Mr Green may well have had personal concerns about what we might write about that matter because such a story might be deeply embarrassing to his force's credibility. In a spirit of goodwill we offered to delay the publication of such an article and go ahead with a general interview that he had already offered to us." Mr Green said after the authority meeting that he had no plans to resign and looked forward to the result of an investigation into his force by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, ordered by the Home Office after his interview.