I got married in 1984 to my first husband and he quickly became physically, sexually and psychologically violent.We were married for four and a half years, during which time we had a daughter. When she was two and a half I took out an injunction. I wasn't ready to leave him but I was hoping the injunction would frighten him. The injunction said he couldn't assault me or instruct anybody else to assault me. It lasted for three months. I hoped he would take notice of it but he didn't. At the time I had it he beat me up lots and lots of times and raped me and broke my nose. On January 4 1987 I left him and because the injunction was still in force my husband was arrested. He was taken to court and got two months in prison for breaking the civil injunction. He spent a month in prison and when he came out he kept coming to the flat. One night when I was out he broke in and was hiding in the wardrobe when I came back. He stabbed me with a knife in front of our daughter. It wasn't taken seriously. The police turned up after he stabbed me and took him home. There was no deterrent there for him. He came to the hospital the next morning and started smashing up the ward because they wouldn't let him see me. There was a power of arrest on that injunction and the police chose to ignore it. That wouldn't happen under the new measures. He was on remand for a year and then he was convicted. He served two and three-quarter years. While he was still in prison he got contact with our daughter and the court ordered me to take her up to prison to see him, which was difficult for me. When he came out that contact carried on and eventually became unsupervised contact. Then when she was 11 I found out that he had been physically abusing her on contact visits. We had to go back to court again and it was decided he couldn't see her anymore. Unfortunately it was too late. She had to see a child psychologist for 18 months. I think it would be good to have seen more emphasis on child contact in the bill. Children are still being put at risk - like mine was. I feel there should be a presumption of risk until proven otherwise. If there is domestic violence then it has to be proven without doubt that it is safe for children to see their father. The measures will help the majority of women but I do think there will be exceptions because of how manipulative some men can be. If it was my ex-husband I don't think he would be deterred by any of the new measures, even though a lot of men would. I think something happening quickly instead of having a long drawn-out legal process is going to help. There will now be an automatic arrest and there will be more power behind the charge of common assault. Any move that the government makes to take things forward with domestic violence is great but my feeling is if a man wants to get to his ex-partner or wife and hurt her it doesn't matter what is in place to deter him - he will do it. I think it is positive but it is not going to be a blanket success.