An urgent hunt for more than 900 freed prisoners who should have been deported was under way last night after Charles Clarke shouldered responsibility for a "shocking administrative blunder" that had allowed them to stay in the country.The Home Office said it had so far managed to track down only 107 of the 1,023 foreign nationals convicted of serious crimes who should have faced deportation over the past seven years.Officials could not confirm that the five convicted killers and nine rapists in the list had been tracked down.A breakdown issued yesterday showed that five child sex offenders were among the missing. Also among them were 41 burglars and 57 convicted of violent offences. The largest single group - 204 - were convicted of drug offences.Ministers were told last July by the National Audit Office that preparations to remove foreign criminals from the UK should begin much earlier and not be left until the end of their prison sentences.A Home Office spokesman last night said: "Additional resources were directed to this, but the system continued to find more cases than we could consider. Now there are sufficient resources, and we are confident no further convicted foreign nationals will be released in this way."The home secretary apologised for the fiasco but admitted that "due to an oversight" his most senior Home Office officials had misled MPs over the issue."I do take responsibility for this," he said. "It is a shocking state of affairs. I take it extremely, extremely seriously in every respect. The concern, possibly anger, that people will feel is entirely understandable. It was a basic administrative failure."Mr Clarke could not say "hand on heart" that all those involved would be found. He refused to resign and said he did not expect others to go either. "I do not think it is a resigning matter," he said.Downing Street supported him, adding that it did not expect ministers "to know what is going on in every nook and cranny in their department". But it was hardly welcome news to Tony Blair in the middle of a local election campaign.Conservatives and Liberal Democrats expressed astonishment at the Home Office's admission. "This is the latest in a long line of failures," said the shadow home secretary, David Davis. "This serial incompetence beggars belief."The Lib Dem leader, Menzies Campbell, said it was extraordinary that so many had disappeared. "The government's tough talk on crime counts for nothing in the face of this incompetence," he said.The admission by the home secretary came only after MPs on the Commons public accounts committee followed up an investigation into the whereabouts of foreign national prisoners who should have been sent home. Last October senior Home Office civil servants told the MPs that 403 foreign nationals had been released from prison in England and Wales between 2001 and 2005 without any consideration given to whether they should be deported.Mr Clarke said yesterday that the figure was wrong, and that between February 1999 and March this year 1,023 foreign prisoners had been released without being deported. He said so far the Home Office immigration and nationality directorate had tracked down 107, of whom 20 had been deported.Mr Clarke also confirmed that 160 of those involved had been recommended for deportation by the courts when they were sentenced, but only five had been thrown out. The Home Office is "very energetically" drawing up profiles on the 916 missing ex-prisoners and has yet to give their names to the police.