Asil Nadir, the Polly Peck tycoon who fled to northern Cyprus in 1993 to avoid charges involving theft totalling £34m, yesterday astonished friends, Turkish politicians and the serious fraud office by pledging to return to Britain to clear his name.The SFO immediately said it planned to pursue charges against him and the trial is likely to be a test of the agency's credibility after a series of courtroom failures. It will cover events that happened up to 15 years ago and culminated in 1990 in the collapse of Polly Peck, a fruit and electronics business that was a stock market star in the 1980s.The Tory party was also a victim of Polly Peck's fall. It was acutely embarrassed by Mr Nadir's status as a major donor and Michael Mates, the Northern Ireland secretary, was forced to resign after it was revealed he sent Mr Nadir a watch inscribed "don't let the buggers get you down" shortly before his escape.Mr Nadir, 58, and his lawyers have already approached the SFO to try to secure the terms of his bail, with Turkish sources suggesting that the fugitive has claimed that he expects to spend no more than 15 days in jail. The SFO said the approaches were "not a matter we wish to comment at this time, although that may change at a later date". It added: "If he returns, or is returned, to the jurisdiction we will proceed with the trial. He is still subject to an indictment charging him with 66 counts of theft." Peter Krivinskas, Mr Nadir's long-standing barrister, said his client wants to pursue his claim that the SFO abused its powers in the way it handled the case, in particular when it seized documents and legal papers from his office, and that a fair trial is not possible. "I have contacted the SFO to let me know what the position is on bail," said Mr Krivinskas. "It may be possible to invite a judge to give an indication on what he would do on bail, given all the circumstances. "Even if Mr Nadir doesn't get that - and even if the SFO says he has to take his chances - he would still come back. In that case we would then try to get his bail application and his abuse case listed for as soon as possible after that. He is looking to come back in the next two, three, four weeks - something like that. It depends on a lot of things, but what I don't want to happen is for him to be languishing in custody." Mr Nadir has lived in the breakaway republic of northern Cyprus, which has no extradition treaty with Britain, since his overnight escape, via France, in May 1993. He declined to comment yesterday, but in a statement his office said: "Asil Nadir has decided to go to London in order to have his application heard at the courts. Asil Nadir believes that all the charges brought against him are baseless and will be thrown out by the courts. Asil Nadir is continuing his preparations for his trip to London."Some of Mr Nadir's associates said one of his motives for returning is that he misses Britain. Having been given a hero's welcome when he returned to northern Cyprus, he is now a lonely figure who has fallen out with Rauf Denktas, the president of the breakaway republic. Plans for a unified Cyprus to enter the EU, which might affect extradition treaties, appear not to be part of his decision to return. Kibris, Mr Nadir's daily newspaper, has been a strong supporter of the EU plan. Mr Krivinskas said it was a simple matter of trying to move on with his life. "Ever since he left he has been fighting to clear his name. He has been sitting down for too long now," he said. He even suggested that, if Mr Nadir succeeds in having the charges overthrown, he may return to business in Britain. "He likes Britain and Britain would still be a base, but no more so than, say, New York."