If there is to be a battle of ideas in this parliament, David Blunkett and Oliver Letwin are most likely to provide it. The home secretary and his Tory shadow have not only shown a rare willingness to think out loud but also a penchant for political cross-dressing which has done much to excite the policy wonk community.The Home Office may be the traditional graveyard of ministerial ambition but Blunkett has fully seized his opportunities to be at the centre of the post-September 11 political agenda. His ability to upset liberals with his thoughts on crime, asylum and Britishness has brought him plaudits from the thinkers of the right.Meanwhile, in the blue corner, Letwin's growing reputation as the thinking man's Tory reached new heights when that most loyal of Labour thinktanks - the Institute for Public Policy Research - declared that it preferred his more thoughtful approach to crime and its causes in his Centre for Policy Studies lecture (pdf file) - to that set out in the government's white paper last month.The praise for Letwin's ability to open up the crime and justice debate comes in Them and Us?: The Public, Offenders and the Criminal Justice System by Clare Sparks and Sarah Spencer (IPPR, £8.95, 66pp). This final report from the IPPR's 18-month criminal justice forum can be seen as an alternative white paper - and it is a considerable improvement on the real thing. The IPPR report is fairly dry - partly because it summarises a large amount of research and detailed micro-policy papers written during the life of the forum. But, in its detailed analysis, it amounts to a devastating critique of the government's reform agenda. Indeed it offers an insight into what the "evidence-based" policy - to which the government is committed - could look like in practice if ministers could kick the habit of simply sounding tough.It is striking just how rhetorical the government's own white paper is. Having identified a crisis of confidence in the criminal justice system - because of low detection rates and collapsing trials - ministers seem to believe that this can be tackled by loud assurances that all parts of the system will be shaken up and made to work more effectively together. The speed and scale of the transformation promised is more than impressive. Despite the government's record with computer fiascos - from passport chaos to laptops left in pubs - we are told all victims of crime will be tracking their cases through an integrated online portal by 2005. This may sound like a Spielberg movie but it will surely end in a Whitehall farce. The government's substantive changes focus largely on making convictions easier to secure - even though the conviction rate already runs at 86% once cases come to trial. Many commentators have expressed concerns that this "rebalancing" of the system could damage justice - has the government forgotten that not all defendants are guilty? But the IPPR report makes a broader and still more damaging claim that the government is aiming at the wrong target. The impact of criminal justice reform "is marginal to crime prevention strategies" and the government's narrowly based reform agenda fails to change the ways in which the criminal justice system currently does much to undermine the government's broader social inclusion agenda. The report contains many sensible ideas on a wide range of issues - particularly the need to review which of the 8,000 offences on the statute book genuinely need criminal sanctions, to re-examine the "vast discrepancies between the tax-evader relieved to find his failure to pay £40,000 in tax is dealt with administratively and the £112 TV licence-evader who receives a criminal conviction". The report could not be characterised as in some way "soft on crime" - it speaks what should be New Labour's language and is always clear about personal responsibility for offending, while demonstrating the dangers and costs of thinking that the courts and prisons somehow exist in a bubble separate from the rest of society. Most prisoners come out after all.Blunkett might hope that liberal dissent might again be accompanied by praise from elsewhere. But the right's reaction to his criminal justice reforms has proved little better. Civitas director David Green, in his foreword to Kenneth Minogue's Civil Society and David Blunkett: Lawyers versus politicians (Civitas, £3.95) claims that "not many politicians are worth admiring but David Blunkett is one of them" by way of introducing what he calls Minogue's "respectful critique" of the home secretary. Minogue's essay, however, makes a rather more scathing attack on Blunkett and New Labour's "passion to regulate, codify, define and help us poor ordinary citizens to live better lives" than Green suggests. While this polemical essay will be enjoyed by those who agree with Minogue's central premise that the active citizen and the modern welfare state are incompatible, it is unlikely to convince anybody not previously in that camp. Blunkett's own post-election book Politics and Progress (Demos/Politico's) which had a considerably more progressive tone than many of his pronouncements since arriving at the Home Office, was largely dedicated to the effort to prove the opposite proposition. Peter Lilley, that other great hope of the thinking Tories, also has Blunkett in his sights. Taking Liberties (Adam Smith Institute, 47pp, £8 hard copy or full text online in pdf format), claims that a mixture of populism and modernising zeal are undermining central British liberties. In contrast to Minogue's broad canvas, Lilley offers a detailed examination of the evidence over jury trials, double jeopardy, the presumption of innocence and habeas corpus. Lilley's scepticism about the proposals to limit jury trial - lessening public confidence and involvement for uncertain and unlikely cost savings - is convincing, though he may perhaps overstate the importance of the current double jeopardy rule in the greater scheme of things.Will the government listen to protests from both friend and foe on criminal justice? It seems unlikely while the government believes that its more populist approach will win votes. But the public also expects results. These critiques are powerful because on crime - as on drugs - liberals can increasingly demonstrate that the evidence is on their side. If short sharp shocks, sounding tough and waving handcuffs around at party conferences could tackle crime then governments would have succeeded many years ago. Yet it remains politically easier to raise unrealistic expectations than to engage the public in the real choices to be made. The IPPR report has much to say about how to involve the public more in criminal justice - showing how this is hampered by both widespread public ignorance, for example of the sentences that are actually handed out, and of the government's belief in reform by target-setting and central direction. There is again an emerging consensus here across left and right - it is now a rare thinktank pamphlet which does not point out that the limits to results by target-setting have now been reached. It may be unfair to say that the government has entirely forgotten about those famous "causes of crime". Just before the white paper was published, the social exclusion unit produced a very good report Reducing Offending by Ex-Prisoners (text available online, pdf files) on the rehabilitation of prisoners making many sensible and cost-effective proposals about the damage done by many short-term prison sentences and the lack of support on leaving prison. The IPPR report endorses these measures and calls for Britain's prison population to come down to the European average - which would mean more like 49,000 people behind bars rather than 70,000 and rising. The thinktanks and prison reform groups should be preaching to the converted here: the home secretary stated his intention earlier this year to introduce a prisons revolution - getting prison numbers down and enable the prison service to do more useful work with serious offenders - and his white paper does promote alternatives to custody. Yet it also increases magistrates' sentencing powers from six to 12 months, and all previous evidence suggests that they will use these powers freely. This makes it difficult not to endorse the IPPR's verdict that the government's approach is "contradictory and confused" and "with the potential to make a bad situation worse". The broadly based IPPR forum may help the advocates for change to show that they have convinced others beyond the usual suspects. But can the opposition also help to get the debate out of this rut? All good liberals must wait for Letwin's next move.· Sunder Katwala is internet editor of the Observer. Please send pamphlets for review to: Sunder Katwala The Observer 119 Farringdon Road London EC1R 3EREmail: sunder.katwala@observer.co.uk