A 15-year-old boy has died after a fight at a school, Manchester police have confirmed.Police and paramedics were called to Broadoak comprehensive school in Partington, Trafford, at 12.30pm today. The boy was taken to Trafford general hospital where he died at 1.05pm. Two 14-year-old boys have been arrested. Police issued a statement saying the boy's injuries were believed to have been sustained following an "altercation" in the school. A spokeswoman added that no weapon was believed to have been involved. "Police officers will be working closely with the school and parents following this incident," the statement read.The spokeswoman said other teenagers were "present" during the altercation, but refused to give details.She said: "There was a small group of children present at the time of the incident - around five to eight children." She also refused to confirm rumours that the boy who died may have suffered a heart problem. Staff at the school fought to try to revive the boy as they waited for the ambulance.The school held a special assembly this afternoon to talk to the pupils about the incident.Councillor Ian Platt, from Trafford borough council, said the entire community would be devastated by the teenager's death. He said: "This is an excellent school. It's a close-knit community. Everywhere you turn somebody will know that child. It will just impact on the whole community. We're in a complete sense of shock. We are all devastated. "Obviously all the pupils themselves, they are all gutted, absolutely gutted." Mr Platt said the discipline record at the school was nothing unusual. The school's headteacher, Graham Downs, who has been at the school for 26 years, declined to make any comment following the incident. Broadoak is a mixed school and has around 4,000 pupils aged between 11 and 16 on its rolls. In 1998 it was found to have "serious weaknesses" by school inspectors. A more recent Ofsted report, published in 2000, found it had greatly improved. "It is a very caring community and provides very good support for its pupils," inspectors wrote. A spokesman from the Department for Education and Skills said: "The death of any child, in any circumstances, is a tragedy. "Our thoughts are very much with the family, friends and the school at this difficult time. "Further comment would be inappropriate while police investigations are continuing."The Conservative party said the government must act "without delay" to give teachers more protection and power in schools. The shadow education secretary, Tim Collins, said it was a "truly horrendous incident"."Our thoughts and prayers go out to the victim's friends and family. "It is now imperative that parliament should act without delay on the persistent warnings from teachers who say they need additional powers and protection to impose discipline in schools."In July, 16-year-old Alan Pennell was detained for life for stabbing to death 14-year-old Luke Walmsley in a corridor at Birkbeck secondary school in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire.