It is time for the courts to stop treating mobile phone thieves and other violent street robbers as though they were shoplifters, London's senior police officers told MPs yesterday.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, and his deputy, Ian Blair, said London was experiencing an explosion of street crime and complained to the Commons home affairs committee that the courts were bailing those they arrested seven or eight times, allowing them to intimidate witnesses. "We cannot go on treating people as though they were shoplifters when they are actually violent robbers. People being bailed eight times in a row is the problem. We have an extension of school yard bullying. "They are stealing from people they know and the continual re-bailing means that the young people who would have been witnesses are being intimidated," Mr Blair told the committee. He said it was no surprise that after eight or so court hearings witnesses were lost and a certain amount of enthusiasm went out of the prosecution. The Metropolitan police comments followed questioning by MPs on the call by the home secretary, David Blunkett, on Monday for the police to launch strikes against the street gangs responsible for the wave of mobile phone thefts and carjacking incidents in London. Sir John said the police in London were trying to get on top of the problem with arrests for street crime up by a record 26% in the past year. He said it was a disturbing new phenomenon that 75% of those now being arrested for robbery had no previous convictions. "People are starting at the top of the criminal calendar instead of working their way up to the offence of robbery." He said the police needed to get to grips with the street gangs. The typical member was a disaffected youth who had probably been in care since the age of 12 and had been out of school for three or four years. His peer group was a street gang whose members did not "have the same kind of sensitivities as you or me". Sir John said the police had targeted the 320 most persistent offenders who were "arrogant, abusive violent thugs". The best place for them was the police station so the rest of the community could have a rest from their activities. The officers said that a sentencing policy of "three strikes and you're in" was also needed to tackle the problem in London, although there was a shortage of secure accommodation to hold them. "We need to take the battle to them on the streets and take the confidence away from them," said Sir John. The current strategy to tackle the "unacceptable explosion of street crime" included the deployment of undercover officers and more cameras on bus routes to track the gangs' movements around the capital. "If we can get the cavalry coming over the horizon in terms of extra resources and officers we can do more of that," said Sir John.