A taxi driver has been jailed for a minimum of 25 years after admitting the "savage and brutal" sexually-motivated murder of a young woman — but has escaped possible prosecution over a second killing despite leading police to the victim's body.Chris Halliwell was imprisoned for life after pleading guilty to murdering 22-year-old Sian O'Callaghan, who went missing after leaving a nightclub in Swindon.Even though Halliwell took police to the body of a second young woman, that of Becky Godden-Edwards, and said he had abducted and killed her, he has not been prosecuted over her death because a judge ruled the way a senior detective interviewed him was unlawful and would not allow the evidence to be used in court.Outside court, O'Callaghan's relatives paid tribute to the "truly wonderful life" their daughter had lived. Her father, Michael, said he was pleased justice had been done as far as his family was concerned — but added: "Our thoughts go out to Becky's family."Godden-Edwards's mother, Karen, said it had been a "very complicated and painful journey" so far. She said: "Sian's family have had the justice for the murder of their beautiful daughter. However our family's fight for justice, for Becky, has only just begun."Even though Becky has been found we still have no understanding of how she met her death." She broke down into tears as she added: "I would like the full support of you all to get justice for my daughter Becky."O'Callaghan was abducted by Halliwell, 48, after she got into his taxi in the early hours of the 19 March last year after spending a night out at a club. Rather than driving her home he took her to a forest half an hour away. He stabbed her twice in the head and neck with a kitchen knife, once with severe force, and punched or kicked her in the face. She suffered a wound to her left breast that could have been caused by a bite. He removed her underwear and leggings and sections appeared to have been cut from those garments. Her bra had also been torn off.Halliwell left her body in the forest. When he realised police were searching there, he moved it to another remote spot and dumped it down an embankment.Police arrested Halliwell five days later, believing O'Callaghan could still be alive. He refused to talk and the man leading the inquiry, Det Supt Steve Fulcher, ignored guidelines laid down in law governing how a suspect should be treated, because he believed there was a chance to find O'Callaghan alive if he did so. He interviewed him before Halliwell could see a solicitor and without warning him of his right to remain silent.Halliwell led Fulcher to O'Callaghan's body and that of Godden-Edwards, who was last seen in December 2002.Fulcher broke the news to her family that her body had been found on what would have been Godden-Edwards's 29th birthday.At a pre-trial hearing the judge, Mrs Justice Cox, ruled the evidence gleaned from the hilltop interview — and the fact that Halliwell had taken police to the bodies — could not be used in court. It meant there was not enough evidence to bring a case against him over Godden-Edwards' death.Because there was other evidence relating to O'Callaghan, that case could proceed.As far as the court was concerned, Halliwell was of previous good character with no history of violence and he avoided the prospect of being imprisoned for the rest of his life for two murders.Cox made no mention of Godden-Edwards as she sentenced Halliwell for O'Callaghan's murder. Describing it as a "savage and brutal attack" on a "vulnerable" woman, she said: "The pain, terror, anguish and desperation she would have suffered is truly horrifying to contemplate ... She was terrified, helpless and alone."   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The judge said it was "poignant" that she had got into a taxi because her partner, Kevin Reape, always told her that was the safest thing to do. The judge said she believed it was "murder involving sexual conduct".Bristol crown court was told that Halliwell had been "circling" the Old Town area of Swindon in search of a victim. The court also heard that in the days after O'Callaghan's disappearance, Halliwell told a colleague: "Who knows what or who you find buried out there, there could be loads of people over the years."Police have vowed to continue to investigate Godden-Edwards's death. They will also probe Halliwell's past to see if he may be responsible for any other unsolved murders.Both the families have backed Fulcher's tactics. However, the Independent Police Complaints Commission is to investigate Wiltshire police over breaches of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, which sets out how suspects should be treated.It will also look at allegations over briefings Fulcher is said to have given to some media outlets. He has been suspended.Det Ch Supt Kier Pritchard, head of Wiltshire CID, said Halliwell had shown himself a "despicable man, prepared to lie and has shown no remorse throughout".He said the investigation into Godden-Edwards's death continued. A team is actively working on the case and if new information is found, they will go back to Halliwell and interview him again.Pritchard did not criticise Fulcher, saying his colleague's objective had been to recover O'Callaghan alive and senior investigating officers had to work under severe pressure.