This time five years ago I had served 19 years and eight months of a life sentence and was waiting for the answer to my application to be released from the parole board. I had a lurking anxiety about what the answer was going to be. I had been in "open conditions", as a low-security Category D prisoner for more than two years and had been going in and out of the prison regularly for a year and a half, first to undertake community work, then paid work and social visits in the local neighbourhood. As far as I could see, there was no reason why the answer should be negative. But I had seen incomprehensible answers handed to lifers by the parole board too many times to be anything near complacent about my own chances.Looking back now I remember feeling no anxiety about what life was going to be like if they released me, however. I had people close to me who cared about me. I had a home to go to and regular work. For the previous four years I had been writing about prison life in the Guardian in a column entitled "A life inside" and already had a book with the same title published to some acclaim. I had also just started a well-paid job as a development manager for a national charity. All the elements necessary for a successful transition from prisoner to citizen and more were in place. It should have been a breeze. And for a short time it was. I walked out of the prison gate for the last time on the brightest, sunniest August day in 2004, exactly 20 years after I had been taken into custody. The euphoria was overwhelming. For two incredible weeks it felt as if I was walking on air. Then, out of nowhere, I was hit by an almighty sense of despair and emptiness. It did not seem to matter that I was free, fit and healthy and was surrounded by an abundance of opportunities. Despite having thought about it often during the months leading up to it, planning and preparing carefully for it, there was something so odd about the reality of it. Guilt was the emotion that hit me the most powerfully, a strong sense that I did not deserve to be out here enjoying the pleasures that free people enjoy.These feelings fluctuated and continued to fluctuate as the weeks, months and years passed. Intermittently it affected my work for the charity and my writing activities, but I managed to stay focused and keep a balanced rational view of my situation. It was inevitable that adapting to life outside was going to involve various unexpected pressures. What I had to ensure was that I spoke to people about how I felt. I knew it was important to keep everything in context. My way of dealing with the constantly conflicting emotions was to concentrate on meeting the responsibilities that my new life encompassed, particularly in work, which was my main priority. Part of the problem was that my new life was so different from the life I had left behind more than two decades earlier. The new beginning, as a valued friend and family member and professional in journalism and office management, had for the first time in my life given me a taste of what it is like to be genuinely liked and respected - and though I'm embarrassed to say it, admired even. That was something that I believed I most definitely did not deserve. The contrast with life before prison could not have been starker. I seek no sympathy here, but the fact is I had lived an itinerant, dysfunctional existence from a very young age. For a number of years I had been subjected to serious violence and emotional deprivation that I am not going to go into detail about. By the age of 10, I was running wild, sleeping rough and I didn't really know where I was supposed to belong in the world.Shortly before my 11th birthday I was picked up by the police for breaking into a sweetshop, convicted of burglary by the local magistrates and taken into care. The home they took me to in Yorkshire was not a bad place. The children, whose ages ranged from five to 16 or 17, were from circumstances pretty much like mine. Some had been abused, some were orphans, but all were problematic in some way. Many, like me, had committed relatively petty criminal offences and there was a strong sense among us that we were criminals and were destined to be criminals for a long time to come. Sadly, serious criminality was what some of us aspired to when we, "grew up". Decent people ran the home. We were fed and clothed, sent to school and generally looked after quite well. But there was little they could do to resolve the difficulties that many of us had experienced before being put into care. Like others, I ran away from the home on numerous occasions, sleeping rough and committing more relatively petty offences to survive. One time, aged 13 or 14, I was on the run for six weeks, making my way to Scotland from where my family came originally. After stealing from relatives whom I barely knew I went back on the run until, exhausted and lost, I reversed the charges on a telephone call to the people at the home, who arranged for the police and a social worker to collect me and take me back. When I reached the age of 15, the people in charge of the home said I could leave school and the home and go to live with my father again. I jumped at the chance. Soon I was heading south on a rail-travel warrant with all my worldly belongings in a small holdall. It never worked out. The problems between my father and me were still all too apparent and so, within a few months, I left and began drifting, hitchhiking around the country, staying temporarily with extended family members, or friends I had made in the home. I also slept rough again, sometimes for weeks at a time. Harbouring deep social inhibitions and without work skills I found it hard to settle anywhere, but I took labouring jobs in the building trade, and worked as a road layer with an uncle who got me a job with him and gave me a home for while. Back on the move, I worked as a washer-upper in restaurants, as a factory hand and in a warehouse - I also committed more crimes. Ever since my first appearance in front of the magistrates who put me into care I had considered myself to be a criminal. For me, it was no big deal to get drunk, have a fight, smash a window or steal a car. It was just a way of life. I never thought of the people I was inconveniencing, never considered the impact my antisocial behaviour was having on others. I had two spells in youth prisons - six months in a detention centre and a year in borstal. Each time I was released I was full of good intentions, but each time I sank rapidly back into my earlier destructive and directionless way of life. As my frustration with a life without purpose increased, my recklessness and lack of concern for others intensified. Drunkenness and violence became established character traits. By the time I was in my early 20s I had left behind two serious relationships that had broken down due to my alcohol-fuelled, violent behaviour, and I was well and truly adrift. In 1982 I was alternating between living rough and staying in squats. It was at a squat that I met the man who would become my co-accused. We were never friends, just two inadequate associates bolstering each other's failings with alcohol and bravado. Our criminal activity included stealing cars and breaking into premises and eventually culminated in the robbing and murder of two men. For these actions I will be eternally ashamed and, however pathetic and insufficient it may seem, I can only express my heartfelt sorrow for what I did. My behaviour was unforgivable and I seek no forgiveness now. In the aftermath it never crossed my mind to hand myself in to the police and face up to what I had done, however. My only consideration was for self-preservation and, like the coward that I was, I ran. That December, to escape my crimes, I left England on a ferry bound for France. From Calais, sleeping rough and jumping trains I made my way north to the Citadel in Lille and enlisted with the French Foreign Legion. I spoke no French and had little authentic knowledge of what life in the Legion entailed. To me it was just a place to run to and hide.I did not know then that the majority of those who try to enlist are turned away. All I had on me when I walked into the recruitment post was my passport. After several weeks, during which I was subjected to medical, physical and psychological examinations and testing, the legion took me in and, along with three dozen other raw recruits from countries all over the world, I was sent to a specialist training regiment based in Castelnaudary, close to the Spanish border. The culture shock was enormous. I went from a massively dysfunctional lifestyle to a rigid, highly disciplined regime that offered no compromise. The demands were intense but I was so desperate not to fail that I met every challenge. I buried the knowledge of my crimes somewhere deep inside me. My progress in basic training was exceptional. I won the section pennant for my ability to march tirelessly, and quickly learned the French language. The structured routine and philosophy of reward for effort brought something out in me that I hadn't been aware of. There was a powerful sense of family among our ranks and for the first time in my life I felt that I had found somewhere I belonged. I did well enough in training to be assigned to the 2nd REP, the legion's only parachute regiment based in Corsica, where I became a heavy machine gunner. During the next 20 months I trained in the commando school in Mont-Louis, marched down the Champs Elysée with the regiment on 14 July, took part in manoeuvres on the mainland, sometimes alongside regular French troops, and later I operated in various roles in Chad, including acting as a guard for the general in charge during Operation Manta, the biggest French military intervention in Africa since the end of colonialism. As I grew in the legion I was earmarked for rapid promotion, but my conscience was also growing. Legion values emphasised the importance of courage, honour and loyalty, to all of which I knew I had forfeited any right. There were a couple of drunken violent incidents that I was involved in that caused a sergeant to ask me, "Why are you so troubled?" I denied that there was any problem and continued on, but I was sure it was only a matter of time before I was going to be found out.In August 1984 I was informed by a source in England that my co-accused had been arrested and had implicated me in our crimes. At that moment I decided to return to England, initially to face up to what I had done. I left my unit in Corsica that night without permission and made my way by ferry to Nice, where I handed myself into the British consul, who advised me to give myself up to the French police. I was held in a number of French prisons before being extradited back to Britain where, eventually, along with my co-accused, I stood trial at the Old Bailey on two counts of murder. I pleaded not guilty. Despite my contrition, when it came to it I just did not have the character to confess to such appalling behaviour, let alone face the prospect of untold years in prison. After eight days in the dock and four hours of jury deliberations I was found guilty on both counts. The judge sentenced me to two terms of life imprisonment with a recommendation that I serve, "... at least 14 years". My co-accused also received life. In spite of the weight of the guilt and shame I carried for my crimes, I felt a great sense of relief when I was sentenced. Life outside had been such a disaster, painful for me and more importantly for others because of me. I was glad it was over. Sitting in the barred holding cell below the courtroom I had no plans or ambitions. I could barely think about the days and weeks that lay ahead of me, never mind the years. In the legion I had become a highly functioning soldier, proud of my uniform and commanding respect among my comrades, even if I knew it was all a charade. Now, engulfed in the truth, I was back to being the inadequate low-life I had been previously. With little formal education to speak of and no recognised skills or abilities, all I had going for me was the discipline I had developed in the legion. My co-accused and I were separated and we never saw each other again. I spent my first year on 23-hour bang-up in Wandsworth prison in London. There, I reflected for the first time over long hours on what I had become and tried to make sense of how I could have behaved the way I did. Without question I deserved my imprisonment, but I wasn't sure that I could manage it. When the man in the cell above mine hanged himself on the passing of my first Christmas inside I made a conscious mental decision that I would survive the experience wherever it was going to take me, though there were many times when I wished my will to live was not so strong. A couple of years into the sentence, when I was in my first long-term high-security prison, I met a psychologist who took some time persuading me that I still had some value. She said I had to remember what I had achieved in the legion and that if I wanted to become authentic I had to build a mental bridge between that positive role, which centred on generally good, industrious and honourable behaviour, and how I planned to live in prison. It took many meetings with this kind lady before I was even remotely persuaded that something positive could emerge from my situation. Finally, as a gesture to acknowledge her efforts, I enrolled in evening education classes - and to my surprise, I thrived. I had enough physical presence and self-discipline from my legion experience to cope with the primitive prisoner hierarchy on the wings and landings and at the same time to explore the positive opportunities that prison offered. Over time, through study and meditation, I began to understand the preciousness of integrity and the importance of consideration for others, developing affirmative values along the way. The guilt and anger I felt towards myself for being responsible for the horror of two people losing their lives totally unnecessarily powered my determination to succeed in achieving something good and worthwhile from what was left of me. If the death penalty had been on the statute books I would have deserved to be executed. But I had been sentenced to life, so I had to live. I adapted well to life inside. It was often bleak and unbearably stressful; the mental pressures were immense. But there were, and are, some great people who work in those places who want to help people like me to function properly, not just for the sake of those who cause harm and distress to others, but for the sake of all of us. I gravitated towards those life-enhancing people and will be for ever grateful to them. I began to see prison as a potentially beneficial community and in wider terms, a valuable community resource. Gradually, I established a way to live that was incomparable to the way I'd lived outside. Don't get me wrong: besides the positive opportunities, there were mind games, politics, riots, sieges, suicides, stabbings and killings - anybody who argues that prison life, especially long-term prison life, is a "holiday camp" has no understanding of the issue. But by maintaining a strong sense of self-discipline, using the gym regularly, reading, thinking, studying and working around those in power who acted as debilitaters, I survived it and then some. And I tried to use the strength I developed to help others.Ten years on I had a degree in history and a reputation on the landings for being able to "write a good letter". Through assisting fellow prisoners with letter-writing and involving myself in prison writing projects I created a role for myself as "camp scribe". In turn, this fostered ideas that in another life I could have been a writer. Around the same time I received notification from the Home Office that my minimum term to be served had been raised by a minister from 14 years to 25 years. The news crushed me for a while but I did not complain. I was resigned to serving whatever sentence society deemed fit, though I did not believe that I would be of much use to anyone after a quarter of a century in captivity. (Five years later, the home secretary reduced my "tariff" by five years - he gave me three years off for "fairness" and two years off to reflect the "progress" I had made.) In the meantime, writing became more important to me. I wrote a letter to the Independent newspaper about the constant stream of mis-information and sensationalist nonsense in the reporting of prison issues that seemed to me to be undermining the value of prison in society. My letter was never published, but an editor invited me to write an article giving a flavour of the reality of prison life, which I did. It was a piece dismissing the disingenuous political idea of the day that prison life was going to be made "austere". When it was published the sense of achievement it gave me made me realise that writing was what I wanted to do. If I pursued it seriously, however, it was not going to be without complications. I had used the pen name Jim Smith for the Independent piece, for no other reason than that I was serving life and did not want who I really was and what I had done to detract from what I had written. Given my circumstances it was unlikely that I would ever write professionally, but my success with the Independent motivated me to pitch articles, "on spec", to various other publications. Four years after the Independent piece the Guardian accepted an article on prison suicides for the diary page of its Society section. This time, I thought more carefully about the byline.I had been brought up as Erwin Monahan and hadn't realised that I had another forename, James, until I was put into the care home. I never used it until I went into prison and felt early on that "Erwin" was too unusual a name for a prison landing. And so I began using my other name, James. When it came to the Guardian piece I decided on the pen name Erwin James. This time the motivation for the name change was primarily because I was aware that having me suddenly appear as a writer in newspapers could well cause further distress for the families of my victims. It was close enough to my real name for anyone to find me out if they so wished, but distant enough to provide a measure of discretion given the sensitivities around what I was trying to do. When I began writing the column, "A life inside", in the Guardian two years later, I had exactly the same considerations. A note was added to an early column stating that: "Erwin James is serving a life term for murder." It was also made clear that the fee for the column would be donated to charity. The column appeared fortnightly thereafter. All the time I had expected some expression of scandal from other media sources, perhaps for the perceived audacity of someone like me being involved in journalism. But that never happened. On the contrary, I was allowed to continue writing without harassment right up until my final week in prison and I guess because of how and what I wrote I received praise and goodwill from many quarters. On the one hand I relished this new attitude towards me. On the other hand I hated it, as I felt so strongly that I did not deserve it, or all the good things I had going for me after I was released. I can see now that this inner conflict was drawing me into a mindset that was forcing me into a mental position almost of denial of who I really was and what I had done. As the time passed and I was coming into contact with more and more people outside prison, I was becoming increasingly reluctant to acknowledge where I had come from.It was a frame of mind that was exacerbated shortly after I began working for the charity, when I came across speculation on the internet as to my "true" identity and what I had done to get life imprisonment. The bloggers had started their speculation in 2002. When I first saw the questions posed on web message boards my reaction was one of mild bemusement. But as I progressed further towards possible freedom the speculation began to affect my thinking. I tried not to let it bother me, but in spite of my efforts to dismiss it, it did. I began to feel as if I was being stalked. Once I was out, despite the tribulations of adapting to "normality", I was functioning well. Eventually, I gave up the job with the charity to concentrate on writing. Then, for a little while, the writing went off the boil and I tried my hand at other work. Later, I decided that writing was really all I wanted to do and continued with my column on societytheguardian.com as well as features and interviews relating to prison issues for the Guardian newspaper and website. I also worked on a number of book proposals. Then I made a supremely stupid error of judgment. A report appeared in the news to the effect that the French Foreign Legion was reluctant to take men from Britain, as the British who had been volunteering were "too flabby". I was asked to write a long piece about my experience in the legion and comment on the revelations in the news for G2, which I did. Irrationally now looking back and much to my mortification, I placed information in the piece which was blatantly untrue. In order to camouflage my whereabouts in 1982 and create a fog around the facts of my crimes, I wrote the piece as if I was in the legion from the beginning of that year, when in fact I did not join up until the end of the year. In particular, I made reference to "we", meaning my regiment, undertaking tours in various African countries in 1982. The regiment did indeed undertake those tours; only I was not with them. Neither could I have been in Beirut in September of that year, as I said I was in the piece. I knew all the details of that operation, as the 1st combat company had not long returned from Beirut when I joined them in Calvi in Corsica at the end of my basic training. On 25 February this year, in response to another news story relating to the legion, I wrote another vignette of legion life for G2. The anecdote - about a young German recruit getting bashed by an adjutant for picking the wrong time to say he wanted to leave the Legion - was true. But the date I said I had joined, 1981, was not.I was prompted to come clean and alert the Guardian about this ridiculous deceit when my "true" identity was revealed on the web some weeks ago and the bloggers involved noted my prevarications about the length of time I had actually spent in legion. The deceit has left me embarrassed and sad for letting down not only the people at the Guardian who trusted me, but Guardian readers who have been so accepting of me and my prison-issue writing over the past 10 years. It is clear to me now that the only person I was really deceiving was myself. The fallout from my identification on that message board, and the lies I told, has led to this piece; to me feeling that I now have to be completely honest about both my time in the legion and to stop hiding from who I really am. I am aware that these revelations may prove painful for people to whom my past actions have caused immeasurable pain and distress. For that I am truly, truly sorry. Now I hope to carry on living in the same vein as I have for the past five years, working as a writer, but of course with no further deceits. I value my freedom and the relationships I am privileged to enjoy so much. I'm still not sure that I deserve what I have, but I have to live with who I am. I would do anything to change the past, but I can't. The best I can do is to live a good life and maintain decent standards of behaviour towards others. That is my intention.