They may speak properly and wear more expensive clothes. But middle-class children from stable, two-parent families are as likely to indulge in delinquent behaviour as those from a deprived background. New research has found that more middle-class children admit to having committed an act of vandalism in the past year than their less privileged contemporaries, and that considerably more claim to have consumed alcohol in the past month. The survey by the British Household Panel has confounded many long-held assumptions about the link between behavioural problems and class. It found that instances of suspension from school, truancy, smoking and making friends with those who use illegal drugs were at a similar level across all backgrounds and classes. 'This study is a wake-up call for those who buy into the huge middle-class assumption that yob culture is something that only working-class children indulge in,' said Dr Jonathan Scales, who carried out the study for the Institute for Social and Economic Research at Essex University. 'The key thing is children's behaviour has more to do with parenting style than background.' Scales's study, based on interviews with 1,000 children, found that 27 per cent of 13 to 15-year-olds from an AB background admitted to having committed an act of vandalism in the past year. This compared with 24 per cent of those from a C1C2 background. It also found that 24 per cent of children from a two-parent family said they had been involved in vandalism, compared with 25 per cent of those from a lone-parent family. According to the study, 6 per cent of AB children had been suspended from school in the past year, the same percentage as their lower-class colleagues, while 18 per cent had played truant in the past month - compared with 15 per cent of C1C2 children. 'This suggests a new trend is creeping in but one that is not, in fact, wholly different from the small number of studies which have tried to alert us to the fact that middle-class delinquency is just around the corner,' said Professor Philip Bean, a juvenile criminologist at Loughborough University. 'It's obviously about time we started looking at this area more closely.' The survey also found that 8 per cent more children from social class AB admitted to consuming alcohol in the past month - 58 per cent compared with 50 per cent - while 46 per cent revealed they had a friend who used illegal drugs, compared with 30 per cent of C1C2 children. The research found little difference in terms of family relationships connected with substance abuse: 48 per cent of children from two-parent families had consumed alcohol in the past month compared with 51 per cent of those from one-parent families, while 35 per cent of those from two-parent families had a friend who used illegal drugs, compared with 30 per cent of those from one-parent families. 'Drug use crossed the boundaries of class and geography some time ago but this is the first indication we've received that severe behavioural problems, such as vandalism, have begun to do the same,' said Dr Geoffrey Plant, an expert in juvenile delinquency at University College London. 'The fact that two-parent families are now producing children with these same behavioural problems could suggest that, despite the apparent support and presence of both parents, modern working patterns are essentially creating the same model of actual deprivation suffered by single-parent families for years.' Campaigners in support of lone-parent families have welcomed the report as proof that discrimination linking youth crime to single-parent families is inaccurate and unfair. 'There is a huge climate of vilification of lone parents, and to finally see research that destroys the myth linking youth crime and one-parent families is a huge relief,' said Kate Green, director of the National Council for One Parent Families. 'But attitudes towards one-parent families have hardened so much over the past few years that findings like these will go only some way towards challenging the stereotypes that have become entrenched in the public's mind.'