Having passed 15 life sentences on the insignificant bespectacled serial killer in the dock, Mr Justice Forbes turned to the jury to thank them for their diligence.He had just begun to tell them that they had discharged their duty with great responsibility when a mobile phone went off in the public gallery at the rear of the court. It played a silly tune and someone reached into her bag to stop it. It was Primrose Shipman, the grey-haired wife of the doctor who may have killed as many as 150 women with his lethal syringe. Mrs Shipman had been present throughout the 57-day trial and a trite phone melody seemed a cruelly bathetic end to her ordeal. Her son Christopher placed an arm around her shoulder. In the dock, her husband, in his familiar light brown suit and striped tie, could not see the woman he married 33 years ago. He showed no emotion as he was told that he would stay in prison for the rest of his days. But the judge showed emotion. He removed his wig and his voice trembled as he spoke directly to the victims' families. He told them how much he had admired their "courage and quiet dignity" as they gave evidence about what he had described as "wicked, wicked crimes". You could tell he meant every word. But the timing of the verdicts was probably as much of a surprise to Mr Justice Forbes as to everyone else. Barristers, solicitors, officials, reporters and members of the public who had queued for seats from 8am filed back into court at 4.15pm expecting to hear the judge give his usual kindly homily to the jury: go home, have a good rest, don't talk to anyone, come back in the morning. But there was a long delay. Slowly the lethargy at the end of a sixth day of waiting gave way to a realisation that verdicts were imminent. The judge's clerk stepped briskly in, spoke to defence and prosecution counsel and left. The seven men and five women of the jury filed in at 4.37 and the foreman stood up. Yes, they had reached verdicts on all counts. There was a collective sigh from the public gallery as the first guilty verdict was returned. The foreman paused before saying "Guilty" for the 15th time, as if suddenly realising the huge responsibility he and his colleagues had carried. As this litany of guilt unfolded, Shipman stared at the carved coat of arms above the judge's head; once he stuck his tongue in his cheek; at the end, he winced. He sat down as the prosecution told the court about his previous convictions involving pethidine abuse in 1976. Then the judge passed sentence. There was a stifled sob from the gallery as the judge mentioned the victim Joan Melia; the sound of crying as he reached Kathleen Wagstaff, the 13th name on the list. When Mr Justice Forbes said he would recommend that life should mean life, someone cried "Yes!" and there was a smattering of applause. At 5.07pm, it was all over. Shipman appeared to urge his prison guards to hurry down the steps to the cells.