The BBC is to separate the investigation into abuse by the broadcaster Stuart Hall while working at the corporation from the main Jimmy Savile inquiry after the judge leading the review warned of a potential conflict of interest.On Sunday the chairman of the BBC Trust, Lord Patten, said the activities of Hall, who has admitted indecently assaulting 13 girls during the 60s, 70s and 80s, would be examined as part of an existing review by Dame Janet Smith into abuse carried out by another BBC broadcaster, Jimmy Savile.However, a brief statement from the corporation on Monday said this decision had been changed: "In light of a potential conflict of interest with Dame Janet Smith there will be a freestanding investigation covering Stuart Hall's conduct at the BBC which will feed into her review. This work will be led by a different individual appointed by the BBC." It did not say who would lead this investigation.It is understood that Smith warned BBC executives that she knows Ray Colley, a BBC regional manager who worked with Hall in Manchester. Smith's husband was formerly married to a woman who is now Colley's wife.While the investigation into Hall's activities will be carried out by someone else, these findings will then be fed back into Smith's report.On Sunday, Patten said the BBC could be liable to pay compensation to victims of Hall. Asked whether this would be the case, he replied: "I imagine so, but that'll be a matter for the lawyers and conceivably for the courts."Hall's secret life as what prosecutors described as an "opportunistic predator" emerged on Thursday after he admitted 14 offences involving 13 victims dating back to the late 60s. Hall, now 83, carried out the offences between 1968 and 1986. The youngest of his victims was nine, the oldest 17.Hall, who began work for the BBC in 1959 and co-presented the corporation's regional news for the north-west of England from 1965 to 1990, became nationally famous from 1972 as the host of the slapstick obstacle course family game show It's a Knockout. Until his arrest he still reported on football matches for BBC radio.After Hall confessed to the assaults, it emerged he had transferred ownership of his family's home to his wife's name in February, a move lawyers representing some of his victims said was an apparent attempt to avoid compensation lawsuits.The BBC faces enormous pressure over its response to revelations about the behaviour of Savile and Hall, and allegations about other TV figures from the period. The corporation is accused of presiding over a culture in which predatory sexual behaviour by older male stars was tacitly tolerated, and the complaints of victims ignored.On the same day Hall admitted his offences another inquiry set up in the wake of the Savile scandal reported widespread allegations of bullying and an inadequate complaints procedure. The report, Respect at Work, overseen by barrister Dinah Rose QC, said there had been 37 complaints of sexual harassment at the corporation over the past six years. It highlighted a problem of "known bullies" – reported by multiple members of staff in different parts of the BBC – who would verbally abuse staff and leave them living in a "climate of anxiety ... and fear".The new BBC director general, Tony Hall, said parts of the report made "uncomfortable reading" and pledged "zero tolerance of bullying".