A prison officer blown up in a New IRA car bomb attack has died.Adrian Ismay, a 52-year-old who trained staff at the top-security Maghaberry prison, had undergone surgery after being injured in the blast underneath his van in east Belfast on 4 March.The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) originally said the victim had not suffered life-threatening injuries in the explosion in the Woodstock area of the city. But the officer was rushed into hospital on Tuesday after a suffering a heart attack and later died.The New IRA claimed responsibility for the bombing and linked it to an ongoing dispute between the prison authorities at Maghaberry and dissident republican inmates.Ismay is the second prison officer to die at the hands of republican dissidents over the last four years. In November 2012, the New IRA ambushed David Black along the M1 motorway near Portadown as he was driving to work at Maghaberry prison. The 52-year-old’s car was riddled with bullets during the shooting. The east Belfast attack demonstrates that republican dissident terror groups have an intelligence-gathering capacity that allows them to garner information on targets who live in predominantly loyalist and Protestant areas of Northern Ireland. The terror group said the officer was among a number of people on a so-called hit list drawn up by dissident republicans. The New IRA said it had used semtex explosive in the booby trap device, which has prompted unionists to question if all the previous arsenal of the Provisional IRA had been decommissioned as Sinn Féin had promised back in 2006-07.Following the attack, senior officers of the PSNI revealed that the force had thwarted at least four other terror attacks across Northern Ireland and warned of a spike in dissident republican violence in the run-up to the 100th anniversary of the Easter Rising against British rule.The New IRA is the largest of the three main terror groups opposed to the peace process. Its formation was announced through a communique to the Guardian in 2012.Andy Allen, the Ulster Unionist MLA for East Belfast, condemned those behind the killing of the prison officer.Allen said: “This is devastating news and my heartfelt sympathies are with the prison officer’s family. We must ensure that all necessary support and assistance is given to the family at this difficult time. The people responsible for this despicable attack must be brought to justice. “I would again reiterate that the people responsible do not represent wider society. They cannot and will not be allowed to take this society back to the past.”