A.They can't get a job now. They're ... For the paper to say that they're swanning around, doing this, that and the other, it's all allegations, and they're not doing that at all. Our sons were 16, 17 when all this started, and they've got no chance of getting a job because society doesn't want them. Saying they're racist. Q.The bulk of the loathing has been directed at your sons. How much of it has come in your direction?  A. We've had death threats, over this, we've had to move a couple of times, because of this, our daughter's become anorexic because of this... What's happened to us, I wouldn't have believed if we'd seen it in a film, I would have thought it was far-fetched. Our sons are innocent and we need someone to help us. There's never been anyone to put our side of it. We think it's political.  Q. Political in what sense?  A. In every sense. We've been caught up in a political argument. That's what we think.  Q. Why is this political? Your sons have been accused of murdering a black man.  A.  We aren't racist. Our sons aren't racist. We all take people as we find them.  Q. You say your sons aren't racist, but we've all seen the video showing them using the most appallingly racist language and in the most appallingly racist way.  A.  They were 17 and 18 years old at that time. It was bravado. They were hitting back in their own at home with words after 18 months of persecution. That's all it was.  Q. But even with bravado, that was very extreme language to use and a very appalling way to behave.  A.  I've known a lot of young boys of that age, saying silly things, and that's all it was. In their own home. Because that's where it was. It was in their own home.  Q. But doesn't that make it more credible that they were doing it in their home, in their own home, they were behaving according to type. In front of a crowd of their mates, all the bravado, perhaps you could understand it, but they were in their own home and they didn't know anyone was watching them.  A.  But the police said that they did know the house was bugged. So if they knew the house was bugged, why would they be doing this? They was hitting back. Just for a minute, nothing more. It doesn't mean they did them terrible things. They're not bad boys, they're good boys and also that tape was made up of three weeks, with bits put together. They didn't show our sons doing all the ordinary things they did. It's terrible because it's a bit here, a bit there, it's been cut, it's been connected together, the majority of it, they wasn't doing that, but when the tape comes across, it looks as if they was. They wasn't.  Q. Mrs Acourt, on that tape we saw your son, wielding a knife, showing someone how to stab a black man.  A.  Yeah.  Q. Well if that didn't suggest violence, then what did?  A.  Well I don't think it did suggest violence. They were playacting, you could see that on the tape. I didn't like looking at my sons holding knives at all. It upset me terribly. It did. But what can I say any more? All I can say is that they was just acting it up, they wasn't hurting anybody.  Q. Did you know that they had knives?  A.  No I didn't.  Q. Because they had a lot of them, didn't they?  A.  Well so they said. Where are they? I've never seeen any of them. They said they had a gun. What did it turn out to be? A pellet gun which didn't even work. They said they had knives. Most of them knives was kitchen knives. They said they had a sword, which came off the wall, because we was decorating at the time. I mean, what else can I say but that?  Q. So when you saw that video, how did you feel? I mean, they were your sons.  A.  Ill. It made me feel ill. Yeah, it did. I can't even watch it because it makes me feel ill. But the way I look at it, it was bravado, like we said, they were playacting, messing around a bit.  Q. Can't you understand that people would react, when they were looking at that, by saying: Well, it shows what kind of boys they were, doesn't it?  A.  Well, do people understand that it was taken over three weeks, and they came out with about 15 minutes of video, over three weeks?  Q. But wouldn't you say, 15 minutes of damning video?  A.  Oh yes. Certainly. That's why they've said it. To keep them as the leaders. That video's a product of what's happened to them boys. They was hitting back in their own homes after 18 months of persecution.  Q. When the Daily Mail pronounced them guilty, used their names and pictures for the first time, and it was every home effectively in the land, because every newspaper picked up on it and said they were guilty then, why did you not instantly sue the Daily Mail? Because if it wasn't true, it was the most awful libel.  A.  It was a terrible thing to do to our sons and their families. We tried to sue, but we was told we needed half a million pound, we'd never had anyone to help us. When the law changed recently, we consulted a large libel firm, which said not to sue, and they said to us, not because of any evidence, but because the publicity and the extraordinary emotion in the case, that we wouldn't win it because the jury would be prejudiced. We would have loved to sue the Mail.  Q. But shouldn't you have sued them anyway, and made the effort, even if it bankrupted you, because your sons were being called murderers. Shouldn't you have just said: To hell with what the lawyers are saying, we will do it.  A.  Half a million pound, to us, is a fortune, as it is to most working class parents in this land. We just couldn't do it. There was nobody there that would help us.  Every week I'd pray, to win the lottery, and when it's a rollover, because I'm doing every single one of them, every single one of them. Read on