A petty criminal was jailed for a minimum of 30 years yesterday for the "ruthless execution" of a pregnant woman. As Thomas Hughes was taken down to the Old Bailey cells after the verdict, there were cries of "burn in hellfire!" from the court, which was crowded with the dead woman's family and friends.Hughes, 41, who lived with his mother in of Battersea, south-west London, was found guilty of murdering Krystal Hart, 22, also from Battersea, after three hours of deliberation by the jury. There were cheers in court as the forewoman announced the unanimous verdict. Hughes, who had an obsession with guns and who made his living selling drugs and stolen goods, was besotted by a woman called Angela Brewer, 53, who was known locally as the "neighbour from hell". The court heard Brewer had clashed frequently with Hart, who was two months pregnant with her first child and lived with her mother in the flat above Brewer.On Good Friday last year, Hughes was present when Brewer had an argument with Hart's boyfriend, David Siveter. After the row, Hughes returned with a gun, apparently planning to confront Siveter, whom he believed had taken down his car registration number. When Hart answered the door, Hughes shot her twice in the head. He then texted Brewer saying "no one should hurt you like that".In an impact statement read to the court by a family friend, Krystal's mother, Deborah Penfold, said that she was haunted by the murder. Krystal had planned to become a doctor's receptionist and was always "generous and thoughtful". She added: "I look at her photos and what hurts most is not to see her smile again." She said she would have become a grandmother for the first time last November and two lives had been taken. She had had to give up her job and the flat. Sentencing Hughes to life imprisonment, the judge told him he was satisfied that he was trying to "curry favour" with Brewer, who had clearly made life unbearable for her neighbours by making false complaints and threats against them. "It is a mark of your warped mentality that you took her demented rantings seriously," he said. "This was to all intents and purposes a ruthless execution and a truly evil act."