John Monckton's murder is one of several recent killings where people have been stabbed in their own homes in affluent districts of the capital.A Metropolitan police study, reported in the Guardian last month, found that more than 6,600 crimes in London in the year to May involved a knife, 80% of which were carried out by teenagers. Police chiefs think knives are increasingly fashionable among the young because of Scotland Yard's success in tackling gun crime and the stiffer five-year mandatory sentence for possession of firearms. Mr Monckton's borough, Kensington and Chelsea, recorded no murders in the year to May, compared with 20 in Haringey and 19 in Hackney, and there were 582 violent offences against the person, less than a third of Westminster's 1,957 total. But the borough had the biggest surge in knife crime - 236 offences in the 10 months to March. Met statistics record London's overall residential burglary rate as down 11% from last year and knife crime down 6%. But that is cold comfort to bereaved families. Last month, Robert Symons, a 45-year-old teacher, was stabbed to death as he struggled with burglars in his Chiswick home. In September, Derek Robinson, 75, a retired consultant paediatrician, and his wife, Jean, a music teacher in her 60s, were stabbed to death in their home in the gated Holly Lodge estate in Highgate Hill, north London. Professor David Canter, director of the centre of investigative psychology at Liverpool University, and joint author of a report on burglary which warned that one in 200 households in England and Wales would face a violent intruder this year, debunked the myth of the cool, calculating villain. "Real burglars are not like we see in the movies," he said. "Many are highly excitable, and not in full control of their emotions. Sometimes they might be high on drugs or desperate for their next fix." Detective Superintendent Mark Jackson, who is heading the Monckton murder inquiry, is adamant that such an occurrence is rare. "Suspects forcing their way into someone's home in this way is a serious and unusual offence," he said.