Police investigating the suspected murder of missing chef Claudia Lawrence are scaling back the inquiry. There are currently 16 detectives involved, but this will be reduced to seven next month.Lawrence failed to turn up for work at York University 16 months ago and has not been seen since. North Yorkshire police mounted a large-scale operation to find the missing chef, who was 35 when she disappeared after leaving her home. At its height 100 officers were dedicated to the investigation.Lawrence's father Peter started a high-profile campaign to encourage anyone who may know where she was to come forward. Despite their efforts, and several leads, no trace of her has been found. Police have said they are treating her disappearance as suspected murder.Assistant chief constable Tim Madgwick said: "North Yorkshire police have conducted a thorough and detailed investigation into the disappearance of Claudia Lawrence, which has included the deployment of specialist resources for a considerable period of time."During the past 16 months, as leads are followed, investigated and actions completed, we are now in a position where there is no longer a requirement for the level of resources allocated to the inquiry. The decision to reduce dedicated resources has been taken after several months of further review and detailed scrutiny."Claudia's family have been fully informed about the current position of the investigation. They have been assured that our overriding desire is to bring the person or persons responsible for Claudia's disappearance to justice."The investigation remains open and will be continuously reviewed with the necessary resources allocated should any new evidence or lines of inquiry emerge. The reduction in resources will be gradual over the coming weeks as lines of inquiry are completed."North Yorkshire police said the additional cost of the operation so far is about £770,000.Martin Dales, Peter Lawrence's friend and spokesman, said: "It is both regrettable but quite understandable that after 16 months searching for Claudia, North Yorkshire police have to be realistic about the number of officers that can be devoted to her disappearance."It is clear that other police forces might well have given up on a case such as hers and it is good to hear that there is no let-up in their determination to find out what has happened to Claudia."A Channel 4 documentary about the case, Missing: The Claudia Lawrence Story, is due to be aired at 7.30pm on 13 August. A dedicated response team and phone number will be allocated to respond to any calls received as a result.Lawrence has not been seen since 18 March last year when she was spotted near her home in the Heworth area of York.