Police say a fire that killed a mother and three of her children in Bathgate, West Lothian, yesterday may have been started deliberately.One other child was seriously injured in the blaze at the two-storey house in Falside Terrace, which broke out just after 2am yesterday. Paula McClung and her sons, David Berry, nine, and 17-month-old Joshua McClung were killed in the blaze. Allan Berry, seven, died later in the Sick Children's hospital in Edinburgh, where four-month-old Jamie McClung, was fighting for his life. Mrs McClung's husband Paul, the father of the two younger boys, was at Jamie's bedside. The two elder boys were Mrs McClung's by an earlier relationship. Neighbours said the fire had been so intense that there was nothing they could do to help as fire crews fought to rescue the family. Alan Meiklem, 40, said: "The whole front door was a wall of flames and the windows at the top of the building were open, probably because of the warm weather, and they were billowing black smoke. "We shouted up to the windows to see if we could rouse anyone and I rushed around to the back windows but they were also billowing black smoke and there was nothing I could do. A spokesman for Lothian and Borders police said they were investigating the possibility that the fire might be suspicious. Officers appealed for anyone who saw or heard anything in the area during the early hours of yesterday to contact them. Lothian and Borders fire brigade deputy fire master, Steven Torrie, said the fire would deeply affect the community. Officers carried the mother and her four sons from the building after arriving within five minutes of the emergency call. "This is a particularly traumatic incident for our people to deal with and we will be concerned about the effects on them as well as the effects on the relatives, the family and particularly the local community," he said. At the height of the blaze, four engines were in attendance along with a couple of support vehicles and a firefighting crew of 20. Mr Meiklem said the community was shocked that the fire might have been started deliberately. He said he did not know the family very well and thought they had moved to the area only recently. "I feel sickened, it's like the old saying you never expect it on your own doorstep," he said. "It's sickening when young lives have been taken away. "It's especially bad in the summer holidays when you see all these kids going around on their bikes. "They're the best years of your life and I would hate to think something untoward has gone down." Alexander Hay, 59, who lives in the house opposite, described the fire as "horrific". "I saw them trying to resuscitate the mother and kids in the front garden and they must have been trying for at least 45 minutes," he said. "I'm feeling a bit gutted at the moment because I have lived in the street for 50 years, the longest-serving resident in the terrace, and I have never seen anything like this before."