The daughter of a Maoist cult leader who was never allowed to leave her father’s control has told of her “extreme delight to be free” from his violent and bullying regime.Maoist cult leader guilty of child cruelty and rape The woman, who spent the first 30 years of her life in Aravindan Balakrishnan’s secretive south London communist collective, said she would have killed herself if she had not managed to escape in October 2013, and believed she was on the verge of death from undiagnosed diabetes.She told how Balakrishnan, who was convicted on Friday of rape, sex assaults, cruelty to a child and false imprisonment, made her believe over three decades that he was God and that she would be killed by a lightning strike or spontaneously combust if she ever tried to leave the place she dubbed “dark tower”.In her first media interview, the woman, now 32 and using the pseudonym Fran, revealed there was “always a fear of being bullied, a fear of violence and a fear of being powerless and degraded” inside Balakrishnan’s Brixton-based Workers’ Institute of Marxism-Leninism Mao Zedong Thought collective. She had been “like a caged bird with clipped wings” and “couldn’t bear to live like that any more”.  Fran’s bedroom in the Brixton house. Photograph: Metropolitan policeAsked about the moment she finally fled to be picked up by carers arranged by a charity who she and two other female members had secretly contacted, she said: “I can’t describe it. Once we got into the car it was fantastic, it was such a good feeling.”“Comrade Bala”, who claimed he was preparing for a Maoist world revolution, sometimes called his daughter “project” rather than her name and she was looked after by rota. Balakrishnan regularly beat her and others when they got things wrong, as she recorded in her childhood diaries.One entry read: “Comrade Bala disciplined Comrade x for jumping next to his room. He gave her 13 beats. He said 37 more beats to come.”She never went to school or saw a doctor or dentist. She was, the court heard, “a non-person”.Fran explained that Balakrishnan made her believe in “Jackie”, which she said was “a mind control machine which can read everybody’s thoughts and control everything in the world – the whole universe, the whole of nature, they are all controlled by Jackie. And Bala was his master.”“It was degrading … Bala said Jackie would execute anybody who goes against him,” she said. “And I was so scared of electricity because he used to say lightning would strike me dead if I went out of the house, or I would spontaneously combust if I went out on my own.”She said she felt trapped because “there was nothing for me outside – I had no friends, I had no money, nowhere to stay … I knew nothing about how I could survive on my own … I didn’t have anything other than what I learned in the cult.”Her life has improved dramatically in the last two years and, after intensive medical treatment for diabetes and post-traumatic stress disorder, she has settled into semi-independent accommodation. Having been denied any formal education, she is studying maths and English, and with an interest in politics, has joined the Labour party. She has also made some friends and is a keen poetry writer.“I can do what I want,” she said. “I’m not scared all the time, I’m not degraded, I’m not in constant fear of being bullied, I’m not bored all the time.”But she admitted that when she left the commune she felt “dead inside”.“Whenever there was any happiness in my life it was always taken away. So I just couldn’t get excited about anything.” That remains a problem, she said.She described, as a child, the agony of watching other children play on a swing outside the commune which she was never allowed to leave on her own, and how she wished she were one of them.“I was absolutely miserable when I used to see them, I used to cry,” she said.  Items in Fran’s bedroom. Photograph: Metropolitan policeBut she has decided to forgive Balakrishnan for his decades of cruelty.“I do forgive him because there is no purpose in being so full of anger and hatred,” she said. “That would make me the same as him, to be full of anger and hatred. And as Nelson Mandela said, if you bring out anger and hatred and bitterness then you are still in prison, and I don’t want to do that.”Her rescuers, Yvonne Hall and Gerard Stocks, experts in helping victims of modern slavery, told the Guardian of her extraordinary first moments of freedom after they met her near the commune at 11.15am on 25 October 2013 and spirited her and two other commune members, Josephine Herivel and Aishah Wahab, to safety.Cat’s eyes on the motorway were completely alien. She had never seen wind turbines. A stop at a roadside service station was a sensory overload.“She was looking at everything, saying: ‘Wow, wow, look at that’,” recalled Hall.Fran has now learned to use domestic appliances and how to cross the road, a skill she lacked because when commune members went out they walked in single file and she was not allowed to look right or left, but told to just follow the shoulder in front of her.“We had to strip everything back to basics,” said Hall. “On the kerb, we would tell her to look for the indicator on the cars. She would ask: ‘What’s an indicator?’. It was like talking to an adult who has the skills of a five- or six-year-old.”The Brixton sect where paranoia and cruelty reigned A relative, who has spoken frequently with Fran over the last two years, said her confidence had increased hugely.“She is sorting her health out and is taking advantage of her freedom,” she told the Guardian. “She loves the freedom of going on buses and trains and she is experimenting with makeup, hair and clothes in a way she never could before. She wants to be a person in her own right rather than in that shadow. She is just looking forward.”Although her father and mother, Sian Davies, originally from Wales, lived with her, they lied to her, saying her parents were dead. They claimed her father was a Peruvian freedom fighter killed in “a people’s war” and that her mother died in childbirth. Balakrishnan made his daughter write this story out and Davies wept. “At the time I didn’t realise why she was crying,” the daughter told the court.Then her mother died in unclear circumstances. Davies fell from the bathroom window of a commune house in 1996 after apparently becoming mentally ill. The court heard she cut herself and said she was the devil. The girl, aged 13, saw Davies alive with her hands and feet bound and her mouth gagged. The next day, after more disruption, she found Davies in a pool of blood on the concrete outside. Eight months later, Davies died in hospital.In her twenties, she said, Balakrishnan would humiliate her for being useless compared with people her age outside the commune who were achieving things in life, such as writing books.“It was as if it was my fault, as if I am so stupid and so useless that I was unable to write a book, when I was not allowed to do what I wanted to do,” she said. “I felt really, really cross and really, really angry.”Aged 22, Balakrishnan’s daughter made a bid for freedom, making it as far as Streatham police station. But she did not tell the civilian on the front desk about the violence she suffered and was persuaded to call her father and return. Later, she had a relationship with a neighbour, which made Balakrishnan furious and he locked all the windows for five years.Asked now what her future holds, Fran said: “I know I want to spread love and peace to the world.”