"It is very difficult to fully explain how I feel at this time, but I shall try."I am missing Jane every hour of every day and night that passes. It is heartbreaking when your life turns a corner and new experiences occur and the one person you want to share them with is not there. "Jane will always be a very special friend to me, she was loving, warm, beautiful, a fantastic musician and teacher, a great laugh, my best mate and I would have happily spent the rest of my life with her. "She would always say 'Malc, do you want to get married at some point?' and I'd reply 'yeah, maybe, whenever...' "She was always open about her feelings. "She enjoyed the challenge of teaching children and would have loved to have had some of her own. We were going to buy a house, travel... we had so many plans for the future. "For five weeks I was praying she would be found alive and we could meet again. The day she went missing was like any other, I would not have done anything different, we were getting on great."I'm really going to miss the great conversations and nights in the pub with friends. I'll miss walking, driving about, the pillow fights and swimming in the sea. I'll miss Jane and I, being us, laughing when you're not supposed to during music concerts, with the help of Ellie. "Ever since she went missing I have been sending her all my love and this won't stop now that her body has been found. I know all her friends are doing the same - I want her to know that we all still love her. I believe that wherever she is, she is definitely OK. "When I visited Uplands school [where Jane taught], a child came up to me and said 'you know, Miss Longhurst was the only teacher I could get on with'. We all miss her in our different ways. "I would like to say that I feel that during the time Jane was missing, everyone involved has moved heaven and earth to try to find Jane alive. I feel that nothing else could have been done and that this whole thing is out of all of our hands. "I am very relieved that her body has been found and is now being looked after, and I feel safe in the knowledge that we can all celebrate her life and have a funeral in the near future. "Obviously I hope the killer is found soon for the sake of any potential future victims and at this point I do not feel any malice towards the killer. "My thoughts are with Jane and her family, we are all trying to stay positive. I am heartbroken at the tragic loss of a brilliant friend. "I apologise for not being here today but I hope you understand how difficult this is. At the moment I am trying to come to terms with the loss of someone who I loved very much. No one should have to go through what myself and Jane's family are, and we can only hope and pray that the person who did this can be found."