Though the British police officer is famed for many things, sartorial elegance has never previously been one of them.But with yet another cash crisis looming, the Metropolitan police are drawing up plans to raise additional income by selling their own brand of designer clothing.The force plans to sell garments bearing a New Scotland Yard logo and hopes to emulate the success of a similar venture launched by the New York police department. Scotland Yard has been encouraged by the brisk sales of a brand of Metropolitan police action doll. Keith Luck, the Met's director of resources, said: "Having a New Scotland Yard shop in the departure lounge at Heathrow is not entirely unforeseeable. We have phenomenal brand market potential - similar to that of the NYPD and the FBI. "Of course we have to make sure that we get the most appropriate deal for the Metropolitan police service - something that will enhance the brand which we already have - but one day we will see high-quality polo shirts with a Scotland Yard logo on the sleeves and lapels and a whole clothing range. There is a huge market for these sorts of items in the US." The branded items are unlikely to go on sale before 2005 because the Met will have to seek bidders for a franchise to produce and sell the goods. But the force is also seeking other ways to capitalise on the Scotland Yard brand. A logo has been developed to coincide with the celebrations to mark 175 years of the Met. Even the revolving sign outside New Scotland Yard can help to generate income because the force can charge when it appears on television drama programmes. Scotland Yard launched an events and income development unit eight months ago to exploit fund raising and sponsorship possibilities. Mr Luck told the Job newspaper: "It really has limitless potential. The Met has always been able to raise sponsorship but our aims are changing to long term income generation." The Met is being asked to operate on a lower budget than it had hoped for this year. Ken Livingstone, London's mayor, has proposed a budget for the police of £2,334m, £17m less than was sought. The Met says it has lost £56m in government grants to other forces because of the formula used by Whitehall.