A young father who rammed a camping tent with a van and then drove over one of its teenage occupants has been jailed for four years.The drink-fuelled revenge for an earlier slight led initially to attempted murder charges after Benjamin Allerton, 25, left the boy with serious fractures and sent a 13-year-old girl flying as he careered past.He was condemned in court for the "absolutely terrifying attack" which saw him confront a group of teenagers whom he had earlier tried to befriend. Ambushing the campsite where they had been drinking in a field near Barlby, North Yorkshire, he revved the engine and shouted: "You've got five seconds to run."The landscape gardener, who has two children and a stepchild and no previous criminal record, then roared over the tent before wheeling the van round and chasing the fleeing teenagers. He hit the girl and 16-year-old boy who spent three days in hospital for two operations to put a metal plate and screws in his arm. The girl was traumatised and still suffers flashbacks.Andrew Dallas, prosecuting, told York crown court that Allerton had earlier visited the makeshift camp and joined the group's informal partying. But when he tried to embrace a 13-year-old girl, he was asked to go and then punched and pushed into his van when he initially refused.He returned within the hour to carry out his drunken attack, admitting later to police that he had intended to injure the group because of their insults and cold-shouldering of him. He was initially charged with two counts of attempted murder which he denied, but the counts were dropped when he admitted causing grievous bodily harm with intent to the boy and attempting to do so to the girl.Damian Nolan, defending, told the court that Allerton's behaviour changed after he was assaulted three years ago, suffering post-concussion disorder which can affect mood and aggression. Dolan said: "His family has been consistent in saying there has been a sea change in his behaviour since that assault." The row with the teenagers was just the sort of thing to trigger a deterioration in a normally reliable and well-behaved man.Judge Michael Mettyear told Allerton that although post-concussion disorder might have been involved, alcohol-fuelled anger was the "much more immediate cause". He said: "You drove round deliberately seeking out those you could catch in an open field and you struck two people. It was good luck, not judgment, that the injuries were not worse."You are a young man of previous good character. I read each and every reference put in on your behalf. They all speak of you in affectionate, indeed, glowing terms. It is very sad to see someone like you in a dock in a crown court. That is especially true when you are charged with such a serious offence and face the inevitability of a custodial sentence. I pass such a sentence on you with no pleasure at all."Allowing Allerton credit for his clean record and guilty pleas, the judge jailed him for four years and imposed an 18-month driving ban starting on conviction.After the hearing, Detective Sergeant Mandy Grundy of North Yorkshire police said: "What began as a fun, camping adventure for the teenagers turned into a terrifying nightmare, during which they were in fear for their lives. Allerton used his vehicle as a weapon to cause serious injuries, and it goes without saying that the consequences could have been much worse."The sentence reflects the seriousness of the incident and Allerton now has ample time to reflect on what he has done."