Police are investigating a suspected firebomb attack on a woman's car that was parked outside the home of a man named on the BNP membership list, in a West Yorkshire town where the party has been particularly active.Detectives stressed this morning that a possible link between the gutting of a neighbour's Peugeot in Liversedge, near Huddersfield, and the man's appearance on the list was one of several lines of inquiry.The BNP's organiser for Kirklees council, David Exley, said at the scene that the man in question had never joined the party and was not a member. "The disgraceful thing about this list being published is that it seems to include people who may have just sent off for an information pack and then thought: that's not for me," he said.The car belonged to the man on the list's next-door neighbour on the 1950s Windy Bank council estate, who has no connection with the BNP. The man's own car was parked in the forecourt of his end-terrace house at the time.The Peugeot exploded at 10.30pm last night, showering nearby gardens with debris while burning fiercely. A neighbour who lives three doors away said: "Our lass had gone out for a fag and she was blown back inside. We thought it was a gas explosion, it was that fierce. Everyone ran outside and then ran straight back in again when they saw all the flames."He said that the fire looked deliberate, but dismissed the idea that the car's owner would have been targeted. Pointing to the back of her house, where an exercise machine stood rusting on a small back extension, he said: "She's just a nice lass. She lives there with her partner and does a bit of debt collecting. I can't see anyone wanting to have a go at her at all."A former school kitchen assistant who lives next door to the woman whose car was attacked said: "Stuff just came raining down into our garden. I can't think why this would happen in our street. If [the man on the list] belonged to the BNP or whatever, none of us knew. He's been here about two years, but I don't know him."The estate has been quiet recently after a spate of stone-throwing attacks by teenage gangs, but it has seen some successful recruiting by the BNP. The largely drab houses, named Windy Bank because of the prevailing winds which sweep across local moorland, is a classic former Labour heartland, built for workers at Liversedge dyeworks which has long been closed.Exley, who lost his Kirklees council seat at nearby Heckmondwyke in May, said: "We certainly have members on Windy Bank but I can say categorically that none of them live on [that street]. If this does turn out to be connected to the list, then it's sad and disgraceful and shows how irresponsible publication was."Kirklees' only BNP councillor, Roger Roberts, who represents one of Heckmondwyke's three seats, said: "This kind of thing is a regular occurrence on that estate. It could be drug dealers or anybody. Even the buses have stopped going through there because they get bricks thrown at them."All that was left of the car this morning was a black smear of ash and oil on the street, halfway between the two houses. Neither neighbour was at home and the short street was cordoned off by police at both ends.West Yorkshire police confirmed that no one was hurt and said that a range of possible reasons for the suspected arson was being investigated. He said: "The cause of the damage and any potential motive all form part of the current investigation."