Nobody can fail to have sympathy for Robert and Sally Dowler, whose 13-year-old daughter Milly was murdered by Levi Bellfield nine years ago.It can only be raw emotion that led the family to say they had paid "too high a price" for Bellfield's conviction last week, suggesting that they would have refused to testify and risked Bellfield's acquittal if they had known how they were going to be questioned in court. The one true insight in Dowler's statement comes when he says that he and his family were "incidental" to the trial. Though meant as a criticism, it suggests he has a better grasp of the criminal justice system than many who have commented on the case.It was a comment opportunistically exploited by the chief constable of Surrey, Mark Rowley. "The family's experience was so exceptionally traumatic that they now regret supporting the prosecution of Bellfield," he wrote in the Times. "While it is, of course, in the public interest to draw a line under an unsolved murder, I understand why they feel that way."If chief constables are going to condone the refusal of witnesses to give evidence, criminals will escape conviction, justice will not be done and the public will be put at risk.In our adversarial system, victims and their relatives are not parties to criminal cases. Defendants are prosecuted by the state, as personified by the sovereign — which is why the case was called R v Bellfield rather than Dowler v Bellfield. The Dowlers were in court as witnesses, not victims. They were not seeking compensation for their daughter's murder.Of course, witnesses should be treated with every courtesy and we must do what we can to ensure that they are not deterred from giving evidence: saying how dreadful it is doesn't help. The Crown Prosecution Service had a number of meetings with the Dowler family to tell them what might happen in court.Ultimately, the process is designed to ensure, above all, that every defendant receives a fair hearing. If a trial is unfair to the prosecution, the defendant may be wrongly acquitted. If it is unfair to the defence, a convicted defendant may get off on appeal.That is why Mr Justice Wilkie could not exclude evidence of Robert Dowler's character. The judge also rightly refused a prosecution request for reporting restrictions to be placed on that part of the evidence — the public needed to know just how evil Bellfield truly was in humiliating Milly's father — but reporters were still under no obligation to report the prurient details.Bellfield was entitled to put forward evidence that might persuade a credulous jury that the Dowlers bore some responsibility for their daughter's murder. The jury had little trouble in dismissing this preposterous notion, though the same cannot be said for Surrey police. After apparently concentrating their initial efforts on trying to implicate Dowler, they apologised for missed opportunities that might have led them to Bellfield before he committed other murders.Defence lawyers have always been allowed to cross-examine a witness about his previous misconduct in order to cast doubts on his truthfulness. Those powers have since been limited by section 100 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, which says that evidence about the bad character of anyone other than the defendant is admissible only if it is important explanatory evidence and had a substantial probative value.And Bellfield's counsel, Jeffrey Samuels QC, was required to follow his client's instructions to the extent permitted by the experienced judge. Even so, those close to the case say that Samuels did not go as far in cross-examination as his client had wanted him to.Geoffrey Wansell, whose book on the case, The Bus Stop Killer, will be published in August, said: "The Dowlers were naive to think that Bellfield would not do everything in his power to make their lives a misery, and took great pleasure in it. But the villain here is not Jeff Samuels but Levi Bellfield."Finally, what are we to make of the newspapers and broadcasters that brought Bellfield's trial to a premature end by publishing prejudicial material about him while the jury were still considering the remaining charge? Editors must have known that this would have jeopardised a verdict on the allegation that Bellfield had attempted to abduct Rachel Cowles, then 11, the day before Milly disappeared in 2002.No doubt those papers reckoned that a fine for contempt was a price worth paying for increased circulation. But what I had not expected to read was the defence of other newspapers put forward the next day by the Times.It was all the fault of Mr Justice Wilkie for allowing the jury to deliver its first verdict in public, the newspaper thundered. "Surely the judge erred in allowing the Dowler verdicts to be announced while the verdict on the abduction of Rachel Cowles had not been delivered. The collapse of that part of the case was rendered almost inevitable."So next time someone wants a temporary injunction postponing publication of something the public is entitled to read about, we can expect the Times to welcome it. And next time someone is convicted of shoplifting, we can expect the Times to blame the shop.