Belgian police have arrested one of the two prime suspects in the murder of the millionaire Indian-born businessman Amarjit Chohan and his family, the Metropolitan police disclosed yesterday.Mr Chohan's body was found floating in the sea off Bournemouth in April. His wife's body was found floating nearby in July. Her identity was established by DNA tests. Three other members of the family - sons Devinder, 19 months, and Ravinder, four months, as well as his wife's mother, Charanjit Kaur, 51 - have still not been found and are feared dead. The Metropolitan police charged one man with the family's murder - Peter Rees, 38, of Rowlands Castle in Hampshire - but they have been looking for two other men that they believe are involved.The Met disclosed yesterday that one - Kenneth Regan, 54, also known as Kenneth Avery - was arrested in the Flemish district of Bruges on Saturday and was being detained in the town. The Met refused to give details of his arrest for operational reasons. Belgian officials said he was likely to be extradited to the UK later this week. A third suspect, William Horncy, alias Smith, is also thought to be on the run in mainland Europe.Both men were seen boarding a ferry at Dover for France in May and were previously presumed to have been on French territory. Mr Regan, who is from Salisbury, knew Mr Chohan for eight years. He worked as a lorry driver at Mr Chohan's haulage company CIBA Freight. Employees received a letter purporting to be from Mr Chohan, 46, in March with a Calais postmark, claiming that he and his family were on holiday in India and handing over control of the company to Mr Regan. The letter was typewritten, which raised suspicions, since all of Mr Chohan's previous correspondence had been written by hand. Mr Rees has been charged with all five murders, as well as preventing the lawful burial of Mr Chohan, 46. He and his family vanished from their home in Heston in west London, on about Febru ary 16. A police investigation was begun when relatives became suspicious. Their murder is thought to be linked to Mr Chohan's business. His company imports foodstuffs from Africa, as well as a narcotic named qat, legal in the UK but banned in the US. Mr Chohan's company, based in Southall, employs 22 people and has an annual turnover of £3m to £4m. The Met has confirmed that it is investigating the financial dealings of Mr Chohan and any possible connections these might have to his death. Horncy, a former accountant, was jailed in 2000 for procuring false passports to order for criminals. He recruited drug addicts, derelicts and the homeless at £50 a time in exchange for personal details that could be used to obtain a passport. He served two years in prison before being released last year.