The family of a man found dead in the street with multiple injuries yesterday won a fresh investigation into his death after they alleged the police made a string of blunders in the case.Shaun Rodney, 21, was found dead in Ilford, east London, last June. He had suffered multiple injuries to his head and abdomen. His family say the Metropolitan police were too quick to conclude the death was suicide, and then they failed to carry out proper investigation. The family also claim that at one meeting a senior police officer told them to gather evidence themselves if they were not satisfied. The case, involving a black man, will be taken over by Scotland Yard's race and violent crimes task force, led by Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve. The day to day investigation will be led by Detective Chief Superintendent Hamish Campbell. The family and their supporters said that at a meeting yesterday, Mr Campbell had told them that the first investigation was wrong to have so quickly assumed the death was suicide. Scotland Yard was not able to comment on this claim last night. Geanette Rodney, mother of Shaun, said the family was pleased by the new investigation. She said: "The police made our grief worse by not investigating properly and coming to a quick assumption [of suicide].At a meeting we were told to get the evidence ourselves by a police officer." The family say the local talk is that Rodney was assaulted by a gang. The family and their supporters say that his clothes were handed back to them by officers without being tested, that there were delays in a forensic examination of the scene where the body was found, and that police took too long to view CCTV footage. The family say police told them they thought Rodney had jumped from the first-floor of a car park. Rodney had suffered from depression several years before, but the family say doctors had concluded he was cured. Since the report by Sir William Macpherson into the Stephen Lawrence murder found that institutional racism was behind the Met's failings, the force has been keen to show it has learned its lessons. But the Rodney case, say campaigners, is another case of continuing police failings. Scotland Yard's last night said the first investigation was not flawed and the new team would "examine specific lines of inquiry".