A Suffolk policeman who more than 20 years ago in Latin America shot dead a man who attacked his wife was found guilty of manslaughter yesterday and placed in custody.Michael Cheong, 43, was brought to justice after his wife, Sandra, broke her 19-year silence about the killing when their marriage broke down in 2003. Cheong was living in Guyana in 1982 when a local criminal, Brian Spencer, 20, attacked and robbed Mrs Cheong and her sister, both of whom feared they were about to be raped, the Old Bailey heard. He hunted down Spencer and shot him in the back as he ran from the scene. Although the shooting was not disputed, initial investigations resulted only in a conviction for unlawful possession of a firearm until the case was reopened in 1984 and Cheong fled back to Britain. The incident seemed to be behind him and he joined the British army in 1985 and then became a police constable in Suffolk in 2000. Two years ago his marriage went sour and Sandra turned him in to his local force. Cheong was charged with murder under a rarely used section of the 1861 Offences Against the Person Act that allows British nationals to be tried for crimes they commit while abroad. An Old Bailey jury yesterday cleared Cheong, of Woodbridge, Suffolk, of murder but convicted him of manslaughter on the grounds that firing the gun was unlawful. The court was told that in 1982 Mrs Cheong and her sister, Jackie, were attacked as they walked along an isolated track. "Spencer was a local criminal, well known to the police and he appeared to be under the influence of drugs," prosecutor Mark Dennis told the court. "As he confronted them he robbed Sandra of her jewellery including her wedding ring. It was made all the more frightening because although the motive was theft there were distinct fears for both women his intentions were about to turn to rape. "Jackie was able to break free and run off to raise the alarm, soon finding this defendant at his mother's home. On hearing what had happened and fearing for the safety of his wife, he fetched his stepfather's shotgun and together with his mother and Jackie headed off in a truck." Mrs Cheong was soon found, bruised and with her dress torn, and the defendant turned his attentions to finding the attacker. "That didn't take too long - they found him hurrying along a road some distance from the scene. The defendant was sitting in the open back of the truck with his loaded shotgun," Mr Dennis said. "As they closed in, the defendant shouted not to run. Spencer ignored that comment and started to run for an embankment. The defendant opened fire with the shotgun, shooting him in the back as he was trying to run away. His wife later said this was followed up by a second shot as he tried to get up." Cheong bundled Spencer into the back of his truck and drove to the local police station, where he says the wounded man was left for more than an hour before being taken to hospital, where he died. The court was told the police investigation in Guyana barely got off the ground because of a suspected cover-up by Cheong's family and the fact that Spencer was a petty criminal with no money or influence. "There was an apparent lack of concern for the victim, who after all could be easily dismissed as a criminal who had been shot having committed a serious offence against two women," Mr Dennis said. Records in Guyana also went missing. "[Cheong] left not only Guyana but also the shooting to start a new life ... [Sandra] had been told to keep quiet and had played, in her words, the dutiful and loyal wife. But as the years went on her loyalty to her husband became increasingly strained. By 2003 the marriage had irretrievably broken down, ending in bitterness and antagonism on both sides." Cheong was remanded in custody until sentencing on September 5.