Zoe Williams places public drunkenness, graffiti and foul language on a par with noisy students, loud posh voices, the ostentatiously designer-dressed and brand advertising (Being a yob is no crime, August 24).However much I sympathise with her prejudices, the comparison is ridiculous. Public drunkenness intimidates, frightens and keeps people like me out of town centres at night. Graffiti is an abuse of property. Public use of foul language offends, shocks and often frightens. Words that are acceptable in the public domain become available for use by anyone who can listen or read, including our five-year-old children and 80-year-old grandparents. The others are simply irritating, like Zoe Williams's article.   Bruce White Hitchin, Herts In a country where young people are demonised (note the number of under-21s in prison), I endorse Zoe Williams's irritation at the way young people's clothes are used as yet another way to criminalise them.   Roma Hooper  Twickenham, Middx If Max Hastings's article (David Blunkett can't take on the yobs by himself, August 22) was weakened by a Tory inability to identify the structural roots of individual behaviours, Zoe Williams's analysis is vitiated by a journalist's over-concern with surface indicators. Most people don't have her eye for the "significance" of clothing makes, but are concerned about boorish behaviour. And although the judge won't have seen it this way, the point about Fcuk is that it is an anagram that's more offensive than the word it evokes because it parades a sneaking, "knowing" cynicismin the face of any coherent social or political belief. No wonder New Labour hired the adman responsible for the slogan.   Michael AytonDurham I'm a war disabled pensioner. I have stopped trying to explain to the illegal parkers - often youngsters - in disabled bays because of the abuse we receive.   Adrifn Jones Llandeilo, Carmar Experience has taught me, I have to say, that coming home late at night on the train, it is better to be in the company of pin-striped bullies than lads with swearwords on their sweatshirts.   Ann Ferguson Guildford, Surrey