They came knocking at his door shortly before dawn. Just after 6am on 28 November last year, fraud officers investigating alleged corruption in football raided the luxury Dorset retreat of Harry Redknapp. The Portsmouth manager reacted in typically bullish fashion, condemning the heavy-handed approach of the police. His wife, Sandra, was described as 'absolutely petrified'.At the time Ladbrokes had put Redknapp at 9/2 to succeed Steve McClaren as England manager. The night after the raids, he had slipped to 10/1. Now with Fabio Capello ensconced in the England hot seat, Redknapp's lament over the job that got away might be the least of his worries. His name is included in a file of evidence passed by police last week to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) as part of an inquiry by the City of London Police's 158-strong economic crime unit into 'suspected conspiracy to defraud, false accounting and money laundering offences'. Now CPS lawyers must decide if the FA Cup-winning manager - or anybody else - should be among those to face charges following a two-year investigation - Operation Apprentice - into alleged football corruption. Yet the stakes for the City of London police are also high: its credibility has come under fierce scrutiny following the ignominious collapse of the £10m trial last December of the champion jockey Kieren Fallon and five other men for alleged race fixing. Police are keenly aware they cannot afford any blunders as they hand over evidence to lawyers tasked with deciding whether to charge some of the most colourful names in football, a move that would further tarnish the national game, which is already attracting continued criticism over high ticket prices and sky-high wages. Redknapp has already scored points against City of London police, winning a High Court battle last May by proving its officers raided his home unlawfully. For Redknapp, the fact that he is not the only high-profile name in the police files will count for little. Among the six other well-known figures mentioned in the police evidence is the so-called first lady of British football, Karren Brady, Birmingham City's managing director. Brady, 39, the most famous female in professional football, hit the headlines when she became MD at 23. Married to Canadian footballer Paul Peschisolido, she is also a non-executive director of Channel 4 and of Mothercare, and is on the board of Sport England. Also named in the files is the club's co-owner, David Sullivan, former proprietor of the Daily Sport and Sunday Sport, who has some £600m and is owner of the largest chain of sex shops in the UK. Last April both Sullivan and Brady were questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and false accounting. Five of those referred to in the police file are linked to one football club, Portsmouth. As well as Redknapp, Peter Storrie, the Portsmouth chief executive, also figures, along with former owner Milan Mandaric, now the Leicester City chairman, who was detained on suspicion of money laundering last November.Another is football agent Willie McKay, a former Glasgow bookmaker who began working on football transfers in the mid-1990s, specialising in bringing French-based players to English clubs. One of these - Amdy Faye, a Portsmouth player between August 2003 and January 2005 and current Rangers midfielder - is another of those mentioned in police documents passed on to prosecutors who must now instruct counsel to determine if the evidence is damning enough for charges to be brought. It is understood that police have examined concerns over McKay's dealings with Faye, whom the agent represents. All seven have vehemently denied any wrongdoing. Like Redknapp, Monaco-based McKay has railed against the conduct of the police, describing the raids on his own home as akin to a 'terrorist operation'. Some have attempted to ridicule the investigation itself. Three months ago, Sullivan called for the police to scrap its football corruption investigation, denouncing it as 'baseless' and a 'huge, huge waste of police time and money'. He accused the police of 'looking for anything to justify their time'. Shortly after Sullivan and Brady were arrested last April, Birmingham City insisted on the pair's innocence after they were questioned by officers for a reported five hours.The investigation11 January, 2006: Luton manager Mike Newell claims that offers of illegal payments are not uncommon.24 January, 2006: The Premier League announces that an inquiry will be launched into alleged bung payments.7 March, 2007: A report by former Metropolitan Police Commissioner Lord Stevens, identifying clubs breaking or ignoring rules on more than 50 of the 362 transfers investigated, is given to the Premier League.28 November, 2007: City of London police arrest five men, including Portsmouth chief executive Peter Storrie and manager Harry Redknapp. Both are released without charge the same day.19 March, 2008: Police launch raid on Birmingham City. Club announces that none of its employees was implicated. 10 July, 2008: City of London police hand over file of evidence after completing investigation into alleged football corruption.