Lord Hugh Matthews sent a couple of contract killers down from the dock of Glasgow's High Court last week with these words: 'The court will not allow people to treat this town, or any other, like old Chicago.' Well, sorry Lord Matthews, but what are you talking about? When Old Chicago grew up, Old Glasgow stayed exactly the same.What else are we to take from the forthcoming funeral of Tam 'the Licensee' McGraw? 'The Licensee'? Please. What do you do with a city that revels in the tales of Joe 'Bananas' Hanlon, Stuart 'Speccy' Boyd and Arthur 'Fat Boy' Thompson Jr. Even McGraw's brother-in-law is John 'Snads' Adams, his son William 'Winky' McGraw. Where's 'Babyface'?All cities have gangsters. Seventeen teenagers in London have been murdered this year. Nottingham, with its fearsome reputation, last week saw the jailing of Colin Gunn, who masterminded the murder of nurse Joan Stirland and her husband, John. He arranged the killing of a jeweller, corrupted the police and terrorised the city's Bestwood Estate. But he appeared, believe most of the residents, from nowhere.Manchester is currently suffering from gangland shootings of the grimmest sort. At the funeral of 24-year-old Ucal Chin last weekend, drive-by killers murdered another 23-year-old. Last year, a 15-year-old was killed. It is thought that there may be 500 gang members in the city.Worse still, there is the memory of Kenneth Noye. Although it is seven years since he was sent to jail for stabbing Stephen Cameron on an off-ramp of the M25, this scene (and the subsequent death of a witness, Alan Decabral, in a shooting) is so horrible it remains shocking. Noye seemed to be conjured up like some spectre from a netherworld. He was a dirty belch from the underworld that revealed something most right thinking people never knew existed, which suited the likes of Noye fine.Such reticence is not the Glaswegian way. Instead, they build 'ranch-type homesteads' in the East End, drink at fashionable bars (while murdering each other in Brewers Fayre) and have silly nicknames.I have always wondered what poor Paul Ferris did so wrong that he didn't have cheery moniker. Perhaps it is the price you pay in Barlanark for writing revealing books. Or perhaps not. McGraw and Ferris were antagonistic partly because McGraw killed Ferris's friends, partly due to an unflattering portrayal in Ferris's autobiography. That's gangster life in Glasgow. Not only do you have to put up with murder, you have to manage your literary feuds as well.What are we to make of all this? It isn't a joke, that's for sure. 'Fat Boy' was shot outside the family home. 'Speccy' died in a wreck in the south of Spain, while 'Bananas' was left shot in a car. According to the Daily Record, one of McGraw's last acts was to put £15,000 on the head of someone wanting a 'square go' with him.There is part of the Glasgow's psyche that loves all this. You don't have to scratch hard before someone boasts of knowing a gangster or two, or of standing shoulder to shoulder with an underworld figure in Roganos. It's not very responsible.So they will come out to remember McGraw. Hard men in dark macs will stamp and mutter and remember beside the grave. 'Aye, he was some man,' they'll say and look around for someone to intimidate, someone not taking the whole ludicrous caravan seriously enough. All this, even though McGraw was killed by Glasgow's worst killer - an exploding heart. Well, it's a culture. Of sorts.ruaridhnicoll@hotmail.com