For the police and prosecution it was an open-and-shut case. Only one mote remains to trouble the mind's eye. Motive. Why did he do it? Why did he do it so often? And why lovable old ladies?The best the investigative journalists and Panorama's psycho-sleuths could come up with was that he "wanted to play God". But Fred Shipman doesn't fit the part. Godlike he is not. Physically he recalls Raymond Briggs's proletarian Father Christmas. If it weren't bad taste, one might send one of those "Are they perhaps related?" letters to Private Eye. Shipman represents, as Hannah Arendt said of Eichmann, the utter banality of serial killing. He could, one feels, bore you to death. Most of us will have sought an explanation for Shipman's killing where we are most familiar with the phenomenon - crime fiction. Where, among all those imaginary murderers of page and screen, has one encountered anything like this horrible man? Has the human mind, in all its ingenuity, been able to invent anything like him? Hannibal Lecter - although he's another physician in gross contravention of his Hippocratic oath - doesn't fit. Too glamorous, brilliant, and interesting. Inappropriately enough, the analogue that comes to mind is a comedy - Frank Capra's Arsenic and Old Lace. Two dear spinster ladies invite lonely old men into their home and "put them to sleep" (as we say about sick pets) with their special elderberry wine. Why? Because the poor old fellows look so happy as they drift off into eternity. The Misses Brewster kill out of sheer niceness. At some point, as the circumstantial evidence piled up, Shipman must have thought of playing the Dolores Claiborne card. Stephen King's novel opens with the callous murder of an old woman by her housekeeper, as the guileless reader is led to believe. The motive seems clear - Dolores will benefit by a (forged?) will. The carer is a killer. It turns out that the real motive was euthanasia. Dolores was putting her beloved old mistress out of her misery. Shipman could have claimed that he too was easing his tired victims' exit from the vale of tears. They died with grateful smiles on their faces: for this relief, much thanks. The "morphine and woolly jumper" defence would have been unconvincing in a court of law but might have got him the ounce or two of sympathy that he will sorely need over the next few years. (Other prisoners, I suspect, treat killers of old ladies as mercilessly as abusers of little girls. I rather hope they do.) One of the few things one knows at this stage about Shipman's past is that his mother died prematurely, in pain, and that morphine eased her death. Is there perhaps, in the cellars of his mind, a mummified Mrs Bates? Are we in Psycho territory? Did Shipman, like that other incest survivor, Paul Morel in Lawrence's Sons and Lovers, actually kill his mother with an overdose of morphine? The unexpunged guilt of matricide would explain the repetitive nature of his crimes. In John McNaughton's chilling 1990 movie, Henry, Portrait of a Serial Killer, the psychopath hero tells his apprentice that if you are to succeed in this grisly line of work you must change your modus operandi  every time. Otherwise patterns build up and you're caught. If Shipman saw the movie, he didn't learn from it. Neither, unfortunately, did the Manchester police.  Perhaps there was no motive - at least, no felonious motive. One turns to the greatest of crime novels, Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment. Raskolnikov, a student, murders a harmless old woman. Why? Not because he wants her tatty possessions. He has no sexual or revenge urges. He neither likes nor dislikes his victim. His is "a gratuitous crime" - a test of his mettle. Raskolnikov wants to prove to himself that he is a Napoleon. Only the little people, as Leona Helmsley said, pay taxes. Great people are above the petty restrictions of criminal, tax and every other man-made law. Raskolnikov discovers that he is, after all, a boring little man. Punishment follows, not in the form of the gallows, but as conscience and humiliation. It would be nice to think that Shipman will, over the years, suffer terrible pangs of remorse, and perhaps even atone as best he can. Alas, that probably only happens in crime fiction.