A teenager has been sentenced to life behind bars with a minimum of 21 years for murdering a 15-year-old student as he tried to steal his bicycle in north London.Joshua Williams, 18, lashed out with a blade at Alan Cartwright as he rode along a busy main road in February with friends. At the time of the attack, which was caught on CCTV, Williams was on police bail on suspicion of possessing a four-inch lock knife, although he was never charged.Sentencing Williams at the Old Bailey on Friday, judge Rebecca Poulet QC said the teenager had committed a “gratuitous and senseless” act of violence and brought a tragic end to an innocent boy’s life.“It was motivated by acquisitive greed and the incident has rightly horrified and dismayed the public,” the judge said. “You have taken his life in a pathetic and unsuccessful attempt to steal a bike.”A jury took just three hours to convict Williams and on Friday he was sentenced to a minimum of 21 years for murder and eight years, to run concurrently, for conspiracy to rob.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alan Cartwright, who was stabbed to death by Joshua Williams in north London in February. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PAFamily members wept in court as Alan’s killer was sentenced. An onlooker in the public gallery shouted “scumbag” as Williams, who showed no emotion as he was sentenced, was led to the court cells.Alan’s death made headlines as “another tragic example of the knife crime that blights our society”, prosecutor Jonathan Rees QC had told the court.In just seven seconds, Williams and two accomplices stepped out in front of the cyclists and managed to take two bikes before the third robber approached Alan in the road and swung a knife at his chest in a “deliberate and gratuitous” stabbing.Despite being mortally wounded, Alan did not come off his bike and he managed to cycle on before collapsing a short distance along the road outside the Cally swimming pool in Islington.He was pronounced dead a short time later despite the efforts of a first aider, police and paramedics.After police released CCTV footage of the attack, Williams was identified in a comment on YouTube by his nickname Slimzy.Days later, his parents accompanied him to a police station to hand himself in, with Williams telling an officer: “It’s the right thing to do, isn’t it?”But he later claimed in court that he only went there to clear his name and he was at a youth club at the time of the killing. His alibi collapsed during the trial and jurors spotted that his Christian family did not all swear on the Bible when they appeared to back up his story.Speaking after the trial, Alan’s family called for more police stop-and-searches and tougher sentences to deter young people from possessing knives.His sister, Cherrie Ives, 22, said: “Now we have gone through it, we have noticed there is a lot more knife crime. It’s all down to stop and searches. There should be more.”Alan’s father, Alan Cartwright Sr, 44, and his mother, Michelle Watson, 40, said: “Alan was just a normal 15-year-old boy – loved his bikes, his family, being out with his friends. He was just a funny little kid, at the end of the day.”Watson said the effect of his death had been devastating for the family: “Life without Al is killing me as his mum. He was our loving boy – our only son.”Williams’ co-defendants, 18-year-old Shaquille Roberts and a 16-year-old, have pleaded guilty to the bicycle robbery and will be sentenced later.