Five miles and 14 years separate the killings that symbolised the ruin of childhood. It was inevitable that the death of Rhys Jones, shot as he walked home from football practice, would be compared with James Bulger's murder. The blurred image of a toddler holding the hand of the big boy who would kill him is seared in British memory as the portrait of innocence betrayed.Now other pictures fill the gallery of public nightmare: an 11-year-old child in an Everton strip; YouTube clips of the juvenile gun gangs of Croxteth; flowers piled in the pub car park where Rhys lay dying in his mother's arms. The link between the two boys seems more than an accident of geography. Rhys was born into a society reshaped by what happened on Merseyside in 1993.The death of James Bulger at the hands of two 10-year-olds was a crime so rare that nothing comparable has happened since. There were lessons to be learnt about the roots of aberration, but many onlookers preferred to see a nation corrupted to its soul. More than 270,000 signed a petition demanding that the killers, Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, be jailed for life. Spectators at their trial cried: 'Kill the bastards.'In Westminster, amid calls to reinstate the birch, the Prime Minister, John Major, urged society to 'condemn a little more and understand a little less'. Tony Blair called the killing a 'hammer blow against the sleeping conscience of society' and warned of 'moral chaos'. And so one terrible event would come to define Blair's premiership, in which the imagined slope to 'chaos' was paved with criminal justice bills and strewn with Asbos. While indictable offences by under-18s have fallen from 143,000 in the year before James Bulger died to 112,900, the number of children and young people behind bars almost doubled in a decade, making Britain the biggest juvenile jailer in western Europe.Youth justice, at its worst, became a template of the very brutality it sought to crush. Seventeen child prisoners died on this government's watch, two of them in the secure training centres announced on the day after James Bulger's funeral. One, Gareth Myatt, 15, choked to death while being restrained by officers.Quite what all this was for was never clear. Child homicide, like almost all crime, was falling. In 1995, 63 under-15s were murdered. By last year, that figure had dropped to 31. Nor was there any evidence that prison worked, as reoffending rates soared to more than 80 per cent. When Thompson and Venables emerged, seemingly transformed by eight years in local authority custody, they offered a rare model of redemption to a society in which many just kept on baying for their blood.And now jails are full, another child dies on Merseyside and we are back where it all began. This time, there might be some excuse for moral panic. So far, 18 children have been fatally shot or stabbed this year and guns, knives and alcohol weave into a threat that is more than dark imagining. Once again, last week's newspapers printed the roll call of the dead and showed the pictures of their young and hopeful faces. This murder spike, abnormal and unexplained, appears almost like a curse fulfilled, as if the demonised are suddenly conforming to the stereotype designed for them. Human life, it seems, is as cheap as hiring a gun.In Croxteth Park, Rhys Jones's mother weeps for her son and his father speaks of his disbelief at looking at a new school uniform that will never be worn. What liberal will dare feed them soothing statistics about the rarity of such heartbreak? Yet hysteria, among community leaders and politicians, is also absent or muted. True, David Cameron talks of anarchy, but that bespeaks the desperation of the Tory party rather than wider society.Gordon Brown's premiership may be shaped by his reaction to Rhys Jones's death, just as the Blair strategy was forged by James Bulger's murder. So far, Brown has sounded restrained, while Jacqui Smith has shunned the brimstone rhetoric of recent Home Secretaries. Both have avoided the myth that a better society can be bludgeoned into being by the fist of criminal justice.Around 30,000 children left school with no GCSEs on the day after Rhys Jones died. One in five young Britons is without qualifications, work or training. No crude determinism ordains that the poor, especially those with the wrong postcode, become the killers and the dead, but only a fool would deny a causal link between deprivation and the risk of carrying firearms for bravado or knives because of fear.You can try to curb the supply of guns, You can, and should, raise the price of alcohol, put more police on the streets and lock away the vicious few. But nothing will work until the government acknowledges that hopelessness is the most lethal weapon. As Richard Garside, director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, says: 'Violence breeds in unequal societies and Britain has become much more unequal over recent decades.'Blair knew that and so does Cameron. Brown seems inclined to go further. He wants better vocational education and the tough, well-funded training schemes that will put some children in work and keep others alive. He should not waver. It is not a catchy fix and it is not quick. It will not stem cries for vengeance or dry mothers' tears. It will not stop other children, in the months and years to come, dying where they fall in pools of blood. But it is the best and last solution left.More than a decade of crackdowns has failed to make society safer, happy or unafraid. James Bulger's murder marked the beginning of an age of retribution. Now, in the midst of outrage at the loss of another young boy's life, there is some recognition that society's monsters are often also frightened kids, allowed to fail and fall from infancy until they discover the awesome power of destroying the lives of others while also throwing away their own.We can read about the 'Nogzies' and the 'Crockies' of gangland Merseyside as if we have stumbled on some strange new species of wildlife, but society knows more than it admits about such tribes. The Hollywood swagger and the gangsta rap may be odious, but behind the facade there are sick or struggling parents, school exclusions and all the sad baggage of 'feral' youthThese are the children born into the society that mourned James Bulger and chose, in the name of humanity, to favour punishment over prevention. The results are everywhere. Now, amid the horror at a young boy's needless death, there is a dawning recognition that outcast children are not just some evil alien breed. They are our responsibility and our creation.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk