A former Metropolitan police detective is awaiting sentence after the trial of a cocaine-smuggling gang, part of whose £200m cargo was washed overboard in rough seas off the Irish coast.Michael Daly, 49, was said to be pivotal to the conspiracy, organising the logistics, purchasing a rigid-hull inflatable boat and finding "safe houses" to be rented near a remote disused pier where the drugs were to be brought ashore in County Cork.The gang tried to smuggle 62 bales – more than 1,500kg (3,300lb) – of the drug into the Irish Republic. The plan was foiled when their boat ran out of fuel in rough seas and was shipwrecked on 2 July 2007.Daly, whose address was given as "of no fixed abode" but who had family links to the west Cork area, and Alan Wells, 56, earlier admitted their parts in the conspiracy. They are due to be sentenced at a later date.The case can be reported for the first time today after a mechanic accused of arranging three Land Rovers for the gang was cleared of conspiracy to supply class A drugs by a jury at London's Blackfriars crown court.Mark Gadsden, prosecuting, had told the court that Daly was "one of the principals who was to have shared in the large profits which were to be made from this conspiracy". Wells assisted Daly in the logistics, he said.Video footage and photos were shown to the jury to give them an idea of the weather conditions, as three-metre high waves crashed against the rocky cliffs.Gadsden said: "The weather conditions were quite bad. It was blowing a force five or six gale and there was quite a strong swell. The rib [inflatable dinghy] got into difficulty, having run out of fuel, and ultimately it started to take in water and then had become submerged and dragged down by the engines so only the top part of the rib was jutting out of the water when it was spotted by the lifeboat men."The cocaine had been transported across the Atlantic on a catamaran yacht from Barbados to a handover point off the Irish coast, the court heard. The boat, the Lucky Day, had been bought in Florida for $110,000 in cash on 3 March 2007.It was sailed to the island of Margarita off the coast of Venezuela on 31 March. From there it set off with a Lithuanian crew on 25 May on its 3,000-mile journey, Gadsden said.The location where the drugs ended up on the morning of 2 July was not the intended landing site, the court heard. "Subsequent investigation by the Republic of Ireland police revealed a highly sophisticated and meticulously planned operation which centred on two rented properties from which many key exhibits were recovered."Fingerprints and other evidence were found at the "safe houses" in Farranamanagh and Letter West after the conspirators' plan went wrong, the jury was told.Gadsden said: "They were strategically located, overlooking the proposed landing site at an extremely remote disused pier."The court heard that Daly had bought the main drugs rib in October 2006 for the equivalent of £34,000 from a South African company, using a money transfer via a foreign currency bureau in Victoria Street, London. In 2007 the vessel, and a smaller rescue rib, were taken to Ireland from the UK, on the car ferry from Pembroke to Rosslare.Daly and Wells both managed to flee Ireland after the failed landing via the car ferry using Daly's false passport, the court heard. Police surveillance teams saw Daly at the Bridges pub in South Darenth, Kent, on 4 September. Both he and Wells were later arrested.Four others have either pleaded guilty or been convicted for their part in the attempted drug smuggling operation.