For much of his political life, Tommy Sheridan was the poster boy of the Scottish left. Tanned, clean-cut and a gifted orator, the anti-poll tax activist helped push socialism back into mainstream politics after decades on the margins.Through the 1990s, Sheridan established his credentials on the left by going to jail as part of a poll tax non-payment campaign and for civil disobedience at Faslane nuclear submarine base near Glasgow. Sheridan led from the front on picket lines, soon relishing the title of "socialist firebrand".Once prominent in Militant, the hard-left faction within the Labour party, he became a pivotal figure in a new leftwing socialist alliance which became the Scottish Socialist party (SSP) in 1996. Three years later, Sheridan was elected its first member of the Scottish parliament for Glasgow, campaigning for a republican, independent Scotland.In 2003, the SSP exploited growing disenchantment with New Labour by winning six seats at Holyrood through proportional representation. Sheridan and his colleagues took a "worker's wage" of roughly £24,000, donating the rest of their salaries to the party.It seemed that traditional socialism – once a central element of Scottish urban politics, particularly in Glasgow – was having a renaissance.Despite its harmonious public face, though, the SSP was split by bitter personal jealousies and political divisions. There was even resentment over money: in 2004, the SSP was overstaffed and heavily in debt, and Sheridan helped bail the party out.Then, in October and November 2004, at the height of the party's popularity, the News of the World printed a series of lurid articles accusing Sheridan of adulterous affairs, "three-in-a-bed" sex sessions and visiting a swingers' club in Manchester.According to his critics inside the party, these articles confirmed what even his close allies feared was true. There were persistent rumours about Sheridan's sex life. They claimed he even admitted the first articles about a "married MSP" were accurate at an emergency meeting of the party's executive committee. Yet, against their advice, Sheridan stood down as convenor but sued the NoW.Those divisions completely split the SSP, with only one other MSP, Rosemary Byrne, supporting Sheridan. For the next 18 months, the party limped on in public as he prepared for his defamation trial against the Sunday tabloid – a case most observers believed he would lose. Yet on 4 August 2006, Sheridan stunned the NoW and his opponents by winning the libel trial by a majority verdict, winning £200,000 in damages.But the libel action made the true scale of the party's feud absolutely clear.Over the course of both trials 16 senior party figures, including its current convenor Colin Fox and three other former MSPs, testified against him. Sheridan accused them of a conspiracy: many were members of an internal SSP grouping, the United Left, which he accused of being an "anti-Sheridan faction".Within days of defeating the NoW, the split became official: Sheridan announced the formation of a new socialist party, Solidarity, along with Rosemary Byrne and a small group of loyalists from within the SSP.They returned to Holyrood, to briefly resume their political careers. But the libel action and the feuding had devastated the reputations of both parties. In 2007, despite the then Labour government's unpopularity under Tony Blair, all six SSP and Solidarity MSPs lost their seats, including Sheridan.With his celebrity still intact, if not his reputation, Sheridan embarked on a media career, becoming a Sunday pundit on the Edinburgh-based commercial radio station Talk 107, taking a one-man show to the Edinburgh fringe, and enjoying one short appearance on national television.In early 2009, Sheridan took part in Celebrity Big Brother, following the example set by his admirer and ally George Galloway, for a rumoured fee of £100,000. Goaded by criticism of this decision, Sheridan argued he needed the money to pay the costs of him studying for a full-time law degree at college: "It's an honest offer of employment. I'm not crossing a picket line. I'm not hurting anyone," he said.That law degree – interrupted for a year by the perjury trial – could yet prove useful.Sheridan still has legal battles to fight: the NoW is preparing an appeal against his libel victory in 2006 when it expects to overturn that judgment and recoup the £200,000 he was awarded.Sheridan is preparing a countersuit: he is planning to join a court action in London against the Metropolitan police for failing to alert him that the NoW had allegedly hacked his mobile telephone in 2004. If he wins that case, Sheridan could again turn his sights on the Sunday tabloid. One thing seems certain, Tommy Sheridan is not about to vanish from the public gaze.• This article was amended on 23 December 2010. The original referred to Rosemary Kane. This has been corrected.