A 15-year-old boy was arrested in a dawn raid today by police investigating the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor, the 13th person to be picked up in connection to the November 27 stabbing.The youth was arrested at an address in Camberwell and was being questioned at a London police station, said a Scotland Yard spokeswoman. The 15-year-old, who is black, had not been arrested before, the spokeswoman said. Police also searched another address this morning but made no further arrests.The arrest is the latest development in the investigation into the murder of Nigerian-born Damilola, who bled to death in a stairwell on a run-down estate in Peckham, south London after being stabbed in the leg as he walked home from an after-school computer class. He dragged himself 100 yards along the street before collapsing. Last Thursday, 11 boys aged between 12 and 16 were arrested in London in a series of dawn raids involving about 200 officers. Six of them were released on bail pending further inquiries. Another, aged 14, was released with no further action to be taken. A 39-year-old woman was also arrested and questioned over Damilola's death. The spotlight fell on this already high-profile case again today when it emerged that a police officer whose job as schools liaison officer in the area of south London where Damilola lived was about to be axed shortly before the murder. PC Ian Wright worked to improve relations between police and youngsters on the Peckham and Camberwell beat, and headteachers were furious when the Metropolitan Police announced last month that his post would be withdrawn. Scotland Yard said PC Wright had instead been "seconded" to a team designed to tackle violent crime among young people. Today the Police Federation said they were concerned that important work to build trust between officers and local youngsters will seriously damaged by PC Wright's move. Among the schools on the constable's patch was the Oliver Goldsmith primary school in Peckham, which was attended by Damilola before his fatal stabbing.The chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, Glen Smyth, said: "PC Wright built up such a good relationship with the children that when they were told he was being withdrawn, the headteachers of the schools wrote independently of each other saying they were desperate to keep him. "If these tragic events hadn't taken place he would have gone. Even with his new role we are very concerned about the impact it will have on relations with young people in the area." PC Wright, who is qualified as a teacher, concentrated on primary schools in the area, added Mr Smyth. "It is important to catch them early because by the time they go to secondary schools you have lost them. "This area has a large refugee population and some of them may come from countries where policing is done down the barrel of a gun. It's vital to build trust for the police in those circumstances, because these children could become the gang members of the future," said Mr Smyth.The move of an officer from a community role was typical of the shortages being suffered by the Met, which is 3,250 officers below strength, he added. A Met spokesman said: "As part of our creation of a team to help tackle youth crime on the estate it was important to ensure that this team was linked closely with schools that had a catchment area that included the North Peckham Estate. "Because of Ian's local knowledge and expertise he has been seconded into this team for three months. This team reports directly to the inspector for the Peckham and Camberwell sector and so, although he has changed his role, he will still be working in the same area with the same schools, but with a particular focus on violent crime and young people." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said two schools in his Southwark North and Bermondsey constituency covered by PC Wright had protested at his withdrawal. He said: "The police are under such pressure that these sorts of jobs are jobs they have to consider losing in order to do a simple response job. This is exactly the sort of job we need people to do - police officers in schools, police officers becoming role models for youngsters are crucially important. The reality is that they are desperately short of police."A Met spokesman said that PC Wright's job had been re-advertised, although he was free to re-apply for the post, which he has held for 10 years. "The decision to re-advertise his post was taken two weeks before Damilola's murder," the spokesman said. The time taken to fill the vacancy would depend on "the quality of the candidates" but it would, he hoped, be fairly quick.Related special reportSpecial report: Policing crimeRelated 18 December: Damilola parents slam Hague 15 December: Police in Damilola murder case arrest 11 youths 13 December: Police in Damilola case make appeal to youths11 December: Second post-mortem to be carried out on Damilola8 December: Thousand gather to mourn Damilola2 December: Father tells of bitterness and lossFirst report: Death of a schoolboyThe CCTV shots Useful linksMetropolitan policeLondon Borough of SouthwarkLocal media: South London onlineDownload Damilola's school's Ofsted report