Detectives investigating the stabbing of a special constable in north-west London four months ago have recovered the murder weapon, with traces of DNA believed to be that of her killer, Scotland Yard revealed yesterday.Officers are also trying to find a car they suspect is connected to the murder of Nisha Patel-Nasri, who died outside her home in Wembley on May 11. The Audi A4 saloon was captured by a nearby CCTV camera before and after the murder.Mrs Patel-Nasri, 29, a hairdresser and volunteer policewoman, was killed by a single stab wound to the groin.Neighbours found her injured in the street outside her house in Sudbury Avenue just before midnight. She was barefoot in her nightdress and carrying a torch. She had been stabbed with a knife from her own kitchen.Police have not yet established a definite motive. But they believe she may have gone outside to confront burglars who may have been trying to get into the house or steal the expensive cars parked outside. The murder may be linked to an incident the previous week when three men attempted to break in through the front door.But they have not ruled out the possibility that Mrs Patel-Nasri's death may be connected to someone she came into contact with through her work as a special constable or somebody who had had dealings with her husband Fadi Nasri's limousine business. Detective Superintendent Julian Worker, who is leading the investigation, stressed that Mr Nasri, who went out to meet friends shortly before the murder, was not a suspect.Det Supt Worker said the murder weapon and the Audi A4 were major leads. For operational reasons, he refused to disclose when, where or how police recovered the 30cm (12in) John Lewis kitchen knife. The sample on the knife is not clear enough to run through the national DNA database. But Det Supt Worker is sure that it would enable forensic experts to either provide a match or eliminate a suspect from inquiries."What we have got today are two elements that take an investigation a great deal further forward," he said. "All I need now is the name of the person responsible."He is urging members of the public to come forward with the names of anyone they think may have been involved. Confidentiality will be respected and there is a £40,000 reward for information which leads to the killer being caught.Det Supt Worker also wants to hear from anyone who knows anything about the distinctive Audi A4, which was caught on CCTV making suspicious manoeuvres near the murder scene.The car, which is a light colour, possibly grey, with a contrasting black underseal below the doors, had two lights on the rear number plate, one of which was not working on the night of the murder. There may also be some kind of blemish on the centre rear area of the roof, perhaps a radio aerial socket, which is unusual as most cars of this type have internal aerials.The Audi first appeared on CCTV about an hour before the murder, travelling along Harrowdene Road, which is parallel to Sudbury Avenue, where Mrs Patel-Nasri lived, and about half a mile away as the crow flies. It approached a junction and appears to have turned left into East Lane, but less than a minute later it was spotted coming back round the corner into Harrowdene Road. A man was also spotted running almost alongside the Audi and detectives want to speak to him.About eight or nine minutes before the murder, another man was seen walking from East Lane to Harrowdene Road, and police think he could also be a valuable witness. About two or three minutes after the murder, the Audi was spotted again coming up Harrowdene Road towards the junction with East Lane. This time the car stopped short of the lights for several seconds, then pulled up at the lights, which were red, but edged forward, its driver seemingly impatient to get though them. When the lights changed it sped off to the right towards Preston Road.Det Supt Worker said his officers were trying to eliminate other Audi A4s manufactured between 2001 and 2004, with 6,000 throughout Britain, including 1,000 in the London area.Since her death Mrs Patel-Nasri has been frequently praised by colleagues as a lively and dedicated officer, committed to helping her local community.TimelineMay 11 2006 Mrs Patel-Nasri is murdered outside her home in Sudbury Avenue, Wembley, late at night. She dies of a stab wound to the groinMay 12 It emerges that the special constable disturbed a burglar just days before she was killed, and later that a threat was made to her husband earlier in the year. Officers say they are hunting a man in a hooded top seen running from the scene by neighboursMay 15 Police reveal a 30cm knife is missing from the block in Mrs Patel-Nasri's kitchenJune 1 More than 100 officers form a guard of honour in tribute to the special constable at her funeralSeptember 12 Police reveal that they have found the murder weapon and have DNA material of the suspected killer