A teenager was yesterday ordered to serve a minimum of 21 years in jail for shooting dead a youth worker he wrongly accused of stealing his gold neckchain, in a case the judge said typified Britain's gun culture. Seventeen-year-old Junior Glasgow rode into a cul-de-sac in Brixton, south London, on his motor scooter, pulled out an automatic pistol and opened fire on 18-year-old Nathan Foster. The victim was hit six times, one bullet passing through his heart. The killing occurred on an August evening last year. Foster was sitting on a wall chatting to friends when Glasgow arrived determined to exact mistaken revenge. Yesterday Judge Peter Rook sentenced Glasgow to life and told him he would have to serve at least 21 years behind bars. There were cheers and claps from the public gallery at the Old Bailey as the sentence was read out."At your young age," the judge said, "you have become part of the gun culture which is a blight on some of our big cities. You carried out this terrible revenge on someone you mistakenly thought was responsible. You carried out a cold-blooded, premeditated execution in a public place." Glasgow, from Brixton, did not have the "emotional maturity" to deal with being robbed of his prized £800 chain, the judge added. His reaction was "wholly out of proportion". Foster's older sister Shannel told the judge: "Nathan was killed by a coward. [Nathan] was my best friend and my favourite brother." She read an impact statement from his girlfriend, Rochelle Martin, mother of his baby son, Raheem. It said: "You aim at an individual but did not see anyone else standing behind. You have broken so many lives and hearts." Michael Shorrock QC, prosecuting, told the jury: "The defendant thought that Nathan Foster had been in some way involved [in the theft]." But it was another youth, Kori Bell, 18, who six hours earlier had stepped in front of the scooter. "During this altercation, Kori Bell somehow removed the defendant's chain from round his neck," said Shorrock. A witness said the defendant did not say anything but had stared at Foster. "His way of getting even was to arm himself and shoot him. It was a cold-blooded, premeditated act of revenge," Shorrock said. A witness said he had "red in his eyes". He was told that there was no one there who had taken his chain but replied: "You lot are trying to undermine me." He took out a gun from his pocket, aimed at Foster and fired. The defendant, who denied murder, was arrested eight days later in Cambridge. Foster's mother, Vanetta, Shannel and Rochelle all paid tribute to him. They said: "Nathan was entering the prime time of his life with his young family, working in a job he loved and had a network of close friends and family around him. All these positive things were taken from him at the tender age of 18. "Nathan had a real passion for working with children and young people and believed, like him, they were misunderstood." He had joined the Ebony Horse Club at the age of seven and won competitions. He then used his experience to work with other city children to get experience of exercising with horses. "This earned him loads of respect and Nathan was seen as a positive role model within the local community," they said.