 A couple who inflicted more than 70 injuries on a three-year-old boy left in their care are facing life sentences after being convicted today of murder and child cruelty.Ryan Lovell-Hancox died on Christmas Eve 2008, two days after he was taken to hospital with a serious brain injury.Weeks before his death, his mother, Amy Hancox, 21, from Bilston, West Midlands, left her son with Christopher Taylor, 25, and his girlfriend, Kayley Boleyn, 19, who is her cousin.Hancox said she had paid the couple £40 a week to look after Ryan because she wasn't coping and wanted to decorate her home in time for Christmas.When questioned by detectives, Taylor and Boleyn claimed that Ryan had slipped in the bath, although he had 70 injuries on his body. Boleyn changed her story when shown photographs of the child's bruises and then blamed her boyfriend. They both denied murder and child cruelty.Detectives believe the killers hid Ryan from his mother on the day before he suffered the fatal injury as he had severe bruising in the shape of a handprint that would have exposed their neglect.Police say the couple committed the offences together and may even have egged each other on.Christopher Hotton QC, prosecuting, told Wolverhampton crown court that over a period of weeks, Ryan was neglected, abused and beaten. Hancox had said she would visit her son daily, but sometimes did not call for up to three days at a time.She said she had noticed bruises on Ryan's ear a week before he died, but that Boleyn had told her they were caused when he was playing.Hancox said she had suffered depression and self-loathing, tremendous guilt and loneliness since Ryan's death, adding that she was made to feel as if she were on trial."My crime was naivety," she said. "Kayley is related to my family. She never showed any signs of nastiness." She said she was so glad when Boleyn offered to look after Ryan as she knew she "would get the decorating done for Christmas".Ryan was taken to hospital and transferred to Birmingham children's hospital after an ambulance was called to the couple's bedsit on 22 December.A housing support officer saw him in the hours before Taylor and Boleyn launched the fatal attack. The officer, who gave Boleyn a lift to a job centre, assumed Ryan was asleep after noticing one of his legs sticking out from under bedding.Ryan's father, John Lovell, 24, said in a statement: "Nothing is going to bring my son back, let me see his smile, hear his laugh or feel the warmth of his love. I cannot put in words how I feel about the two people who took my child's life. He was a three-year-old child who could not defend himself." Lovell said everyone loved his son.Detective Inspector Graeme Squire, who led the murder inquiry, said only Taylor and Boleyn knew what they did and they had given various versions of events."The initial version of events from both was that he had fallen in the bath, hitting his head," he said. Police weren't convinced "because of the sheer number of injuries and the nature of the injuries".Asked to describe the actions of Ryan's killers, Squire said: "It's my belief that the abuse escalated, certainly in the week prior to 22 December."The two people who know exactly what happened to Ryan are Christopher Taylor and Kayley Boleyn — I think it was just an incredibly bad combination of people. The word 'cruel' sums them both up."The couple showed little emotion when the unanimous verdicts were returned, although Boleyn appeared on the verge of tears. They will be sentenced at a later date.Wolverhampton City Council is currently awaiting the findings of a serious case review into Ryan's death. It is known that the toddler was not the subject of a child protection plan and was not judged to be "at risk" by childcare professionals who came into contact with him.It is believed that the serious case review is scrutinising social services' contact with Boleyn, as well as the actions of housing support officers working for a charity.