The Independent Police Complaints Commission has been asked to investigate a shooting in which a taxi driver who held various gun licences and had previously been referred to police shot and killed three women family members in their home late on Sunday.Michael Atherton, 42, is understood to have begun shooting at his family late on New Year's Day at their house in County Durham. The alarm was raised by Laura McGoldrick, 19, who clambered out of a bedroom window during the incident, which left four dead. Police said Atherton shot and killed his partner Susan McGoldrick, 47, her sister Alison Turnbull, 44, and her niece Tanya Turnbull, 24, before turning the gun on himself.Atherton's body and those of the three women were found in "close proximity" downstairs in the semi-detached home in Horden, Peterlee.Questions were being asked as to why a man with a previous history of threatening to self-harm, was allowed to keep shotguns.Police said Atherton had a licence to keep three shotguns and three other section one weapons, which require greater authorisation than a shotgun.Assistant Chief Constable Michael Banks said: "I can confirm that a resident at the address was a lawful holder of shotguns and firearms licences and we cannot confirm at this stage whether any of those weapons that were lawfully held have been used."The matter has been voluntarily referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission by Durham police, as they had previous contact with the family four years ago over a minor incident.Although the motive is unclear, there is some suggestion among locals that Atherton and McGoldrick had recently separated and reunited.The area is an economically deprived former mining community overlooking the North Sea.Laura McGoldrick's close friend Kirsty Pearce, 21, a young mother, said she knew of previous violence involving Michael Atherton and his wife. "Laura used to be scared of him," she claimed."You wouldn't think by looking at him, though, because he seemed like a down-to-earth taxi driver. But her mum was a lovely person – very down to earth."Although horrified by what had happened, Pearce said she was relieved that Laura, who is a performing arts student, had escaped alive.Durham police said the shots were fired within seconds of each other and a firearms unit was on the scene within 20 minutes. A mobile police station was set up nearby and the road was cordoned off. Officers said there had been no disturbance reported prior to the shootings.It is understood that the family had been out at a nearby social club earlier in the day, thought to be Horden Victory working men's club.Detective Superintendent Paul Goundry, who is leading the inquiry, said he did not believe the family were in the house for long before the shots were fired. "At this stage, we are not looking for anyone else," he said. One person who had initially been arrested in connection with the shooting was released without charge.Goundry added: "In relation to the incident we will be looking to make a voluntary referral to the IPCC."A neighbour said: "I was walking home from work at quarter past 12 and the first thing I saw was a guy running round covered in blood. He was shouting: 'Someone's been shot in the head.' I knew the family quite well, no one can believe it's happened."Susan McGoldrick was the mother of Laura, 19, and stepmother of Micky, who is 16 or 17. She worked at the Aldi supermarket in Peterlee.Her brother, Bobby Hardman, said his sister was a wonderful person and described how the family had been left "numb from head to toe".Mark Walker, a 27-year-old resident, said he was woken at around 11.30pm. "I could hear a man shouting, 'She's still alive, she's still alive'," he said."A little later I heard police sirens and an ambulance."At the nearby Tin Pot pub, a friend of Atherton's said he had recently taken up an allotment near to his home and he was a keen gardener."I spoke to him all the time," he said. "He liked a drink or two and he was a lovely fella. I know he had been separated from his wife a while back, so something must have gone wrong."The lads from the Victory club saw him yesterday and he arranged to go shooting with one of them. It is a shocking and terrible thing that has happened."Across the road at the Horden Victory working men's club, a group of men in their 50s jeered loudly at the media gathered at the scene. The proprietor of Phillips Taxis, where Atherton worked, declined to comment.One woman, who did not want to be identified, said: "I always called them Mike and Sue. I am devastated, totally devastated. Two nice people, I did not think anything like this could happen. We are all just shocked, just stunned."