Let us get this bit out of the way. Craig Sweeney, who abducted and sexually assaulted a three-year-old girl, is scum; none of us should care a fig for him or his future, save that it be one of lengthy incarceration and, if someone were to throw away the key, nobody would much mind.Nevertheless, among the things of which he stands accused, one provokes misgivings: the claim that, by dint of the attack, Sweeney has inflicted irreversible, lifelong damage upon the child.Certainly, the view that he must have done so quickly became the consensus. 'Ruined our lives for ever,' said her mother. 'She will never be the same again.' It was a prediction endorsed by the wisdom of newspaper columnists, apparently competent to declare that the child's life is to be, variously, 'one of assured misery' and 'with a stain that will spread throughout her life, poisoning her relationships'. To all of which I can only say: not in my case it didn't.It happened that I was also one of the few children every year who are abducted and sexually assaulted. It was a classically grisly episode, too, involving a stranger and bushes and a fiercely large knife against a slender 10-year-old neck. Should I care to recall it, not surprisingly I can: the jumble of thoughts, among them: 'Oh no, this is what they meant by not talking to strangers', and the jumble of terrors, though it is worth saying that the fear of the knife and its deadly potential greatly outweighed any concern over the genital probing.The bigger point, however, is that, by and large, I don't recall it. Unless I dredge it up, as now, for the purposes of debate - the better to slap down those who say I know not of what I speak - it sits back there in the dusty confines of childhood upsets, not even the worst among them; a sensible, manageable position wholly attributable, I believe, to the way my parents dealt with it.They were, naturally, appalled, but, unlike some commentators today, not once did they adjust their view of me. I was not 'defiled' or 'damaged goods' or in need of being 'cleansed' by church or shrink. Quite the reverse; I was precious and loved and they were so very relieved that I was still there, alive and with them.I was not even to be traumatised by quizzing from specially trained, sensitive police ladies; my even more sensitive parents knew this would, for me, increase the significance of the assault, so they did not report it to the police. (I know, I know. But they saw it as putting their kid first and the wider good second. Plenty do.)Thus I was able to regain confidence and to move on, a luxury that I fear might be denied Craig Sweeney's prey, for if her parents feel able to tell reporters and, hence, people far and wide that she is permanently damaged, whatever is she going to see in their eyes when they meet her gaze?Further: if Sweeney had broken her leg, would the public reaction be the same? We know already of the public thrall to paedophilia, driven by the synonym wherein 'of sexual organs' means 'sexy'; is this leading to violations becoming relative, consigning even child victims of sexual assault to feel dirtier than victims of stabbing?If that is so, then when it comes to the spoiling of an entire life, while Craig Sweeney is clearly a culprit, he will not, equally clearly, be the only one.