Parents whose children attended a nursery where a string of child sex attacks took place were waiting last night to see if the woman responsible would end their agony and reveal the identities of her victims.Nursery worker Vanessa George and her accomplices Colin Blanchard and Angela Allen face lengthy jail terms after admitting a string of sex offences yesterday.The three – who had started a bizarre relationship online – met for the first time in the dock at Bristol crown court, where they pleaded guilty to abusing young children and sharing the images of that abuse with each other.Watched by about 40 relatives of children who attended Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth where George worked, the judge, Mr Justice Royce, made clear he wanted her to reveal the names of her victims before the three return to court to be sentenced next month.Addressing Nicolas Gerasimidis, George's counsel, the judge said: "Your client must know, it seems to me, who she has abused and who she has not. If I were a parent, I would want to know whether my child was abused or not. Would it not be decent for her to indicate who she has abused?"Police have been unable to identify any of the children because their faces are not shown in the images and in her five police interviews George has refused to say who she assaulted and photographed with her camera phone. Detectives say that without George's help, they almost certainly will never identify the children, leaving a whole community in limbo.After the hearing, police said that at one stage there were fears that more than 300 children may have been victims of George, a 39-year-old mother of two, though this has been narrowed down to about 30.It also emerged there had been online discussion between the three about abducting a child. Officers believe this may have been nothing more than a fantasy but expressed relief that finding and catching them had halted any nascent plots.It was also revealed that Blanchard, 38, a businessman from Littleborough, near Rochdale, was cautioned by police in 2002 after being caught with indecent images of children that he had downloaded from the internet. He spent five years on the sex offenders' register before being removed from it routinely.A serious case review has been launched to look at how George, previously considered a stalwart of her community in Devon, was able to abuse children. There have been calls for the use of camera phones in nurseries to be looked at again and for more checks to make sure workers do not get such easy and private one-to-one access with children.Child protection experts say the case highlights that child sex offenders are not only men – and not only people on the fringes of society. It is also a vivid reminder that crimes like this are not just about images but about real abuse on real children.Remarkably, when they walked into the dock it was the first time the three abusers had been together. Until then their relationship had been only in cyberspace.Parents and relatives of children who had attended the nursery craned their necks to see George, Allen and Blanchard. The three did not look at each other.It took more than 20 minutes to read out all the offences. As the first charges, relating to Allen, were put to her, one woman in the public gallery began to weep. There was a gasp when the first charge – assault by penetration of a girl – against George was read out. One man began to cry, another walked out.George admitted three assaults by penetration and four more sexual assaults. Four charges related to girls, three to boys. She also pleaded guilty to six charges of making and distributing indecent images. In all, she made almost 150 images – and sent most of them on to her co-defendants.Blanchard admitted one assault by penetration, one sexual assault and 17 offences of taking or making indecent photographs and distributing them. He admitted one further offence of possessing extreme pornographic photographs involving a dog.Allen admitted three sexual assaults, one assault by penetration and one charge of distributing indecent photographs.Police have found no evidence that anyone else was involved, suggesting the three were not part of a wider ring but a strange, enclosed group of three.Each has claimed they met via the social networking site Facebook. George, married for more than 20 years, became fascinated with meeting men on the internet before encountering Blanchard online.George said Blanchard steered their contacts towards child abuse by claiming he had been sexually assaulted as a child. Their chat became ever more explicit and she claims he encouraged her – perhaps even groomed her – to assault the children she had access to.George began to find time alone with children, sometimes when she changed their nappies. She used objects found at the nursery in the assaults but also smuggled a sex toy in for at least one attack.Later Blanchard introduced George to Allen, also 39, an unemployed former prostitute from Bulwell, Nottingham. The three of them began swapping fantasies and photographs of abuse.Police feel the three egged each other on, daring one another to commit ever darker acts, record them and share them. Blanchard told both women he loved them – and they said they loved him.Though both George and Allen now claim they were manipulated by Blanchard, police see them as equal partners. The judge also made clear he felt George could simply have said no to Blanchard.He pointed out there was an "enormous" number of contacts by telephone, email and MSN messaging between Blanchard and George (10,000 from the end of December 2008 to June when they were caught), which suggested a "degree of enthusiasm" on George's part.The three were found out after a work colleague of Blanchard's, suspecting him of theft, peeped at his computer and found images of child abuse. The colleague told police. A glimpse of a Little Ted's nursery badge in one picture led officers to Plymouth. George was arrested and the nursery closed. Later detectives also identified the second woman, Allen.Speaking before the hearing, one mother, who fears one or both of her young children could have been abused, said: "When I found out what had happened I felt sick. I was so angry I wanted to kill her [George]."My children have been showing symptoms of abuse. They are withdrawn, showing bad behaviour and wetting themselves."She is angry that George was able to commit the offences. "The nursery was not run properly. The problem was there were about 10 staff and they are all good friends – so standards got really slack."The parent said she had been told that George was manipulated by Blanchard. "She did everything he told her to do and it went from there," said the parent, "It seems he had some sort of spell over her."As the three were led away, one man in the public gallery waved sarcastically and another ran his thumb along his throat. The majority remained calm and dignified but the waiting goes on.