Hundreds of men have been attacked after their drinks were spiked with 'date-rape' drugs by gangs targeting victims in pubs and clubs across Britain.At least three men are thought to have fallen victim to a gang last month after being approached by an apparently friendly stranger. It is believed their drinks were spiked with the 'date-rape' drug GHB before the victims were taken elsewhere and attacked. At least one of the victims was drinking in a mainstream pub when he was targeted, but the others were approached in gay venues. Graham Rhodes, chief executive of the Roofie Foundation, a charity for victims of drug-rape, said: 'Men are the victim in 10 to 15 per cent of cases reported to us. That is 730 cases. Nearly always the perpetrator is male and in these cases there is a much higher proportion of gang rape.' The drug GHB, or 'liquid ecstasy', can be dissolved in drinks and is undetectable by taste or smell. Used recreationally by many club users, it is suspected to have been used in these incidents. It can eventually leave the victims unconscious and with such severe memory loss they have no memory of what has happened to them. Rape is often portrayed as a crime against women only and cases are rarely reported by gay men. Keith Cowen, community safety spokesperson for the gay rights charity Outright Scotland, said: 'This is a huge problem for every one. We spoke to people at sexual health clinics and they are telling us it happens all the time - among heterosexuals and among gay people. 'A lot of the campaigns are along the lines of "watch your handbag and watch your drinks" - they are focused towards women. The fact is anyone who drinks is potentially a victim.' Police in Edinburgh, where the most recent attacks took place, have a campaign over the festive period warning people of the risk of drug-rape that will reach into all risk areas, including gay venues. There will also be information on how to report incidents to encourage people to come forward. They use a remote reporting system enabling people to report crimes through a third person. Across the UK, campaigns are being careful to be non-gender specific. Dug Degnin, service manager of Mankind UK, a charity supporting male victims of rape, said: 'These attacks are happening across the country. With drugs like GHB and rohypnol more available on the streets, they will be more prolific. Men are told as children they should be brave and deal with these things, but reporting it is the bravest thing they can do.' Police in London estimate that one in 10 men fail to report rapes, as opposed to one in five women. In Edinburgh, police chiefs have arrangements to allow the victims of homophobic attacks to report the crimes. The remote reporting system uses agencies such as Gay Men's Health and the Lothian Gay and Lesbian Switchboard so that individuals feel comfortable giving information on assaults. One of the problems Rhodes points to in raising awareness is a lack of willingness of large pub and club chains to offer financial support to campaigns. One group that has done this is the Castle Leisure Group in Scotland, which has run an awareness campaign in all its venues across Europe. If customers leave drinks unattended, they will find a 'be aware' stirrer in it when they come back to show them what could have happened.