Detectives investigating Damilola Taylor's death rounded up the "usual suspects" after concluding he was the victim of a street robbery, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.Ann Mallalieu QC, defending one of the two brothers accused of murdering Damilola, claimed police arrested the local troublemakers despite having no evidence against them. In her closing speech, Lady Mallalieu claimed elements of the inquiry were "disgraceful" and said the case against the brothers was a "mess". The prosecution alleges the two 16-year-old brothers were part of a group which stabbed Damilola with a broken bottle in November 2000. The defence claims the fatal injury could have been caused by him falling on to broken glass. Lady Mallalieu, for boy B, told the jury that police were under pressure to get a result because Damilola's death attracted huge publicity and followed the failed investigation into the death of another black victim, Stephen Lawrence. Lady Mallalieu said detectives came to believe the "most likely explanation" for Damilola's death was that he was attacked by a group of teenagers. She said: "It's pretty clear a decision was taken to round up the usual suspects, the local youths who had been in trouble before." Lady Mallalieu claimed the idea was to "see what could be unearthed". She told the jury that boy B had committed a "series of minor offences" and when he was arrested acted like a "15-year-old lout". But counsel said boy B had no convictions for violence and pointed out that there had been no suggestion he had ever used or carried a weapon. Lady Mallalieu called the police's handling of the 13-year-old girl, codenamed Bromley, who had been the prosecution's key witness, a "disgrace". Bromley claimed she saw Damilola being attacked, but the judge has told the jury to disregard her evidence because it could not be trusted. Lady Mallalieu said the girl's "free ranging and fertile imagination" was "polished" by the promptings of a police officer. She also claimed that boy B was branded a coward by police and told he was callous and had contempt for Damilola's family. He was questioned until he cried. Lady Mallalieu said that as a last resort police had decided to undertake a "trawl" of the young offenders' institutions where the brothers were held. A series of fellow inmates testified that the boys made admissions about the death. But Lady Mallalieu said the inmates were vulnerable and might have hoped to benefit from giving evidence. The brothers deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Two other teenagers who were originally put on trial for murder have already been found not guilty. The judge is expected to begin his summing up tomorrow.