Michael Howard's plans for penal reform, outlined in a keynote speech yesterday, have split the British press straight down the middle.The left-leaning papers see his pledge to build more prisons, cut police red tape and introduce "zero tolerance" (that old chestnut, one can almost hear the political correspondents sigh) as a return to what the Mirror describes as "the dark ages" of "Tory neglect".The Conservative leader "turned the clock back to the Tories' 'prison works' policy of the 1990s", reports the Guardian, "when he pledged to end Labour's cap on the number of inmates, in a move which could cost up to GBP2.4bn"."Nostalgic Conservatives, who yearn for a return to the days when the party held the keys to No 10, would have felt a warm glow," says the paper's political correspondent, Nicholas Watt, in his analysis piece.That warmth was certainly spreading across the rightwing papers. "Michael Howard's vow to strike back hard against criminals will raise a cheer in every decent home in Britain," says the Sun. "And this is a man who knows what he is talking about. As Tory home secretary, Howard cut crime by a million offences a year ... A relentless war on criminals is what Britain is crying out for."The Telegraph says Mr Howard is to reject the Macpherson report's recommendation that police "absurdly keep details of every person they stop", because "what is holding the police back is not institutional racism but institutional political correctness".The Mail points out that, while there are already "howls of liberal outrage" at Mr Howard's policies, he shared the platform yesterday with "Robocop" Ray Mallon, the former policeman whose zero tolerance strategy dramatically reduced crime in Middlesbrough. "So it can be done, if the will is there."Now to those howls of outrage. The Independent found the part of the speech about increasing police stop and search powers "really scary". The Mirror is reminded of "the days when the poorest and most defenceless people in this country were demonised for cheap political capital by a party only interested in helping the rich ... It was a return to the same old scapegoats: single mothers, ethnic minorities and those on low incomes."And the fact that the Tories are prepared to "sweep aside the findings of the Macpherson report shows they learned nothing from the tragic death of Stephen Lawrence", says the paper.The Times, however, argues that the force should be entrusted with greater powers because it is "more aware today of the importance of inspiring confidence in all sections of the public than it was 20 years ago. Those who believe they have been harassed by the police now have several avenues through which their complaints can be made."Mr Howard should not be presumed to be playing with prejudice by raising this matter. Ministers also would not be dabbling with racism if they looked again at this dubious bureaucratic initiative."Guardian: Howard turns clock back on crime policy Guardian: Taking hard line against offenders still Howard's way Times: Stopping and searching Independent: The Story of Adam, 14· This is an extract from today's Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's daily email round-up of the day's papers. You can subscribe for £14.95 a year here