A British couple who encouraged "unspeakable" sex acts against a nine-year-old girl in the US as they watched via a webcam and the internet were jailed for 10 years each yesterday.Ronald and Denise Edwards looked on from their home in the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire, while the girl's grandfather abused her at his apartment in New York. The couple, 55 and 44, who have two sons, also had sex in front of a camera at their home that the girl was forced to watch, again via the internet.Judge Martin Picton was told that they thought they would not be traced because the girl was so far away. "You thought you could offend over the internet, confident that no one would ever find out."But the internet does not provide an anonymous playground for perverts. The two of you took substantial pleasure in watching a nine-year-old girl being horribly abused by her grandfather and you encouraged that."Judge Picton said the girl had been "permanently and enormously harmed", adding: "She will never recover from the abuse to which she was subjected."The conviction, the first of its kind, is the culmination of two years work by police in Gloucestershire and the FBI.Ian Fenny, prosecuting, told Gloucester crown court the offences against the girl involved essentially unspeakable acts. The investigation began in 2004 when a woman in America came upon disturbing chat rooms and message boards as she looked on the grandfather's computer.It was found that the man, now serving an 18-year jail sentence, was abusing the girl and relaying it to others via the internet. Among them were the Edwardses. When police raided their house in Cinderford they found computer discs and videos with images of children being abused.The abused girl's grandfather gave evidence from his cell in the US. Via a satellite link he said he made contact with the couple through a paedophile chatroom and said they were unique, because they were the only couple who watched the abuse.After the sentencing, Detective Sergeant Steve Vallender, who led the investigation, said he believed the convictions were unique. "As far as we are aware it's the first offence of this type that's been investigated, where offences have been encouraged to someone in a different country. It's also the first time a video link has been used to hear evidence from a convicted sex offender in another country."The couple were convicted of causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity and engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child. The charges became offences under the Sexual Offences Act 2003. A case can only be brought if the offences are illegal in both countries.The couple's two sons, who were watching their parents from the public gallery, wept as they were led away.