Colin Dixon, the manager of the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, was driving home late in the afternoon of February 21 2006 when he saw the flashing blue light of what he thought was a Volvo police car.He had just texted his wife, Lynn, to say he was on his way and was looking forward to seeing her and their young child.After being pulled over for what he presumed was a routine check, he was told by two men dressed in police uniforms that he was being arrested for a number of speeding offences. They bundled Dixon into the back of the car and handcuffed him.His puzzlement at being detained so roughly for a minor offence increased when he heard BBC Radio 1 on the car stereo and the erratic way in which the driver sped off. He asked to see their identification only to be told it was "back at the station".Then he was told: "You'll guess we're not policemen. Don't do anything silly and nobody will be hurt."The bogus officer pulled a gun out and pointed it at Dixon, assuring him: "We are not fucking about - this is a 9mm." It was the start of the biggest robbery ever carried out in Britain.Today some, though certainly not all, of the conspirators were convicted for the part they played in a heist as spectacular as it was doomed.Dixon was told to get in a white van, if he didn't want to "get a hole" in him. Once inside, his legs were bound.Back home, as Lynn Dixon watched TV, she grew concerned. She had been aware of the risks of her husband's job since he started work at Securitas seven years earlier. The couple swapped cars on a weekly basis and varied their routes to and from work.She rang her husband but was greeted by a message. It was odd - her husband invariably answered the phone. She rang again but met with the same result. Then came a knock at the door.Standing outside were two men in police uniform. They said her husband had been in an accident and she should come with them to the hospital. They suggested she should bring her child with her and stood in the child's room while she got a bag ready. When she got into the car, she was also puzzled that the radio was not on the police channel.She asked for identification and was told that it was "in the boot". The way the driver looked at his companion increased her anxiety. She screamed.A gloved hand was put across her mouth as her child started to cry. She was told the men had guns and would use them. Twenty minutes later, they were bundled into a van.The Dixons were taken to a farm. Mr Dixon's eyes were covered with tape and his wife was told to say something so he would realise that she, too, had been kidnapped. Then Mr Dixon had the tape removed and was shown a map of the Securitas depot.A convoy then set off: a Volvo S60 in the lead, a 7.5-tonne Renault lorry and a Vauxhall Vectra.After the gang arrived at the depot, which stores millions of pounds in banknotes before they are redistributed to banks and cash machines, Dixon used his swipe card to gain entry, accompanied by the "policemen".Gary Barclay, the Securitas man on duty in the control room, saw what he thought was his boss and a policeman. As he opened the door, Dixon told him: "Just do whatever the bloke says."Barclay did as he was told, perhaps mindful of the poster on the wall advising staff: "Don't be a hero". He was tied up while Dixon let the convoy into the depot. That night, all 14 Securitas employees were tied up as the robbers set to work.Melanie Sampson, the night supervisor, believed Dixon and the "police" were part of a training exercise, a thought that abruptly ended when she and her colleagues were told to raise their hands and lie on the floor. Her hands were bound so tightly that she lost circulation in them. She realised the robbery was over when one robber shouted: "Come on, let's rock and roll!"The gang had arrived at 1.28am and left at 2.43am. In just 75 minutes they had taken £53m in bank notes. They left behind a further £150m that could not fit into the lorry.