No fewer than 25 former Conservative cabinet ministers, including the ailing Margaret Thatcher, turned out to help vote the government's supreme court bill into the parliamentary long grass on Monday night.The fact that few such grandees are regular attendees enrages Labour MPs and activists who see the upper house as a bastion of class privilge. "The idea that they are kindly old gents doing the right thing is nonesense. It was another sustained and coordinated attack on a Labour government," said one official who belongs to the "let's stop pussy-footing about with this lot" camp which Labour has intermittently endorsed for 100 years. Despite Peter Hain's weekend huffing about deploying the Parliament Acts to override the unelected peers, the signs last night were that the pussy-footers are in the ascendancy. Like Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, they do not want to lose the widely-hated bill entirely. Lord Falconer's emollient talents were therefore deployed to save the stalled bill by cutting a deal with the wily Lord Strathclyde, Tory leader in the lords. It is not hard to see why. Fifteen months ahead of a likely general election there is a strong political as well as intellectual case for caution. Lord Falconer, the "cheerful chappie" of Lord Woolf's description, is liked but not rated, unlike his sacked predecessor as lord chancellor, Derry Irvine. His successor as lords leader, Valerie Amos, does not yet punch her weight. In a chamber where concensus matters and there is expertise aplenty, personal factors matter. Labour apparatchiks find it convenient to forget how much trouble their lordships gave the Thatcher/Major governments, though their anti-Labour votes are much higher. But ministers have done themselves no favours with the "botched" cabinet reshuffle last June - partly caused by the row over lords reform - nor with their broken promises over reform of lords membership. After encouraging talk of an elected element, Tony Blair changed his mind and is changing it back again towards indirect elections. The bill to drive out the last 92 hereditary peers has still to surface. On a practical note only 124 out of Labour's peers (plus one renegade) voted for Lord Falconer's bill just before midnight on Monday. Mr Blair's delay in publishing a new list of "working peers" in part reflects his difficulty in finding wannabe peers willing to work. The Lib Dems, normally conscientious, mustered 39 out of a possible 64 (plus two rebels) in support. No less than 124 out of 182 Tory peers voted the other way for Lord Lloyd's "wrecking" amendment, along with 51 crossbenchers - offset by 15 who voted with the cheerful chappie. The bishops backed him by 3-2. Labour MPs who claimed yesterday that the law lords broke with precedent and voted en bloc on a party political issue were wrong. Only Lord Lenny Hoffman, the hapless Amnesty supporter who aborted the first Pinochet judgment, did so - to the rage of Labour and Lib Dems alike. But eight lords of appeal, the next legal rung down, voted to set up the special select committee. So did seven former lords of appeal.