Police are to use new powers to pick up under-16s in the West End of London after 9pm and take them home to their parents, it was revealed yesterday.Scotland Yard has designated 16 "dispersal areas" across the capital where officers can impose a curfew on unaccompanied minors. These include tourist spots such as Oxford Street, Regent Street, Trafalgar Square and Piccadilly Circus, and the neighbourhoods around Paddington and Victoria. Supporters of the plan said it would help police tackle unruly gangs and protect vulnerable children. But critics condemned it as a waste of officers' time and an infringement of civil rights. Thousands of teenagers flock to the West End's cinemas, cafes and burger bars every evening and many films and theatre performances do not even start until after 9pm. Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police deputy commissioner, denied the police were spoiling teenagers' fun. He said the pilot schemes, a number of which have been agreed between police forces and local authorities throughout England and Wales under anti-social behaviour legislation, were aimed at safeguarding youngsters and stopping gangs causing trouble. "That anyone under 16 should be in the West End of London unaccompanied after 9pm does not seem a good idea," he said. "I don't think any responsible parent would like their 15-year-old wandering about at night." Sir Ian said residents welcomed the plan. One elderly man in Camden said he had been able to sleep properly for the first time in 10 years. But Barry Hugill, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said it was "lunacy" and called for a legal challenge."We've now reached a position where the largest capital in Europe is out of bounds at night to thousands of young people," he said. "Don't have the lunacy of London under curfew while Baghdad is not." He said Liberty estimated that 70% of the UK was now under curfew. "There is no denying there are problems with rowdy youngsters but this penalises the majority of well-behaved teenagers because of the wrongdoing minority." Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said it was better to have the powers than not. But he admitted there could be problems enforcing them. "Some of these kids may not have parents at home or their parents may not care where they are at night." Another police source, who did not want to be named, said: "We don't want to be turned into a glorified taxi service. What if this takes us away from a real problem?" Christine Atkinson, police adviser to the NSPCC, said: "We don't want to see the West End turned into a no-go area for young people. However, we would support any initiative which helps vulnerable young people in London."