Detectives hunting the sadistic killer of an artist attacked while jogging in a park yesterday painstakingly recreated the moments before and after her death.As part of Britain's biggest crime reconstruction, 90 potential witnesses were asked to retrace the routes they took on the day Margaret Muller was stabbed to death, and to tell police exactly what they had seen. Police computer experts will now make a moving 3-D image of Victoria Park in Tower Hamlets, east London, as it was when the murderer struck, using technology used by Hollywood animators and computer games creators.The exercise is designed to pinpoint discrepancies and highlight sightings of people who have not yet been found. Officers said it was possible that the killer was among the witnesses who came forward - and may have tried to place himself further from the murder. He also may have decided not to come forward, but been unable to resist taking a "peek". Plainclothes officers kept watch for anyone acting suspiciously. American-born Ms Muller, 27, a former student of the Slade School of Fine Art, was stabbed to death near the park's rose garden on February 3. Police believe the killer was a local man who knew the park well but was a stranger to Ms Muller. They believe he killed her for kicks and may strike again. The decision to stage the reconstruction came after the man in charge of the investigation, Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, spoke to officers reviewing the handling of the unsuccessful hunt for the killer of Rachel Nickell, murdered on Wimbledon Common in 1992. They said it would have helped if everybody who had been on the common could have been brought back and interviewed closely about what they had seen. Yesterday's exercise involved more than 200 officers. Witnesses were asked to come in the same clothes they were wearing on the day of the murder exactly a month before. They were briefed in a marquee and allocated a police officer to shadow them. Shortly before 8.30am they began to retrace the routes they had taken, walking, jogging or cycling across the park. Dogs and children were brought back and even buses passed at the same time as the month before. The witnesses described what they had seen and heard. Police photographers and cameramen captured the scene from ground level and from two helicopters. An actor played the part of 4ft 10in Ms Muller for the benefit of the cameramen and film crews, but did not run on the path where she was killed, because police wanted witnesses to tell them unprompted what they had seen. Mr Shatford said the idea was to create a "snapshot" of the park at the time of the murder. Detectives would then look for "gaps" - people who were seen and had not come forward and those who were not where they said they were. "If the killer is not here, he may be creating a gap," he said. "If he is here, he may be trying to place himself further away from the scene than he was." He conceded it was possible that the killer had been looking on, enjoying the reconstruction. Mr Shatford said: "The crime was about control over the victim. Now he may think he has control over us. He may not be able to resist the temptation to come and have a peek." Police are convinced someone must have seen the killer leave the park. The puzzle, said Mr Shatford, was how he managed to "blend into the environment without disturbing it" to escape unnoticed. He must have known the park well as he chose one of the few relatively secluded places to strike. Mr Shatford, who has been working closely with criminal profilers, said the killer was "cunning and devious" and had probably gained a sense of gratification from his crime. He said it was also possible he may be a fantasist already in the medical system who had been building up to the crime for a while and could have approached women there before. He appealed for medical professionals to come forward with any suspicions about patients. Mr Shatford said the man was likely to be a jobless loner with low self-esteem who had not been able to sustain relationships with women. He had almost certainly not killed before but might strike again. Police had not discounted the possibility that the killer might have mistaken Ms Muller for a child. Police believe there were around 100 people in the park at the time of the murder. The 10 or so who did not turn up yesterday included a man in a luminous running top who may have been running alongside Ms Muller, and two men of Mediterranean appearance who were seen sprinting from the park. Ms Muller's family made an emotional appeal for information on last night's Tonight with Trevor McDonald on ITV. Her father, Erich, of Falls Church, Virginia, said: "I need to accept the fact she'll never come home again. She'll never come around and say 'Dad'."