A man allegedly seen carrying a hammer near where the gap-year student Marsha McDonnell was murdered was being questioned by police yesterday as the teenager's funeral took place.The 38-year-old man was seen acting suspiciously by a member of the public who called police at 9.20pm on Thursday. He was being questioned about his movements on the day of the murder in Hampton, south-west London, a month ago. Officers also searched the unnamed man's home. Ms McDonnell, 19, was hit over the head with a "hammer-like" blunt instrument in the early hours as she returned home from a night out with friends in Kingston upon Thames. Police are investigating similar attacks on a 17-year-old girl and an 18-year-old man in the same area. The man was seen in a road around the corner from the one in which Ms McDonnell was killed. He was arrested on suspicion of being armed with an of fensive weapon. Last week, a 21-year-old man was arrested in connection with the three attacks and has been bailed pending further inquiries. Yesterday afternoon, more than 500 friends and family gathered for Ms McDonnell's funeral at the St Francis de Sales Catholic church in Hampton. The coffin, decorated with cherubs, was carried by four pallbearers. Behind, Ms McDonnell's parents, Phil and Ute, walked either side of her five-year-old brother, Jack. Mrs McDonnell wore pink, her daughter's favourite colour. The three were followed by Ms McDonnell's sisters, Natalie, 21, and Maya, 14, hand in hand. Irish pop group Clannad, for who Mr McDonnell worked as a tour manager, played from a balcony; Van Morrison's Brown-Eyed Girl was chosen for the coffin's exit. Ms McDonnell's uncle, Mike Hywel-Davies, 60, read a poem. In place of flowers, the family requested wellwishers to donate to the Shooting Star charity, which is building a hospice for terminally ill children close to the family home. The service was conducted by Father Bernard Boylan, parish priest of Hampton, who told the congregation that Ms McDonnell had a love of children, and had made monthly contributions to a children's charity. "It was given in the proper Christian manner, with no other member of the family knowing anything about it until after her death when these things come to light," Father Boylan said.