Scotland Yard is to abandon plans to hold disciplinary proceedings against Superintendent Ali Dizaei, the senior black officer cleared of corruption charges at the Old Bailey last week.The Metropolitan police are discussing a deal which would see the charges against him dropped following talks between its most senior officers and the National Black Police Association, and an intervention from the home secretary, David Blunkett. In return, black officers in London would lift their boycott of Scotland Yard's recruitment campaigns. But the deal could still founder. The Guardian has learned that there may be one stipulation; in return for the charges being dropped, Supt Dizaei will resign. There is no guarantee that he would be willing to agree to this. The situation is being addressed with urgency because the home secretary and the Metropolitan police are desperate to recruit more people from ethnic minority backgrounds and believe the Dizaei case will hamper their efforts. Addressing the NBPA's annual conference yesterday, Mr Blunkett said: "It is a matter for the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, but I am sure he will take the steps necessary to ensure this matter is closed down as soon as possible. "Behind the scenes I have been trying to broker a solution over the last few days and the response from senior officers has been very positive indeed. I look forward to them resolving over the next few days." The home secretary said he had intervened because the repercussions from the Dizaei case were bound to have an effect on recruitment. He told delegates he wanted to "find a way to ensure that you don't have to ask young people to think twice about joining the Met if they are from an ethnic minority background". Supt Dizaei was cleared in April of perverting the course of justice. Last week, after a four-and-a-half-year investigation, the prosecution abandoned a charge of misconduct in public office relating to expenses claims of £270. Prosecutors originally said he had overclaimed from the NBPA, but admitted that the officer was owed about £400. Earlier allegations that he was involved in drug dealing and prostitution collapsed before the case came to court. Yesterday Mr Dizaei told NBPA delegates he had been maliciously targeted by anti-corruption officers who saw themselves as the "knights of integrity". He said: "They wanted to put me behind bars because they said it was for the benefit of the public, the police service and the Daily Mail. They wanted to destroy my livelihood, destroy my family and to put me behind bars." Earlier, Ravi Chand, the NBPA president, told delegates that a disproportionate rate of stop and search and the frequency with which first time black offenders are being sent to jail cause dangerous tensions. "The danger is that if we don't engage our youth from black minority ethnic communities we are going to criminalise a large section of that community and we will have another lost generation. We can't afford to have another lost generation." The NBPA president added that ethnic minority officers also appear to be targets. They are five times more likely to be disciplined than their white counterparts. Mr Chand called on the government and chief constables to "turn the tide of racial discrimination".