What is the cost of a life ruined? For Ben Collett, whose blossoming career at Manchester United was cut short by a dodgy tackle, it was £4.5m. For Colin Stagg, whose life has been devastated after he was charged with the murder of Rachel Nickell, it is the £706,000 he was awarded yesterday. He should have got more. Collett may have lost a potentially brilliant future, but Stagg has lost the last 16 years. His life has barely been worth living.The murder of Rachel Nickell on Wimbledon Common was the sort of story that captured the attention of the press and the public. She was young, beautiful, white and her two-year-old son had been with her when she had been brutally attacked. The pressure was on to find her killer, and as soon as the police found Stagg – a loner, interested in mythology, with a painting of the Cerne Abbas giant on a wall in his flat, and some ornamental knives – they had their man.A honeytrap operation was mounted, with a female police officer going by the name of "Lizzie James" brought in to court Stagg as a lonely heart. She tried to get him to confess to the murder by saying it would turn her on if he had done it but Stagg, despite being a virgin and unused to attention from women, never did. The police didn't care – Stagg was charged and spent more than a year on remand. At his trial, the judge threw the case out, saying it was "deceptive conduct of the worst kind" but to the press, Stagg was the man who got away with murder. "Lizzie James" received damages of £135,000 after she sued the police for the stress it caused her.I have interviewed Colin Stagg twice and I remember that the first time I met him, the man who sat in front of me in his south London flat was so at odds with the crazed evil pervert portrayed in the press, most notably the Daily Mail, that I was really taken aback. I hadn't been a reporter for very long and I knew what some sectors of the press could be like, but I didn't think they could have got it that wrong.He was gentle, quiet, polite and he loved his dogs – unsurprisingly, he didn't have many human friends. He kept saying he knew he was an oddball, but if anything, the life he had been forced to live had turned him strange. He had a cobbled-together CCTV set-up in his living room where he could see who came to his front door to write "murderer" or "cunt" on it; he would walk his dogs in the early hours of the morning to avoid being physically and verbally attacked. This was, basically, his life.Women didn't want to know him, except for those who liked the idea that he was a "murderer" – he was married briefly to a woman who had written to him while he was in prison, who later left him for a convicted rapist. I asked him why he didn't change his name or move away; he said people would think that was an admission of guilt. He lived under virtual house arrest, reading books on history or watching old films on television. He applied for hundreds of jobs, but never received a single reply.The compensation is only a part of making amends. Stagg deserves some very public apologies: from the police and others who were convinced Stagg was guilty. From defaming authors who have made money from him and from every person who has ever spat at him in the street or hurled abuse. And definitely from certain newspapers (it would be tempting to think the press had learned its lesson but the recent experience of Robert Murat shows that nothing has changed). Then, perhaps, at last Colin Stagg really can get on with his life.