Harold Shipman, the doctor accused of murdering 15 patients, was abrupt and heartless when he examined the body of one of his victims, a court heard yesterday.Gloria Ellis - a neighbour of an alleged victim, Winifred Mellor - was summoned to Mrs Mellor's home by Dr Shipman in May, 1998. When they discovered the body, Mrs Ellis said Shipman "didn't seem to be bothered. He seemed abrupt and he made me feel stupid and silly." Mrs Ellis told Preston crown court that Shipman took hold of Mrs Mellor's hand and flicked her fingers up, then flicked her eyes open and said: "This lady's gone." She had seen Shipman call at Mrs Mellor's home in Hyde, Greater Manchester, 3 hours before her body was found. When she told him she had seen him earlier, he ignored her and walked off. Mrs Ellis looked through a window and saw Shipman arrive in his car at 3pm. When Mrs Ellis left her home 20 minutes later the car had gone. Shipman returned at 6.30pm and told Mrs Ellis that her neighbour was unwell. "He said it looked like Mrs Mellor had had a stroke. I asked if her daughters knew and he replied 'you stupid girl'." His manner was blunt and she was shocked. Cross examined by Ian Winter, defending, she said Shipman had not behaved in a reasonable way. She had not replied to his insult because she was intimidated by him. Mrs Ellis's husband, Anthony, said that Shipman had leaned over Mrs Mellor and carried out a very quick check of her body. "It was very callous and cold. It was very matter of fact as if it was an animal." Mrs Mellor's son, James, said that he had spoken to his mother the night before she died. "She told me she had just put her name down at the local church - they were going to the Holy Land. She was extremely happy and was really looking forward to the trip." The prosecution claim the coronary thrombosis cause of death on Mrs Mellor's death certificate, which was signed by Shipman, was incorrect. They say Shipman killed her with a lethal dose of morphine. Mr Mellor said his mother had been walking with him up Werneth Low hill two weeks before she died. The walk took several hours and somebody suffering from angina could not have managed it. His mother was active and had not complained of pain during the walk. Shipman, 53, of Mottram, near Hyde, has denied murder. He has also denied forging the will of one of his alleged victims, Kathleen Grundy. The case continues.