Police and security services in the European Union will share access to an unprecedented range of individuals' personal data under a radical package of measures to be discussed by EU justice ministers this week.It allows agencies in different countries to search one another's databases - DNA records, fingerprints, vehicle details - and other personal information. Even if someone has no criminal record and their DNA is not on a database, police can ask their foreign colleagues to collect a sample.The measures, known as the Prum Treaty, after the German town where it was signed, are being championed by Germany, which holds the EU presidency. Documents obtained by The Observer show that the Germans are also holding secret talks with top US officials in an attempt to conclude a data-sharing agreement with America - first for Germany alone, then for the EU.Last week The Observer revealed that all British visitors to the US will have their fingerprints stored alongside criminals' on a database linked to the FBI. 'Prum has several dangers,' Peter Hustinx, the EU's Data Protection Commissioner, said. 'Some of its definitions are very sloppy and it creates an infrastructure that may well not be necessary. The Council of Ministers has not been involved, the European Parliament has not been involved. It bypasses Europe's normal processes of accountability and decision-making.'It threatens to 'trump' a separate initiative to create an EU data-sharing system - with much stronger safeguards - which has been working its way through the Council of Ministers, in consultation with the European Parliament. 'The framework as it stands has flaws,' said Tony Bunyan, of the civil liberties monitoring group Statewatch. 'But if Prum, which is much worse, becomes European law, it will be left high and dry.'Sarah Ludford, the Liberal Democrat MEP for London and a leading member of the European Parliament's justice and civil liberties committee, said that while she accepted the need for security agencies to share information it was 'vital that the provisions should be transparent and decided democratically'. She said that the move to adopt Prum amounted to a 'parliamentary bypass'. Plum began as a private treaty in 2005 between Germany, France, Austria and four other countries. Now member states can only choose to ratify or reject it as a whole.