Police have lost control of the streets, according to a report published today which challenges government claims that crime is "historically low".Rightwing thinktank Civitas said the number of robberies in London has soared 66% since Labour came to power, from 27,000 to 45,000. There were 7,300 robberies during the first two months of this year - just 300 short of the total for the whole of 1980."The police have been overwhelmed by the sheer volume of crime," the report states. "Nationally, we have chosen to throw in the sponge because the forces of law and order ... have lost control of the situation."The study, called The Failure of Britain's Police, said London could learn lessons from New York, which has shaken off its dangerous reputation just as London loses its worldwide image for relative safety. New York's robbery rate is 540 per capita compared with London's 620."Since 1994 New York has adopted the policy of greatly increasing the numbers of police officers and confidently attacking trivial crime and disorder, regarding them as the seedbed of worse things. London ... has opted to concentrate its much smaller numbers on serious crimes.""The volume of crime has increased faster than the size of the police force," the report goes on. "Measured by reported crimes in relation to each police officer, the police force would need to be two and a half times larger than it is to maintain the ration which we had in 1971."However, Civitas adds that "there is more to it than numbers" and police effectiveness also depends on the way officers were deployed.The report comes just three days after new Home Office figures were released showing a 4.1% increase in recorded crime in October to December, compared with the same period in 2001. But when new recording techniques were taken into account, the government said, there was actually an overall fall of 7%.The government claimed in January that the chance of being a crime victim "remains historically low".Civitas found that in 1972 there were 8,900 robberies in the whole of England and Wales, while in 2001-02 there were 6,500 in the London borough of Lambeth alone. The total number of recorded crimes rose from 1.7m to 5.8m in the same period."The government has become notorious for spin and publication of the crime figures is no exception," the thinktank has said.Civitas, the Institute for the Study of Civil Society, is an independent, non-partisan body launched in 2000. Its declared aim is a better division of responsibilities between government and civil society.