The Crown Prosecution Service has apologised to the family of a woman who was murdered by her abusive husband after his bail conditions were dropped, despite repeated threats to kill her.Malik Mannan, 36, was jailed for a minimum of 17 years at Manchester crown court today after fatally stabbing Sabina Akhtar.The court heard that Akhtar, 26, reported her husband to police last year, telling them he had battered her 25 times and made threats on her life. On one occasion, in July, he told her to prepare for death by reading passages from the Qur'an, adding: "I am going to get a knife and when I return I am going to slaughter you."He was arrested later that month and released on bail while police made further enquiries. His bail conditions included instructions not to contact his wife or visit her home, but he repeatedly breached the order and was re-arrested in September. He was released without charge and his bail conditions were dropped.Later he texted his wife to say: "I am a free man since 1.30pm. Case file closed. Isn't it great." Mannan stabbed his wife through the heart at her home in Longsight, Manchester, a few days later.The CPS said it would apologise to Akhtar's family about the way the case was handled. A spokeswoman said: "We accept that the wrong decision was made not to charge Mr Mannan at an earlier stage."During the week-long trial, the court heard that the couple had an arranged marriage in Bangladesh in 2003. Akhtar joined her husband in England two years later, when she was pregnant with their son, who is now three.She discovered he had a gambling problem and that he had a longstanding mistress with whom he had two young children. The jury heard that he would squeeze Akhtar's windpipe when they were arguing and made at least three threats to kill her. He assaulted his mistress in the same way.Akhtar, fearing for her safety, had a security alarm fitted at her home. In her last known conversation, the day before she was killed, she told her aunt she was scared of her husband and what he might do to her.Sentencing, Mr Justice Maddison said: "In her final days she was not only terrified of you but specifically terrified that she would die at your hands, as indeed she did."Mannan made arrangements to flee to Bangladesh after the murder but was arrested by police the next day.Outside court, Akhtar's uncle, Reaz Talukder, said the family was devastated. "Sabina was loved very dearly by all of her family members and friends. She was a brave woman and was devoted to her only son who is now under foster carers. We are now satisfied that justice has been done and the killer deserves the punishment for the crime he committed."He said he believed his niece would be alive today if the CPS had taken action. "This was simply negligence," Talukder said.