The extension of the 1976 Race Relations Act to cover the police is expected to form the cornerstone of the post-Lawrence 'affirmative action' programme. The extension, together with the removal of legal immunity for individual officers, will bring the kind of anti-discrimination disciplines to bear on the police which have triggered change throughout private companies and in local government for the past two decades. Every police force in England and Wales could face compensation bills running into hundreds of thousands of pounds if they act in a racist or a discriminatory way. These reforms would not only allow individuals to take legal action but would also give the Commission for Racial Equality the power to launch the kind of investigation which has led to the all-white monopoly on the Household Cavalry being broken. James Callaghan, who as home secretary exempted the police from the 1968 Race Relations Act on the grounds it was a slur on their reputation to say they did not treat everyone the same, has said he now believes that was mistake. The exemption has always covered the law enforcement role of the police and its abolition would extend to the immigration service, the prison service and local government officers. Anyone who can demonstrate that people in similar circumstances in other racial groups have been treated differently will now have a case. The black motorist stopped and searched 34 times by the West Midlands police and whose recent common law action failed, would have much clearer redress under the Race Relations Act. In many cases the CRE says it will not be necessary to provide comparative data to demonstrate discrimination if it can be shown that the police officers acted in a demonstrably racist way either by the use of negative stereotypes or by their language. Twenty years of case law has established that it would not be necessary to prove that the officers involved had racist intentions, only that discrimination resulted. 'For the first time it will provide an opportunity to deal with a part of policing that the black community find most objectionable,' said a spokeswoman. In the past such cases have had to be brought under civil actions for false arrest and false imprisonment. Several cases against the Metropolitan police resulted in record compensation payouts including £220,000 in a case involving a Chinese hairdresser from south London. In the wake of those cases a maximum £30,000 compensation guideline was imposed by the Court of Appeal. The use of the Race Relations Act could open the door to much higher awards again. There is no ceiling on payments in discrimination cases involving employment. But the 'more interesting prospect' as far as the CRE is concerned would be the extension of its power to carry out general and formal investigations into the police. The CRE could choose to look at the pattern of suspects who are stopped and searched by the police and see if there is any gross disparity. Its powers to order a formal investigation could see the CRE working alongside the Police Complaints Authority where there is a strong suspicion of racist practice.