Five robbers, nicknamed the Prada Boys, were jailed for up to nine years each yesterday for their part in a £2m "reign of terror" in which they targeted the rich to fund their passion for designer clothes and shoes.Harrow crown court, in north-west London, heard that the five had prowled through London's west end hunting for victims in expensive cars. They followed their victims home, threatened them at knifepoint and made off with watches and jewellery. The court heard that the gang's mastermind, Darren Mentore, 22, of Holloway, north London, was trapped because of his love for Prada shoes. Police found six pairs costing up to £180 each at his home. His right-hand man, Leon Peters, 27, of Hackney, east London, had wardrobes stuffed with designer clothes and a fridge so full of champagne that there was no room for food. Mentore was jailed for nine years and Peters for eight. Both had admitted conspiracy to rob between May and December last year, and four counts of robbery. During the trial of three other men who pleaded not guilty but were convicted of conspiracy, the jury heard that Lady Homa Alliance lost uninsured property worth £1.3m after being warned her fingers would be cut off. Lady Alliance said she had just parked her Mercedes and opened the front door of her luxury Chelsea townhouse when three masked men grabbed her. Another ordered her to open her safe. "I told him I hardly ever opened it and was not sure of the code," she said. "But he told me, 'For every lie we will cut off a finger'." It took her three attempts to open the safe and the thieves fled with Harrods carrier bags stuffed with rare Iranian coins and jewellery. The gang also took a Rolex watch from the wrist of George Kirya, the high commissioner for Uganda, and stole jewellery and a watch from Russell Ambrose and his wife Sarah, who was seven months pregnant, as they returned home to Hampstead, north London, from an evening out. Passing sentence, Judge Edward Bailey said: "You cannot, I am sure, be in any doubt as to the horror with which your activities will be viewed by ordinary, law-abiding citizens. "To target victims after an evening out on the basis that they were driving high value cars, to follow them home, to jump them as they entered their own homes and then with the use of threats of violence to steal their valuables, is despicable by any standards of behaviour. "To do it once is bad enough, but to go trawling for victims on a regular basis and between you to strike several times is quite beyond the pale." The court also heard that investigators built up an incriminating picture of the gang's movements after ploughing through records of 44,000 mobile phone calls the men had made to each other. Outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Michael Gates said: "This gang included some of the most dangerous criminals I have dealt with. "This was a reign of terror. They threatened and terrorised their prey, some of them lone women. A number of their victims remain traumatised to this day." Daniel Brown, 25, of Kensington, west London, was jailed for seven and a half years and will have to serve the remainder of an eight-year sentence for previous robberies. Colin Mortley, 24, of Bedfont, west London, and Paul Murray, 25, of Ladbroke Grove, west London, were jailed for eight and seven years.