Hundreds of dangerous offenders, including those assessed as likely killers, are being released into society under a scheme condemned by the probation service as "scandalous".During a two-week period last month more than 30 prisoners considered to pose a high or very high risk to the public were released or about to be released, according to a study by Napo, the probation officers' union. The findings have raised questions over the public safety of a 2005 law that stipulates that all offenders sentenced to a determinate period in prison are automatically released once half of their sentence is completed, regardless of their circumstances.Recent cases include one 40-year-old man, a convicted stalker from the Thames Valley area, who within two days of his release had turned up at his previous victim's house and conducted extensive internet searches on her, even though he had previously been assessed as likely to kill her. A significant number of other cases that were examined concerned offenders who had been considered likely to assault female partners or acquaintances. Some began hunting down their former partners immediately upon release.Most of those released had, according to Napo, failed to carry out any offender work or displayed any remorse. Most of the 30 individuals identified were recalled to custody within days of release because of the risk they posed. Others entered exclusion zones or absconded from hostels and most refused to co-operate with their licence conditions.Probation officials looked into the issue following the release of Rickie Preddie, one of two brothers convicted of the manslaughter of schoolboy Damilola Taylor in south London 11 years ago. Preddie – who was 13 when Damilola died – was released on licence in September last year, but was returned to jail in March after breaching his conditions.Before the 2005 law change, criminals serving four years or more were only released if the parole board was satisfied that the risk of harm and reoffending was very low. However, under the current system the parole board has no input. Campaigners say there is no incentive for rehabilitation among inmates who are released regardless after completing half of their sentence. Napo argues that the system was only introduced in order to save money and try to stabilise the prison population. This week a parliamentary bill drafted by the union will be debated for the first time by MPs. Under its proposals, prisoners serving determinate sentences of more than two years would have to prove to the parole board that they pose a low risk.The probation officers also want the court to set a minimum time to be served, nominally 40% of the original sentence, which could help to satisfy the coalition's desire to reduce the prison population. Prisoners who failed to comply with rehabilitation programmes would serve the entire term. There are currently more than 48,000 inmates with sentences longer than one year.Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary, said: "It is scandalous that hundreds of prisoners are being released from custody automatically when they have completed half their sentence, despite assessments that they are of high risk of harm to the public. Case histories published by Napo show clearly that there is no incentive for certain prisoners to comply with rehabilitation plans in prison because they will be released when they have done half their time anyway. There is evidence that this is putting the public at risk. The majority are recalled to custody because of threats to victims. There is clearly a need for the law to change."However, last night the government said that despite a Tory manifesto proposal for minimum and maximum sentences to be introduced, it was satisfied the present system is safe. A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: "Reducing reoffending and protecting the public lies at the heart of our work. Offenders are rightly recalled to prison if there is a concern about their behaviour."