Great train robber Ronnie Biggs is expected to celebrate his 80th birthday in August as a free man after today's parole board hearing was postponed to consider where he will live on his release.Biggs's friends and family are hopeful the panel will recommend his release when it reconvenes on 4 July on the grounds that he is unlikely to reoffend.Giovanni di Stefano, Biggs's lawyer, said his client needed round-the-clock care which would be provided at the taxpayer's expense."For parole to be granted, Mr Biggs has to have an address where he can reside," Di Stefano said. "In his case he requires 24-hour medical nursing care. The decision as to who pays for his care, whether it be the Barnet Health Authority or Norfolk or any other authority, and his actual nursing home where he will be paroled to has yet to be decided."Such decision will be taken shortly and there are no indications to suggest that Mr Biggs will not be released on 4 July 2009."The decision by the Parole Board to adjourn the hearing until a nursing home is found is correct."Biggs is entitled to apply for release because he will have served a third of his sentence by this summer. The final decision rests with Jack Straw, the justice secretary, who can reject recommendations on prisoners serving a fixed sentence of more than 15 years but less than life.Biggs, who is in the hospital wing of Norwich prison having suffered a series of strokes, did not attend the hearing. His family say he is unable to walk and can communicate only by using an alphabet board. They say that the chances of him committing another crime are "zero".Biggs was jailed for 30 years for his part in what remains the best-known robbery in British history. The £2.5m robbery of the Glasgow-London train in 1963 led to some of the heaviest sentences ever handed out to robbers at their trial the following year.The train driver, Jack Mills, was beaten unconscious during the robbery. He died of an unrelated illness in 1970. Biggs escaped from Wandsworth prison in 1965 and fled first to Australia, then to Brazil where he fathered a child, Michael, who has British citizenship and is now in London campaigning for his father's release on compassionate grounds.Biggs returned to the UK in 2001 after suffering his first stroke in Brazil.Biggs's lawyer said in a written submission to the parole board that Biggs was a different man from the one who went on the run. "Mr Biggs has changed and changed for the better," Di Stefano said, arguing that Biggs had voluntarily returned to Britain "to face the music".Di Stefano said that 4 July, when Biggs will have served a third of his sentence, was the earliest date for his release. His release would likely be followed by a bidding war for his story. A book about his time in jail, The Inside Story, by Mike Gray, has just been published.