A man accused of stabbing a young woman about 17 times in a random attack at a seaside supermarket is a mental health patient, it emerged yesterday. Samuel Reid-Wentworth, 21, was remanded in custody after being charged with the attempted murder of Lucy Yates at the Somerfield store in Littlehampton, West Sussex. He has a history of schizophrenia, the brief hearing at Worthing magistrates court was told.Yates's family described how the 21-year-old, whom they described as kind, gentle, caring and sweet, has been talking and remembers the apparently random attack in the sweets aisle on Tuesday afternoon. She is no longer in a critical condition but they are still waiting to find out whether she will suffer permanent injuries."She's so strong, and she's making an amazing recovery," her mother, Deborah, said. "I saw her the night she was admitted, but I've not been back to the hospital since. There's so many wires and tubes coming out of her. It's so painful, but I haven't been able to look at my gorgeous daughter's face. "We know she will pull through, but apparently it's too early to tell what effect it will have on her movement. We are praying for a complete recovery." Yates had "only popped out to get something for tea" three days after moving to Littlehampton with her boyfriend, her sister Sharon said. "She's doing really well," she said. "She has been speaking, and her memory is all there. She can remember everything about the attack. Her injuries are mostly around her chest and neck, with only one slash across her cheek."Her boyfriend, Peter, was due to start a new job on Wednesday, but he's been by her bedside since the attack. She's so strong, the first thing she said to him when she came round was, 'What are you doing here? You should be at work'." Yates was transferred from a specialist intensive care unit in Southampton to Worthing hospital, which is closer to her home. She is being fed through a tube, but is breathing unaided. Her father, Hugh, has been at her bedside. "She is beautiful on the inside and out," the family said in a statement. "She would never hurt anyone. She loves life and this is shown in her strength to have survived this brutal attack."Sussex Partnership NHS foundation trust, which provides specialist mental health, learning disability and substance misuse services, confirmed that Reid-Wentworth had been under its care. It said in a statement: "Sussex Partnership NHS foundation trust was very shocked to hear of this terrible incident and our thoughts are with the young victim and her family. We can confirm that the person who has been arrested is known to our services."Reid-Wentworth, from Bognor Regis, spoke only to confirm his name, date of birth and address. Peter Lytle, for the crown, said Reid-Wentworth was alleged to have carried out the attack "by stabbing the victim approximately 17 times". He added: "He is a man who the police tell me has a history of being diagnosed as a schizophrenic." No application for bail was made and Reid-Wentworth was remanded to appear at Lewes crown court later this month.