Paul Dyson was a violent bully and the son of a killer, but in the end his descent into murder followed a trivial row over his inability to help his young fiancee use their washing machine.In a last minute change of plea, the former club doorman yesterday admitted strangling Joanne Nelson on St Valentine's Day, to a whispered chorus of "Yes!" from her family, who had crammed into Hull crown court for what had been expected to be a long, gruelling trial.Dyson stared ahead and at the floor after pleading guilty, refusing to look at Joanne's relatives or the police, whom he misled for almost six weeks until the 22-year-old jobcentre worker's body was found in woodland near York.He lied about their exchanging Valentine cards before she vanished, appeared on television appeals for help in tracking her down and invited the media into their home for emotional interviews about an engagement ring he claimed he had bought as a surprise.Knowing that her body was actually dumped 30 miles away, he clutched a photograph of the murdered woman and told reporters: "I love her to bits. I just want her back. She was always smiling. She has not got a bad bone in her body. I just want to know where she is."Dyson, 31, will be sentenced today in Hull by Judge Tom Cracknell, who adjourned yesterday's brief hearing after accepting the new plea. Far from being a romantic couple on the brink of marriage, Dyson and Ms Nelson had increasingly fallen out over her burgeoning career and wide circle of friends, compounded by his refusal to do anything to help at home.Ms Nelson, who was lively and attractive, talked about climbing the career ladder and travelling the world, while Dyson began to brood about leaving school with no qualifications and drifting through a succession of poorly-paid jobs.He has never explained in detail what happened when his temper snapped in February, but at one stage, he claimed to police, Ms Nelson said that she planned to walk out and force the sale of their £110,000 terrace house.She then goaded him, he alleged, about his lack of domestic skills and challenged him to put a pile of washing on. But he was not even able to start the machine.Ms Nelson's mother, Jean, a 46-year-old teaching assistant, and her father, Charlie, 48, a Hull council engineer, watched as Dyson was escorted into court. They heard how their daughter's body was bundled into her Vauxhall Nova, which was later found near the couple's home.The alarm was raised when she failed to turn up to work on St Valentine's Day, and Dyson then reported her missing. Fears grew after she missed the funeral of her best friend's father a few days later, and failed to ring her sister Katie on her 19th birthday.Dyson was arrested shortly afterwards but for nine months refused to accept that he had deliberately caused her death. Police were, however, able to tease out enough material from him to order a search of woodland paths, gated off from a country road with a pile of bottles nearby. By chance, the head of the murder inquiry, Detective Superintendent Ray Higgins, passed just such a spot 39 days after Ms Nelson's disappearance, searched the area and found her remains.The fatal mismatch between Ms Nelson and her killer began two years before her death when she met Dyson at the Mint bar and club in Hull, where he worked as a doorman. She was 19 and he was 27, good-looking and muscular.They dated and moved in together, but Ms Nelson did not know about Dyson's drunken attacks on his first wife, history of taking steroids to help his bodybuilding and the violent past of his father, whom he idolised. Peter Dyson, who died five years ago, ending his son's dream of joining him in contract building in Saudi Arabia, stabbed his wife's lover to death in 1967. In 1974 he killed a father of seven in a hit-and-run accident. He served six years' jail for manslaughter after the killing but escaped prosecution over the road death.How police closed inFebruary 14 Joanne Nelson reported missing by her boyfriend, Paul Dyson. Dyson claims they kissed and cuddled and exchanged cards before leaving for work.February 16 Dyson breaks down in tears as he appears on local television appealing for his girlfriend to get in touch.February 17 Parents Charlie, 48, and Jean, 45, make an emotional appeal for help in tracing their daughter at a police press conference in Hull.February 18 Paul Dyson is arrested by detectives investigating Ms Nelson's disappearance.February 21 Dyson is charged with Ms Nelson's murder.March 17 Detectives describe bag found near a railway line near Ms Nelson's home as a "breakthrough".March 24 Body found in woodland near Malton by Detective Superintendent Ray Higgins, who is leading the investigation.March 25 Postmortem examination reveals that Ms Nelson had been strangled