A year ago, over nearly four hours, a group of men aged between 15 and 25 rampaged across west London armed with sticks, knives and batons, their faces covered with masks.The group was made up of members of the Ladbroke Blood gang and the Lisson Green Men, who had put aside their differences to carry out the criminality. They attacked a shopkeeper, a lone police officer, punched a passerby, looted businesses, set fire to mopeds and stormed the Ledbury, a Michelin two-starred restaurant and haunt of celebrities. The story of the night – of the courage by Ledbury staff, who can be seen in previously unreleased CCTV footage chasing the mob with brooms from the cleaning cupboard – can only now be told in full following the conclusion of a spate of court cases.It involved a violent attack on a shopkeeper not previously detailed in the extensive coverage of the worst urban disorder this country has ever seen.Mohammed Haroon was beaten repeatedly about the head with a champagne bottle by Kalen Hinds in an attack which was captured on a CCTV camera the police had installed into his shop in order to keep him safe. In the footage which has now been released, he is seen cowering in the corner of his Super Save shop in Westbourne Park Road surrounded by youths, and Hinds – who was jailed on Wednesday for nine years - is clearly visible battering him with the bottle."They hit me so many times. I was very scared," Mr Haroon told Channel 4 News. "I think they were trying to kill me. After that attack I became dizzy and I left the shop. I went out and called the police. The police didn't pick up."8.30pm Ben Kelleher, prosecuting, told the court the violence began at 8.30pm in the Queensway area of west London. "The evidence is based principally on the identification of individuals from CCTV," he said.Other evidence included fingerprints linking Travis Williams-Carter to the scene and DNA which linked three other defendants to the criminality.The first target of the 50-strong group was the Whiteleys shopping centre. The group then moved on to Queensway, where Maplins was smashed open, and £3,000 worth of electronic goods were taken. There was then what the court heard was a lull in the violence, as police managed to quell it. But the second phase took place with more extreme rioting and looting.9.57pm Evidence from footage taken from passersby shows scooters being damaged and a van driver being attacked as the group is seen heading in the direction of Notting Hill.10pm The gang attack the Gala Casino. CCTV shows staff attempting to barricade the doors with a sofa, but the youths force it open and around five go inside. Staff are assaulted, one suffering a broken arm from a flying kick. Minutes later the shoe shop Office on Queensway was attacked, and around £1,800 of stock was looted. DNA matching that of defendant Ali Abdul Waga was later found in blood on the floor just inside the shop window.10.30pm Members of the two gangs are seen gathering in CCTV footage on Great Western Road. Moments later a pizza delivery rider is pulled off his scooter and beaten up. His bike is set alight. A bus is then pelted with bricks and bottles, smashing the windscreen and injuring the driver.Shortly afterwards 11 people inside the Bumpkin restaurant on Westbourne Park Road a short distance away were rushed upstairs as staff saw the group of youths approaching."The attackers smashed all of the windows and forced open the side door," said Kelleher. "About 20 individuals ran inside and proceeded to smash objects in the restaurant and steal bottles from behind the bar."10.35pm Mohammed Haroon was working alone at the Super Save supermarket on Westbourne Park Road and was in the process of closing the shutters when one of the gang – Dean Burke – asked him for a Ribena. CCTV footage shows a youth putting his foot in the door to stop Haroon shutting the men out."He tried to close the door, but he was forced back by some of the gang who then entered the shop," said Kelleher. "As they did so, Kalen Hinds struck Mr Haroon repeatedly over the head with a bottle."Haroon suffered lacerations to his head and cuts, he was treated later in hospital. "It was more by luck than destiny that he didn't suffer much more serious injuries," the judge said. "He has been so adversely affected that he cannot work in the off-licence any more and it will take some considerable time for him to recover from the psychological trauma, if he ever does."Minutes later, further west on Portobello Road, black cab driver Barry Keagan was surrounded by some of the mob, who tried and failed to force him out. The rear window of his cab was smashed by a flying bottle as he escaped.Office was ransacked and trainers worth £1,000 were stolen. As he ran out of the shop, television historian Dan Snow tackled Karl Jenson to the ground and later handed him over to the police.10.40pm Armed with bottles and sticks, some of the group burst into the Ledbury restaurant shouting "get down on the floor" to the 30 diners who are then systematically robbed of jewellery and money. "Some of the kitchen staff then confronted the gang and they left soon after," said Kelleher.11.30pm The rioting continued taking in more pubs and shops. One member of the public was punched in the face, and a police officer, Derren Hopkinson, was attacked as he sat alone in his car while trying to retrieve shields and riot gear from Kensington police station. Two bottles hit him in the face and a metal grill was thrown into the car at him while the attackers laughed.In a statement read to court he said: "I have never been so scared in my life, I was alone and finding it difficult to get emergency assistance." As police reinforcements began to arrive, the gang broke up and some were rounded up over the next days and weeks after being identified on CCTV footage and through DNA and fingerprint evidence.