A teenage boy killed after two gunmen opened fire on a group of four, died from a gunshot wound to the chest, tests revealed today.A postmortem examination was carried out this morning on Samuel Adelagun, 16, at Walthamstow mortuary, police said.The victim, from Newham, was shot in the early hours of yesterday on a patch of parkland in Plaistow, east London. A second boy, 15, was also shot and is in a stable condition in hospital.A Metropolitan police spokesman said the group aged between 15 and 16 were attacked from behind by the gunmen at around 3.20am.Adelagun was shot in the upper left chest, while the 15-year-old was shot in the abdomen.No arrests have been made. The only description of the gunmen is that they were dressed in black and wearing balaclavas. It is not known if they travelled in a vehicle or on foot.The group of friends ran away during the attack before meetingon Chesterton Road where they called the police. Detectives from the Met's Trident unit, which tackles gun-related crime within the black community, are investigating the death.Annie Smith, 77, of Howards Road, which backs on to the parkland, said: "I heard two males shouting, then I went back to sleep. I heard three or four bangs. I thought it could be fireworks but it may have been shots."I then heard somebody shouting and someone answer faintly. They are just kids, why were they out so late?"Floral tributes, including seven bunches of white roses, were laid at the scene. One read: "To Sammy, one of the realist young bucks. Gone but never forgotten. 100% love. Liam."Another read: "RIP Sammy. Realist soldier. GBNEF."Detective chief inspector John Mackenzie said: "A number of shots were discharged and the youths dispersed. They then got together again outside Chesterton Road and knocked up an occupants' house, who provided some shelter as good Samaritans. Unfortunately one of the youths died and one was taken to hospital with a gunshot wound to the abdomen."He said both victims were known to the police and one line of inquiry was that the incident was gang-related.