Some of the dramatic stories behind another night of rioting in London.Trevor Reeves, 56, owner of House of Reeves furniture store set up in 1867 in Croydon, south London, talking to Sky NewsThe devastation is what you can see. There is nothing I can do about it now. It's disappointing that we have been tied up in a series of incidents but no one knows really why it happened ... It could have happened to anyone but we were just in the wrong place at the wrong time ... It has been through two world wars, depressions, it has been through the lot.We are fortunate in that we have two stores and the fire crews managed to save the other one. I don't think we were targeted and I don't think it was premeditated. I don't know what the thought processes were for those that did this.There is no rhyme or reason or logic to it ... We just have to look to the future now. What will happen I don't know but I need to continue trading and we will need to focus on that now.Graham Reeves, of House of Reeves furniture store in CroydonI don't want to shoot my head off but I'm devastated. It's not my job to be angry. It's up to the governments of the land and the people that did this to look at themselves. They need to take a hard look at themselves ... When you get down here you think: "If only the police had been quicker, if only the fire service had been quicker ..."But they did the best they could. All you can hope for now is for the community to make it a better place. Everyone is so cross and angry right now. Let's just be friends and let's work together ... We have lost everything. Everything that was in there was bought and paid for.Sharon Tugwell, 50, nurse, in CroydonI was frightened as crowds ran around with balaclavas and sticks. I saw one looter shout: "Yeah, I've got money," and he was laughing about it. He thought it was funny. I thought it was just sick ... Some wore balaclavas and hooded tops but some didn't wear anything to hide their identity.I don't think they cared. I'm lost for words because that place [House of Reeves] has been around for more than 100 years. It sickens me and I'm lost for words, really. I hope whoever did this is proud of themselves for what they've done.Ian Somerscales, 53, computer engineer in CroydonI feel like I'm in another part of the world, like Baghdad. I work in the BT building nearby and I left work early at 4.30pm because there was a sense that something was going to happen. The shops shut up early and everyone knew something was going to happen but I didn't think it would be on this scale. It's disgusting.Alan McCabe, pub landlord in Croydon, talking to the BBCI have never seen such a disregard for human life. I hope they rot in hell. The grief they have caused people, the fear they have put in people's hearts, decent people who have done nothing to anyone.Rafiq Omar, 58, owner of Holmes estate agents in Clapham Junction, south London, which suffered damage estimated at more than £2,000I think there should be more laws brought in to stop this nonsense. There should be more water cannons. Within the community they are spoiling people's businesses. People will lose jobs and the shops will be closed. The local community will suffer.Christian Potts, 29, in Ealing, west LondonIt looks like a war zone – I have never seen anything like it in all my life. There were about 25 to 30 masked youths on Haven Green and they just started tearing into a florist with bricks. It's a local family-run business so I can't see why they are doing this. There were also fires being started around 200 yards down the road ... I really don't see the point of what they are doing. They are attacking local businesses who supply jobs to the local community.Liz Pilgrim, 43, owner of the Baby E shop on The Green in EalingI tried to get here last night after a neighbour called me to say the alarms were going off but I was met by gangs of youths. They were 14, 15 16 years old and they seemed to come here by car so they may have been from out of the area. These shops are our livelihoods. So many businesses have been affected. From what I can see they were out to steal. They have taken designer clothes and maternity wear, targeting the stuff of high value and the well-known brands.They demolished the desk and tried to climb up on it to get to the CCTV. There's a liquid on the wall which they must have thrown at the CCTV ... There are crisp packets and chocolate bars, bottles of beer, there's even an empty bottle of champagne. They have obviously been eating and drinking things they have taken from cafes. We cannot give in to this thuggery. My message to the Home Office is get yourselves sorted out and do something. Get the army involved, I don't care, but you must contain this violence.Tom Clarke lives above a kitchen shop in EalingThe trouble started at about 11pm when streams of kids between 12 and 18 with hoods up came rushing through the town. We thought it was a joke when we heard trouble had started. We thought there was no way it would spread to west London. It was a living nightmare. I have never felt so scared for my life. I sat at the window and could see kids with crowbars trying to yank off the glass of the shop below us. We were scared they would throw something through the window into the flat.The landlord next door to me stood outside the whole time to protect his pub but the Italian restaurant on the other side of us was totally looted. I could see a bus shaking and the window was put through. It was something out of a horror film or something you would see in a video game.I don't know if the police could have controlled it. They got here as quickly as they could. Water cannons probably would have been an advantage but that would have been too little, too late, because the damage was done by then. With police forces so stretched it's time for the government to re-evaluate the number of police officers on the street.Alex Bortoletto, 42, lives above Starbucks in EalingAt about 9 o'clock I just heard a lot of noise, then all of a sudden there were about 150 of them and they tipped a car over and burned it, then started ransacking everything. They were trying to break into Starbucks so me and my friend locked ourselves in the bathroom. The noise was so awful, we were so afraid we were going to be burned, we were crying and shaking.We saw them carrying stuff out of the baby shop like prams and Babygros, then burning it. We thought we were going to choke it was so smokey. When we looked outside all we could see was the light of the fire and there must have been about 200 of them by then. We were phoning the police and fire brigade but it took ages for them to answer and then it took forever for them to arrive.They got here about an hour later. We decided if they got into the shop then tried to get up to the flat we would try to hold the door but all they managed was to smash the windows. It was so scary. We couldn't believe it would spread here and we couldn't see what the police were doing – it looked like they weren't doing anything. We wanted them to be more aggressive, to use tear gas or something, but they weren't doing anything. The crowd only left when the fire brigade arrived at about 11pm. I didn't sleep at all.Louise Yang, blogger at Naked Sushi, was eating at the Michelin-starred restaurant the Ledbury in Notting HillAround the fourth dish of the tasting course, there were loud bangs outside. The restaurant staff was yelling at us to get away from the windows. Before I knew it, the front door, a solid piece of glass, shattered and people came crashing in with hoodies, masks, and random weapons.The looters were yelling at us to get down and throwing stuff all over the place. I got down and started taking off my wedding and engagement ring to hide somewhere, but unfortunately wasn't fast enough. One looter came up and demanded my phone. I didn't have it with me since it was in my purse and it was out of arm's reach. I also didn't want to lead him to my passport, so I said I didn't have one.He told me to take off my rings and grabbed my hand, trying to yank them off. His friend tried to help too, but the rings wouldn't come off and I just yelled at him that I'd take them off myself ...The kitchen staff at the Ledbury went beyond their call of duty by rushing up from the kitchen with rolling pins, fry baskets, and other dangerous kitchen tools and scared off the looters.Giselle Asante, 57, owner of a tailor-made clothing business in Peckham High Street, south London, which was lootedIt is truly devastating. We cannot replace any of these things because we have made them all. Police can't even touch the people that are looting someone's property. We are paying £6,000 in business rates each year for highway maintenance and use of the fire service and police but they didn't even stop people who were looting in front of them.Josephine Thomas, 21, a student in PeckhamThose who own the shops have had their lives ruined. People will wake up in the morning with no job. It's not fair ... Some of them aren't from this area. They have just come here to cause trouble.Matthew Yeoland, 43, a teacher in PeckhamThere has been tension for a long time. The kids aren't happy. They hate the police ... For the kids, it's their only way of venting their anger. They have all got BlackBerrys and gangs have got together. It's like a war zone and the police weren't doing anything. There were too many people and not enough police.Jack in PeckhamA lad, who was about 18, came up beside me and threw a brick at the police. It hit one of them in the back. I didn't know what to do so I started walking away and I saw loads of people wearing motorbike helmets and ski masks. Outside the fire station there was a bus on fire. There was thick smoke everywhere. It looked like a war zone. Further down the road I saw five or six lads just smashing things and throwing bins in the road and laughing. This is just nonsensical.Simon Dance, 27, in Camden, north LondonWe locked all the doors, and my wife even packed a bag to flee. We had Twitter rolling until midnight just to keep up with the news. We were too afraid to even look out the window.