Terrorist groups and organised criminals can make larger profits from DVD piracy than from drug trafficking, according to a report published yesterday.Illegal versions of the latest DVDs, which can often be bought from market stalls or car boot sales before the film is released on to British screens, are thought to be worth around £500m each year to criminal groups. But as organised crime increasingly moves into the counterfeit DVD trade, industry experts predict the figure will exceed £1bn within three years. According to Interpol, the high profits and low risks associated with DVD piracy mean that 1kg of pirated discs is now worth more than 1kg of cannabis resin to criminal and terrorist groups. The DVD industry believes that many people are unaware of who ultimately profits from the dodgy DVD they buy at the pub, and yesterday it launched a £1.5m public awareness campaign. "We want to shatter the illusion of DVD pirates as harmless 'Del Boy' characters," said a spokesman for the Industry Trust for Intellectual Property Awareness, which published yesterday's report. Police and trading standards groups have had some success in the past year in cracking down on DVD piracy. Seizures in the first half of 2004 were more than double those in the same period last year, and were up fourfold on 2002. But the number of bootlegged DVDs is rising dramatically. In an effort to limit the trade, the industry wants to use the campaign to highlight the terrorist and organised crime groups behind what is often viewed as a harmless activity. Ronald Noble, secretary general of Interpol, said: "The link between organised crime groups and counterfeit goods is well established, but Interpol is sounding the alarm that intellectual property crime is becoming the preferred method of funding for a number of terrorist groups." He said there was enough evidence of terrorist groups using bootleg DVD sales to fund their activities for it to constitute a threat to public safety. The campaign will also point out the human cost of the bootleg trade. An industry spokesman said illegal immigrants from mainland China were being forced by triad and snakehead gangs to sell pirate DVDs to pay for their passage to the UK. As well as highlighting the criminal element, the industry is eager to get across the inherent contradiction in the growth in pirate DVDs sales as more and more money is spent on sophisticated home cinema systems. According to the Federation Against Copyright Theft, 90% of all pirate pre-release DVDs seized this year were filmed with a camcorder from the back of a cinema. Jonathan Ross, the BBC Film 2004 presenter, who launched the campaign, criticised the poor quality of pirate DVDs. "Think of [them] as the worst sort of home cinema experience," he said. "Not the home cinema experience where you get Dolby surround sound and crystal-clear images, but where someone gets up to go to the toilet halfway through and blocks out the screen. When you can hear someone eating crisps." He added: "These things are terrible and what really bugs me is that people are duped into paying good money for these blatant rip-offs. Have you ever tried getting your money back from a dodgy geezer in a pub?" Lord Sainsbury, the science and innovation minister, said: "This type of crime is a growing concern. It harms the economy and consumers, and threatens to overwhelm legitimate business." The campaign, which was being billed as the UK's biggest anti-piracy initiative, will be backed up with cinema ads, a website, and a tip-off hotline.