Street crime has fallen by 16% in 10 target police force areas in the six months since April, fulfilling Tony Blair's promise to bring the problem under control, according to official statistics published yesterday.The detailed figures show that the concentration of police resources between April and September, in nine of the 10 police force areas as a result of the Downing Street initiative, succeeded in arresting a sharply rising trend in muggings and robberies. Street robberies in the targeted areas fell from 10,104 in April this year, to 8,447, a fall of 1,657. Street crime fell by 9% in London, by 30% in the West Midlands and by 26% in Manchester - the three areas which account for more than 75% of all street crime. The one exception was South Yorkshire, which includes the home secretary, David Blunkett's own backyard of Sheffield, where street robberies rose by 7%. "It's sod's law that should be the case," said the home secretary yesterday at the first of the government's new style, open press briefings. If a comparison is made over the previous 12 months rather than the six-month period that the street crime initiative has been running, then the figures look less rosy. Comparing April to September 2002 with the performance over April to September 2001, only six out of the 10 forces meet the target of bringing street crime under control. Over this period, the overall fall in street crime is 10% rather than 16%. On this comparison street crime has risen in the past year in West Yorkshire (7%), Nottinghamshire (19%), South Yorkshire (22%) and Merseyside (22%). The official statistics published yesterday related only to street crime, preventing any detailed analysis of whether the concentration of police resources on street robbery has led to a rise in other types of crime. Home office ministers denied there was evidence of a "displacement" effect, saying that figures from the 20 local police divisions most affected by street robbery had also seen falls in car crime and burglary. But these local police units form only a fraction of the 10 targeted police force areas. Mr Blunkett said: "Which-ever way you look at these statistics, this has to be good news, both for the public, and for the morale and commitment of all those working to achieve improvement and change. "However, until the public feel safer, statistics alone will not convince them." The street crime initiative is to be continued with the promise of a downward trend in the figures being maintained for the next 18 months. But the Liberal Democrats remained sceptical of the minister's claims, saying they had used "selective, confusing and misleading figures to get them off the hook". The home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said that a substantial drop in London robberies had been used to mask increases in four out of the 10 police force areas.