The Home Office has amassed an arsenal of new generation weaponry, including electrical stun weapons, rubber ball rounds, laser guns and glue guns, which are being tested for possible use by police forces.Government officials have requested samples of products from arms manufacturers in Europe and the US in the past six months, amid the concern of chief constables that forces need access to more powerful, "less lethal" weapons, if the drastic step of arming officers with guns is to be avoided. Among products obtained by the Home Office are an electric stun gun that paralyses the central nervous system, a device that temporarily blinds the target by overloading the optic nerve, and a weapon that fires bean bags filled with lead shot, knocking the target to the ground. Officials from the defence evaluation and research agency have also travelled to California to investigate a laser that fires an ultra-violet beam that paralyses the subject. Prototypes of the "tetanizing beam weapon", a version of which can disable the electrical system of a car, tank or aeroplane, will be ready for testing within a year. A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed that Dera and the police scientific development branch were reviewing "the full range" of less lethal technology available, and would select specific weapons for possible deployment to officers. The weapons being reviewed included water cannon, stun guns, rubber ball rounds and glue weapons. The Association of Chief Police Officers has pressed for forces to be given access to weapons that have been restricted in the UK but are widely used elsewhere.CS gas is the only "non-lethal" option for mainland UK forces, although Sussex police last month became the first force to be issued with pepper spray on a trial basis. Nottinghamshire is the only mainland force to arm officers on the beat. Any new technology would have to be tested and approved by the Home Office, but some forces have been impatient for results. Representatives from Sussex, Nottinghamshire, Lancashire and Hertfordshire constabularies were among delegates at an alternative weapons trade fair in Florida in February. This month the Northern Ireland Office published a report on the first stage of its own investigation of alternative weaponry. The study was in response to the Patten report on policing, which called for a safer alternative to plastic bullets. It has examined weapons including chemical sprays, smoke grenades, laser and stun guns, baton rounds and incapacitation devices using nets and glue. Steve Tuttle, director of government and law enforcement affairs for the laser weapon manufacturers Taser International, said the Home Office late last year had requested two samples of its Advanced Taser M26. The weapon fires two probes a distance of up to five metres, delivering a 50,000 volt electric shock that sends the victim into a foetal position on the floor. The company had been trying to interest the Home Office in its product for six years, Mr Tuttle said. He felt that the present trial indicated a change in its attitude to alternative weaponry. "They are now trying to get several of these emerging technologies into the Home Office to see if they are viable." The human rights organisation Liberty said it welcomed weapons that could reduce the risks to officers and individuals being arrested, but it was concerned about how they would be used. "They have to be accompanied by rigorous training and restrictive guidelines on their use," said a spokesman. What they might use TaserA gun-like device that fires two probes up to 21ft. These can penetrate up to two inches of clothing, before delivering a five second, 50,000 volt electric shock.  Laserdazzler A laser gun that resembles a torch but temporarily blinds the subject for up to 15 minutes. It fires a random series of green flashes up to 400m, which block out part of the light spectrum. Japanese police might use them for crowd control in the 2002 World Cup.  Bean bag gun  Fires 40g "socks" filled with lead shot, which knock the subject to the ground. Designed to be "non-penetrating" and spread the impact over a wide surface area, delivering a blow comparable to "a punch from a professional boxer". Police in Canada suspended use of the weapon in April 1997 after a man shot by a bean bag round died of blood loss.  Glue guns  Sticky foam, stored under pressure in a canister, expands and hardens extremely rapidly once fired, entangling the subject. Can also be applied to road surfaces to deny access. The gun has a range of 10m and presents a serious risk of suffocation if fired at the nose or mouth.  Tetanizing beam weapon  Immobilises people and animals from a distance by instantly paralysing their skeletal muscles with an ultra-violet ray. The effect is designed to last only a few seconds. Also being developed is a version that could interrupt the electrical systems of a car, tank or plane.