Police and prison authorities are investigating after the mother of a schoolboy who was murdered after being groomed online, reported his killer has been posting open letters about the crime, despite being in prison.Breck Bednar, 14, was murdered in 2014 by Lewis Daynes, who groomed him on an online gaming forum, lured him to his home and killed him in a sexually-motivated attack. Daynes, now 20, was jailed for life for killing the teen, from Caterham, Surrey, who had admired the older man for his computer skills and believed he wanted to hand over his fictional tech company to him.I couldn’t save my child from being killed by an online predator Two letters purporting to be from the killer have been posted online, which Bednar’s mother Lorin LaFave said she believes are genuine because the language matches the interaction she had with her son’s killer, via an online forum, in the months leading up to the 14-year-old’s death. Both letters have been posted on a blog, the first in November and the second earlier this week in response to a BBC3 documentary about the case, Murder Games, and a Guardian interview with LaFave. The documentary aired on Tuesday night.“The first one came on Thanksgiving, with Daynes knowing I’m a family person and we would be having a big get-together,” LaFave, who is originally from the US, told the BBC. “I had a lot of contact with him when he was gaming and I can tell the way he speaks and have no doubt it’s him.“If he hasn’t done it directly, he’s had someone do it on his behalf. We need someone higher in authority to help and find out where this was sent from.”The first letter posted in November claims responsibility for Bednar’s death. “I am responsible for the death of Breck, a boy of just 14, despite only being a young adult and just 4 months into legal adulthood myself,” it reads. “Nothing will change the fact that while he was with me I had a duty of care towards him and I failed.”However, in the second letter, Daynes appears to accuse the media of “spin and distortion” and claims he is not “a sinister internet paedophile”. “My actions do not fit the profile that has been created by the media and family,” he wrote. “It would take too much time to address all the lies and spin.”Prison authorities are understood to have undertaken an extensive search of Daynes’ cell at the time the first letter was posted. No electronic devices were found which he could have used to post the letters online.A Prison Service spokesperson said a new search was now being undertaken as a matter of urgency but said there was no evidence that the letters were being posted from inside prison.UK police forces urged to review handling of child grooming cases “Prisoners are banned from using mobile phones and social media. If they break the rules they will be disciplined and can have time added onto their sentence.”Essex police said they were already investigating both letters. “The police have been made aware of a second letter purporting to be from Lewis Daynes that has been posted on the internet,” a spokesman said. “The police service is considering if any offences have been committed by the publication. The investigation into the first post is also continuing.”Daynes met Bednar and several of his friends on an online gaming forum, and claimed to be a computer engineer running a multimillion-pound company. “To Breck, who still had his baby teeth and saw no evil in the world, Daynes seemed very cool, very exciting,” LaFave told the Guardian in an interview last week “Police didn’t find a single image or text about bodies or sex. Breck thought their relationship was about technology and computers.”In 2011, Daynes had been accused of raping a boy and possessing indecent images, though he was not charged. Before her son’s death, LeFave contacted police with her concerns about her son’s relationship with a man he only knew online, but officers take up the case.“Boys may report this less but I want everyone to understand that they can be groomed and hurt – maybe not murdered but hurt in other ways – by people who are not who they say they are online,” she said. “There’s nothing worse than thinking you could have saved your child and didn’t. I cannot bear for another family to go through this.”