Prison overcrowding is well documented and will be a priority for the new Ministry of Justice when it begins work today. But less well known, yet equally significant, is the fact that community sentence caseloads are also overcrowded. Between 1995 and 2005, the number of people starting a community sentence increased by nearly 24,000 to just over 136,000 - a rise of 21%. And numbers are continuing to rise, with latest figures showing that in 2006 there were more than 137,200 people beginning a community sentence.There is no doubt that the courts have been making much greater use of community sentences. However, they are largely for those offenders who would have previously been given fines, rather than for offenders who would have been given a custodial sentence. Community sentences are, therefore, being used as a complement to prison, rather than an alternative.The effect is far less graphic than images of overcrowded jails, but the impact is equally damaging. Staff sickness levels in the probation service are among the highest in the public sector. The average caseload for probation officers is well over 30, which the Chief Inspector of Probation has acknowledged is extremely demanding. The stress levels for probation staff are considerably worse than a decade ago.It is surprising, therefore, that there is little mention of overcrowded community sentences. Whether or not the probation service has the capacity to deal with rising numbers of people on community sentences is not a political issue. Instead, the government wants further expansion at a time of reduced expenditure.In its recent Crime, Security and Justice Review, the prime minister's strategy unit said there should be an increase in the use of community sentences for low-level offenders. But probation budgets over the next two years are expected to shrink, and chief probation officers are already having to make substantial savings and plan staff cuts.As well as the question of capacity, it is important to examine the needs of offenders and to scrutinise the community sentence regime. If offenders are not only to be punished but also rehabilitated, then community sentences should address the causes of offending.The evidence shows that the vast majority of offenders serving a community sentence have a complex range of social problems. Nearly two-thirds are below the literacy and numeracy level expected of an 11-year-old; more than half are unemployed; just under a third have an accommodation problem; nearly half have mental health problems; close to a quarter have a drug problem, and almost half have an alcohol problem.Yet skills training is in short supply, alcohol treatment virtually non-existent, and mental health provision woefully inadequate. In fact, half of the 12 interventions that make up a community sentence are not being used or being used very rarely.A much closer scrutiny of community sentences is long overdue. There are clearly limitations to the extent to which they will ever be able to address multiple social needs. But, critically, the new Ministry of Justice must recognise that overcrowding is as significant for community sentences as it is for prisons.· Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"