The shelf above Mike Naughton's desk in Bristol University's law school is heaving with files of letters from prisoners who claim they were wrongly convicted and want help. "It shows just how desperate so many people are," says Naughton, a lecturer in criminal law. "They have got nobody else to turn to so they are prepared to put their futures in the hands of a project led by university students. It really is quite disturbing."Naughton's office has become the bustling nerve centre of the University of Bristol's Innocence Project which aims to provide free assistance to the victims of miscarriages of justice languishing in prison. Students have been giving up their free time to sort through the mountain of correspondence. "They should be out drinking or chasing the opposite sex but they are here getting stuck in," says Naughton. "Their enthusiasm is a inspiration."Barry George, the man convicted of killing the television presenter Jill Dando, has written to the project. Naughton has also had contact with the family of Michael Stone, who has twice been convicted of murdering Lin and Megan Russell and whose latest appeal failed in January. Many other notorious figures - Naughton will not name names - have been in touch. Over the coming months and years undergraduates will work with local criminal lawyers, who are giving their time for free, on five cases which they believe stand a chance of being referred to the appeal court. Naughton hopes that the six-month-old Bristol project will be the first of many to be launched at universities across the UK to create an "innocence network" of students working to free prisoners they believe have been wrongly convicted. "It's still very early days but we think there is a gap in the present system which needs to be filled," he says. Innocence projects are active in the US, Canada and Australia. The best known was co-founded in 1992 by Barry Scheck, one of the lawyers who represented OJ Simpson at his trial. Based at the Benjamin N Cardozo School of Law in New York, the project attempts to prove the innocence of wrongly convicted prisoners through DNA testing. Law students handle the cases under the supervision of attorneys and clinical staff. Although it started life as a "court of last resort" for those with nowhere else to go it is now helping to organise an extensive network of law and journalism schools and public defender offices across the US. Its successes are many; most of the prisoners it helped are poor and often ill-educated who were forced or tricked into false confessions. Take the case of Eddie Joe Lloyd, convicted of the murder in 1984 of a 16-year-old girl in Detroit. Lloyd, who suffered mental problems, wrote to police with suggestions on how to solve various murders. Police officers visited him in hospital, interrogated and persuaded him to "confess" to help them "smoke out" the real offender. They fed him details that he could not have known, including the body's location, the type of jeans the victim was wearing and a description of her earrings. The jury which tried Lloyd took just an hour to convict and he was sentenced to life, the judge complaining that there was no death penalty in Michigan. After his fight to prove he had nothing to do with the crime seemed to have run its course, Lloyd contacted the innocence project. For years students painstakingly built a scientific case, finding evidence which had been lost or buried which proved his innocence. He was freed in 2002 after serving the best part of two decades. The concept is not entirely new in the UK. Fourteen students from Northumbria University took on the case of a man called Alex Allan who was wrongly found guilty of robbery. Working in pairs, it took them seven years but they finally got the conviction quashed in 2001. "It's just unbelievable what they did," said Allan. "I can't thank them enough. I don't think a solicitor's office could have given me the amount of time they did." At Bristol, Naughton tentatively suggested founding an Innocence Project last year. "The students leapt at the idea. They were like, 'What are we waiting for? Let's get on with it'." Since January they have been cramming into Naughton's office to work on the project. "It's been a bit like that film with Julia Roberts - Erin Brockovich," he says. One of his motives for setting up the project was his frustration with the modus operandi of the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the public body which investigates possible miscarriages of justice. It does not consider innocence or guilt but only whether there is new evidence or argument which may cast doubt on the original conviction. Naughton says: "It is too narrow - the CCRC should be simply about getting innocent people out of jail." Another problem solicitors face is the hurdles they have to jump to get legal aid for appeal cases. Almost always they have to do the early crucial investigative work for free. To be eligible for the Bristol project prisoners must fulfil three criteria. They must declare they are factually innocent - not simply the victim of a procedural error; they must have at least three years of their sentence left to allow time for the students to investigate; they must have no current legal representation. Some have written in with ridiculous cases, including the prisoner who admitted he had stabbed a man in the groin, but thought that because he was drunk when he committed the crime he had been wrongly convicted. Others seem, on the face of it, to have good cases. More than 150 have contacted the project. Of these about 40 have been assessed by an experienced Bristol criminal lawyer, Ian Kelcey. He believes six or seven of these, most of them murder convictions, are worth investigating further. From next term 10 students working in pairs will begin investigating five cases. Spare ones will be farmed out to other universities which have expressed an interest in getting involved. If, as they probe the cases, the students discover that their clients really are guilty, they will drop them at once. The students will meet regularly with lawyers from Kelcey's firm and the project hopes other local solicitors will get involved. Despite Naughton's reservations about the CCRC, many of which Kelcey shares, that is the route down which the students will have to go.  The project has won support from legal reform campaigners and, perhaps more importantly, victims of miscarriages of justice. Paul Blackburn, who was freed in May after wrongly serving 25 years for the attempted murder of a nine-year-old boy, says: "I think it's an excellent idea. It would be great to imagine this is the start of a network of projects. For me one of the great advantages is that the universities already have the resources to run projects - the computers, the office space and so on - so that they can be set up very quickly." Blackburn says that prisoners have huge problems finding a solicitor with the will and ability to get a case back to the court of appeal. "When you are in prison there are few people there to help you. The home office doesn't want to help, nor does the prison service. They want you to play their game - to admit that you are guilty even if you aren't. "You end up asking your fellow prisoners and they may come up with a solicitor who is good at dealing with a standard burglary charge but not with a complicated miscarriage of justice case. An innocence project could fill that gap - help people get the representation they need." Some students get involved to further their careers. "That may well be part of it," says Blackburn. "And it's fine. It's all about education, about making sure lawyers understand more about the criminal justice system and the appeal system. The boundaries need to be changed and this may be a way of bringing about change." Ludovic Kennedy, the veteran campaigner against miscarriages of justice, has been asked to become the project's patron. "I'm for anything that works to prove the innocence of a wrongly convicted person," he says. "I'm very impressed with the Bristol project and hope it will be the start of many more." The Miscarriages of Justice Organisation, the group founded by Paddy Hill, one of the Birmingham Six, is also in favour. Spokesman John McManus says: "I think it's a great thing. There are untapped resources in universities. It's a brilliant way of both teaching the students by getting them to work on real-life cases and hopefully they will be able to prove the innocence of someone who has been wrongly convicted." Naughton and Kelcey accept that the scale of success achieved by innocence projects in the US may be some way off here. But Naughton says: "I was speaking to a relative of a high-profile prisoner who has contacted us. I was trying to say that we're just a few students but the relative said the prisoner was just happy that someone was taking an interest. That alone meant so much to them."