Amanda Knox, the American student suspected of killing Meredith Kercher, has been described by her boyfriend as a pleasure-seeker with 'almost no contact with reality'.Raffaele Sollecito, 23, who is being held in a Perugia jail on suspicion of sexually assaulting and murdering Kercher together with Knox, described her in a letter to his father dictated to his lawyer and released in Italy yesterday.'Her life seemed to be pure pleasure. She had almost no contact with reality,' wrote Sollecito, who had dated Knox for two weeks before Kercher, her flatmate, was found with her throat cut on 2 November.The letter was issued as Sollecito's lawyers fought to prove that the Italian student was at his computer at the time of the murder and as police worked to extradite from Germany Rudy Hermann Guede, an Ivory Coast citizen who, according to DNA traces, had sex with Kercher, 21, shortly before her death.Guede, 20, whose DNA has also been identified in the house's bathroom, has reportedly admitted being at the house, but claims that an unidentified Italian man killed Kercher as he used the lavatory. The Italian newspaper La Repubblica said yesterday that Guede has also claimed that she whispered the initials 'AF' to him as she died.Knox, 20, initially claimed she had been at Sollecito's house on the night of the murder, only to change her statement when Sollecito denied she had been with him all night. She then said she had been at home with Kercher and saw Congolese bar owner Diya Lumumba enter her room. Lumumba was taken into custody but was freed, just as police were making the DNA match with Guede.Sollecito's letter follows the release of a statement by Knox made to the police on 6 November, in which she admitted smoking marijuana on the day of the murder and claimed she did not know if she had told the police 'real things' or if 'dreams [in] my head have made to try to answer the questions in my head and the questions I am being asked'. Knox and Sollecito deny involvement in the murder and claim the other is also innocent.Witnesses describe Knox bragging about how she discovered Kercher's body, while a shop owner overheard Knox promising Sollecito they would go home and have 'wild sex' as they bought underwear together two days after the murder. Yesterday Knox was reportedly to be spending her time singing and reading letters sent to her. 'She continues to write a lot, which seems a mechanism to get rid of tension,' said Father Saulo Scarabattoli, a priest at the jail.Police have found traces of Knox's and Kercher's DNA on a kitchen knife they suspect could have been the murder weapon at Sollecito's house. They have also challenged his claim he was online at home when Kercher was killed.'Nothing was downloaded or uploaded to suggest internet activity that night,' said Edgardo Giobbi, a detective with the Rome serious crime squad, which has teamed with Perugia investigators.But Emilio Lucchetta, a private detective working for Sollecito's legal team, said the Macintosh computer and type of browser used by Sollecito made it difficult to analyse. 'We can be sure that there was internet activity between 6.27pm and 3.33am,' he said.Police have also found Sollecito's fingerprint on the inside of Kercher's bedroom door, wrote La Repubblica, despite his claim he had never entered the room. Giobbi said a footprint in her blood matched the size 42 Nike trainers owned by Sollecito, adding: 'Rudy Guede wears size 45.'Giovanni Arcudi, a second expert set to argue for the release from custody of Sollecito this week, countered. 'That footprint does not possess clear and definite characteristics.'A judge is also to consider a request for a new post mortem on Kercher's body, which has been flown to Britain, to better establish her exact time of death. But Luca Lalli, the pathologist who carried out the first post mortem, said there was no need and she could be buried: 'All information has been recorded.'Extracts from Raffaele Sollecito's letter to his fatherDear father. What can I say about Amanda? During that time we were together she was elusive, I thought she was out of this world. She lived her life like a dream, she was detached from reality ... Her life seemed to be pure pleasure.I don't know if it's fair that I have to pay such a high price for not paying more attention to the seconds and minutes of 1 November. But after this experience, believe me Dad, I will never smoke another joint in my life. I wait with faith for the results of the investigation which, I know for certain being innocent, will demonstrate what really happened. That I was not in that room when poor Meredith was killed. Poor Meredith. A quiet girl who exchanged few words with people, who I had little to do with, but who certainly did not deserve the end she met.I try to understand what Amanda's role was in this event. The Amanda I know ... lives a carefree life. Her only thought is the pursuit of pleasure ... But even the thought that she could be a killer is impossible for me.