When we attempt to tackle crime, where do we place most of our efforts? It seems that we often address the symptoms of crime rather than the causes, and as a result repeatedly fail to protect vulnerable children. We are so fixated on what we perceive, that we criminalise many of those who we should be protecting.While Home Office proposals to "effectively respond to antisocial behaviour" – out for consultation until 17 May – are an improvement on the current process, they are littered with examples of how we treat symptoms over causes.Let us look at the proposed power to place an individual on a crime prevention injunction when they have engaged in or are likely to engage in antisocial behaviour. How much would decisions rest on perception? The order only requires a civil burden of proof, rather than requiring evidence to bring a criminal charge. But how could one prove that a person was "likely to engage in antisocial behaviour" without relying on perceptions? And if the conditions of this civil injunction were not adhered to,  then the punishment for those over the age of 10 could be detention.The government's plans would also give the police a "direction power", enabling them to require an individual to leave a designated place and not return for up to 48 hours, as well as returning home children under 16 who have engaged in, or are likely to engage in, antisocial behaviour. Refusal to comply would mean a criminal offence had been committed.And yet, some children are on the street because home is not a safe place for them. Other children on the streets are victims of sexual exploitation – if they are moved without support to address this, how will they be protected from further abuse? Unless these policing powers are appropriately plugged into the work of other agencies, such activity could actually expose children to more risks.It is to some extent unsurprising that we take such a narrow view of crime in communities. Consider the crime maps that have been made available on the internet. We now know where reported crime occurs most frequently: but do we have any knowledge of why this is the case? It is curious that the government has chosen to map crime rather than unemployment, school exclusion rates or the number of children missing from home at any one time. If we don't know why offences are happening, then how will we tackle them? Surely, if we were able to map all of the welfare needs in our local community we would be able to gain some understanding of why crime is happening and seek to address these needs.Even when professionals should understand the causes of crime, there are occasions when they seem to ignore what they should know. Last week a judge claimed that a girl aged 13 had seduced a 24-year-old man into her own abuse.While the defendant pleaded guilty to 17 specimen charges of making indecent images and one of inciting a child to engage in sexual activity, and his probation officer stated that he was a high risk to children, the judge still chose to imply that the responsibility for "seduction" lay with the child, who was a victim in this case. It is scandalous for a professional member of the judiciary to state a child "appeared" to hold responsibility for their own abuse, where professional guidance on child sexual exploitation clearly states that a child cannot consent in this way.Even if the judge perceived this to be the case it is unacceptable for him to express this view. It sends out the message to the thousands of child victims of sexual abuse and exploitation that, regardless of the law, what has happened to them can be interpreted as seduction, even in cases where abuse has been proven.If we want safe communities, we need to tackle crime in the understanding that we know what is causing it in the first place. We need to protect the vulnerable through our welfare system. Relying on the police to tackle crime will only ever see us firefight symptoms – and responding to crime based on our perceptions leaves those most need of our protection open to abuse and exploitation.