Tonight's crime drama is Midsomer Murders. If previous episodes are a guide, a village in a previously peaceful corner of England will be turned into a charnel house. Chief Inspector Barnaby and Sergeant Troy will be powerless to stop the slaughter until the end of the show when, usually by accident, they will stumble across the exhausted killer. Before they make their arrest, trout streams will have been clogged with bodies and corpses will have piled up at church fêtes. No one will be surprised. The Chief Constable won't send reinforcements, and Fleet Street won't charge out to cover the sensational event. Barnaby himself is never traumatised by the massacres which follow him like a dog. Not once does he stop to wonder if he's in the wrong line of work. Mass murder in Midsomer appears perfectly normal.Although I've nothing against a programme which is a surrealist masterpiece, it's depressing to reflect that if it wasn't Midsomer Murders it would be murders in another fictitious corner of the country. Crime dominates the TV drama departments with a thoroughness unimaginable 25 years ago.Unless Tony Blair is shaken into renouncing Downing Street by the fatally vicious political world he has helped create, his Government will want to 'regain the initiative' when all the muttered platitudes about 'a terrible tragedy' have been forgotten. Just as you don't need to be a clairvoyant to know that you can turn on the television and find police battling with villains, you're not sticking your neck out if you predict that New Labour will use crime and the fear of crime to wiggle its way back into the public's affection. Since March, Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman, has been trying to measure New Labour's insatiable authoritarianism. He has asked every Government department how many criminal offences they've created since Blair came to power. The running total stands at 661. (The Ministry of Defence hasn't answered yet. The final tally will probably pass 700 when it does.) Between 1997 and this spring, the Home Office sent 45 Bills to Parliament. As Hughes says, the Labour Governments of the 1960s set people free by decriminalising abortion and homosexuality. Their twenty-first century successors have a restless desire to prohibit and punish with curfews, anti-social behaviour orders and mandatory minimum sentences. Blair will know that the only likely criticism of his next law-and-order drive from the media will be that it doesn't go far enough. Crime stunts are the one form of spin journalists don't rail against. All the Fleet Street tabloids want tougher punishments. Local papers aren't so different. Until recently they covered community life: amateur dramatics, school concerts, council meetings, magistrates courts, flower shows, pub football leagues. But falling circulations and cost-cutting managements have emptied their newsrooms. Unless you are lucky, your local newspaper will have virtually no news in it apart from news of crimes. Crime is cheap. The police may be incapable of clearing-up four-fifths of the offences reported to them, but their press offices are models of efficiency. They supply reporters with as many crimes as they need to fill the blank spaces between the ads. At the top and bottom of the media and politics, crime is safe. Exploiting crime is what everyone does. When public servants aren't pushed by lesser men into suicide or Britain isn't at war, the default position of national debate is to bellow about crime. There is a maniacal air to the declarations of war against villainy because outside Westminster and the TV studios crime rates have fallen off a cliff. As no one likes to admit that Britain has become a better place to live, the publication of the British Crime Survey last week was greeted with self-interested disdain. Its findings that crime is down by one-fifth since 1999 and one- third since 1993 were dismissed as the results of a worthless 'opinion poll'. The opinion polls you read in newspapers are indeed ropy. They're done on the cheap - usually only 1,000 people are interviewed - and aren't genuinely random samples. The researchers for the British Crime Survey, by contrast, interview 40,000. They don't rely on stopping people in the street, but visit a randomly selected section of the population and keep coming back until they persuade the interviewees to tell them if they've been the victims of crime. The survey doesn't cover commercial crimes, mainly shoplifting, and the sufferings of children under 16. But it's the best guide to national trends by a mile. Unfortunately for the statisticians, their consoling findings run against the mass culture the elite feeds to the masses, as in a small way, the millions of pounds that ITV throws at Midsomer Murders demonstrates. IN 1999 researchers at the University of Westminster provided conclusive evidence of the dumbing down of television. They looked at the drama schedules of the 1970s and said 'the most noticeable trend over the 20-year period [since] is the growth of the police/detective genre'. It took huge chunks of the drama budgets of every channel except BBC2. The explanation for the stultifying uniformity is identical to the reason crime stories fill the local press: money. Most newspapers can't afford to hire the staff to present a balanced picture of life in a town or city. Television companies can't afford to take risks with fickle, channel-hopping viewers. Market-share is everything. A producer explained to the Westminster academics that reassuring the audience kept it happy. 'That's what big rating shows offer. On the surface they may seem rough and tough, but if they're to be long runners they have to be about drama reassurance: the murder is solved, the criminal caught. It's reassuring.' As with drama, so with current affairs. The ideal modern documentary, an ITV programme-maker said, was now 'aimed entirely at the erogenous zones [of the] younger, more advertising-friendly audience... So there's lots of video of people doing bad things, even when there's no story to tell; there's one-sided sentimental interviews; and there is an obsession with crime and scary health stories. There's very limited range - very little foreign, no political, nothing of real significance to the country like Northern Ireland because these are deemed to be unpopular.' Between 1978 and 1998 the percentage of BBC current affairs programmes dealing with foreign news fell from 29 to 18 per cent. ITV foreign documentaries went from 26 to 7 per cent. Stories about health problems, consumer woes, and, above all, criminals filled the void. Television has to cope with a fragmenting audience, while newspapers have to cope with a diminishing audience. Nothing, not 11 September nor the Iraq war, can halt readership decline. And, once again, crime is a useful stop-gap. There are innocent victims, there's the urgency in finding the assailant and there's the police who are usually willing to help out newspapers who remain quiet about the service's failings. The ever-cruder playing to fears about crime and asylum-seekers hasn't halted the decline in sales of most national and local newspapers, but the truth is editors don't know what else to do. In these circumstances, if David Blunkett had stood up last week and cried 'Rejoice! Crime is Falling!' he'd have been met with pictures in the next day's papers of the face of a battered granny under the headline: 'Tell Her Crime is Falling, Mr Blunkett!' I'd have some sympathy for him, if his party hadn't taken the lead in cretinising the public. The 45 Bills the Home Office has pushed through since 1997 reveal a government as empty of original ideas as newspaper editors and programme controllers. Most of the punishments New Labour has proposed have never been used by the courts. (Not one child has been curfewed and not one burglar has received a mandatory 'three strikes and you're out' prison sentence.) The fall in crime has been caused by the fall in unemployment and improvements in home and car security. Successive Home Secretaries might as well have stayed in bed for all the good they've done. But the futility of their efforts in no way diminishes the frenzy of their obsession. There has been no more telling insight into the vacuity of the Government's mind than the leaked crime memo from Tony Blair which journalists found in 2000. He instructed his subordinates 'to highlight the tough measures' the Government had already thrown out and then come up with 'something new, something tough, with immediate bite, which sends a message through the system'. He didn't know what the something that was tough and new should be or whether it was needed, but his ignorance didn't bother him. As with the controllers of British television, any story would do, as long as it was about crime.