Luxury mansions, classic cars ranging from Bentleys to Lamborghinis, millions in cash and even racehorses are among the record £125m-worth of assets recovered from criminals in the last year. Claiming the seizures as a great success, the Home Office will today announce greater powers to confiscate criminals' wealth.Law enforcement agencies have achieved the government's target of £125m for the year 2006-07 - a sixfold increase since the Proceeds of Crime Act came into force in 2003. But the government is to set an ambitious £250m target for 2009-10. Hundreds of millions of pounds of asset seizures and confiscations are also making their way through the courts.In a surprise result, the much criticised Assets Recovery Agency (ARA) has achieved the top end of its government-set targets. Jeremy Outen, a forensic accountant with KPMG and a member of the prime minister's strategy unit, which proposed the asset seizure legislation, said the results were good news. "But I think we have a long way to go. Asset seizure is not yet at the heart of law enforcement. It is still more of an afterthought in many forces."Asset seizure will eventually be a major law enforcement tool, he says. "Obtaining money is the motive behind three-quarters of offences in the UK, so targeting criminal wealth could have a much greater effect. But this is good start."The ARA has now been merged into the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca). The government will also announce the transfer of its "civil recovery" powers to other major prosecuting agencies. The powers, once only available to the ARA, are to be given to a range of agencies including the Crown Prosecution Service, the Serious Fraud Office, Customs and Revenue and the Northern Ireland Public Prosecution Service. The powers will be transferred in the serious crime bill.Under civil recovery, agencies will be able to seize cash, homes, jewellery, vehicles and any other belongings from anyone they suspect of crime.The agencies will only have to meet the civil courts' standard of "balance of probabilities" that someone is involved in crime to seize assets, as opposed to the criminal courts' requirement of "beyond reasonable doubt". Other prosecution agencies may also get the powers in future years.The Home Office is also expected to announce tomorrow the continued funding of the regional asset recovery teams. These are police-led multi-agency teams that seize criminal assets.Under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, criminals now face the loss of any assets gained through crime. Police in England and Wales are believed to have contributed £65m to the figure of £125m for assets handed to the Treasury in 2006-07.Police takings have increased since the threshold for cash seizures on the street or in raids, where the suspect could not explain lawful origin, was lowered by the government from £5,000 to £1,000 last summer. Tens of thousands of pounds are seized from suspects on Britain's streets every day.From this year, an incentive scheme has operated where agencies involved in asset recovery, including the courts, will get some of the assets they help recover. Customs have recovered nearly £40m. The only agency to miss its targets is Soca. Last week it announced it had only seized a maximum of 60% of its target.The ARA has achieved its target of £9-£16m, taking £15.93m. The ARA is fighting other cases worth more than £100m through the courts.After criticism by a Conservative MP that the ARA was costing more than it was collecting, the government merged it into Soca at the end of April. The decision to extend civil recovery powers is likely to be controversial. In this first tranche of provision it will be available to all police forces in England, Wales and Northern Ireland as well as the SFO, and Customs and Revenue. Scotland deals separately with asset seizure under its own laws.Paying the priceA major criminal from Wales was ordered to pay back more than £2.5m on Tuesday. John Damon Gizzi, 35, was convicted of wounding, assault and conspiracy to supply counterfeit cigarettes at Chester crown court.The North Wales police investigation into his extensive and violent criminality resulted in him being jailed for 5½ years. Gizzi led a lavish, millionaire lifestyle and owned luxury cars, a £1.75m mansion in St Asaph, North Wales, and 16 other properties around the Rhyl area worth millions of pounds, all funded by his criminality. The investigation into his financial affairs was referred to the North West regional asset recovery team (NWRART).At Mold crown court in March it was determined that Gizzi had benefited from his criminality to the tune of nearly £7m. Judge John Rogers ordered Gizzi to pay his remaining £2.5m in six months or serve a default sentence of eight years.Detective Chief Inspector Mike Jones, head of the NWRART, said "This case demonstrates the determination of the police to take the profit out of crime from those individuals who think they are beyond the reach of the law."  Paul Lashmar