The son of a British couple found stabbed and strangled in the bedroom of their villa on Crete was yesterday detained in connection with their murder.Ryan Johnson, 32, a dance instructor, told police that he discovered his parents' bodies in their home overlooking the sea in the village of Almyrida, near Hania, on the north coast of the Greek island. He said he had returned home from a party and found them dead on Sunday morning. Local reports said Terry and Josephine Johnson, aged 53 and 54, from Newlyn in Cornwall, had been bound and gagged.According to the coroner, Manolis Michalodimitrakis, Terry Johnson had three stab wounds to his throat, blows to the head and had been strangled. The cause of death was officially listed as haemorrhage and asphyxiation. His wife died as a result of being strangled.Speaking to the Guardian from Hania, a police officer, Polykarpos Boultasakis, said the couple's son was being questioned by police in connection with the crime. Although the villa had not been broken into, the house safe had been tampered with, in what appeared to be a bungled robbery. Several kitchen knives were missing."We are holding Ryan Johnson for further questioning at police headquarters overnight," Mr Boultasakis said. "Allegations that this was the work of an Albanian gang are baseless. He has not confessed to the crime. A warrant for his arrest has been issued by the prosecutor. He'll be detained in custody at police headquarters overnight."The Foreign Office yesterday confirmed that Ryan Johnson had been detained. He is expected to be brought before the investigating judge, when a decision will be made whether to charge him.The victims' bodies have been moved to the local mortuary. Terry Johnson had worked in the tin mining industry and had become a publican; Josephine was a part-time nurse. The couple had retired to Crete three months ago, buying a home in Almyrida, a village of 500 people, much favoured by British and German retireesOfficials on Crete said it was the first time in living memory that a foreign couple had been murdered on the island. "In Almyrida, people are really very shocked," said Mr Boultasakis. "Such crimes don't happen on Crete."Staff at West Cornwall hospital, where Mrs Johnson worked, said they were "devastated" at the news of her death. They described her in a statement as having a "wonderfully warm personality".Geoff Peart, a motor engineer from Newlyn, said: "We are all a bit stunned by it. He [Terry Johnson] was well known in the area."Chris Davey, landlord of the Dolphin Inn in Newlyn, where the couple held a leaving party in August, said: "I spoke to him two months ago and he was over the moon about being in Crete and chuffed to bits about how it was all working out. I can't believe it. It seems so cruel."Roger Jenkin, 40, a friend of Terry for 12 years, said: "It's is awful. Terry always used to say he needed to quit work because of high blood pressure and wanted to live the quiet life in the sun."He said he couldn't handle life in the UK any more. It is a total shock. I remember the leaving do. They were so excited about starting a new life."A spokeswoman for Devon and Cornwall police said: "We have been approached by the Foreign Office and a family liaison officer will be appointed."