They say criminals always go back to the scene of the crime. Bruce Reynolds, the mastermind behind the Great Train Robbery, managed to wait 40 years before his return visit tomorrow.Reynolds, 71, will be guest of honour at a fete in Oakley, Buckinghamshire - close to Leatherslade Farm where his gang hid out - to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the now legendary heist."It's a bit like being told 'Come back, all is forgiven'," he said. "The lorry used to move the cash and my old Lotus Cortina, which I did most of the reconnaissance in, will be there."I was very surprised to be asked back - 40 years ago it wouldn't have happened - but it's part of history and people there recognise that I was part of their history."It was always with one eye on the history books that Reynolds planned the so-called "crime of the century" in which £2,631,684 was stolen from the Glasgow to London mail train."It was something I had been looking for all my life, the big one. As a career criminal you reach a pinnacle and that was it - it was a bit like a journalist finding out Hitler was still alive."Plus it had those elements of fantasy - I was brought up on Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and Jesse James. Other crimes have got their points but for the audacity of it and the way it captured the public imagination, it's up there. "Looking back I'm neither proud nor ashamed of it and I've paid the penalty for it. Now it's a bit like an albatross hanging around my neck. "People always call me 'the train robber' but I don't rob trains any more. I'm not celebrating the anniversary, I've never celebrated it." Reynolds is convinced his men were not to blame for the death of driver Jack Mills. "Sometimes you have some very sad results but he died of acute leukaemia and we were totally exonerated by a Home Office coroner," he said. At the fete tomorrow - a day after the 40th anniversary - he will meet up with retired policeman John Wolley, who uncovered the gang's bolt-hole at Leatherslade Farm. He bears no grudge against the police. "I was a career thief and I suppose there is grudging respect on both sides. As far as I was concerned, when you were caught you were caught, that was it. I've never had any animosity about that. "I wouldn't say some of my best friends are policemen but there are good guys and they were doing their job. The flaw from our point of view was that everything was planned up until we divided up the money. "Everyone had got their own plans as to how to get away. Someone had been paid to clear the farm of all the evidence and they didn't do it and there were clues left. I'm still dubious about the fingerprints - we were experienced people who knew to wear gloves." Reynolds was on the run for five years, with stays in Mexico and Canada before his £150,000 share ran out and he was eventually caught penniless in Torquay. Sentenced to 25 years, he admits he became suicidal in prison. "The lowest point was a year in. I was very low and I'm lucky I had such a good relationship with my only son, Nick. I did consider throwing the towel in and taking my own life but I realised I couldn't leave that mark on my son. He was my salvation."Although permanently linked together by their participation in one of Britain's most infamous crimes, the remaining train robbers rarely see each other. Reynolds said: "The only times we really get together are at funerals of people we have been associated with in prison over the years. You build up a very strong camaraderie in prison." Reynolds has been to see his old partner in crime, Ronnie Biggs, in Belmarsh high security jail. Biggs communicated using a pointer and alphabet, he said."Ronnie's had three major strokes and he finds it difficult to communicate. This guy was a very jovial character with a great sense of humour and a very strong guy physically and my heart is saddened by the condition he's in."