Go to gaol? Go directly to gaol? Lord Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, hopes not. He issued sensible new sentencing guidelines this week with the aim of damping down what the director of the massively overcrowded prison system has described as "the courts' continuing love affair with custody". The guidelines concentrate on burglary, warning benches not to impose imprisonment in circumstances such as first offences. Like car crime, burglary has been declining dramatically. It is down by almost a half in the last decade. This is mainly due to more secure doors and windows, rather than prison or police action. The average person is now only burgled once every 50 years. Yet the courts continue to get ever more punitive. Ten years ago, some 28% of burglars were sent to prison; now 51% are incarcerated.To their credit, both Conservative and Liberal Democrat spokesmen yesterday recognised the sense of the new move. As Hilary Benn, the prisons minister, has noted, the sentencing debate should concentrate on effectiveness, not on promoting the toughest approach. There is a welcome emerging political consensus on this issue. A social exclusion unit report in July on reducing reoffending pointed to the problems generated by prison. The three most important bonds helping an inmate on release are broken by prison: one-third lose their home, two-fifths contact with their families, and two-thirds their job. There is another problem: 50% of prisoners have a lower reading skills than 11-year-olds; 65% lower numeracy skills; and 80% lower writing skills. If hardliners really believe the best way of rectifying these problems is in overcrowded prisons, they have not been listening to the prison director general. And he can tell them the unit cost: a prohibitive £37,500 a year. Yesterday's tabloid protests were predictable. What was less predictable were the chief police officers' criticisms. They too, until now, have been sensible about the misuse of prison. Perhaps they were trying to hide their low clear up rates. No judge is more aware of the corrosive effects of overcrowded prisons than Lord Woolf, who carried out the inquiry into the 1991 riots. Since then, the prison population has risen from 45,000 to 72,000 and is projected to reach 100,000 by the end of the decade. Building extra prisons is not the solution: of the 19 new ones, 15 are already overcrowded. A more rational sentencing is the right route.