A man and a 17-year-old youth were given life sentences today for the "brutal" honour killing of a female relative who had enraged her Pakistani family over her marriage plans.Samaira Nazir, a 25-year-old graduate and recruitment consultant, tried to escape her family home after rowing with her family over her plans to wed Salman Mohammed, an Afghan asylum seeker.The Old Bailey heard that as she tried to run away, her brother Azhar Nazir, 30, dragged her back into the house and she met a "horrific death".The prosecution said he and his distant cousin Imran Mohammed, 17, "worked together" to hold her and stab her to death. Her throat was cut and she was stabbed 18 times.The killing at the family home in Southall, west London, in April last year, was witnessed by two young nieces who were spattered with blood.Nazir and Mohammed were convicted by a jury last month. Nazir, a greengrocer, received a minimum term of 20 years. Mohammed was given a minimum tariff of 10 years.Judge Christopher Moss told the pair: "This was a barbaric crime. She suffered a brutal, gruesome and horrific death ... Samaira Nazir was an accomplished young woman who was murdered by members of her family because she insisted on marrying someone deemed unsuitable."Turning to Nazir, who had tried to pin the blame on his cousin, the judge said: "You were her judge and jury, although you may not have been alone. You claimed to have loved your sister, but were guilty of orchestrating her murder."The court heard the victim's businessman father, who had also been arrested and bailed over the killing, fled to Pakistan and was claimed by the family to have died there.Ms Nazir had met Salman Mohammed in 2000, shortly after he arrived in the UK in the back of a lorry and found his way to her brother's shop in Southall Broadway.During the trial, the jury heard that her brother had claimed her boyfriend was after the "family's money". In one telephone call to Salman Mohammed he had told him: "We can get you anywhere if you get married, even if you are not in this country."The couple had last seen each other about an hour before Ms Nazir was killed when they tried to talk to her mother at a relative's home. Her mother had refused and she and her daughter arrived back at the home in Southall in an angry mood.Neighbours later heard cries for help from the house and, at one point, Ms Nazir ran to her car but was followed by her brother, prosecutor Sally Howes QC told the jury.Another neighbour was so alarmed by screams that she knocked on the front door.Azhar Nazir opened the door and said his sister was having fits. The neighbour returned home and heard Samaira Nazir shout: "You are not my mother any more" and "help me, help me".Shortly later, the front door opened and a bloody left arm appeared, the court heard, before Samaira Nazir was pulled back into the house by her brother. When police arrived, they found Ms Nazir dead, slumped in the hall, surrounded by blood. A silk scarf had been tied tightly round her neck.Azhar Nazir was taken to a car by an officer and said: "There had been a problem with my sister. She does not wish to have an arranged marriage. We only allow marriage within the family. My sister wanted to run away from the house and was stopped."Ms Howes told the court: "She was murdered in her own home."Outside court today, Nazir Afzal, area director of the Crown Prosecution Service, said: "Samaira was murdered because she loved the wrong person, in her family's eyes. In that sense, it was an 'honour killing' to protect the perceived status of the family, to mark their disapproval."We hope that Samaira's death and the investigation and prosecution that followed will deter others who may wish to harm their own family members because of practices that are as tragic as they are outdated."