It was a familiar ritual. Most Sunday evenings for the three months of the trial the mother of the two 16-year-old boys yesterday cleared of killing Damilola Taylor could be found at home preparing food to take to them at the Old Bailey the following morning."They don't like the food there much," she said. "They really miss my cooking. They're still my babies really. They need me, and it's hard that I haven't been able to be with them all the time." She is in her early 40s and has lived in this part of south London for most of her life. Her flat is like a thoroughfare. Older children and aunts, uncles and cousins are always dropping in. Recently there was a visit from the former girlfriend of one of her sons who faced trial. A chance for everyone to see his child, now walking, which she gave birth to when he was 15 and on remand at Feltham young offenders' institution last year. "I don't think he's going to get back with this girl," his mother says. "But he'll make sure the baby's all right, he'll provide for her." Her sons, she says, were streetwise. No disputing that. "They looked out for children around here, and I know in my heart they are not capable of hurting anyone." Surely she must along the way have had some doubts? "No, not at all, because I know my children. "I know they wouldn't dream of trying to mug a 10-year-old boy. From day one I never believed it. This business of them wanting to rob him, wanting his trainers, or his mobile phone. They didn't need anything like that. It's rubbish. They were naughty boys, they got up to mischief. But nothing serious, just petty stuff." She says the boys' past made them a convenient target for detectives investigating Damilola's murder. "Police have always had it in for them. They're always picking on them. "Even if my boys weren't around they'd often get the blame for things. They're not nearly as bad as some people have made out. "I think the police were only interested in saving their own reputation." She is withering about "this girl", the chief prosecution witness codenamed Bromley. "I am disgusted that they relied on this girl. They were glad that she came forward because it gave them something at last. Anything to arrest the boys. Nothing she said made sense. She says she knew them, but I don't think she did. "But I feel she has got some kind of hatred of them from somewhere, and she did what she did for attention. She needs help." She is equally dismissive of the fellow inmates at Feltham who claimed that her boys confessed to being involved in Damilola's killing. "How could anyone believe them? They were trying to help themselves." Her boys are very different, one more confident, the other more sensitive and emotional. The boy's father, who is separated from the mother and has remarried, attended the trial infrequently. She said: "I warned him that something like this was going to happen. I told him that they needed him to be around, and he should have been doing more." She believes they were starting to make headway at their pupil referral units, benefiting from more individual attention from teachers. But "they both have difficulty concentrating", she adds. She says they will be moving away and trying to make a fresh start. "Wherever I go, I hear people talking about it, talking about my sons. I can feel it when people are pointing me out and saying: 'That's the mother.'" She is strangely matter-of-fact about the future. One of her sons wants to be a carpenter. The other wants to do something in the music business. They both like gardening at the moment, she says. "I hope my boys can finish their education. They've been making good progress in their secure unit and I hope they can go to college, or maybe university." She feels sorry for Damilola's mother: "A 10-year-old boy dying like that. It was terrible. You think that it could have been one of your own kids. And then your own kids are arrested for it." · Tim Donovan is a reporter with BBC London.