Even as Alison was swearing to tell "the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth", she knew it was a lie. What she was about to tell the jury of 10 women and one man was anything but the whole truth.Her former gynaecologist was standing trial for raping her. But what the jury didn't know was that the apparently caring and upstanding professional man they saw in the dock was being brought to Preston crown court in a prison van every morning from Strangeways jail in Manchester. Also, the man respectfully addressed by counsel as "Dr Darwish" was in reality no longer a doctor. He had been struck off by the General Medical Council and was serving a six-year prison sentence for sexually assaulting nine other patients. Alison had more reason than most alleged rape victims to want to see justice done. Her family's life had been turned upside down by the discovery that her youngest daughter, then 12, had been fathered by Darwish Darwish and not by Jim, her husband of more than 30 years. Alison told her daughter that she had been conceived as a result of rape and says it was one of the most difficult things she had ever had to do. But the family was to feel let down badly again, this time by the legal system. Although a DNA test proved that Darwish was Karen's father, the jury acquitted him of rape. It was only after they delivered their verdict that they learned that he had been found guilty two years before of nine other indecent assaults and acquitted of one rape. All the assaults happened under hypnosis, when patients were undergoing "relaxation therapy" suggested by Darwish for sexual problems. The criminal justice bill, now going through parliament, could allow juries in many more cases to be told about the previous convictions of defendants standing trial. It's a step too far for many lawyers and judges, who predict a whole new wave of miscarriages of justice. Police, they say, will simply "round up the usual suspects". It will be a case of "give a dog a bad name and hang him." Research shows that jurors and magistrates can be seriously prejudiced by knowing that the defendant has been convicted of similar crimes in the past. The reform is one of the most controversial parts of the bill, and the government is bracing itself for a rough ride when it gets to the House of Lords. But what about the miscarriages of justice that happen when the guilty go free? The need to keep Darwish's convictions from the jury meant that Alison could not explain that her suspicions were first aroused by seeing on the television news that her former doctor was to stand trial on the other charges. She believes the constraints on her when giving her evidence made her come across as evasive and possibly untruthful. Jim, a carpenter, had previously seen Darwish's daughter, then around 12, have a temper tantrum when he was building a sauna at the family's home. When Karen had a similar blow-up one day, he remarked that she sounded just like the doctor's daughter. But that would not have been enough to prompt Alison to go for a DNA test. "We just laughed. It was just a passing remark," she recalls. "But when this came on the television that remark came back to us and also the fact that my daughter has hair like his, which is sort of Afro, and very, very curly. He is from north Africa. Although we couldn't believe it we decided, because there was that doubt, that we would should get a DNA test before we did anything else." But she couldn't tell the jury that, so she and Jim said it was seeing Darwish's children and noticing the resemblance to their daughter that first aroused their suspicions - an explanation she thinks must have looked dubious to the jury. "You don't go and have a DNA test simply because your child looks like someone else." On an impulse, while waiting for the test result, she went round to Darwish's home to confront him. "They were both there, his wife and himself, and they were absolutely devastated about these charges that had been brought against him. Their whole life was being destroyed. They said these women were only after compensation; they weren't telling the truth. Being a compassionate person I felt so sorry for them. And I thought if I hadn't had the results, it might not be true. I decided I would say nothing. I just left and didn't say anything. "However, I couldn't tell the jury that. The way the defence questioned me, it was as if I didn't say anything because his wife was there. And I thought that made it sound like I had had an affair with him." It fitted neatly with Darwish's defence: that Alison had gone round to his house and seduced him. "I wasn't allowed to give the true reason why I didn't tell him at the house. That looked odd." Although Darwish's past was hidden from the jury, Alison's was exposed for all to see after the defence got access to her medical records. "All my past came out, including the fact that I had had a child adopted 36 years ago when I was 18. They hit me with that as soon as I went in the witness box. I took one valium tablet and they brought that up in court. He [Darwish] said I had asked for a sterilisation operation when I had not. They were trying to make me appear a loose woman." When the jury pronounced its not guilty verdict, Darwish slumped to the floor. It was only then, when he was taken away by police, that the jury realised he was already in prison for other offences. Alison was unlucky because, even under the current law, previous convictions - and acquittals - can be put before the jury if they amount to what's known as "similar fact" evidence. If a defendant commits each crime in a strikingly similar way, the judge can be asked to allow the evidence into the trial. The House of Lords ruled in September 2000 that the jury trying a serial rapist, Nicholas Edwards, who planned and carried out each of his attacks in a similar fashion, could hear from previous victims, including those who had not been believed by earlier juries. Perhaps the prosecution in Alison's case, with the DNA test result in its pocket, thought the evidence of the other patients was unnecessary, or maybe the judge was asked but refused to allow it. The criminal justice bill will go further and allow judges to admit previous convictions or other evidence of misconduct if their value in proving guilt outweighs any possible prejudicial effect on the jury. Among the examples the government gives are a doctor charged with indecent assault on a patient who has been acquitted of two similar assaults in previous trials. "It defies belief that it could only be an unlucky coincidence that this number of patients have made this kind of allegation and therefore the previous allegations are of clear probative value," says the government white paper. Ministers are determined to push through the measure, which is described in a leaked policy document as "a clear priority for the prime minister." Lawyers, for their part, argue that it will be a recipe for wrongful convictions. Sally Lloyd-Bostock, professor of law and psychology at Birmingham University, who carried out the research, says: "I think not enough account has been taken of the psychology of how people are going to use this information. A previous similiar conviction, especially a recent one, is psychologically a very powerful piece of information. I'm not very happy with the bill." For Alison, though, the change can't come soon enough. "I feel the law's got to be changed because had I been able to tell the whole truth I feel sure the jury would have seen a totally different picture. Something is wrong with the way the system is working. Having first-hand knowledge of the system I now understand why." · The names of Alison and her family have been changed.