An angry crowd yelled insults and threats as taxi driver Chris Halliwell appeared in court charged with the murder of Sian O'Callaghan.Halliwell, 47, spoke only to confirm his name, age, address and the identity of his lawyer during a three-minute hearing at Swindon magistrates court.Before the hearing, a packed public gallery was warned not to disrupt it by the chair of the bench, Angus MacPherson. But as Halliwell was led from the dock, some people hurled names at him and one person shouted: "If we ever get hold of you, we will kill you."Outside, a mob of around 100 people gathered at the rear of the court. One man shouted: "Judge, give him bail. We will look after him." Another yelled: "There is £150,000 on your head."As the police van was driven out of the court car park, around five or six onlookers banged on the side of the vehicle and then chased it down the street.Halliwell wore a dark suit and an open-necked striped shirt in the dock. Asked if he was Christopher John Halliwell, the defendant replied: "I am."The clerk of the court said Halliwell was charged with murdering O'Callaghan between 18 and 25 March.Halliwell clasped his hands in front of him as Simon Brenchley, the district crown prosecutor, said a bail hearing will take place on Wednesday and Halliwell will appear again on 8 April.O'Callaghan, a 22-year-old office administrator, disappeared in the early hours of Saturday 19 March after a night out with friends at the Suju nightclub in Swindon. Her body was found close to the Uffington White Horse in Oxfordshire, around 12 miles (20km) east of the town on Thursday.Police are continuing to try to identify a second body found near the village of Eastleach in Gloucestershire, 15 miles north of Swindon. The remains, believed to be those of a woman aged between 23 and 30, were discovered on Saturday.Police sources said officers are checking dental records to try to establish the identity of the second body. If they can find a match they should know the identity early this week. If not the process could be a much longer one.Police are appealing again for information from people who saw anything in the Ramsbury area, near Marlborough, 12 miles south of Swindon, from 3am on Saturday — the night O'Callaghan went missing.Outside court, the crowd included ex-boxer Dean Mayo, 37. He said he was organising a march in Swindon to show respect for O'Callaghan on Friday.Members of O'Callaghan's family did not attend the hearing.