New laws coming into force today will give greater protection to "have-a-go heroes" who challenge burglars or other criminals.It will mean that members of the public who tackle criminals are unlikely to be prosecuted if they can show they acted instinctively or because they feared for their safety.Jack Straw, the justice secretary, who has himself intervened four times to stop criminals, said the government wanted to favour the victim rather than encourage vigilantism."This law will help to make sure that the criminal justice system is firmly weighted in favour of the victim," he said.He added: "These changes in the law will make clear - victims of crime, and those who intervene to prevent crime, should be treated with respect by the justice system. We do not want to encourage vigilantism, but there can be no justice in a system which makes the victim the criminal." The government had previously rejected attempts by Conservative backbenchers Patrick Mercer and Anne McIntosh to introduce a change in the law because their bills were "never worded quite right". In 2004, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, had also said that he supported the use of "necessary force" by members of the public. Straw announced a change in policy at last year's Labour conference.In practice, householders are seldom prosecuted if they harm or even kill an intruder but the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 will give them greater legal protection. In one recent case, two burglars broke into a house armed with a knife and threatened a woman. Her husband overcame one of the burglars and stabbed him. The burglar died but the husband was not prosecuted. The other burglar was convicted.However, in another example cited by the justice department, a householder was prosecuted after he laid in wait for a burglar who tried to break into his shed and shot him in the back. Another man was deemed to have used excessive force and prosecuted after he caught a burglar, tied him up, beat him up, threw him into a pit and set fire to him. The new law makes it clear that householders should not be prosecuted so long as they used "reasonable force" to protect themselves or others and acted in response to the scale of the threat.Straw revealed last year that he had intervened four times to stop criminals - including three times when he managed to detain the offender.