A man who spent 17 years behind bars after being wrongly convicted of a sexual assault has been freed by the court of appeal after DNA evidence pointed to another man as the perpetrator.Victor Nealon, a former postman, has always maintained his innocence. He was convicted in January 1997 of the attempted rape of a woman leaving a nightclub.Three appeal court judges quashed the conviction after a hearing lasting around an hour at the Royal Courts of Justice. Lord Justice Fulford said the court would set out its full judgment at a later date.Peter Willcock QC, for Nealon, argued that had the DNA evidence been provided at the original trial it would have been "explosive".The crown said it would not seek to appeal against the ruling.Nealon, 53, was appearing via videolink from Wakefield prison, and spoke only to say: "Thank you. Thank you very much." He had been serving a discretionary life sentence but was not considered for parole because he consistently denied the offence.The Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) referred his case - which since 2010 has been highlighted by the Guardian in its Justice on Trial series - to the court of appeal earlier this year. It accepted Nealon's legal team's argument that DNA traces on the 22-year-old victim's blouse and underwear belonging to another unknown male made the conviction unsafe.Nealon had twice before appealed to the CCRC, but the CCRC had resisted calls to conduct DNA tests on evidence. The solicitor Mark Newby, of Jordan's Solicitors in Doncaster, who took up the case in 2008, commissioned independent experts and proved that the samples, from an unidentified male, could not have been Nealon's.The crown argued that the DNA evidence was neutral, as samples could have been from other sources, such as the shops where the victim bought the clothes. But lawyers for Nealon said the position of the DNA samples was consistent with the description of the assault, and on more than one item of clothing. Willcock told the court that the fact Nealon had always requested testing of the clothes for DNA evidence, which could have identified him had he been the attacker, underlined his innocence.The CCRC carried out extensive checks to match the DNA profile found on the victim's clothing to people who had handled the evidence or knew the victim, but found no match.Leo O'Toole, a friend of Nealon's who has campaigned for his release, said it was a great day, but it had taken too many years to secure justice. "The overturning of this conviction shows how difficult it can be to right a wrong. The damage to Victor – and to the victim – is irreversible. She will also now know that the real perpetrator got away free."He added: "Victor has been emotionally and physically traumatised and is effectively homeless." He said that Nealon had been assaulted in the notoriously tough Wakefield prison even within the last few weeks.Newby said: "It's a serious miscarriage of justice, and it's been hard fought. But it also demonstrates the importance of appeal lawyers being able to access evidence from old cases, as there clearly could be other wrongful convictions out there in cases when exhibits are withheld."He said they would be deciding whether to seek compensation for Nealon's years in prison in the new year.While the thrust of the appeal was the fresh DNA evidence, the court also heard there were concerns about witness identification of Nealon, as statements said he had distinctive facial features including a lump on his forehead that did not match Nealon's.