On Tuesday, the US supreme court will hear oral arguments in a case challenging a ban on handgun ownership in the District of Columbia, with a decision expected by June. The challenge is based on the second amendment to the US constitution: "A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed."Passions over the second amendment run high even though the nation generally has gun-control policies that, in most places, allow ordinary citizens to own handguns and rifles without many restrictions. Advocates on both sides present strongly held positions about the correct interpretation of the amendment. The questions of interpretation turn on the relation between the amendment's so-called preamble, with its reference to a well-regulated militia, and its final clause protecting a right to keep and bear arms. Gun control advocates say the text clearly means that the right to own guns is protected only in connection with a person's membership in a formal, organised militia. Gun rights advocates say, equally forcefully, that the text obviously means that people have a right to own guns no different from the right they have under the first amendment to speak freely.Moving beyond the text, advocates turn to the history lying behind the amendment. Gun control advocates point out that the amendment was adopted to ensure that the remote national government would not have the power to disarm state-organised militias, which would always be available to resist a possibly tyrannical national government. Gun rights advocates argue that the amendment was adopted to ensure that people would be able to protect themselves when the government defaulted on its duties, either by becoming tyrannical or, more important these days, by failing to provide them with protection against marauding criminals.I came to the study of the second amendment basically by accident. A friend asked me to write a book for a series on Americans' inalienable rights, and I volunteered to write one on religious freedom. He countered by asking me to write about the second amendment, and I agreed. I looked at the scholarship on the amendment's interpretation and ended up puzzled at the assurance with which advocates presented the evidence and their conclusions.To a novice like me, what was most striking was how ambiguous all the evidence was. Certainly there were lots of statements made at the time the amendment was adopted that support the gun rights position, and a decent and reasonably widely held political theory explaining why people would want to be sure that they each had an individual right to own weapons. But, equally certainly, there were lots of statements from the same period saying that we needed an amendment to keep the new national government from disarming the state militias, and, again, a decent and reasonably widely held political theory explaining why that was a good idea. I simply can't say that there was some original understanding of the second amendment one way or the other.Historians can live with ambiguity, but lawyers can't. They have to say - or perhaps pretend - that all the evidence points in the direction that supports their client's position. What's more puzzling is why ordinary citizens are so passionate.I argue in Out of Range that the reason is that the dispute over the second amendment's meaning has become part of the culture wars in the United States. What you think the second amendment means tells us what kind of person you think you are, and what kind of country you think the United States is. If you are basically an individualist, you're likely to think that people should look out for themselves - and that one way of doing so is by owning guns. You're likely to think as well that people who favour gun control are almost spineless cowards unwilling to defend themselves when facing serious threats. If you're more egalitarian, you're likely to think that we all have a duty to look out for each other's welfare and safety - and that one way of doing so is by limiting gun ownership. You're likely to think as well that people who favour gun rights are too macho and self-regarding.The second amendment generates passionate arguments not because people look at the evidence and then become convinced, but because people know what kind of people they are and look at the evidence with that in mind. The supreme court's decision may damp down controversy over the second amendment's meaning, which would be a good thing. But the most we can hope for is that the court will eliminate one front in the culture wars. They are going to continue elsewhere.