Police searching for an 11-year-old boy missing for four days yesterday found a body in the Livingston area of West Lothian.A massive search had been launched for Rory Blackhall, who disappeared after his mother dropped him off near his school in the new town on Thursday. Yesterday, 150 people, including local residents, specialist search and rescue personnel and other volunteers joined police officers as the search widened.Late yesterday afternoon, Lothian and Borders police said the body of a young male had been discovered in a wooded area. They said it was too early to release any further information or confirm the identity of the body.The discovery was being treated as suspicious, which is standard practice when a body is found in the open air. Inquiries at the location were continuing last night.Rory was last seen at 8.30am on Thursday when his mother dropped him off at a layby near Meldrum primary school. When a relative arrived to pick him up in the afternoon, it was discovered that Rory had not been at school all day.The 11-year-old was said to have been upset at his parents' recent separation and the death of his grandmother, and may have been unhappy about returning to school after the summer break. Officers described his disappearance as out of character, however, and said it was unlikely that the "train-mad" youngster, who has a 14-year-old brother, had any money with him when he went missing.On Friday, Rory's mother, Michelle, made an emotional appeal at a news conference for her son to come home. Mrs Blackhall, 41, a local primary school teacher, said: "Sweetheart, come home. Mummy and daddy love you very much. There is nothing to worry about at all."She added: "He is a very lovable boy. He gets on with everybody very well. He is just a fantastic child."A police helicopter with a thermal imaging camera, and an RAF helicopter had been used to scour the countryside surrounding Livingston, and diving teams from central Scotland police's marine unit searched Eliburn reservoir - a favourite fishing spot for Rory.Officers also spent the weekend handing out posters to local businesses and to spectators attending the Livingston v Dunfermline football match on Saturday. Posters had been put up at beauty spots and attractions that Rory was known to enjoy, including Almondell park, Bo'ness and Kinneil railway, and Beecraigs country park. There were few reported sightings of the youngster, however.Police had earlier confirmed they were speaking to known sex offenders in the area and were keeping an open mind as to the reason for Rory's disappearance. Lothian and Borders officers said they had been encouraged by the response from the public, with more than 100 people volunteering to help search for Rory.Teachers at the school where Mrs Blackhall works were among those who joined yesterday's search before the discovery of the body.Describing Rory as a "fabulous friendly boy", one of her colleagues said: "We are praying for the family and we are thinking of them during this time. When a child goes missing it is your worst nightmare come true."