Police searching a house in Margate have discovered a second body, four days after the remains of a 15-year-old Scottish girl were found buried in its back garden.Essex police announced shortly before 2pm yesterday that a second set of human remains had been uncovered at the terraced house at 50 Irvine Drive.They said they believed they had found the remains of Dinah McNicol, an 18-year-old from Tillingham, Essex, who disappeared in August 1991, but it was too early to be certain.Police have been searching the property since Monday, having received information that her remains might be found there. Instead, forensics officers uncovered the body of 15-year-old Vicky Hamilton, who was last seen close to her home in West Lothian in February 1991. Peter Tobin, a 61-year-old former handyman who was living at the Margate address for part of 1991, was charged in July in connection with Vicky's disappearance; on Thursday he was formally charged with her murder.Ian McNicol, Dinah's father, said: "I have had a call from the police and they seem to think they might have found Dinah. I will be absolutely elated if they have. It will mean we will be able to grieve as a family. It has been a long wait. I always said I wanted to know what happened to my daughter before I died and hopefully I will now."Several dozen local people gathered outside the cordoned off house yesterday afternoon to watch a black stretcher bearing the remains being loaded into a private ambulance at 3.15pm.Peter Lowton, assistant chief constable of Essex police, said the height of the second body, clothing and jewellery were consistent with it being that of Dinah McNicol.Police were awaiting "urgent analysis" of the remains. He revealed that the body was discovered in the back garden close to the patio.Intense activity continued at the property yesterday, involving uniformed and scene of crime officers, and forensic archaeologists, as neighbours peered through upstairs windows and news helicopters hovered overhead.Shortly before the discovery yesterday, Ian McNicol said that he and Dinah's three surviving siblings "have spent the week thinking, we can face this after all this time. Everybody I have spoken to has agreed, we do need a conclusion."The family had been disappointed that the first body was not Dinah's, he said. "We were really hopeful, so that we could actually put her to rest and go through the process of mourning. Not to be. But I let it be known through the police that my family's feelings went out to [the family of] the young girl who was found. She went missing 16 years ago as well, so their experience has been almost the same as ours."Dinah was last seen in August 1991, after hitchhiking home from a music festival in Liphook, Hampshire, with a man she met at the festival. He came forward after her disappearance was publicised on Crimewatch UK, saying they had both been given a lift by a scruffy man in a green "old banger", who had dropped him at a junction of the M25 near Reigate while Dinah stayed in the car. In subsequent days her cash card was used repeatedly at cash dispensers along the south coast to withdraw £250 at a time from her account, including in Margate. Neither the man nor the car was traced.Asked about the difficulty of maintaining hope for 16 years, McNicol said: "Put it this way - last year, due to ill health, I just decided to call the whole thing off. I didn't get in touch with anybody. I didn't want to know. I have had a heart attack and three minor strokes and my health has gone right down the drain. I am 68 now and I felt it was too hard to keep hoping and waiting. Recently we had come to believe, after all this time, that she was dead, but there's always that 1% of you thinking, well if she's dead, how come we don't know, how come she hasn't been found? And we can't grieve."Later, after speaking with police, he said: "We now believe it. The 1% has gone now and the family can really look to now ... we can actually have her remains, put her remains next to her mother's, actually have time to mourn and get on with life."Dinah's mother was killed in a car crash, leaving her father to raise three children under seven. He tried to shield his remaining children from the news after the disappearance of his "ever so beautiful" daughter, saying; "I'm not going to destroy their lives by letting them do the worrying."He said police officers had been in touch many times over the years with possible developments, at one point suggesting that his daughter might have been a victim of Fred West. "Any time there comes on the TV or the radio something about a body being found, I think, Oh my God, no. But now I am getting on a bit. I would like to die knowing where she is."For the sake of Dinah and her mother, we would all like a conclusion."