Abigail Witchalls, the young mother stabbed a fortnight ago, was yesterday transferred to a spinal injuries unit in north London.Doctors said her condition remained stable. Mrs Witchalls, 26, was attacked in a quiet country lane in Little Bookham, Surrey, while she was out walking with her young son. The attacker first held a knife to the throat of her 21-month-old son Joseph before stabbing her in the neck and leaving her for dead. Mrs Witchalls was transferred from St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, where she had been since the attack, to the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital, which houses one of only 11 specialist units treating spinal injuries in the UK. She has been under close guard by officers from the Metropolitan and Surrey police forces since the attack. Although she is paralysed and can only communicate through blinks, mouthed words and facial expressions, she has been cooperating extensively with police. Surrey police said they were planning to return to Mrs Witchalls' bedside as soon as possible, perhaps at the weekend. Police hope to compile a "CD-fit" of her attacker, a more hi-tech version of the traditional photofit. Under normal circumstances the process takes several hours. But because of Mrs Witchalls' injuries, police expect it to take at least a couple of days, meaning the earliest it would be released would be the middle of next week. In a short statement, St George's hospital said: "Abigail's condition remains stable. She is still paralysed but remains in good spirits." It added that Mrs Witchalls was grateful to all those who had written but appealed for privacy for the family. The high-profile case has resulted in more than 700 calls to police from the public. Detectives said at the weekend that they were working through a list of 32 possible suspects. Three people have now been questioned over the attack, including a couple who were later released. A 25-year-old man was also arrested but later released, although he has not been eliminated from the inquiries.