The bank holiday weekend toll of young victims of violence stood at two dead and one on the critical list in an east London hospital last night. Now 28 teenagers have died in knife attacks this year - young men (and a few young women) whose lives had hardly begun. Each crime triggers new demands for longer prison sentences and stronger police powers. It would be a brave politician who admitted that there is little hard evidence about the underlying causes and scale of knife crime and that the most effective course of action would be to do some decent research. The impression that knife crime is out of control is now so overwhelming that it has become almost impossible to correct. It is no comfort to the families of the victims, but, while the number of murders is rising, the proportion of deaths caused by attacks with sharp objects - knives were only categorised separately last year, making year on year comparison impossible - is falling. Hard evidence about school-age children carrying knives is muddled, mainly because there is no question about its frequency, nor a distinction between a legal penknife and an illegal blade, although a Mori survey for the Youth Justice Board found knife-carrying to be associated with those who were or who felt themselves to be victims, and thought arming themselves would raise their status. Young victims of knife crime are unlikely to report it and hospitals do not supply evidence either. Establishing the real level of crime, according to the King's College Centre for Criminal Justice Studies last year, is like trying to count beetles. What is clear is that both perpetrators and victims are disproportionately likely to be from poor areas, white or black Caribbean, and either excluded from school or unemployed. In other words, society's most disadvantaged. Yet rather than seeing this is as a monstrous byproduct of mounting inequality, successive governments have responded with legislation for greater police powers, new offences and harsher sentences. The children's commissioner, Sir Al Aynsley-Green, was roundly condemned in some quarters for his suggestion this weekend that more stop and search risks alienating the very people whose cooperation is needed to tackle it.Meanwhile knives will always be cheap and easy to buy, and hard to detect: tackling knife crime cannot just be about catching people with knives and sending them to prison. It must also prioritise tackling the conditions that make young people feel that they will be safer carrying a knife. Labour needs to rebut the charge that its high profile concern with the criminal justice system reflects the failure of its social reform agenda.