Now is not the time for the prime minister to undermine the police. Nor is it wise for ministers to lose the confidence of senior officers. Yet David Cameron seems determined to do both.With serious policing action still needed to deal with the aftermath of last week's violence – catching culprits, maintaining calm, and rebuilding confidence in public order – strong co-operation between the government and police is vital. Instead, Cameron has chosen to pick a fight, making major misjudgments on immediate action, the scale of budget cuts and the nature of longer term reform. The consequences for policing and communities will be serious if he does not think again.The task for the police of keeping the streets calm and bringing criminals to justice after last week's riots remains considerable, and they are working immensely hard to do just that. They need the support of the government to maintain confidence in law and order.Instead, the PM has been swift to blame police tactics – while still seeking credit when their tough action works. Briefings from armchair constables in government about baton rounds and water cannons have been ridiculed by senior police as tactics that would not have worked. Lessons must be learned from events. But Cameron and the home secretary, Theresa May, have appeared more interested in knee-jerk headlines than making the streets safe.But it isn't just short-term spin that is doing damage. Most serious of all is that government budget cuts of 20% will make it much harder for the police to do their job. Sixteen thousand officers on the streets of London were crucial to restoring calm. Yet 16,000 is precisely the number of officers that will be cut nationally under government plans. The PM's rhetoric on tough measures looks empty when he is taking away officers needed to do the job. Yes, efficiencies can be made – but these cuts go too far, too fast. Cutting police officers is not reform, it is a roadblock to reform and greater effectiveness in policing. The police spending review should be reopened now.Nor is the PM's wider strategy coherent. For all his tough talk, his government has been working to reduce police powers – on CCTV, DNA and ending asbos. Today Cameron says powers to remove face coverings are key; yet the Tories opposed similar proposals before. And ministers have sat on a key report on gang culture for 14 months without acting. Meanwhile there seems little appetite for looking at wider problems and the prevention activity that made a difference alongside tough enforcement 10 years ago in bringing street crime down. Tough action on both crime and its causes remains vital. But Cameron is not credible on either, and is rapidly earning the contempt of the police as a result.Government plans for US–style elected commissioners with no checks and balances increase the risk of this kind of political row, and would also make it harder to move resources around the country as the police had to do last week. And what of cost? Would the public prefer to spend £100m on 40 more Boris Johnsons or up to 2,000 more police constables?Continued reform of policing is needed to deal with the complexities of modern crime and terrorism. But it should build on, not destroy, the effective policing work that helped cut crime by 40% over the past decade. The PM has shown hostility towards the police. Yet the events of last week showed us the importance of an effective and respected police service. Ministers should be working with the police to cut crime, instead of posturing and playing political games.