The Metropolitan police have moved to defuse accusations of institutional racism by announcing a radical plan to have a fifth of top posts held by ethnic minority officers. Under a strategy launched yesterday, 'mentors' are to be provided for ethnic minority officers, and graduates from ethnic minority backgrounds are to be targeted with fellowships, recruiting campaigns and work experience.The 15-point plan, A Police Service For All The People, represents the first step by the Met to respond to the changes recommended in the Macpherson report on the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. The plan, launched by Assistant Commissioner Denis O'Connor, comes in the wake of criticism that the police and the Met in particular do not represent the diverse communities they serve.  It was compiled by a lay working party from the private and public sectors, including members of the Commission for Racial Equality, the Police Complaints Authority, British Telecom and British Airways. Among the proposals is that the Met should reach a point where a fifth of its senior posts are held by ethnic minority officers. One of the major criticisms from serving black and Asian officers has been that there is insufficient effort made to retain and promote such officers. A special career development scheme will be aimed at officers of the rank of inspector and above. Currently there are only four ethnic minority officers of superintendent rank in the Met. There are 873 ethnic minority officers in the London force, a 42 per cent increase in the past six years. They make up 3 per cent rather than the 20 per cent which would reflect the capital's community. Another proposal which has been adopted is for a fellowship available to ethnic minority students who would be given £1,500 in their final university year accompanied by work experience. They would have a specially-trained 'shadow' working with them to encourage them to make a career in the service. Eight network groups of 30-35 minority ethnic officers will be set up across the Met with career development officers attached to each. The chairman of the working group, Kingsley Peter, of the Newham police community consultative group, said that the plans represented a opportunity for ethnic minority officers.  'These recommendations must form a critical part of the crusade for change which is already being undertaken in the Met,' said Mr Peter. 'Diversity in the management of the Met will be enhanced as talented ethnic minority officers accelerate to senior command positions.' Mr O'Connor said the aim was to take support mechanisms for ethnic minority recruits that had been used successfully in other organisations, and hoped this would allow the Met to compete for high quality ethnic minority candidates. Other plans to be implemented are mentoring schemes to assist isolated ethnic minority officers, a change in recruitment literature to make it more appealing - one recent move is the use of Brixton rap artists to encourage black and Asian people to join the police and an encouragement to ethnic minority officers to join the accelerated promotion courses.