It is tempting to admire the perpetrators of the latest Graff jewel robbery, the £40m super-heist captured on video by a bystander. Like the £53m Securitas raid and the £26m Brinks Matt bullion raid before it, the Graff affair harks back to an earlier time, when audacity and sheer nerve were the key qualities necessary for those aspiring to acquire rapid criminal wealth.Some old-timers in criminal circles still look back through rose-tinted glasses to the "golden age" of armed robbery – the 70s and early 80s – when blaggers, as armed robbers were known, were king, and numerous firms operated with what seemed like military precision.Sometimes wearing disguises, or just plain boilersuits, they would storm banks and hijack cash-in-transit wagons. Working mainly in and around London, they netted hundreds of thousands in used notes – and occasionally the odd million or three. But the stakes were high – sentences were Draconian for those caught, often after being "grassed up" by colleagues who had turned "supergrass" – and got even higher when robbers began regularly to be shot by SO19, the specialist police firearms unit.In the 90s, more sophisticated players emerged, who realised there was less risk and bigger cash returns to be had in top-end drug dealing – and shrewd investment of the proceeds. Many former bank and money-van robbers, usually the more intelligent, got stuck into this new way of "grafting". It brought an end to the mask-and-shotgun era – and introduced the concept of large-scale, US-style organised crime to the UK for the first time.Shady underworld shenanigans, largely hidden from view and steeped in intrigue, are far less understandable to the man in the street who is struggling to pay the bills – and therefore far less acceptable. The armed robbers of yore were up front and in your face. It may be cowardly, in one sense, to terrorise security guards and cash workers, but it takes some courage, too, to go up against society in such a flagrant manner. A quick vault over the counter waving a gun and shouting, "Fill the bag!" may appeal to even the most law-abiding citizen in desperate financial straits (so long as nobody gets hurt). Few would consider carrying out such a crime, however. Not just because it is wrong, but also because they probably would not have the bottle. Hence the vicarious satisfaction from the actions of those such as the Graff bandits.Despite the obvious terror such events inflict on the innocent – in this case, a Graff employee was taken out of the shop at gunpoint and passersby were panicked by shots fired into the ground – the fact is armed robbery still has the power to inspire admiration, however misplaced. The images of the sharp-suited Graff raiders walking purposefully into the shop make for compelling viewing. Like Johnny Depp's Dillinger strolling into the First National Bank in the recent gangster epic Public Enemies, they walk past the guard, cool as you like, acting as if they own the place. Away from the camera, the plunder begins. With mesmerising swiftness they scoop up the booty – a record haul including watches, rings, brooches and necklaces worth up to £1m each – and in less than three minutes they are gone, leaving behind just a small cloud of gun smoke and a whiff of cordite. (Dillinger, as played by Depp, boasted that he could rob a bank in, "About a minute . . . 40 seconds . . . flat." A fully fledged public hero, he was shot dead in a police ambush.)The trouble is that the majority of the perpetrators in the most spectacular heists are unprepared for the scale of the booty they find. Disposing of tens of millions of pounds in gold, cash or jewellery is a complicated business. As in most high-profile cases, those responsible for the Brinks Matt robbery and the Securitas raid were soon captured and received decades behind bars for their efforts. Odds on it will be the same in the Graff case. Nothing about that to be admired.