The shortlist to become Britain's top police officer has been drawn up, with four senior policemen battling to become commissioner of the Metropolitan police.Sir John Stevens retires in January after five years in the job which saw him battle to reverse the plummeting morale of a force branded "institutionally racist" over the Stephen Lawrence scandal. The candidates to head the 30,000 strong force are still all male and white. The final four for the £221,451 a year post are the Met's current deputy commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, the chief constable of British Transport police, Ian Johnston, the head of Sussex police, Ken Jones, and Gloucestershire's chief constable, Dr Tim Brain. The choice will be made by next month and the two biggest challenges for the winner are terrorism and the government's desire for radical reform of policing. The strong favourite is Sir Ian. A senior government source told the Guardian that Sir Ian was appointed as deputy with the intention that he succeed Sir John. One source involved in the selection process hailed Sir Ian as "a very intelligent man with great conceptual strength". He has had four years as deputy to be groomed for the commissionership, but he has been plagued by two issues. He suffers from some unpopularity in the junior ranks and some older officers resent his style and more progressive views, a concern in a force where morale is fragile. Sir Ian is also plagued by the Ali Dizaei saga, where a corruption unit he nominally commanded spent more than £3m pursuing a high-flying ethnic minority officer over a string of false corruption allegations. The officer was charged and acquitted twice, angering black officers, who boycotted their own force's recruitment efforts. The commissionership race has thrown up surprises before. In 1993 the then Met deputy, John Smith, was favourite for the job, but lost out to the then chief constable of Kent, Paul Condon. Ian Johnston is a former Met assistant commissioner, and with the government toying with the idea of a single countrywide force, already has experience of national policing at British Transport police. Ken Jones took over a Sussex constabulary in dire crisis after its previous chief constable, Paul Whitehouse, was forced out by the home secretary. Mr Jones chairs the terrorism committee of the Association of Chief Police Officers. Dr Tim Brain chairs the chief police officers staff association and has a PhD in history. The shortlist is notable for its absentees. None of the heads of the three biggest forces outside the capital, West Midlands, Greater Manchester and West Yorkshire applied. Sir Ronnie Flanagan, the former chief of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, was a possible contender but chose to stay with Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary. Peter Ryan, the former Met officer who made his name as a top officer in Australia before running security at the Athens Olympics, was also linked with the job but did not apply. Neither did the former Los Angeles police chief Bill Bratton. Though head of policing in London, the commissioner also has a role as the face of policing the government will see most often. The commissioner has regular meetings with the home secretary. The biggest voice in the appointment will be that of the home secretary, David Blunkett, but there will also be input from the London mayor, Ken Livingstone, and the Metropolitan Police Association.