TROWBRIDGE, THURSDAY.This morning, in a small room at the police station, Constance Emilie Kent was brought up, charged, upon her own confession, with the murder of Francis Saville Kent, her brother, on the 29th of June 1860. There was considerable excitement in the town, and the approaches to the room were crowded. A large number of ladies were accommodated with seats on the bench.The Chairman asked Inspector Williamson if he had any evidence to offer.The Inspector called the following witnesses:—Elizabeth Gough said: In the year 1860 I was employed as nurse in Mrs. Kent's family at Road Hill House. I remember Friday the 29th of June. I had charge of the deceased, who slept in the same room in a cot. Another child, a little girl, slept in a cot beside my bed, and the deceased's cot was on the same side of the room as the door, and I last saw him on the Friday evening about a quarter before eleven, when I went to bed. I awoke the next morning about a quarter past five o'clock and missed the deceased. I thought Mrs. Kent had taken him. Afterwards I went to Mrs. Kent, and when I found the child was not there I went to the Misses Kent's room. I saw the prisoner standing by the door of her own room, near enough to hear what I said to her sisters. She made no remark. Mr. Kent's family consisted of himself, his wife, three daughters, of whom the prisoner was the youngest, and a son, by the first wife; and two daughters and a son, the deceased, by the present Mrs. Kent. The deceased was four years old. The prisoner had then been home for the holidays a fortnight, and slept alone. So did her brother William. In all the other rooms two or more slept together.Miss Catherine Ann Green said: I am lady superior of the St. Mary's Hospital, Brighton. The prisoner came on the 10th of August, 1863. I referred to the desire she had expressed to give herself up to justice. She said she did. Something in the conversations led her to tell me that she had carried the child downstairs sleeping, that she left the house by the drawing-room window, and that she used for the purpose a razor which she had obtained from her father's dressing case. She told me it was no dislike of the child that led her to do it, but that it was revenge on her stepmother.The prisoner declined to question any of the witnesses. Her head was bent upon her breast all day, and her eyes she kept half closed. She betrayed no emotion at any time. She was committed for trial on the charge of wilful murder.