Two of the most senior customs officials have been suspended after it was revealed that they are under investigation by a Scotland Yard squad investigating allegations of perjury and perverting the course of justice.Terry Byrne, customs commissioner and its director of law enforcement - in effect number three in the organisation - was ordered to leave his desk yesterday at the Thames-side headquarters of Britain's oldest law enforcement agency. David Pickup, head of the customs solicitors' and prosecutions department, was also told to leave immediately. Both men, close colleagues for a number of years, were suspended on full pay by the customs chairman, David Varney, because the "seniority of their positions and broad scope of their responsibilities make it impossible for them to remain in their posts pending investigation". He added that the investigation was at an early stage and charges would not necessarily follow. Allegations relating to the two men are in connection with non-disclosure. Mr Byrne and Mr Pickup were among 20 serving and retired officers identified by Scotland Yard earlier this month as having come under scrutiny in the sensitive police inquiry known as Operation Gestalt. Five have been moved from their current posts to other duties "to ensure the integrity of the police investigation and current customs operations", six have retired or left customs, and another six have been allowed to remain in their jobs because their current posts have no bearing on the evidential chain. One officer, believed to be in a key senior role, is understood to have turned whistleblower and to be considering giving evidence against colleagues in any future trial. The dramatic decision to suspend Mr Byrne and Mr Pickup came after discussions with the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, and a personal briefing for Tony Blair. The Scotland Yard inquiry, first revealed by the Guardian in November 2002, was ordered after the collapse that month of the trials of 15 men at Liverpool crown court over duty evasion frauds at London City Bond (LCB) amid allegations that investigating officers had: 路 lied in court; 路 misled judges during secret public interest immunity hearings; 路 withheld crucial evidence from defence solicitors; 路 failed to register warehouse owner Alf Allington as a participating informant. But a special investigation by the Guardian revealed that customs had properly registered Mr Allington in 1994 but had regularly lied in court over his true status - a fact that should have been revealed the first time he gave evidence. In February this year the Guardian revealed that customs had failed to hand Mr Allington's registration document to a high court judge appointed by the attorney general to investigate circumstances surrounding the collapse of the Liverpool trials and other LCB prosecutions. After a six-month inquiry, Mr Justice Butterfield concluded he could find no evidence of criminality by customs. But he was not given the registration document until after his report was printed. Customs has historically been the most powerful law enforcement agency in Britain and the one with the fewest independent checks on its conduct. But when it is merged with the Inland Revenue next year the new agency will be subject to a new inspectorate regime to ensure compliance with the criminal justice system. Perry Nove, a former commissioner of the City of London police, has been appointed to give independent expert advice to customs on its handling of investigations, including liaison with police forces on joint investigations. The new agency will come under HM Inspectorate of Constabulary and the extended remit of the Independent Police Complaints Commission, which will "provide independent advice, supervision or management of complaints investigations and have the power to investigate directly where necessary". The letter also revealed that customs' London office is, for the first time, under inspection by the Crown Prosecution Inspectorate and this is to become a regular process with published inspection reports. The government, which is to bring in new legislation to cover these arrangements, has appointed a former City of London police commissioner, Bill Taylor, currently chief HMI in Scotland, to advise on these new procedures and the development of professional standards in customs. Norman Lamb, Liberal Democrat MP for North Norfolk, said last night: "The customs investigation is a can of worms that appears to go right to the top of the organisation. Ministerial statements have not so far disclosed the full picture. "It is clearly important for the minister, John Healey [economic secretary to the Treasury], to make a statement to Parliament as soon as the recess is over." Matthew Frankland, a solicitor who has handled many customs cases, said: "This is the biggest scandal in the history of customs and must raise serious doubts over hundreds of convictions and ongoing prosecutions." Neither Mr Byrne nor Mr Pickup was available for comment last night.