A woman who shot her husband's lover may well have been in a "trancelike" state when she pulled the trigger, a psychiatrist told a jury at the Old Bailey yesterday.Rena Salmon, 43, of Great Shefford, Berkshire, denies murdering Lorna Stewart, 36, at the latter's beauty salon in Chiswick, west London, last year. On Monday the defence counsel, Patrick Curran QC, told jurors they should convict Ms Salmon of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility if they believed she had an abnormality of mind "such as to impair her mental responsibility" for the killing. Yesterday Helen Whitworth, a psychiatrist at Holloway prison, told the court that Ms Salmon appeared to have been severely depressed before and after the killing, and had alarmed her by describing a suicide pact she had formed earlier with her children. Asked about gaps in the defendant's account of events, Dr Whitworth said: "Sometimes people do report amnesia. It's a fairly common occurrence with individuals who engage in acts of violence. "It can be people being untruthful, but in my mind it's more likely that Rena Salmon was suffering from a partial dissociative state - that she was dissociated from her surroundings - perhaps like being in a trance or on autopilot. "She described dropping her daughter off at school and then 'things were a blur' and then she found herself in Chiswick ... She described to another doctor 'waking up' after hearing the first shot discharged." Dr Whitworth added that Ms Salmon's apparent coherence before the shooting was not inconsistent with the diagnosis. "People in a partial dissociative state can appear entirely normal and can conduct themselves in an entirely normal manner," she said. The psychiatrist said Ms Salmon had claimed she went to the salon to "frighten" Ms Stewart, but also that she went there to commit suicide. "[When] people have severe depressive illness their thinking can be impaired, can be illogical and irrational," she said. "I think she had a number of conflicting ideas. Some were suicidal, some homicidal towards her children, and some witnesses suggest she was also homicidal towards the victim. I suspect it may have been a combination of all three ... She probably did not go with a clear idea of what she was going to do." Medical records showed that Ms Salmon had displayed symptoms of mental illness from the age of 13, and had experienced severe clinical depression in the mid 90s. This had recurred with the discovery of her husband's affair. Ms Salmon's sister, Sabeya Uddin, broke down as she described regular beatings in childhood by their mother, who was a prostitute. Ms Uddin said their white mother was angry that her children were mixed race, and would scrub them with bleach. "Rena got a bit more because she was darker," she said. "She got more scouring powder on her ... She got called a black bastard all the time, a half-caste bastard." Their mother has denied their allegations. The case continues.