Police confirmed today that a third girl had been in a car park with the murdered teenager Mary-Ann Leneghan and her friend minutes before a gang of six men attacked them.Officers said the third girl had been sitting in a car with Mary-Ann, 16, and her 18-year-old friend outside a disused Reading pub, the Wallingford Arms, between 10pm and 11pm on Friday.The men approached the three teenagers shortly after the third girl had left. The pair were forced into a car and taken to a nearby guesthouse, where they were subjected to a sustained sexual and physical attack.They were later taken to Prospect Park, in Tilehurst, Reading, were Mary-Ann died after being stabbed in the neck. Her friend was shot in the head. She survived and is recovering in hospital."There was a third girl in the vehicle with Mary-Ann and her friend as they sat chatting in the Wallingford Arms car park between 10pm and 11pm," a Thames Valley police spokesman said. "This girl was in no way involved in the incident that night. She was not attacked. She has been spoken to by police and is a witness, and no more information regarding her will be released or confirmed."Police were today continuing to question a man in his 20s who was arrested yesterday at lunchtime in London in connection with the inquiry. They arrested and bailed four other men.Officers also confirmed that they had searched a flat above a massage parlour in Oxford Road, Reading, at around 10pm last night in connection with the killing but no one had been there. As a matter of course the property had been sealed off and would undergo forensic examination, they said.The teenagers' ordeal began late on Friday when they were forced into the gang's car - which was maroon or burgundy - and driven to the Abbey Wood guesthouse in Connaught Road.Police believe some of the gang were black and some mixed race while at least one was white. Officers are uncertain whether the girls were taken straight to the guesthouse or were driven around Reading first.Once there, the teenagers were subjected to a "horrific ordeal" lasting up to three hours, police said. The teenagers and the men left the guesthouse between 3am and 5am and went to Prospect Park, where Mary-Ann was stabbed in the neck and her friend was shot in the head. Police discovered Mary-Ann's body early on Saturday morning after the friend managed to raise the alarm."This crime is one of the most horrendous I have seen," Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick, who is leading the investigation, said today. "It has shocked and stunned all officers who have been involved."