Charlie Richardson, one of the last surviving crime bosses from the 1960s, has died at the age of 78.From their south London base, Richardson and his brother Eddie ran a vicious criminal syndicate that rivalled the Krays' in east London. There were regular violent clashes as the gangs' feuds over territory, extortion rackets and frauds spilled over in pubs and on the street.Richardson gained extraordinary notoriety when he was jailed in 1967 in what was known as the torture trial, which detailed the brutality meted out to the gang's victims.Officers gathered evidence of how individuals were brought before Richardson and his sidekick "Mad" Frankie Fraser for a mock trial before punishments were handed out.Victims were burned with cigarettes, whipped, had teeth pulled out with pliers, nailed to the floor, given electric shocks and had toes and fingers removed. The torture was known as "taking a shirt from Charlie", because the crime boss would hand a clean shirt to his bloodied and traumatised victims after the attack.During the trial three men were accused of trying to get at witnesses, and jury members had to be placed under police protection.Richardson's death was announced by his friend Bobby Cummings. "It is a great sadness to inform you, as many of you may have already heard, that my dearest friend Charlie Richardson passed away this morning," Cummings said.Richardson was born in Camberwell and embarked on a criminal life with his younger brother after their father left home, leaving the family short of money. Using a scrap metal business as a front, Richardson built an underworld empire engaging in long-term frauds – known as long firms – extortion and theft.Their feud with the Krays began with a fight during a Christmas party at the Astor Club in 1965 when George Cornell, a member of the Richardson gang, called Ronnie Kray a "fat poof".One of the most notorious scenes in the conflict took place in the Blind Beggar in east London, at the heart of the Krays' territory, when a drunk Cornell walked in shouting "where's that fat wanker?", meaning Ronnie Kray. Kray turned up shortly afterwards and shot Cornell in the head at close range. Cornell's last words were said to be: "Well, look what the dog's brought in."Richardson was jailed for 25 years after the torture trial. He always claimed he was innocent of the brutality outlined in court, and campaigned for his release. He escaped from an open prison in 1980, going on the run for almost a year. He once dressed up as Santa to publicise his plea for freedom.Richardson later fled to Paris, where he gave an interview to a journalist. He was eventually caught in Earls Court after emerging from a sex shop controlled by his gang. He was released in 1984 and began campaigning on behalf of young offenders.