Detectives investigating the death of Jason McGowan, a black man found hanging from roadside railings, made a string of errors that could have lost crucial information, according to a critical report police chiefs are keeping secret.The Guardian has learned details of the report which the family of Jason, 20, want to see before the inquest into his death begins on Tuesday. He was one of two men from the same family found hanging within six months of each other in Telford, Shropshire.Jason had been investigating the death of his uncle, Errol McGowan, who was found hanged after a campaign of racial harassment and death threats by a white gang. Jason's family believe he was murdered by a racist gang and that detectives' prejudice led them to bungle their investigation and dismiss the death as suicide. West Mercia police claim the review conducted by Scotland Yard into their first investigation into Jason's death, is not relevant to the inquest. But the McGowans argue that the police investigation was so poor and that so much potential evidence was missed that an open or unlawful killing verdict should be returned, and not one of suicide. They are threatening to seek a court order to try to force West Mercia to release the review. Jason McGowan was found hanging by his belt from 5ft-high railings by a busy road in the Shropshire town on New Year's Day 2000. On New Year's Eve he had been in a crowded pub with his wife and friends when he disappeared just before midnight, and his family say there was no sign that he was suicidal. His body was found the next morning, close to the pub. The Scotland Yard review found West Mercia detectives had: 路 Failed to gather CCTV footage near the scene early enough; 路 Were too slow in tracking people from the pub where Jason was last seen; 路 Criticised limited appeals for information about the events leading up to the death; 路 Were too slow in securing Jason's mobile phone records after being told he had received calls shortly before he was last seen. The review made more than 10 criticisms and recommendations about the first investigation. A source with knowledge of the review told the Guardian: "West Mercia assumed it was suicide and their errors followed from that. Their initial assumptions set them on the wrong track for the investigation." Another source with intimate knowledge of the report said West Mercia had failed to learn any lessons from the death of Errol: "There's no doubt they took one look at it and they said 'oh yeah it's another suicide'. "That meant they did not capture enough evidence at the beginning from the scene. They failed to close down other possibilities other than suicide. "The criticism was that they had not learned anything from the first death. "What was required was a Rolls-Royce job. What the family got was a very mundane local corner, cheap garage second-hand job." West Mercia agreed to release the review into Errol's death to the McGowans' lawyers before his inquest last year. Imran Khan, solicitor for Jason's widow Sinead, said: "West Mercia are continuing to mess the family around. "They are not releasing the review because they are embarrassed about its contents. It's a return to the dark old days of policing. The home secretary should make them release it." A West Mercia spokesman said it was up to the coroner to release the review and the spokesman refused to say what the force's stance was. But in a letter, seen by the Guardian, written by West Mercia's solicitor Catherine Girvan last week, the force said the review "belongs to a class that is privileged [and] will not be disclosed." In a letter written this month the force says the review's "contents are not relevant to the matters to be decided by the inquest." West Mercia's position appears to fly in the face of one of the recommendations made by the Macpherson inquiry into the Stephen Lawrence case. It concluded that "there should be advance disclosure of evidence and documents as of right to parties who have leave from a coroner to appear at an inquest". Deborah Coles of Inquest, which campaigns for the rights of families at inquests, said: "Documents remain the property of the investigated force. They own that investigation and it's up to them to disclose it. "The government should change that. "How can the jury determine the facts of the death without all the facts being examined. It's just obsessive secrecy by West Mercia." The inquest into the death of Errol in July 1999 concluded that he had taken his own life. It heard that he had repeatedly begged police for protection from a racist gang he feared would kill him. West Mercia's second investigation into Jason's death sent files to the coroner rather than the crown prosecution service, a strong indication that the force viewed the newspaper production worker's death as suicide.