A 29-year-old Wiltshire man has been arrested in connection with the murder of pregnant woman Hayley Richards, police said tonight.Detective Superintendent Mike Veale, leading the investigation into the 23-year-old's death in Trowbridge, Wiltshire, said the man was being held at nearby Melksham police station, where he is to be questioned.He said he still wanted to track down Hayley's Portuguese ex-boyfriend, Hugo Quintas, 23, who left the UK for Portugal on Saturday, the day her body was found with her throat cut at her home on Saturday. "It is believed that Mr Quintas may now be in Spain," Mr Veale said.The news came after Mr Quintas was reported today to have contacted a friend and told them he intends to return to Britain.Mr Quintas, who had been living in Trowbridge and who is the police's main suspect in the case, is believed to have flown to Portugal from Bristol on the same day she was murdered. Today Mr Veale, who is leading the inquiry, told a news conference: "During the past few days, a member of the public came forward, having been contacted by Mr Quintas, as he indicated that he wished to return to the UK. I am able to tell you, to date, to our knowledge, Mr Quintas is not in the UK."Mr Veale said he was working with the Portuguese authorities to locate Mr Quintas, "to ascertain if he has any information which will help in this inquiry".He said he was keeping an "open mind" and liasing with Interpol and the Crown Prosecution Service to "ensure that any actions I take are within European legislation".Mr Veale said he believed Miss Richards was attacked with a knife and his officers were searching for a weapon and any soiled or bloodstained clothing. "The cut to her throat suggests that whoever the offender is would have been bloodstained," the superintendent told reporters.Mr Veale said he was also appealing for information from anyone who may have seen a car, which was possibly broken down with someone trying to push or repair it, in the Trowbridge area between 11pm on Friday and 4am on Saturday.He said detectives were continuing to pursue lines of inquiry in Britain and Portugal into the killing of Miss Richards, who was three months pregnant. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating Wiltshire police's handling of the case and will examine why Mr Quintas was not arrested after Miss Richards had called 999 and said he had assaulted her six days before she was murdered. The IPCC will examine two missed opportunities officers had to arrest Mr Quintas last week and will also investigate suggestions police delayed making an arrest because of the availability of translators.Wiltshire police had said Mr Quintas was spoken to twice by officers not directly involved in the case relating to Miss Richards's assault complaint. The force has not given a full account of the force's contacts with Mr Quintas, citing the ongoing IPCC investigation. Paul and David Richards, the brothers of the murdered bar worker, also spoke to the media at today's police news conference. Reading from a prepared statement, Paul Richards said: "We are a large and close-knit family and what has happened to Hayley has devastated us. It has broken our mum's heart. She was our beautiful baby sister and will always be precious to us and we will always miss her."She was loved so much, not only by her family but by everyone who knew her. Hayley was a lovely person. She would not have wanted anyone to seek retribution for what has happened to her. She would have wanted the appropriate action to be taken by the appropriate authority, in this case, the Wiltshire constabulary."