Detective Sergeant John Davidson was one of the investigating officers.Lawson On the Friday [the day after the murder], there had been various bits of information being received referring in particular to the Acourts. Yes?Davidson Yes, sir.Lawson One referred to "an anonymous male" visiting the police station. That is the man who became known as James Grant?Davidson I believe so, sir.Lawson The message accuses the Acourts and David Norris of the murder. And you saw Grant on other occasions, which appear to be unrecorded?Davidson They were recorded. The record of them appears to have gone missing, sir.Lawson As an experienced detective officer, you recognised that there was certainly by the weekend, if not before, more than enough information to justify arrest?Davidson I recognised there was more than enough information to arrest them, yes sir, but I wasn't aware that, in fact, there were surveillance units and such set up on the houses. I could only imagine that there were other reasons.Lawson There was a series of photographs showing Dobson and Norris together at a car immediately outside the Acourts' house?Davidson I have only been made aware of that within the past three weeks.Lawson Does it not strike you as being absolutely extraordinary, if that is not an inadequate adjective, if the sole purpose of the surveillance operation was to gather evidence of association, no one bothered to tell you about the fact they had evidence of association?Davidson I am very surprised. I'm shocked that I never was shown the photograph, and I don't know the reason why. Mansfield Did anything strike you about the assault, about the witness statements from people who had been at the scene?  Davidson In what way, sir?  Mansfield No, no, no, this is my question: did anything strike you - stand out - when you read those statements?  Davidson A boy was murdered, a young lad was murdered by four or five other young lads outside a bus stop, what would strike me about that, sir?  Mansfield I just wondered if it occurred to you that it was a race attack?  Davidson I do not think in my own mind this was a racist attack. I believe this was thugs attacking anyone, as they had done on previous occasions with other white lads.  Mansfield During the Dobson interview, you made it clear that you personally did not think this was a race attack, did you not?  Davidson By that time I didn't, no, sir.  Mansfield That is your view today, is it not?  Davidson It is, sir.  Mansfield I do not want to debate with you about the nature of racism, but do you recognise that thugs who may kill white people for a variety of reasons, but who kill blacks because they are blacks, are committing a racial crime?  Davidson Yes, sir, I recognise that if they were killed because they were black, that is racist.  Mansfield That is exactly what this case was about but you refused to recognise it, did you not?  Davidson I still refuse to recognise it, sir.  I am very surprised that anybody knows it is about that, because it has never been cleared up anyway, sir. 