 6.02pm BST Afternoon summary• Theresa May, the home secretary, has indicated that a wide-ranging inquiry into whether public bodies did enough to investigate child abuse claims in the past will be able to inspect files held by MI5. She made the offer as she used a Commons statement to confirm that the government will set up a Hillsborough-style panel "to consider whether public bodies – and other non-state institutions – have taken seriously their duty of care to protect children from sexual abuse". (See 4.09pm.) Asked if the panel would be able to see intelligence files, May suggested that it would, and that she might ensure that a privy counsellor heads the panel so that he or she can have access to secret material My intention is that the fullest possible access should be made to government papers in relation to these matters. As I'm sure you and other members of the House will recognise, where there are files where there are certain issues around who can have access to those files we will need to ensure we have an appropriate means of ensuring the information is available to the inquiry panel. But as I said, I am looking to appoint a very senior figure to be chairing that panel and I'd expect it to be possible to ensure that all government papers are available.• She said that the panel would not have the power to summon witnesses to give evidence but that, if the chair felt it needed this power, she would upgrade it to a full public inquiry to allow it to subpoena witnesses.• She said that the political parties at Westminster and the churches would be among those institutions covered by what she is intended to a wide-ranging inquiry. Its terms of reference will be published in due course. When Lisa Nandy, a Labour MP, said that a Tory whip from the 1970s had revealed that the whips protected MPs involved in this kind of scandal (see 12.42pm and 4.21pm), May replied:  It is not my intention that political parties should be outside the scope of the inquiry. At another point May specifically said she expected churches to be covered by the inquiry.• She said the inquiry would not cover specific allegations.  I should perhaps clarify a point; the inquiry panel will not be conducting investigations into a specific allegation, in so far as those would be matters properly for criminal investigations to take place. It is looking across the board at the way things have been approached in the past and asking that question as to whether, and I expect to draw this quite widely, people did have in place the proper protections for children or not and if not, what are the gaps, are those gaps still existing today, and what do we need to do to make sure that those gaps are filled?• She said the inquiry could lead to legislation. When one MP suggested MPs should be subject to CRB checks, May said this was the kind of issue the panel would look at. (See 4.30pm.)• She said she had not read the full report into how the Home Office dealt with allegations about child abuse submitted by Geoffrey Dickens and others because the claims included references to Conservative MPs.I did not see the full report and there was a very good reason for that - the matters that lay behind this were allegations that senior MPs and in particular, as we've seen, suggestions that senior Conservative MPs may have been involved in these activities. I thought it was absolutely right and proper therefore that the commissioning of the investigation and the work that was done should be led by [the Home Office permanent secretary, Mark Sedwill] and not by a Conservative politician.• She announced that the NSPCC chief executive Peter Wanless to review how the Home Office, and subsequently the police and prosecutors, handled abuse allegations raised by Geoffrey Dickens and others.• Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, said the new inquiry should look at the need for current child protection rules to be tightened.Yvette Cooper (@YvetteCooperMP)Welcome overarching inquiry into child abuse, something we've called for for 18m. Must look at current child protection inc vetting& barringJuly 7, 2014Cooper also pointed out that May had originally resisted calls for a wide-ranging inquiry of the type announced today.That's all from me for today.Thanks for the comments.  5.13pm BST Amnesty International wants the Belfast Kincora Boys' Home scandal to be covered by the new inquiry. My colleague Henry McDonald has sent me this. Allegations have persisted since 1981 that paedophiles who abused boys at the East Belfast home were protected by the British state because they were agents.There have also been accusations that members of the British military, MI5, politicians and civil servants were visitors to the home particularly in the 1970s.An historic abuse inquiry into homes and orphanages throughout Northern Ireland since the foundation of the state is currently underway. Its remit includes the events concerning Kincora but the inquiry in the region cannot compel the release of files on the scandal from central government in London.Patrick Corrigan, Amnesty International's Programme Director in Northern Ireland told The Guardian: “The new wide-ranging Hillsborough-style inquiry announced today by the Home Secretary must now be allowed to investigate the allegations that have long surrounded Kincora.“With Kincora, the power to secure the release of key documents from Whitehall or MI5 filing cabinets is absolutely vital.“Nothing less than the inclusion of the Kincora home in the new inquiry is liable to see the truth finally arrived at, and justice finally delivered.” Three senior care staff at Kincora were jailed in 1981 for abusing 11 boys at the home. One of those jailed was prominent Orangeman and member of a secretive loyalist terror group, Tara, William McGrath. He is thought to have been an informer for MI5 who spied on other loyalists for the Security Services. Mainstream loyalist paramiltiary sources have told The Guardian that McGrath's paedophile activities were known to both police and the intelligence services who used the information to blackmail the Orange Order member.A number of other extremist loyalist figures who were also sexually abusing young boys both at the home and elsewhere were also state agents, a number of whom are still alive and active on the fringes of hardline loyalism in Belfast.Updated at 5.27pm BST 5.06pm BST Theresa May's statement is now over.Generally May's announcement got a warm welcome. But several MPs clearly felt that she had not done enough to assure them that the inquiry would get access to MI5 files. And some said that she should have ordered a full public inquiry. Here's Labour's Robert Flello.Rob Flello MP (@RobFlelloMP)Don't understand why Home Secretary not launching Public Enquiry straight away into #ChildAbuseJuly 7, 2014And here's Labour's Michael McCann.Michael McCann MP (@MichaelMcCannMP)Just asked Theresa May to announce a public enquiry into child abuse NOW.July 7, 2014 4.54pm BST Labour's Madeleine Moon asks if there will be a confidential line to allow people who worked in child protection to give information to the inquiry.May says the inquiry will have to look quite widely. She is sure the panel will be "alive" to the need to hear from those who could not speak out in the past.  4.52pm BST Labour's Steve McCabe asks if the Sedwill inquiry looked at who authorised the destruction of the Dickens material.May says the Wanless review will be able to look at these issues. 4.51pm BST Labour's Michael McCann asks about a constituent raped daily in a detention centre. Much of the evidence for this was already in the Home Office's hands, he says. The only way to get to the truth is to have a public inquiry now.May says she wants the inquiry to start soon.And she wants to ensure that the inquiry does not jeopardise the work of prosecutors, she says. 4.48pm BST Labour's Pat Glass asks if special branch files not connected to national security will be available to the inquiry.May says she would expect government papers to be available to the inquiry. But there could be a problem if this could jeopardise a criminal prosecution, she says. 4.46pm BST Labour's Kevin Brennan says there have been allegations about the intelligence services being involved in cover-ups. Does May accept that the inquiry must get intelligence files?May says she has been clear; all relevant material should be available. But, with intelligence material, some care may be necessary, she says.  4.43pm BST Labour's John Mann says Nottinghamshire police have lost files in relation to abuse allegations. Will this be covered by the inquiry?May says the whole point is for the inquiry to look at lessons learnt.  4.41pm BST Mark Pritchard, a Conservative, suggests punishments for child abuse are too light.May says this is an issue for the justice secretary. 4.41pm BST Labour's Kerry McCarthy asks if the Wanless review will be able to take evidence from people who know about files that went missing.May says the terms of reference are being published. It will look at whether further information about the missing files is available. 4.38pm BST Labour's Barry Gardiner says there should be a care package of support for victims who give evidence to the inquiry.May says this will be a matter for the inquiry to consider. 4.37pm BST Philip Lee, a Conservative, asks what is being done to protect victims from blackmail. Films from the 1970s that have been digitalised have been used to threaten victims, he says.May says she will look into this. 4.36pm BST Peter Bone, a Conservative, says adult victims of human trafficking are properly looked after. But children are handed over to local authorities. Often they are re-trafficked.May says the Home Office has been looking at how better to support young victims of trafficking. This country can take "no comfort at all" from the record of what happens to young people in care, she says. She hopes the child advocate trials will make a difference. 4.33pm BST Tim Loughton, the Conservative former children's minister, asks if the panel will be able to subpoena witnesses. And will it be able to trigger a criminal investigation.May praises Loughton's record on this subject.If the panel finds allegations that should be investiagated by the police, it will pass those matters on to the police.It will not have powers to summon witnesses. And it will have to consider whether calling a witness could jeopardise a police inquiry.But, if the panel wants extra powers, it will get them, she says.  4.30pm BST Labour's Helen Goodman asks if May agrees that MPs should undergo CRB checks.May says this is the kind of issue she wants the inquiry panel to address. It might make recommendations for further legislation. 4.29pm BST Mark Reckless, a Conserative, asks if the inquiry will consider evidence held by the whips.May says the intention is for the inquiry panel to look at a wide variety of material.But it will not look at specific allegations. Those are matters for the police, she says.Instead, it will look at whether the right procedures were in place. In that respect, it should be able to range widely, she says. 4.27pm BST Michael Ellis, a Conservative, says the investigator who carried out the 2013 review into how the Home Office responded to complaints did not have access to security service files. Will that be rectified?May says she does want the new inquiry to have wide access to government files.  4.24pm BST Labour's Paul Flynn says Sir Jimmy Savile was the honoured guest at 11 New Year's Eve parties hosted by the prime minister. He was a friend of royalty too. Did the intelligence services know about him?May says she wants the panel to have access to as many government papers as possible.Flynn's question raises an important point, she says; why was an offender like that feted by society at large? 4.21pm BST Labour's Lisa Nandy asks about the Tim Fortescue quote I flagged up earlier, about the role party whips played in covering up abuse. (See 12.42pm.) Will this inquiry cover political parties, even if that is uncomfortable?May says she does want political parties to be covered by the inquiry. Updated at 4.22pm BST 4.19pm BST Asked if this should cover the church, May says she wants this to be a wide inquiry, and for it to cover not just state bodies. 4.18pm BST Labour's Dennis Skinner says it would be more convincing if May said people dealing with child abuse in the public sector were given a proper pay rise.May says the government has a commendable record on addressing child abuse issues. 4.15pm BST Labour's Ronnie Campbell says Operation Rose in Northumberland was a whitewash.May says she will take that point away. She wants the new inquiry to be able to cover all cases like this. 4.12pm BST Nicola Blackwood, a Conservative, asks May if she agrees that transparency from councils will be essential. And how will she achieve that?May says Blackwood is right. She says the terms of reference should be drawn quite widely, and should not just apply to central government papers. She will publish those when they have been discussed with the chair. 4.09pm BST May's statement - Summary and key extractsHere are the key extracts from Theresa May's statement.• May confirmed that there will be a general Hillsborough-style inquiry into how public bodies handled child abuse claims in the past. I can now tell the House that the Government will establish an independent inquiry panel of experts in the law and child protection to consider whether public bodies – and other non-state institutions – have taken seriously their duty of care to protect children from sexual abuse. The inquiry panel will be chaired by an appropriately senior and experienced figure. It will begin its work as soon as possible after the appointment of the chairman and other members of the panel. Given the scope of its work, it is not likely to report before the general election – but I will make sure that it provides an update on its progress to Parliament before May next year. I will report back to the House when the inquiry panel chairman has been appointed and the full terms of reference have been agreed.It will, like the inquiries into Hillsborough and the murder of Daniel Morgan, be a non-statutory panel inquiry. This means that it can begin its work sooner, and because the basis of its early work will be a review of documentary evidence rather than interviews with witnesses who might themselves still be subject to criminal investigations, it will be less likely to prejudice those investigations. But I want to be clear that the inquiry panel will have access to all the government papers, reviews and reports it needs. Subject to the constraints imposed by any criminal investigations, it will be free to call witnesses from organisations in the public sector, private sector and wider civil society. And I want to make clear that – if the inquiry panel chairman deems it necessary – the Government is prepared to convert it into a full public inquiry in line with the Inquiries Act.• She said Peter Wanless, chief executive of the NSPCC, would carry out an inquiry into how the Home Office handled abuse allegations. So I can tell the House that I have today appointed Peter Wanless – the chief executive of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children – to lead a review not just of the investigation commissioned by Mark Sedwill but also how the police and prosecutors handled any related information that was handed to them. Peter Wanless will be supported in his work by an appropriate senior legal figure, who will be appointed by the Permanent Secretary. Where the findings of the review relate to the Director of Public Prosecutions, it will report to the Attorney General as well as to me. I will ask the review team to advise my officials on what redactions to the full investigation report might be needed in order that, in the interests of transparency, it can be published without jeopardising any future criminal investigations or trials. I expect the review to conclude within eight to ten weeks, and I will place a copy of its terms of reference in the House Library today.• She said the Wanless review would cover allegations that the Home Office funded the Paedophile Information Exchange (PIE). In addition to the allegations made by Geoffrey Dickens, there have also been allegations relating to an organisation called the Paedophile Information Exchange, a paedophile campaign group that was disbanded in 1984. In response to another query from the Hon Member for West Bromwich East, the Permanent Secretary commissioned another independent investigation in January this year into whether the Home Office had ever directly or indirectly funded PIE. That investigation concluded that the Home Office had not done so, and I will place a copy of the investigation’s findings in the House Library today. But, again, in order to ensure complete public confidence in this work, I have also asked Peter Wanless to look at this investigation as part of his review.• She said "maximum transparency" would be one of her key priniciples when overseeing the new inquiry. I want to set three important principles. First, we will do everything we can to allow the full investigation of child abuse and the prosecution of its perpetrators, and we will do nothing to jeopardise those aims. Second, where possible the Government will adopt a presumption of maximum transparency. And third, we will make sure that wherever individuals and institutions have failed to protect children from harm, we will expose these failures and learn the lessons.  Theresa May Photograph: /BBC ParliamentUpdated at 4.14pm BST 4.08pm BST Labour's Simon Danczuk says abuse survivors have to be very brave. How will the inquiry engage with them?May says it is best to leave that to the panel.She also commends Danczuk for the campaigning he has done on this issue.  3.59pm BST Tom Watson, the Labour MP, says he hopes child abuse survivors will welcome today's announcement. Will the inquiry team be able to see files held by the intelligences services, and submissions made to prime ministers?May commends Watson for his work on this issue. He has been relentless, she says.She says it is her intention that "the fullest possible" access should be available to government papers.She might need to ensure that appropriate means allow the panel to have access to papers. But she wants to ensure a very senior person chairs it.(She seems to be suggesting the chair will by a privy counsellor, who would have access to certain papers not available to others.) 3.56pm BST May is now responding to Cooper.She says not all the Home Office allegations will be covered by Operation Fernbridge. There are other investigations underway, she says.She says Damian Green, the police minister, referred to the missing 114 files in a parliamentary answer in October last year.  3.52pm BST Yvette Cooper is now responding to Theresa May.Cooper says May is right to announce she has changed her position on child abuse.Any allegation must be thoroughly investigated, she says.Will abuses uncovered in the Home Office files be covered by Operation Fernbridge? Do they have the resources they need?Does May think the fall in the number of prosecutors is a cause for concern?The 2013 review was not adequate, Cooper says. It has not been published. Did May see the review?Cooper welcomes the involvement of Peter Wanless, "who's well respected". But is this just a review of a review? Will it be able to interview witnesses? And will its report be published?Cooper says she raised the need for an overarching inquiry 18 months ago. She says the general review must cover the child protection system as it operates today.There has been a 75% drop in the number of people being barred from working with children, she says. That suggests there is a problem with the system as it works now.  Theresa May Photograph: /BBC Parliament 3.46pm BST May turns to the wider issue of how public bodies responded to abuse allegations.In 2013 a cross-government group was established to look at the lessons to be learnt from abuse scandals.As a result, new guidance has been issued.Some people have campaigned for an independent, over-arching inquiry, she says. She mentions the letter coordinated by Zac Goldsmith.There will be an independent panel of experts appointed to consider whether public bodies have taken enough care to protect young people.It will be chaired by an appropriately qualified person, she says.It will not report before the election. But an update will be provided to MPs before the election.As a non-statutory panel, it will be able to star work quickly.It will get access to all government papers.And, if the chair considers it necessary, the government will convert it into a full public inquiry, she says.She says she has three principles; wherever possible, there should be prosecutions; maximum transparency should be adopted; and appropriate lessons should be learnt. 3.41pm BST May says she has also asked Wanless to look at allegations that the Home Office funded the Paedophile Information Exchange (PIE). 3.41pm BST May says Sedwill did all the right things in listening to Watson's claims. The inquiry he commissioned was carried out in good faith.But, with issues like this, the public need full confidence.She says she has appointed Peter Wanless, chief executive of the NSPCC, to investigate how the Home Office handled these allegations.Wanless will report to her and to the attorney general, she says.The review will concluded within eight to 10 weeks, she says. Updated at 5.29pm BST 3.38pm BST Theresa May is making her statement.She says her statement will cover allegations that sexual abuse of children was covered up by people in power.In particular, she will cover allegations that the Home Office was involved in a cover-up, and that public bodies failed children.She says she favours maximum transparency.In 2013, in response to a question from Tom Watson, Mark Sedwill, the Home Office permanent secretary, launched an inquiry into how the Home Office handled abuse allegations, including those from Geoffrey Dickens.The inquiry concluded there had been no single Dickens dossier. But Dickens had submitted various allegations, and these had been submitted to the police.She summarises the points Sedwill made in the letter released on Saturday. See 3.26pm.There was no evidence that Dickens submitted evidence about abuse by prominent public figures, she says. 3.30pm BST Keith Vaz, chair of the Commons home affairs committee, has just announced that Mark Sedwill will give evidence to the committee on the missing Dickens dossier (see 3.26pm) tomorrow afternoon. Vaz put out this statement. I welcome the extensive information provided by Mr Sedwill in his reply to my letter. The committee will be interested to hear what has happened to the missing files, understand further details of the review Mr Sedwill has set up, including how this fits into the Home Secretary’s inquiry, and why the committee were not directly informed about the original investigation beforehand. 3.26pm BST Theresa May's statementTheresa May, the home secretary, will be making her Commons statement about the child abuse inquiry shortly.As well as announcing the new inquiry, she is also expected to say more about the review the Home Office will carry out of the investigation it has already carried out into what happened to the dossier containing child abuse allegations that Geoffrey Dickens gave to Leon Brittan when he was home secretary in the 1980s. Essentially this is a review of a review. Mark Sedwill, the Home Office permanent secetary, announced it in a letter to Keith Vaz released on Saturday.Here's an extract from Sedwill's letter. The investigation did not find a single dossier from Mr Dickens, but several sets of correspondence over a number of years to several Home Secretaries containing allegations of sexual offences, including, for example, action taken regarding the import of pornographic material reported in some of the media this week. As well as these specific allegations, later correspondence from Mr Dickens focused on broader related policy issues, such as the risk of children and young people being drawn into occult activities. The review found no record of specific allegations by Mr Dickens of child sex abuse by prominent public figures.While copies of Mr Dickens‟ letters were not retained, the Investigator did find files referring to them and a 20 March 1984 letter to Mr Dickens from the then Home Secretary, Lord Brittan, confirming that the information he had provided had been considered and matters requiring investigation had been referred to the proper authorities. On 17 March 1986, during a debate in the House of Commons about the use of Parliamentary Privilege, Mr Dickens said that “.... during the past five years letters have flowed to me containing allegations ..... I always sent the files to the Home Office, which investigated the cases for me”. On 31 March 1987, during another debate, Mr Dickens said: “I should like to place on record my thanks to the Home Office ... for following up the many cases I keep sending to it”.The review carried out an extensive analysis of a central database containing details of over 746,000 files for the 1979-1999 periods and identified 527 potentially relevant files which had been retained. These 527 files plus 46 personnel files (573 in total) were all physically examined by the Independent Review. In addition the same extensive analysis of the central database identified 114 potentially relevant files had been presumed destroyed, missing or not found. The investigation identified 13 items of information about alleged child abuse, nine of which were known or reported to the police including four cases involving Home Office staff. The remaining four items, which had not been previously disclosed, have now been passed to the police. Details of the cases involving Home Office staff are in the Executive Summary of the Final Report. 3.11pm BST Duncan Hames, the Lib Dem MP, asked his question about inquiries into child abuse a few minutes ago at Home Office questions. (See 2.34pm.)As a follow up, he asked the minister who replied (Norman Baker) if he shared Hames' "dismay" at reports that the Metropolitan police has only seven officers working on its Operation Fernbridge, covering allegations involving Elm Guest House.Baker said this was an operational matter for the police. But the police were expected to take all necessary steps to bring offenders to justice, he said. 3.03pm BST According to Exaro, almost 150 MPs have now signed a letter, coordinated by the Conservative MP Zac Goldsmith, urging Theresa May to set up a Hillsborough-style panel to investigate historical child abuse allegations.Here is the text of the letter. We are writing to ask you to set up a full, properly resourced investigation into the failure of the Police to follow the evidence in a number of historical cases of child sexual abuse.We would ask you to set up an independent panel, similar to the Inquiry you established into the Hillsborough tragedy, with powers to demand the release of all and any material from every agency involved.We would like such a panel to work with the many victims of child sexual abuse from local authority care, the Anglican and Roman Catholic churches and schools, including public schools, to uncover the facts in cases including the following:a. Operation Fernbridge – Richmond: Elm Guest House and Grafton Close Children’s Home, Norbiton, Weybridge & Petershamb. Operation Orchid – Hackney and Islingtonc. The Geoffrey Dickens’ dossiers – and Monkton Street Home for Mentally Handicapped Children, Lambethd. Sir Cyril Smith – Rochdale, including Knowl View Special Schoole. HM Customs & Excise – Russell Tricker videosf. Trafficking involving British businessmen in Amsterdamg. Warwick Spinks – Amsterdam & Pragueh. “Jane” alleged rape by a man who went on to become a Cabinet ministerWe would ask that the panel examines:i. why detailed dossiers – such as the documents submitted to the Home Office by the late Geoffrey Dickens – have disappearedii. why Police surveillance videos – said to be of prominent people who have been involved in paedophile rings – have gone missingiii. why child pornography videos seized by HM Customs & Excise have been lost or destroyediv. why investigations appear repeatedly to have been stalled or abandoned over the last thirty years 2.49pm BST Exaro, the news website, says that the police only decided to interview Lord Brittan about the rape complaint against him under pressure from the director of public prosecutions.Brittan has described the claim as "wholly without foundation". (See 11.56am.) 2.38pm BST Douglas Hurd, who succeeded Leon Brittan as home secretary, has told the BBC that he did not know about the abuse allegations raised by Geoffrey Dickens.Ross Hawkins (@rosschawkins)Douglas Hurd (Home Sec after Brittan) tells BBC @bbcworldservice he heard nothing about child abuse allegations made by DickensJuly 7, 2014 2.34pm BST Theresa May is about to start taking questions in the Commons.Her child abuse inquiry statement is not due until 3.30pm, but the Lib Dem MP Duncan Hames has sent me his question, number 7 on the order paper, which directly addresses the child abuse issue.Duncan Hames (@duncanhames)@AndrewSparrow Q7: What steps she has taken to co-ordinate lessons learnt... from investigations into organised sexual abuse of children.July 7, 2014 1.58pm BST Tom Watson says inquiry must have powers to order organisations to hand over filesTom Watson, the Labour MP who first asked David Cameron about allegations about a paedophile ring operation at Westminster, was also on the World at One. Here are the key points from his interview.• Watson said that the inquiry being announced by Theresa May would need the power to order organisations to hand over relevant documentary evidence. He said he had been very struck by the revelation that the security services held a file on Cyril Smith. The kind of inquiry that can go where the intelligence leads it, I think, is important. And one thing has changed in this last two years of trying to look at allegations of organised child abuse and that was the revelation by the former BBC journalist Liz MacKean, who showed that Special Branch held files on the late Cyril Smith that alleged criminality. And for me that was a moment because it shows that if Special Branch held a file on Cyril Smith that alleged criminality that wasn’t followed up, then it’s perfectly possible they held files on other people and I think the inquiry should have the right to go and look at where these documents might lie in government.• He said he wanted to "reserve judgment" on whether May's inquiry would be satisfactory until he had heard the details of it.• He said he having a Hillsborough-style inquiry (see 12.35pm) could be "quite useful". There could be advantages from allowing it to form judgments that would not prejudice a criminal trial, and so there could be a case for ensuring witnesses did not have to give evidence on oath, he said. I think a Hillsborough-style inquiry where the panel are allowed to form a view without prejudicing potential criminal trials is probably quite useful. So not taking evidence under oath might be an advantage to quite a lean inquiry and so I can understand why Theresa May is keen on that kind of inquiry. I am too.• He said he felt the focus on documents missing from the Home Office was "a little bit of a red herring".I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome. 1.34pm BST Keith Vaz, the Labour chair of the Commons home affairs committee, has rejected suggestions that the Labour MP Simon Danczuk was leant on before he gave evidence to the committee to stop him naming potential abusers.  No witness before the select committee, certainly not one as robust and as effective as Simon Danczuk, can be fettered in the way they give evidence because they can actually say what they want ... There was no attempt to stop Mr Danczuk being what he is, a robust witness. He is a very robust gentleman and I do not think anyone can stop him saying what he said.Speaking on the World at One, Vaz confirmed that he did speak to witnesses before hearings. But he refused to comment on what he may have said to Danczuk. 1.23pm BST Lunchtime summary• David Cameron has said that an inquiry into how official bodies responded to child abuse allegations in the past will leave "no stone unturned". (See 12pm.) Theresa May, the home secretary, will give details of the inquiry in a statement to MPs at 3.30pm, but Downing Street has already said it will focus on "lessons that can be learnt". (See 12.35pm.)• Lord Brittan, the former home secretary, has confirmed he was questioned by police last month over a "serious allegation", after reports that a woman accused him of raping her in 1967.• The former leader of the Paedophile Information Exchange, a pro-paedophile campaign group, claims he stored material at the Home Office, the BBC has revealed.• George Osborne has praised the controversial new Indian prime minister Narendra Modi for creating a mood of change in India, as he landed in the country on a mission to strike a series of multimillion pound trade deals.• Liam Fox, the Conservative former defence secretary, has called for the introduction of a strict Australian-style points-based system to help Britain meet the needs of the economy and to cope with its ageing population. As the Press Association reports, Fox backed David Cameron's aspiration to cut net migration, but said the issue was "more complex" than simply putting a target on the number of people coming to the UK. In a speech to the Reform think tank in Westminster, Fox said the economy was expected to generate 1.25 million jobs by 2020, with the most significant increases in higher-level occupations.  UK immigration policy needs to be rebalanced so that those who come to our country are usefully economically active ...There is neither the public appetite nor an economic case for allowing immigrants to come to the UK who will simply absorb our national wealth rather than helping to create it ...We must develop policy that ensures that we are not turning away workers we need. Many of these will be skilled workers, a group currently in danger of being choked off, but it may ultimately mean unskilled labour too.In short, I believe that we need to have what we might call an 'open and shut' immigration policy. That is, an approach that is open to those who are economically active and have the skills our economy requires but closed to those who will become dependent on the state or who possess skills we do not require for our economic well-being.• Senior health figure have used a letter to the Times to say that more must be done to improve the efficiency of the NHS and address the "budget crisis" affecting it as people enjoy longer life expectancies. • Labour has accused the coalition of playing "catch up" in relation to rebalancing the economy. Responding to the growth plans announced today, Chuka Umunna, the shadow business secretary, said: After four years in which we’ve seen regional imbalances become more stark and local areas held back, David Cameron’s government is desperately trying to play catch up. Ministers are failing to match Labour’s ambition to make it easier for Local Enterprise Partnerships, combined authorities and councils to deliver growth, better-paid jobs and improved public services in their areas.Ministers’ announcement today falls far short of Labour’s radical plans - announced last week by Ed Miliband and Lord Adonis - to devolve £30bn of budgets away from Whitehall. Labour would give new powers and budgets to local areas, including over business rates revenue. 12.42pm BST In the comments PizzaRe has flagged up a very pertinent quote.   PizzaRe 07 July 2014 12:26pmAndrew: Time to look at the role of Whips.From 1995 Westminster's Secret Service Doc"Tim Fortescue, who was Ted Heath’s chief whip from 1970-73, said:For anyone with any sense, who was in trouble, would come to the whips and tell them the truth, and say now, I’m in a jam, can you help? It might be debt, it might be…..erm……erm, a scandal involving small boys, or any kind of scandal in which, erm er, a member seemed likely to be mixed up in, they’d come and ask if we could help and if we could, we did. And we would do everything we can because we would store up brownie points……., and if I mean, that sounds a pretty, pretty nasty reason, but it’s one of the reasons because if we could get a chap out of trouble then, he will do as we ask forever more.Fortescue is now dead. Here's his obituary. 12.35pm BST Downing Street lobby briefing - Summary  10 Downing Street Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA Archive/Press Association ImaHere are the main points from the Number 10 lobby briefing.• Number 10 suggested that David Cameron was willing to believe that there may have been a Westminster child abuse cover-up. Asked if he was "open-minded" about the idea of a cover-up, the prime minister's spokesman did not challenge this. He said: [Cameron] thinks it is important that we get to the bottom of the questions that have been asked.• The spokesman played down suggestions that the government had changed its stance on an inquiry. Asked why the government was now holding a wide-ranging review, when previously it rejected calls for one (see 9.21am), the spokesman said that "widespread concerns" had been raised. "We are determined to get to the bottom of all these questions," he said.• The spokesman hinted that the government would want to discuss the way new inquiry is conducted with those carrying it out before its terms of reference are finalised. It was important for the inquiry to move quickly, the spokesman said. But it was also important for people to have confidence in its conclusions, and for its work not to interfer with police inquiries, he said.• The spokesman said the new inquiry would focus on "lessons that can be learnt in terms of how public bodies, public institutions, have fulfilled their duty of care towards young people".• The spokesman suggested that the Hillsborough independent panel could provide a model. Asked if the new inquiry would be similar to the Leveson inquiry, the spokesman offered Hillsborough as an alternative comparison.  That was something that was very focused around evaluation lessons learnt and the like and attracted considerable support for the way it did the work.• The spokesman said that the new inquiry will take place alongside the review of the way the Home Office investigated its own handling of abuse allegations that was announced on Saturday.• The spokesman said that anyone with specific abuse allegations should take them to the police.• The spokesman said that Cameron had never had conversation with Lord Brittan about this matter.• The spokesman confirmed that Brittan had had one point been a government adviser, on trade. But that was just after the 2010 election, and it was a temporary appointment, the spokesman said. He said Brittan was asked to advise the government in relation to the WTO Doha talks. 12.00pm BST Cameron says new abuse inquiry will leave 'no stone unturned'David Cameron has said that the inquiry being set up into how public institutions handled allegations of child abuse will leave "no stone unturned". On a visit to a college in the West Midland he said:  I am absolutely determined that we are going to get to the bottom of these allegations and we're going to leave no stone unturned to find out the truth about what happened - that is vital. It is also vital we learn the lessons right across the board from these things that have gone wrong.And it's also important that the police feel that they can go wherever the evidence leads and they can make all the appropriate arrangements to investigate these things properly.Those three things need to happen - robust inquiries that get to the truth, police investigations that pursue the guilty and find out what has happened and proper lessons learned so we make sure these things will not happen again.That is what will happen under my government.The Number 10 lobby briefing was mostly taken up with questions about this inquiry. I'll post a summary shortly. 11.56am BST Lord Brittan's statement in fullHere is the full text of Lord Brittan's statment. It is true that I have been questioned by the police about a serious allegation made against me. This allegation is wholly without foundation.In addition I would like to put on record that I welcome the fact that there is now to be an independent review to look at the missing files belonging to the Home Office.It has been alleged that when I was home secretary I failed to deal adequately with the bundle of papers containing allegations of serious sexual impropriety that I received from the late Geoff Dickens MP. This too is completely without foundation - as evidence from the Home Office's own report supports. As I made clear in the statement that I issued on 2 July, I passed this bundle of papers to the relevant Home Office officials for examination, as was the normal and correct practice. I wrote to Mr Dickens on 20 March 1984 informing him of the conclusions of the director of public prosecutions about these matters (as set out in the interim report of the independent review set up by the Home Office).In this same report, Mr Dickens thanked the Home Office for the way in which the information he provided was handled and said in a speech to the House of Commons on 31 March 1987: 'I should like to place on record my thanks to the Home Office and the departments within the Home Office for following up the cases that I keep sending to it. I should also like to thank the attorney general. They have been very helpful and a strength to me in my campaigns'.  Lord Brittan Photograph: John Stillwell/PAUpdated at 1.35pm BST 10.55am BST Here is more from Lord Brittan's statement. This is from the Press Association. Former Cabinet minister Lord Brittan has confirmed that he was interviewed by police in relation to a "serious allegation", but insisted that the allegation was "wholly without foundation".I'm off to the lobby briefing. I will post again after 11.30am. 10.52am BST As I reported earlier (see 10.41am), several newspapers have been demanding a proper inquiry into child abuse allegations.The Labour MP Tom Watson, who has been campaigning on this issue, is also inviting people to sign an internet petition urging David Cameron to set up a national inquiry.It has more than 68,000 signatures as I write.tom_watson (@tom_watson)It would great if we could make 75000 supporters before Theresa May stands up to make her statement at 3.30. http://t.co/0G9f2ypmSWJuly 7, 2014Updated at 10.55am BST 10.45am BST The Press Association has just snapped this. Former home secretary Lord Brittan has said that claims he failed to deal adequately with the dossier of information about alleged sexual offences handed to him by MP Geoffrey Dickens in the 1980s are "completely without foundation".I'll post more from Brittan's statement when I get it. 10.41am BST Newspapers calling for an inquiryIt is not often that the Guardian is on the same side as the Daily Mail and the Sun, but, in the editorial pages today, there is general agreement that a proper inquiry into the claims that Westminster child abuse allegations were ignored is needed.• The Guardian says there must be a thorough investigation into allegations there was a Whitehall cover-up. Westminster and Whitehall's ancient practice of protecting its own, of which the expenses scandal may have been the most egregious example ... has led to such a damaging collapse in public confidence in politics and parliament. In this context, the Home Office promise of a review of the review triggered when Tom Watson first raised the Dickens allegations a year ago is insufficient, although the decision to appoint an external investigator with a judicial background is a small advance. However, as the shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper has demanded in a letter to Theresa May, it needs to look much further. It must try to establish the contents of the disappeared files and what action if any they triggered, with what result. If these allegations are found to be true, then it will confirm again the terrible extent of the failure of child protection – and it will be more important than ever to be confident that the reasons for it are properly understood.• The Daily Mail calls for a full public inquiry. Truly, the more we learn about allegations of child abuse at the heart of Westminster and Whitehall, the more overpowering the stench of an Establishment cover-up becomes.Doesn’t it also become clearer by the day that the longer David Cameron delays treating this scandal with the profound seriousness it deserves, the more trouble he stores up for himself?Consider. In response to hacking at the News of the World, the Prime Minister ordered a draconian judicial inquiry into the Press, while the police investigation tied up 195 officers at its height.Similarly, dozens of police have been involved in the £2.7million Operation Yewtree, set up after the Jimmy Savile scandal to probe historic sex allegations against media celebrities and others.Yet only seven officers have been assigned to the claims against politicians. Meanwhile, Number 10 has rejected calls for a public inquiry, leaving it to a Home Office civil servant to find out what he can about any cover-up.• The Daily Mirror calls for a national inquiry. David Cameron will end up on the wrong side of history if he stubbornly resists calls for a national inquiry into serious allegations of organised child abuse ...Cameron was prepared to set up a major inquiry into media malpractice. It is risible that he and home secretary Theresa May refuse to do the same over claims that prominent political figures protected those involved in vile abuse.• The Sun says there should be an investigation into the cover-up of allegations involving politicians. We know that the BBC and NHS harboured the likes of Jimmy Savile and Rolf Harris. Now we need to find out urgently the extent of politicians' involvement in any alleged cover-up of other crimes.The reputation of our entire political system depends on it.While Fleet Street editorials probably aren't fully responsible for Theresa May's decision to order an inquiry today, they certainly won't have discouraged her.It is interesting to see some of the papers almost pushing for an inquiry as some sort of revenge for Leveson.And it is also worth noting that there is probably some newspaper institutional bias in favour of an inquiry. Inquiries of this kind generate terrific copy. 10.16am BST John Hemming, the Lib Dem MP, told BBC News just now it is very important that the inquiry takes evidence in public, and that people giving evidence are offered proper protection. Otherwise there is a danger of a cover-up, he said. There's a culture of cover-up that tends to happen when they bring in somebody who's notionally independent but actually just does what their paymaster says.I'm sorry the blog has been quiet for the last hour. My computer has been out of action. But it all seems to be working properly again now. 9.24am BST Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, has posted this on Twitter. It amounts to an "I told you so" message to Theresa May.Yvette Cooper (@YvetteCooperMP)My letter to T May yesterday on inquiries needed re serious child abuse allegations to get truth, justice & reform http://t.co/FovVWv2SPDJuly 7, 2014Here's an extract from the letter. We need a wide ranging review that can look at how all the allegations put to the Home Office in the 80s and 90s were handled. The scope of this investigation must look at how the Home Office, other parts of Whitehall, the police and prosecutions agencies handled allegations when they were put to them. But it also needs the flexibility to follow the evidence. Any stones left unturned will leave concerns of institutional malaise, or worse a cover-up, unaddressed ...As I said to you and called for over 18 months ago when the crimes of Jimmy Savile were being investigated and the Home Affairs Select Committee were concluding that the “there are still places in the UK where victims of child sexual exploitation are being failed by statutory agencies” – we need an overarching review led by child protection experts to draw together the lessons from all these investigations, assess the failures of the system to protect children, and set out any needed reforms.This review must cover the institutional failures of the past – but from the prime focus of child protection – and examine the systems we have in place that continue to fail children to this day.People are increasingly concerned that a myriad of small reviews and investigations will fail to draw together a holistic conclusion – or lead to real change. 80 or 90 lessons for each local hospital, the national broadcaster, care homes or other institutions will not increase protection for every child in the UK, and that must be the aim. 9.21am BST Theresa May's announcement will be a tad embarrassing for Francis Maude, the Cabinet Office minister. Yesterday, on Sky's Murnaghan programme, Maude specifically ruled out a general inquiry into child sexual abuse allegations.Asked if there was a case for an overarching inquiry, Maude replied: That could slow things down. The first thing to do on this front is simply to have the inquiry, the investigation that has been launched, that will be done very quickly and then let's see where that takes us. It may well be the answer then is to have a much broader inquiry but I think it is too soon to come to that conclusion.In a separate interview on the Andrew Marr show (pdf), Michael Gove, the education secretary, categorically said there would not be a public inquiry into historical child abuse allegations. According to the BBC, May is not going to announce a public inquiry. But the wide-ranging inquiry she is going to announce may look rather similar.Updated at 2.51pm BST 8.48am BST We are going to get an inquiry into claims that Whitehall and other official bodies ignored claims about child sexual abuse in the past. It will cover how the Home Office, and other institutions, responded to allegations that were raised at the time, including those involving high-profile figures. Theresa May, the home secretary, will unveil the full details in a statement to the Commons this afternoon. But, in a statement, the Home Office has all but confirmed that a new inquiry will be ordered. This is from a Home Office spokesman. The home secretary will make a statement in parliament this afternoon. It is right that the detail of her statement should wait until she speaks in the House of Commons, but her statement will address the two key public concerns. First, the Home Office's response in the 1980s to papers containing allegations of child abuse. And second, the wider issue of whether public bodies and other institutions have taken seriously their duty of care towards children.Here's what the BBC's Nick Robinson is saying about this.Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson)I expect Home Sec to announce wide ranging inquiry into why allegations of child sex abuse were missed or ignored by series of public bodiesJuly 7, 2014Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson)A panel of experts could take evidence from the public. Will be in addition to QC-led review of missing Home Office documentsJuly 7, 2014Nick Robinson (@bbcnickrobinson)Sounds like Hillsborough-style panel but Ministers will not use that language. Devil in detail - which I don't know yet!July 7, 2014And this is what George Osborne, the chancellor, said about the new inquiry in an interview on the Today programme (which was mostly about India). There are allegations of events that happened some decades ago but that doesn't mean they won't have had a huge impact, probably in many cases a terrible impact, on people's lives. So we need to get to the bottom of what happened in many of our institutions, including potentially at Westminster. The best approach to this is to find an independent and authoritative way to investigate it. The home secretary is going to be setting out to the House of Commons in just a few hours' time the approach we are going to take. But people can be absolutely clear, these are very, very serious matters, we take them very seriously, we want to get to the truth and nothing but the truth, and we will do it in an independent and authoritative way.I will be covering the reaction to this announcement, and May's statement, in full.Here's the agenda for the day.10.30am: Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, launches Labour's women's safety commission.11am: Number 10 lobby briefing.2.30pm: Theresa May, the home secretary, takes questions in the Commons.3.15pm: Sir Jeremy Heywood, the cabinet secretary, gives evidence to the Commons public accounts committee about the centre of government.3.30pm: May makes a Commons statement about the new historical child sex abuse inquiry.At some point Osborne and William Hague, the foreign secretary, are also giving speeches in India.As usual, I will also be flagging up any breaking political news, posting summaries with a round-up of all the day’s developments, and highlighting the most interesting political articles on the web.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I’m on @AndrewSparrow.Updated at 2.51pm BST