The family of James Hanratty, who was hanged for murder in 1962, are calling for the case to be reviewed again.Hanratty, a petty thief, was found guilty of murdering scientist Michael Gregsten, 36, and shooting his lover Valerie Storie, 22, in a case that became known as the A6 murder. It was alleged that after surprising the pair in a cornfield in Dorney Reach, Berkshire, Hanratty forced them to drive to Deadman's Hill, south of Bedford, where Storie, a laboratory assistant was repeatedly raped and then shot along with Gregsten. She survived despite being shot five times.Hanratty, 25, was hanged two months later for the crime but his family have always protested his innocence, in one of Britain's longest-running alleged miscarriages of justice.An appeal eight years ago was comprehensively dismissed when the court of appeal ruled that there was evidence to show "beyond doubt" that Hanratty was guilty. At the time, the court said DNA analysis of garments recovered from the scene in 1961 had provided "certain proof" he had killed Gregsten.Hanratty's family say the clothing could have been contaminated and want the Criminal Cases Review Commission to order a fresh review of the evidence. The family's lawyers are preparing a case to go before the CCRC in the new year.Hanratty's brother Michael told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "We are talking about a crime scene sample being in the same folder as all Jimmy's fibres, blood samples, hairs – all in the same folder."Jimmy didn't do that [murder]. I can assure you that – 100%, 120%. He never hurt a soul. The day before the execution, his last words were: 'Mick, I am completely innocent. Look after mum and dad. Keep an eye on the newspapers, this in years to come will come out.' Now he would never have said that. It would have been easier to say nothing and just go."The case is being supported by the former Private Eye editor Richard Ingrams, who investigated the case with the journalist Paul Foot. Ingrams, who edits the Oldie magazine, was this morning's guest editor of Today. He said he thought it was a "basic case of injustice"."It is one of those murder stories that is rather fascinating because it is such an improbable story but I lived with it for many years at Private Eye," said Ingrams.Sir Geoffrey Bindman, the Hanratty family's solicitor, said DNA testing was not always reliable. "There's a difference between whether DNA is infallible and reliable and what the evidence is that the particular substance from which the DNA was taken is linked to the crime," he said."That's where the doubts arise and they can arise from different ways if the DNA isn't tested properly – the tests maybe defective, there may be contamination. There are a number of ways you can undermine DNA evidence."Hanratty's conviction was based largely on Storie's evidence. Storie, who uses a wheelchair, failed to pick him out of the first police identity parade. But at a second identity parade she identified the killer as Hanratty, recognising him, she explained, chiefly by his voice.Hanratty said at the time of attack he was 250 miles from the scene, in a bed-and-breakfast in Rhyl, north Wales. The landlady backed his claim, and in the years after his execution, numerous witnesses came forward to support his version of events.An appeal against the conviction was heard by the court of appeal on 13 March 1962, but dismissed. Hanratty, who was among the last people to go to the gallows in Britain, told his family: "I'm dying tomorrow but I'm innocent. Clear my name."