Violent crime has a peculiar power to provoke the British imagination. Entire political careers from Blair through Howard to Blunkett have been erected on the basis of foaming, flesh-creeping verbiage about disorder. Going way beyond any observed reality of murder, theft and violence, that kind of rhetoric manipulates both our fascination and our repulsion by criminality.We respectable types need our villains to be well in place - never met but safely envisaged as the enemy within. Disgustingly, we play the Jekyll and Hyde game of the light and the dark with them, thrilling to the fear of an amoral boundary which might encroach on our safety and our selfhood. Such people are out there all right. But we also entertain the self-congratulatory suspicion of a Dionysian presence within us and wonder whether it's nature or nurture, lucky genes or moral teaching, which keeps our safe selves out of custody. Villains operating singly and in combination fill the pages of newspapers: they populate instant biographies and those crime novels where the vigour and daring of stale "anti-heroes" can blunt the edge of a psychotic reality. Which is how the Kray twins almost became much-loved characters. The gang is a masculine group bound together by rituals and slang, which makes it into a domestic feature of a British scene which feels very comfortable with that kind of group identity. Clubs, regiments, political parties and masons achieve their goals by formal articles of association. Thuggery can be easily presented, and almost sanitised, as just another form of the same impulse which draws men together. Loyalty and bravery come into place as well - two qualities which are highly prized in the litany of British worth. These may be cruel crooks, but they are our cruel crooks. And wartime shows how even the hardiest villain comes in handy. The same animal energies which maim, injure and kill in a national cause can, in civilian life, sustain a bent one. Jake Arnott's first novel, The Long Firm, which is now being serialised by the BBC, astounded because of its break with this kind of sentimentality, which is really a form of cruelty because it takes the tragic dimension out of the criminal self. In literary terms, it was a tour de force: a startling break with the dehumanising irony that runs through English fiction. Crime literature was shown up as the over-literary affair it had become - a sick, cliquish genre. This, on the other hand, was the real stuff of a particular kind of 1960s life. It never mistook mere pyrotechnics with linguistic effects for the real business of literature - the capacity to touch the human heart.The energetic language undercut the spurious coolness of a bent Britannia where fiction and film fetishised crime and made it chic. Instead, violent crime's consequences were shown to debase the soul and disfigure the personality. Arnott dismantled the idea that the life of a criminal was anything other than one of sorrow and grief. Especially startling was the abandonment of the idea that violence could be explained away. It was, rather, the cruel joy and the livelihood of a certain occupational group. Social services hierarchies, sociological theories of deviance, support teams of psychologists, were shown to be impotent before the bleak realism and subversive humour of the criminal. Genet did this in French prose and Orton almost managed it on stage. But Arnott succeeds in shaming practically every previous English writer who has taken the corrupt will as a subject. From Holmes - that preciously neurasthenic bachelor - right on to PD James's stately dispassion, all of them operate at a sanitising distance. Order is restored at the end of the classic English detective story - and judgment, like morality, is easy. The point of the crime is its heinousness, and its exceptional nature underpins the wisdom of the central order. But from Arnott you get the immediate understanding of what it means to be operate within a milieu of cruelty you have made your own. This is not the imagined danger of another group, nor is it some psychological game with yourself. Rather it is the understanding of sorrow in action. Any real acquaintance, however fleeting, with lives blighted by the practice of crime can communicate this grief-filled complexity. A drama workshop among some long-term prisoners that I watched recently brought this home to me. On the one hand, there was the tenderness of faces describing how learning a role, imagining what it might mean to be another person, had been the first real education of their lives. The scenes they performed from Shakespeare's history plays was a reminder that those plays are about warlords whose habitual violence was the basis of order. Which is why those actors inside prison walls could recreate the battle scenes and the power games of the Shakespearean elites to terrifying and tragic effect. Modern British gang land is not that far removed from 15th-century aristocratic politics. I doubt if penal policy grasps this - but literature, and Jake Arnott, can. · The final episode of The Long Firm is on Wednesday at 9pm on BBC2 taliesin.hywel@virgin.net