Up to 100 black police personnel in London will submit evidence to an official inquiry into the way Scotland Yard investigates allegations against its own staff.The Metropolitan Black Police Association said the cases involved allegations of racism, bullying and inappropriate management. The Guardian has learned that a number of white officers who claim they have been unfairly treated as part of corruption investigations will also submit evidence. Yesterday Sir Bill Morris launched the inquiry, which has been set up by London's police authority. Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, the MBPA chairman, said: "The cases we will submit involve people who have suffered inappropriate investigations and who have had to seek redress from civil actions and employment tribunals. "People have been denied promotions, suffered poor management and fallen victim to insensitivity and bullying. We are pleased that Sir Bill and his inquiry team will be given every opportunity to thoroughly examine how the Met investigates black staff and deals with their complaints." As a gesture of good faith, he said, the MBPA would again play its part in trying to recruit more minority personnel into the force. The inquiry follows questions over the handling of a number of high-profile cases involving ethnic minority officers, including that of Superintendent Ali Dizaei, who was cleared of allegations of dishonesty at the Old Bailey last September. Other high-profile cases have included that of the Sikh officer Sergeant Gurpal Virdi, who was sacked after being falsely accused of sending hate mail. He won his job back, and substantial damages, after taking his case to an employment tribunal in 2000. Sir Bill said yesterday: "The focus of this inquiry is the Metropolitan police service and not one or two high-profile cases. The inquiry is about professional standards and workplace issues. In order to enjoy trust and confidence, a modern police force needs to reflect the community it serves." David Blunkett, the home secretary, praised the police authority for launching the investigation. "This is precisely the kind of leadership that the government is looking to police authorities to show, to hold their police forces effectively to account, and to ensure that important and difficult issues are properly addressed." The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, urged officers to participate. "This will enable the inquiry to come forward with a fresh perspective and new insight which is fully informed by all of those with an interest in bringing about much-needed change."