The Attorney-General was speaking to prosecutors in Kent when his office informed him - though not, maybe, in such stark terms - that he was on a collision course with a prime ministerial U-turn.Tony Blair had told the Commons that he would consider extra protection for householders who tackle burglars. He would, he announced, be asking Lord Goldsmith whether the law needed to be changed.When we meet the following day, Peter Goldsmith is still awaiting the call from No 10. 'He said specifically that he wants my advice, so I think I ought to deliver it directly,' he says. That makes it all the odder that Goldsmith, famously reticent over his legal imprimatur for the Iraq war, goes on to make it clear that he sees nothing wrong with the existing law allowing victims to use reasonable force. 'There are very few cases that have given rise to this problem. Besides Tony Martin [the Norfolk farmer who shot dead a fleeing burglar], there's only one I know about. 'Police and prosecutors have been very understanding of people who act to protect themselves and their property. The law says there's a limit to the force you can use, but it is judged by what you believe the position is, even if you turn out to be mistaken.' Householders, he stresses, are entitled to defend themselves as they see fit. 'Absolutely. That's what the law says. The actions you take commensurate with reasonable [belief] will be justifiable, even if, in hindsight, you were wrong. 'But I think we need to look at this. That's what the PM has asked, and that is what we shall do.' It sounds, even so, as if Goldsmith believes the existing law has served the public well. 'It's always possible to extrapolate from one case and think that something is happening across the country when it isn't,' he says. This apparent endorsement of the status quo appears to answer whatever questions Blair may have. It also contradicts the alarm bells sounded by Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, after the murder of the financier John Monckton. Stevens said that householders should be able to use 'whatever force is necessary' to repel intruders, even to the point of killing them. In the ensuing furore, Michael Howard argued that householders may be entitled to kill a burglar, and even the Director of Public Prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, was wrongly quoted as saying that chasing an intruder down the street and stabbing him might be construed as self-defence. Days after the Lord Chancellor, Charles Falconer, declared the current law adequate, Blair appeared to support Tory calls for a revision, claiming the importance of sending 'a very, very clear signal that we are on the side of the victim, not the offender'. Goldsmith, by contrast, warns against ignoring burglars' rights: 'We must protect victims and law-abiding citizens. But we have to recognise that others have some rights as well. They don't lose all rights because they're engaged in criminal conduct.' Given that reported burglary fell 6 per cent last year, does he thinks the row is simply heightening misplaced fears? 'If you look at what people think is taking place, and what is actually taking place, they are not the same thing at all. But I don't think that means we can ignore what people think. If they are frightened, we need to provide reassurance. That may simply mean explaining what the present law and protections are.' He denies that he will be trying to chart a tactful course between Falconer's do-nothing stance and alarmism elsewhere. 'I'm not even sure about that. It's premature to say I'm trying to find a middle way. We need to find out what the PM is asking us to do and what the facts are.' It seems certain, however, that scaremongering is the last thing that Goldsmith wants, given his crusade to instil greater confidence in criminal justice. Tomorrow he is to announce the results of five pilot schemes in a £36 million initiative to look after trial witnesses. 'Last year we had 20,000 trials that didn't go ahead because of [witness] problems. We're getting up to 20 per cent more turning up in the pilot areas - not enough, but a huge improvement.' By March all 42 criminal justice areas across England and Wales will have a witness centre, offering protection, transport, childcare and other measures. By the end of 2005, 165 new units will be open, and 12,000 cases that would previously have failed should go ahead. The project is part of Goldsmith's championing of better trial management, which he calls 'a quiet revolution in criminal justice'. Obscurity is not normally his hallmark. In part 'the ultimate prosecutor', as he described himself recently, and in part the government's in-house lawyer, Goldsmith is the most high-profile Attorney-General in memory. He is also the most outspoken, tackling everything from the media-bashing of the Lord Chief Justice to prosecutors' links with the monarchy. Though Her Majesty's Attorney-General works in a grand office a tiara's throw from Buckingham Palace, he is trying - so far unsuccessfully - to divest the Crown Prosecution Service of its royal connections. His plan to rename it the Public Prosecution Service was inadvertently scuppered some time ago, he admits, by David Blunkett, who mentioned the prospective new title in a speech. 'It was taken as an announcement, even though it wasn't,' Goldsmith says. 'It was also taken by some to be anti-monarchist and republican. At that stage the staff had not even been consulted.' He aspires to a name change still. 'It would help to indicate that the service is there to prosecute for the public, in the public interest,' he says. The same public interest underpins Goldsmith's wish for fewer bungled trials. Watching the child witness in the Damilola Taylor murder case slowly taken apart by defence barristers persuaded him that prosecutors should be able to interview witnesses, rather than relying on the police. He will be announcing that decision shortly. Does he believe that the imminent repeal of the double jeopardy law will lead to retrials in the Taylor and Stephen Lawrence cases? 'That will be for the DPP and the Court of Appeal to decide,' he said. 'There has to be sufficient new evidence. I always thought that only a very small number of cases would come forward for a retrial. We shall have to wait and see.' On Guantánamo Bay and the four remaining British prisoners, he reiterates his demand that any Briton not given a fair trial must be released. Of last week's charge by Moazzem Begg's lawyer that his client was held in conditions 'worse than any death row I have seen', Goldsmith says: 'I haven't been there myself, and I have heard different reports. But it is very important to look at such allegations and do what one can to investigate them. I'm sure that's what my colleagues at the Foreign Office are doing.' For all the breadth of his remit, the Attorney-General will be forever defined by his controversial advice that the Iraq war was legal. Recently the New Statesman alleged that he had been 'leaned on' by Blair. 'The view expressed in Parliament was genuinely the view I felt,' Goldsmith says. 'The military intervention was justified because of the effect of 1441 and the two previous [United Nations resolutions]. I was not leaned on to reach that view.' I ask if he removed any caveats or crystallised his opinion as he went along. 'I'm sorry, but I'm not getting into process. At the end of the day you reach a judgment. Yes or no. My view was that it was lawful.' Has he ever brooded on the lives lost in a war that was sanctioned by his judgment? 'People [he means Blair] don't make decisions because it's lawful, but because it's right. The Prime Minister is clear that government was right to take that action. It was a difficult decision, but the one he made. 'People can speculate as much as they like about my state of mind, but I don't think it's helpful. I reached my view. I believed it then, and I believe it now.' I wonder if Goldsmith is hinting at some variance, in his own mind, between what was legal and what was right. If so, he would never say. Nor is he likely to be shaken in his assertion that he is not a figure to be got at by Blair. Such obduracy, translated to domestic matters, does not suggest that the Attorney-General will be recommending tough new laws protecting burglar-shooters. Whatever Number 10 might want.