I grew up in Bangor, a small city in north-west Wales. It's set in the seemingly infinite landscapes of Snowdonia national park, so it's a godsend for weed-smoking students and outdoorsy types. But for its native teenagers, it's boring. Venturing outside the town requires parental help, and there are no youth clubs (well, none that I knew of). The life of a Bangor teenager is defined by loitering, time-wasting and getting wearily turned away from the local pubs you might dare to try to enter. My brother and his friends, having the temerity to socialise in sportswear, spent most Saturdays getting moved on by police from one end of the high street to the other.Last week, North Wales police joined forces with local councillors to turn Bangor's teenagers from loiterers into criminals. The city is now home to a curfew for its citizens under the age of 16. The curfew, or "dispersal order" states: "If you are under the age of 16 you are not allowed to be here between 9pm and 6am unless you are under the effective control of a parent or responsible person over the age of 18." Those found breaking it could be fined up to £2,500, or even receive a custodial sentence.Unsurprisingly, the move has been controversial; Keith Towler, the children's commissioner for Wales, says: "It demonises under 16s, isolates them from their communities, alienates them from police and spreads the misconception all young people are troublemakers."But despite the controversy, the curfew is in line with the wider aims of the government on public order policing, following the riots of last summer. In October 2011, the Home Office published a consultation paper on public order policing in which it suggested that "a more general curfew power may be more useful to police than a dispersal power designed to be used after evidence that trouble has begun to develop". In other words: instead of waiting for a crime, anticipate that young people will cause trouble because they're young, and criminalise them in advance.The Home Office made no attempt to explain how it would stop the police from abusing the power to arbitrarily remove young people from entire sections of cities – something one would be forgiven for expecting after tensions between young people and the police was attributed to sparking the riots.Like so many hair-brained policies of this government, curfews have been made all the more possible by New Labour's laying of the foundations. Asbos, tags, and mosquito alarms were all suggestions mooted or implemented by a government eager to control its citizens using authoritarian, slap-dash measures. The most absurd case must surely be that of Kim Sutton, who effectively received an asbo that prevented her from taking her own life. After attempting to end her life by jumping off bridges, she was banned from going into rivers, canals or open water, loitering on bridges, going on to railway lines or entering multistorey car parks unaccompanied. It takes a special kind of hamfistedness to think that a person will overcome suicidal thoughts if such thoughts are simply outlawed, or that being labelled antisocial is helpful to someone who no longer values their own life. Perhaps it's the same logic that concludes that the only reason young people rioted in August is because there was no law telling them they had to stay at home.And yet, when I think of my teenage years in Bangor, I don't remember riots. Mostly I remember waiting: waiting to be 18 so I could sit in a pub and feel part of society again – waiting for the boredom and the alienation to end. For the 13-year-old me, a curfew would have meant more isolation, more casting adrift, a stronger sense that the town in which I lived didn't really care about my place in it. I might have felt frustrated that a lack of youth services forced me on to the street, and then that my presence there automatically made me deviant. Then I might have decided not to care about a city that didn't care about me.North Wales police seems to think that criminalising young people will make them go away. But it won't: criminalising young people makes them criminals. And criminals are people who, for whatever reason, feel no sense of responsibility towards the society in which they live. Curfews might, in the short term, prevent young people from taking part in antisocial behaviour. But in the long term, they might end up paying homage to Martin Luther King Jr: "People who have stake in their society, protect that society, but when they don't have it, they unconsciously want to destroy it."• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree