Lindsey Simpson and her two young children were regular visitors to the home of her mother, Jacqueline, in Knowles House Avenue, St Helens.Almost every day, the 25-year-old, her five-year-old daughter, Ellie Lawrenson, and baby, Joshua, would go to the house and spend time with her mother.Today, after a six-day trial, a jury cleared Jacqueline Simpson of manslaughter by gross neglect after Ellie was mauled to death by a pit bull terrier at her grandmother's house on New Year's Day.Ms Simpson, 45, would regularly babysit the children so Lindsey Simpson and her partner, Darren Lawrenson, 31, could go out for the evening.Mr Justice Royce, in his summing up at Liverpool crown court said: "You may have sympathy for the defendant ... who has lost a loved granddaughter and accepts some responsibility for that death."There was no doubt that Ellie loved her grandmother and loved spending time with her.In the early hours of New Year's Day, as Ellie's parents returned to pick up the children at 2.30am, their daughter insisted she wanted to stay overnight with Ms Simpson. They happily left her and took their four-month-old son to Warrington to stay with his paternal grandmother.Just over an hour later, Ellie was still awake in her pyjamas when she was savaged by the illegal pit bull terrier, Reuben, owned by her uncle Kiel Simpson.In an interview before her arrest, Ms Simpson said: "I get flashbacks every day. I feel so guilty. I don't want to be here. I don't feel anything, I'm numb. If by killing myself I could bring my El back then I would."I had my back to them for a moment. I heard its claws going on the floor. Ellie shouted 'Nanny' just once. I looked round and it had grabbed her."I was fighting with it. I got on top of Ellie to try to keep it off. Then it came back and went for her again as I crouched over her. I see it all again every night. I don't go to sleep any more. I live with it every day."The court heard that during the course of New Year's Eve, Ms Simpson drank two bottles of white wine mixed with lemonade and smoked 10 cannabis joints. She admitted regularly smoking the drug for 25 years. She had also taken her prescription of anti-depressants. At the time, she had 140mg of alcohol per 100ml of blood in her system - the legal drink drive limit is 80mg.Ms Simpson suffered serious bite injuries to her right arm and thumb as she tried to fight off the dog, which she had let inside the house.Six weeks before the fatal attack, Reuben had viciously assaulted Lindsey Simpson's sister Kelsey, now 20. She needed hospital treatment to the bite wounds in her leg during the unprovoked attack.In another incident in May 2006, Reuben suddenly attacked a Jack Russell dog called Milo as it was being walked by its owner William Dinsdale near the Simpson's house.At one point, Reuben had the whole of Milo's body in its mouth and was shaking it.Paul Hudson, a police sergeant who was called to the scene after Ellie had been attacked, said the laminate wooden living room floor was "awash with blood as though it had been mopped with blood".Mr Hudson said: "Jacqui was not making much sense and I could smell alcohol on her breath. It was difficult to say if I would describe her as drunk - she clearly had a drink."He said that when he arrived at the scene a police colleague was at the front of the house "clearly distressed". An ambulance paramedic was also so traumatised by what he saw that he had been unable to return to work.Mr Hudson shone his torch at the dog, which was in the garden. "It was frenzied, barking at me, baring its teeth at me. I was worried that if it ran at the window it could easily break the glass and get in to us."He reiterated the need over his radio "for urgent armed assistance". The dog was later shot by a police marksman with a single bullet to the head.Constable Peter Tallack, a specialist dog handler with the Metropolitan police, who examined Reuben, said it was "fantastically well conditioned" and didn't have any fat on its body."It was an athlete; it was in prime condition. It was of immeasurable power and strength," he said.Mr Tallack said pit bulls could hang on to objects for "up to 45 minutes" and the attack on Kelsey Simpson should have been a "huge warning sign to the dog's owners".Ms Simpson said the attack lasted for between 20 and 25 minutes and that she was "wrestling all over the room" with Reuben to make him stop. "It was surreal."She said every time she closed her eyes she "relived" the attack. "I don't want to be here," she said. "Our Ellie was the light of my life and now she has gone. I never thought you could have a broken heart."Ellie suffered 72 separate injuries, primarily to her head and neck. Reuben, at 34kg, was exactly twice the weight of Ellie.Kiel Simpson was jailed for eight weeks for possessing Reuben under the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act. It is understood he got the dog as a four-week-old puppy from a man he met at a gym.The young dog soon gained a reputation locally for being aggressive and for its incessant barking. It would bounce on a large trampoline in the back garden, holding large pieces of wood. A postmortem examination of Reuben's body found there was no evidence of any illegal steroids or other substances that might account for its behaviour.During his hearing at Liverpool magistrates court in April, the defence counsel said Kiel Simpson felt "morally responsible" for Ellie's death and "wanted to crawl into a hole".In 2003, he had been sentenced to 21 months in a young offenders institute for possessing 20kg (44lbs), or £24,000 worth of cannabis with intent to supply, after his car was stopped by police.Although Kiel Simpson was notably absent from the court during Ms Simpson's week-long trial, he was one of the four pallbearers at Ellie's funeral.Ellie's parents had left her in the care of her grandmother, who denied there was a family rule to keep Reuben out of the house when Ellie was there, and said the rule only applied to Joshua.The prosecution argued that Ms Simpson had a duty of care towards Ellie, but she breached that duty and Ellie died as a result. They claimed her conduct was such that a jury would find the case amounted to criminal conduct.The gross negligence claim centred on Ms Simpson being aware the dog had previously bitten Kelsey Simpson, she knew she should not have allowed the dog into the house when Ellie was present, and her blood alcohol levels and cannabis smoking were contributory factors.In an online tribute on a remembrance website, Ellie's parents said: "Ellie's name means light and that's what she was - the light of our lives our perfect daughter."'A popular little girl'Ellie Lawrenson was born on Halloween 2001 at Whiston hospital after a 20-minute labour. By four weeks old she was smiling and at five months she was sitting up. At two, she started at the Busy Bears nursery then moved to Tower College at four, where she was described as a "popular little girl".At five, a school report said Ellie was a "popular member of the class and she tries with her reading".Her parents said she could literally light up a room by being in it. "She was bubbly, always wanting to dance and sing for her Mummy and Daddy. She loved the music of Beyonce and the Kooks."The couple said she was never happier than when she was going to the retail shop Toys R Us with her father, or when she was playing with her Barbies or teddies.They said: "Our beautiful daughter was so sensitive, so caring, so inquisitive and a complete chatterbox and we wouldn't have changed a single thing about her. So many hearts were broken the day she fell asleep. So many tears have been shed for her."In court, Mr Lawrenson called his mother-in-law stupid and said he wanted people to know she was to blame for Ellie's death.