The future of the government's "yob tsar", Louise Casey, remained in doubt last night despite No 10's demonstration of support for the senior civil servant who mocked the official campaign against binge drinking and boasted about how she liked to get "hammered".Her future will be decided by an investigation being carried out by the Home Office's most senior mandarin, Sir John Gieve, ordered after a covert tape recording of her "light-hearted" after-dinner speech at an official conference was leaked to the media. The 45-minute speech, which she said was delivered sober, was punctuated with swear words including six "fuckings". No 10 said Tony Blair had "a high regard" for Ms Casey, 38, who is the director of the Home Office's antisocial behaviour unit and reports directly to the prime minister on official efforts to tackle "yob culture". A Downing Street spokeswoman said Ms Casey would have preferred that her remarks had not been made public but said they had to be seen in the context that they were made, in an after-dinner speech. The tape recording shows that Ms Casey jokingly threatened to "deck" the next Downing Street official who demanded "evidence-based policy", referred to the home secretary as "Charlie boy" and speculated that some ministers might perform better if they "turn up in the morning pissed". Although the tone of the speech was light-hearted it is believed that some Home Office people walked out when she was scathing about the value of official research. The conference, held on June 7 in Stratford-upon-Avon, was organised jointly by the Home Office research department and the Association of Chief Police Officers to discuss "effective local policing - what the research tells us". The disclosure is all the more embarrassing because it follows a leak last weekend of a Downing Street memo in which Mr Blair had ordered Ms Casey to report directly to him as well as Mr Clarke to "prevent a sense of fatalism" creeping into the government's efforts to address the "respect agenda". It was widely seen as a rebuke to the home secretary. Mr Clarke has made it clear that he believes some senior civil servants in the criminal justice system have been too outspoken in their public remarks. "Charles does think ministers, who are the elected politicians, should take responsibility for politics in public," a Home Office source said. It is known that Mr Clarke has been particularly irritated by a call by Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, for the mandatory life sentence for murder to be scrapped and by a radio interview by Martin Narey, the prisons and probation chief who announced last Friday he is leaving the department. The head of the Youth Justice Board, Rod Morgan, was carpeted by the Home Office minister Hazel Blears for criticising the use of the term "yobs" to describe teenage offenders. The inquiry by Sir John Gieve will examine whether Ms Casey's remarks breached the civil service code of conduct. Jonathan Baume, of the First Division Association, which represents senior civil servants said he hoped the Home Office took "a robust approach". He said her reported remarks were a clear breach of the code and brought the civil service and the Home Office into disrepute. "It has to be made extremely clear that this is not acceptable behaviour from a civil servant - you cannot make these kind of remarks or attack ministers." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said it was ironic that the official appointed by Tony Blair to report to him on antisocial behaviour appeared to be an advocate of binge drinking.