The reaction to the publication of crime figures for the quarter up to September 2008 shows once again the noxious effects of the politicisation of law and order over the last 30-odd years. To those of us who remember the highly charged debates of the 1980s there was also a strong sense of deja vu with an added frisson of political cross-dressing. Back then Labour attacked the Tories for fuelling a massive crime wave by the recession and unemployment produced by monetarist economic policies, while Margaret Thatcher and her ministers strove to deny any link between economy and crime. Yesterday it was the Conservative and Liberal Democrat home affairs spokespeople who linked the recession to the rise of recorded burglaries and robberies using knives.In a curious echo of 1980s Tory rhetoric, home secretary Jacqui Smith struggled to deny this: "I don't think there's any justification just because it's a difficult economic time for someone to commit a burglary. I'm not the sort of person who thinks these things are inevitable."How many canards can be crammed into a couple of comments? Whoever claimed that economic difficulties justified burglary? And just who is the sort of person who thinks anything in human affairs (apart from death and – according to Benjamin Franklin at any rate – taxes) is inevitable? This is a smokescreen vainly trying to play down the massive evidence (emanating in part from Home Office researchers) that economic downturns are usually related to increases in recorded crime. The swirling debate overlooks several vital points. First and most obviously little can ever be read off from one quarter's set of statistics. The headlines about fatal stabbings being at a 30-year high, for example, while accurate are a highly misleading way of reporting an increase in the total by one – from 269 to 270. Furthermore, the latest quarterly figures are an exceptionally complex set, with different bits pointing in opposite directions. The main headlines, for example, highlighted the police-recorded rise in burglary of 4% from July to September 2008 compared to the same quarter in 2007, largely because these figures have been falling for the last 15 years. But the British Crime Survey burglary statistics, usually seen (for all their limitations) as a more reliable indicator of trends, remained stable. Overall, the media reporting, continuing a tradition established over the last 30 years, accentuated the negative, stressing the bad news in the figures. Few readers or viewers would have gathered that the overall level of crime recorded by the police (a melange of rather unreliable figures of course) fell by 3%, and that the BCS total was stable.The most disturbing aspect of the political and media discussion of the crime figures is the continuing failure to see the picture for the pixels. The economic collapse of the last 18 months has in most policy areas stimulated discussion of how the overall neo-liberal trajectory of political economy and culture over the last 30 years has had pernicious effects way beyond the financial. But criminal justice policy remains ghettoised within its own narrow law and order discourse. Government and opposition focus only on crime prevention, policing and punishment as the relevant policy responses. But a host of evidence shows that the economic, political, social, and cultural transformation engendered by neo-liberalism over the last three decades has stoked increasing propensity to criminality (assembled in my book on Law and Order, and Steve Hall, Simon Winlow and Craig Ancrum's Criminal Identities and Consumer Culture, for example). Improved crime control tactics barely kept the lid down on crime levels during the now-departed economic boom. The crash we are facing is likely to unleash increasing crime of all kinds, property and personal. The latest crime statistics offer only some rather tentative harbingers of this gathering storm.