The relaxation of Britain's drinking laws appears not to have prompted the surge in alcohol-fuelled violence that many had predicted. Figures to be released tomorrow by the Department for Culture and the Home Office show that serious violent crime, including stabbings, fell by 21% following the introduction of longer opening hours.The statistics cover the last six weeks of 2005 and areas where police participated in a crackdown on drinking. They also show that overall violent crime fell by 11%. In the comparable period in 2004, a similar crackdown, backed up by fewer new laws, saw more serious violent crime fall by 8% and all crime by 5%.The culture minister, James Purnell, said: "We have always said the overall effect of the licensing act would not be to fuel violence. It is early days, but we will monitor the situation closely and keep the act under review."The new, more relaxed drinking laws came into force in late November, leaving some ministers privately worried that Christmas might see an explosion in violence. The government was also criticised for running a "respect" agenda at the same time as allowing the licensing laws to be relaxed.But it reinforced the legislative change by pledging £2.5m to boost a range of specialist operations, including issuing fixed penalty notices for alcohol related disorder, cracking down on those who sell alcohol to anyone under the age of 18, using CCTV footage to step in early to stop incidents escalating, and closing premises using existing and tough new powers in the Licensing Act 2003. The campaign covered 43 police forces across England and Wales.Ministers believe that violence has fallen partly because the police have been using their new powers to impose fines for excessive drinking and to intervene early to nip potential violence in the bud, and partly by closing troublesome clubs and pubs.It is not clear whether the staggering of closing times has helped the police by dispersing the point at which drinkers pour on to the street, or whether the more relaxed closing times have meant customers have changed their drinking habits and are no longer lining up drink after drink at the end of the night.Many newspapers had predicted that the licensing act would prove to be a huge government own goal, forcing the prime minister to withdraw the act.In a leader published a few days before the laws were relaxed, the Daily Mail warned: "We can expect worse when 24-hour drinking comes in. Police fear mayhem on the streets. Judges warn of more rapes and other violent crimes. Law-abiding communities are braced for more misery. And a government that never listens or learns and never thinks things through adds insult to injury, with a 'crackdown' to stave off a disaster of its own making."