Politicians who find themselves in controversies as difficult as the stalled deportation of Learco Chindamo might usefully remember Denis Healey's First Law of Holes: when in one, stop digging.After Philip Lawrence's widow, Frances's heartbreaking interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Jack Straw, the justice minister, offered a typically pragmatic defence of the government's position. He rejected suggestions that the legal stumbling block to the killer's deportation had been article 8 of the European convention on human rights (ECHR) which Britain signed when he was a toddler.It did not deter David Cameron or the shadow home secretary, David Davis, from taking their cue from overnight newspapers that had rushed to denounce the ECHR's baby brother, Labour's 1998 Human Rights Act. It incorporates the convention into UK domestic law - and gets unfairly blamed during almost as many tabloid tirades as the Health and Safety Executive.Mr Cameron promises to repeal the act, not that this would do much except increase lawyers' Eurostar bills to Strasbourg unless he withdraws Britain from the convention. The law was introduced in the UK precisely to avoid long-winded and costly challenges in the European court.More subtly, Mr Davis spotted Mr Straw "wriggling" because it was the EU citizens directive, 2004/38, as implemented by the Immigration (EEA) Regulations 2006 which required the asylum and immigration tribunal to allow Mr Chindamo to stay in Britain after he becomes eligible for parole next year.The Home Office bid to send him "home" to Italy failed on grounds of public policy, public security or public health. If it hadn't it would have done so under article 8, the tribunal concluded after examining overwhelming evidence that Chindamo's hopes of a normal life lie with his family here. Mrs Lawrence appears torn between her intellectual grasp of that and her feeling that, somehow, her own family's human rights have been discounted.Ministers promises to appeal against the decision must hold slim prospects of winning. The 2004/38 directive, negotiated when Mr Straw was foreign secretary, raises still higher the bar whereby an EU national or family member can be "expelled" to their country of birth or nationality.For anyone who has lived and worked in Britain, for 10 years, it is virtually impossible except on serious national security grounds, an experienced immigration lawyer said last night. It is different for non-EU nationals, though the judiciary's protection of the Belmarsh detainees from possible torture if repatriated put clear limits on that too. So much for throwing out those foreign prisoners. Labour failed to create the promised human rights commission which would explain all this. No wonder many voters feel frustrated and angry.