A teacher told a court yesterday how he was conned into handing over £390,000 to a bogus policeman who convinced him and two friends to go on the run because the IRA was planning to kill them.John Atkinson, 34, told Blackfriars crown court that he had been "flattered" to learn he had been chosen by Robert Hendy-Freegard, whom he believed to be an undercover Special Branch officer, to help "crack" a terrorist cell apparently operating at Harper Adams agricultural college in Newport, Shropshire, where the witness was in his final year as a student. Giving evidence from behind a screen, Mr Atkinson said that in 1992, Hendy-Freegard - a barman at a nearby pub - had taken him aside and claimed he was not who he appeared to be. The jury was told he then referred to a student who had "gone to Ireland" and had "strangely" not come back, before adding: "There is obviously an IRA cell here and we know about it ... we the police." Mr Atkinson, who is now teaching abroad, told the court he went away "scared and paranoid". Within a week Hendy-Freegard said he wanted to recruit him. Mr Atkinson said he stopped going to college and got a job behind the bar while he waited for "proper police training". Meanwhile, Hendy-Freegard allegedly took steps to toughen him up by teaching him not to react when he was thumped in the face. "I just stood there and took it like an idiot. He must have laughed himself to sleep," the jury heard. Mr Atkinson said he became isolated except for two friends, Sarah Smith and Maria Hendy, who had no idea what he was apparently involved in. One day, Hendy-Freegard told him the terrorists were on to him and that through association his two friends were also in mortal danger and that all of them had to "get away". To avoid making his friends suspicious, Mr Atkinson told them he had terminal cancer and wanted them to go along on a final holiday. Over the next fortnight they visited Fishguard, Torquay, Newcastle, and the Midlands. Eventually, the women were told the story about the IRA. Mr Atkinson said that they had to empty their bank accounts and give the cash to Hendy-Freegard, supposedly to avoid being traced by the IRA. Hendy-Freegard is alleged to have conned more than £650,000 out of several victims. He denies four counts of kidnapping by "force or fraud", eight counts of theft, five of obtaining money by deception, two assaults and two threats to kill.The case continues.