Public attitudes to children and crime have never been less sympathetic and more punitive. Our country's young, who should be nurtured and, crucially, allowed to make mistakes as they grow up, increasingly find themselves criminalised by antisocial behaviour legislation and ever-tougher sentencing. But rather than find out the roots of their antisocial behaviour and tackle them directly, the government has, all too often, reached for knee-jerk legislation of punishment and supposed deterrence, over the more considered approach that such complex and serious issues deserve.Tackling the issues of children and crime requires a reboot of government thinking and a willingness to put real commitment behind new ideas. The first step is strikingly simple, but one we have lost sight of - in a country where, in comparison to the United Nations recommended age range of 14-16 years, children are considered fully culpable for criminal offences at the age of just 10 years.That first step is to recognise that all children are children first and foremost. Children who commit crimes do not lose their child status overnight, although by treating them as unsympathetic, quasi-adults we ensure that their childhood begins to warp and derail. The results are never pretty, as the higher-than-average re-conviction rates for children who leave custody demonstrate, with 68.6% reconvicted within one year - rising to 82% for boys aged 15-18 years, and a staggering 96% for those with more than seven convictions.A second step is to recognise that a significant experience in many children's lives is one of victimisation, in some form or other. The Howard League for Penal Reform has published a survey of over 3,000 children's experiences of crime. Some 95% of our respondents, aged between 10 and 15, told us that they were victims of crime. A majority of children had experienced bullying or assaults. Many children told us that they had been victims of theft, with almost half reporting property stolen from them at school.The Howard League for Penal Reform's surveys revealed that these crimes are often not reported, as children think adults will not listen to them or the crime will be viewed as too small to bother with. The majority of incidents of victimisation children described to us were indeed low-level crimes taking place in schools and playgrounds. To children however, in a child-sized world, these child-sized crimes are serious enough and do matter. It is also ironic that schools, the very institutions where children should feel safest, are where children are most commonly victimised.In particular, we are concerned that adults do not fully understand how to respond to these incidents of victimisation among children - and tend to take little action. The danger here is that adults become concerned only when incidents become more serious, or break out from being child-on-child to child-on-adult.As an example, take knife crime. Police analysis of knife crime statistics suggests that children carry knives more for street credibility and protection than with the idea of committing a crime in mind. It is the child's experience as a victim that all too often informs their status as a potential offender.The government approach in recent years has been an attempt to force a change in children's behaviour from the top down through law enforcement and the use of custody, such as the creation of a four-year maximum jail sentence for carrying a knife.But children are by definition immature. Those children who are likely to commit crimes are arguably the most immature of all. Children who carry knives are unlikely to understand consequences and fear the immediate threat of violence and ridicule among their peers far more than the distant threat of court sentencing and custody.The Howard League for Penal Reform believes that better solutions on dealing with child victimisation and crime can be found in expanding and developing conflict resolution and mediation-based techniques into educational programmes for schools. This will help shift the issue of problematic behaviour from punishment to problem solving. Raising awareness of the criminal justice process will help children understand the consequences of certain actions. All these techniques will help with listening to children talk about their own experiences as victims, help children listen to other children, raise self-esteem and ultimately, help all involved to resolve conflicts peacefully by making informed choices about their own actions and rejecting behaviour harmful to themselves and others."Children are the future", we often hear - which, in a sense, means that "children are not the present". We should not judge them by our own standards, because those standards simply do not apply - children would not be children otherwise. Our young people, particularly those in trouble with the law, need time to develop, and all the help that we can give them. If we do not start recognising this, then society will pay the price with more crime, more re-offending, more victims, more suffering.