A millionaire in severe financial difficulties told friends of his suicidal intent and fears that his wife and daughter would not cope if they were forced to downgrade their lifestyles, an inquest heard yesterday.At Shrewsbury magistrates court, the inquest into the deaths of Christopher Foster, 50, his wife Jill, 49, and daughter Kirstie, 15, was told that he became troubled by his business difficulties. Police believe Foster shot his wife and teenage daughter at their £1.2m mansion in Maesbrook, Shropshire, before setting fire to the property and taking his own life last August.In the months before his death, Foster told a friend that the liquidators "would not get his stuff" and "they would have to carry me out of the house in a box". The inquest heard he had assets of £3.1m but debts of £4.4m, including three mortgages on the house.The hearing was told that Foster's body was found in the rubble of the burnt mansion lying on top of his wife's body. His daughter's body was found nearby. Three horses and four dogs were also found shot dead. Police recovered the charred remains of a .22 rifle from the house.Alexander Kolar, a Home Office pathologist, said Jill Foster and her daughter had gunshot wounds to the back of their heads. Christopher Foster died of smoke inhalation and, crucially, had no gunshot injury.Mark Bassett, a business associate who knew Foster for 16 years, said that during successful times, he had owned expensive cars including Ferraris, Porsches, a Bentley and a Range Rover. However, Foster's company also encountered difficulties and it went into receivership in 1997. Foster immediately formed a new company that went from strength to strength for a decade before going into administration.After a court hearing in Birmingham in October 2007, Bassett said Foster told him his wife and daughter had "become accustomed to a certain standard of life and quality of life. It was his opinion they would not be able to cope if they needed to take a few backward steps", he told the inquest.Foster told him: "Jesus, they are not having my stuff. I would top myself before that. They will carry me out of the house in a box."Bassett said his friend had also suggested "wandering down to the woods [near his home] and taking a gun with him". He had taken Foster's suicidal threats "with a pinch of salt".Peter Grkinic, a director of Foster's former company Ulva, said he and his partner befriended the Fosters at a bar in Antigua in 1991. In a rather unfortunate analogy, he said: "We got on like a house on fire and within days I asked him to be the best man at my wedding." He said the friendship blossomed for 17 years and they spent family holidays together.However, during Christmas 2007, Foster asked Grkinic and his family not to spend new year with them as it would have been impossible to avoid talking about work. He said Foster's wife Jill had been unaware of the financial difficulties.Grkinic told police that he remembered a telephone conversation in which Foster said one of the only options left was to disappear and "something like do myself in". He told him not to be so idiotic. Foster asked him to promise to look after his wife and daughter.Grkinic sent him a text message on 11 August last year asking how he was. Foster replied: "Thanks for your text. Not good at all. Things coming to a head for me. Thanks very much for asking."Grkinic said he knew it was only a matter of time before Foster was made bankrupt. "I think he would have been vindictive enough or anti-liquidator enough to have taken the view that if I can't have it, they are not going to have it either."Foster's doctor, William Grech, said he saw him in March 2008 for minor joint pains. During the consultation, he revealed he was not sleeping and intermittently suicidal due to business difficulties. Grech said he suggested counselling, which he declined, and he prescribed an anti-depressive sedative.A week later, Foster said he still felt occasionally suicidal and Grech said he tried to encourage him to speak with his wife. The GP saw him for a final time but said he appeared rational and was making plans for the future and did not express an intention to harm anyone else.The hearing was told Foster had reported to police that a former accountant was blackmailing him over a joint property deal in Cyprus. Two defendants were found not guilty following a trial in November 2006 at Shrewsbury crown court.The inquest is expected to end today.