A prominent gay rights campaigner has accused Scotland Yard of failing for over a year to connect the deaths of four young gay men who were drugged and murdered before their bodies were dumped in and around a churchyard in east London.Peter Tatchell said the force was told 10 months ago about concerns within the gay community over a possible serial killer on the loose – but the police did not appear to have formally linked the deaths until a fourth man was found dead in similar circumstances last month.  Gay rights activist Peter Tatchell. Photograph: Johnny Green/PA WireTatchell said he was contacted last December by a friend of one of the victims who was “disturbed” that he had not heard back from police despite raising concerns that the deaths may be linked.“To have three young men found dead in public places in mysterious, unexplained circumstances – all within a mile of each other and within the space of three months – should have triggered alarm bells,” Tatchell said.Stephen Port, a 40-year-old chef, was charged on Sunday with the four murders and is due to stand trial in April next year.Stephen Port appears in court over murder and poisoning of four men Fashion student Anthony Walgate, 23, was found dead on Cooke Street in Barking on 19 June 2014.Two months later, on 28 August, the body of 22-year-old Gabriel Kovari was discovered close to a churchyard nearby. On 20 September last year, the body of Daniel Whitworth, 21, was found in the same spot.A year later, on 14 September 2015, 21-year-old Jack Taylor was found dead in Barking Abbey ruins. All four bodies were found within a 300-metre radius.Police on Wednesday issued a public appeal for information about the murders, urging people to contact detectives directly or via the anti-LGBT hate crime charity Galop.However, Tatchell said the public appeal was “a year too late”. He added: “Four young men are dead. This appeal should have been made in June and August last year after the first two deaths. If the police had done that, some of these men might still be alive.“It is appalling that the police did not alert the gay community last year that a serial killer could be on the loose.”He said the investigation “fell far short of thorough and robust” and said there needed to be a full inquiry into why the police “failed to connect the dots and seek the help of the gay community”.Tatchell said: “Gabriel Kovari’s friend told me that he contacted the police late last year to express his concern about Gabriel’s death, the possibility that it was murder and that the first three deaths might be linked. The police seemed to suggest that they were not murders and not linked.”Tatchell said that after initial contact with the police, the friend of Kovari heard nothing back from them. He also said that Kovari’s friend raised his concerns at the inquest into Gabriel’s death.Tatchell added: “He said the coroner disregarded his evidence as hearsay. He told me that he did not have confidence in the police handling of the killings from late 2014. He felt the police were not taking the odd, unexplained deaths seriously.”Scotland Yard declined to comment. On Monday the force referred itself to the Independent Police Complaints Commission over “potential vulnerabilities” in its response to the four deaths.Port has been charged with poisoning the four men with the party drug GHB between June 2014 and September this year after meeting them online.He is accused of having sex with the men while they were unconscious and then dumping their bodies in and around a churchyard in Barking, east London.Barking and Dagenham police had initially ruled out a connection between the four deaths, but later referred the cases to Scotland Yard’s homicide unit. The force urged anyone with information to contact the police or Galop.DCI Tim Duffield said: “We are keen to trace anyone who may have information in connection with these incidents.“I would encourage anyone with information to come forward, no matter how insignificant you may think it is. If you have any reservations about speaking to the police, please rest assured that your call will be treated in the strictest confidence.”Anyone with information is asked to contact the police incident room on 020 8358 0400 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111. The charity Galop is available via its Shoutline on 020 7704 2040.