The chief constable of Nottinghamshire constabulary, Steve Green, warned last week that his force was being overwhelmed by violent crime and could not cope. "Among the principal causes of the crisis were government reforms that compelled him to use officers for clerical tasks instead of frontline duties," reported the Sunday Telegraph, which carried an interview with Mr Green. "The situation was so bad that he was preparing to 'farm out' murder investigations to other police forces because his own detectives did not have to time tackle them," said the paper."With 34 murders in three years - 17 drug-gang-related with most of the killers still free - the local force is overwhelmed and underwhelming," wrote Chris Buckland in the  News of the World. His investigation from the "gun capital of Britain" should send a shiver down Tony Blair's spine, he added, because "where Nottingham leads, Britain seems destined to follow."Nottingham was "an exception and not the rule", countered the  Times, but it had "become the centre of a furious turf war between drugs dealers that has earned it the unwanted nickname of 'Assassination City'". In the  Nottingham Evening Post, the editor, Graham Glen, attacked those "national media vultures who care not for this great city but swoop in - and quickly out again - with ill-founded phrases like 'Assassination City'." What was wrong with the chief constable seeking help? "In doing so, he uses an established protocol geared to deliver resources to where the need is greatest. Good sense surely." Mr Green was in an impossible situation, agreed the  Daily Mail, "struggling to deal with the most serious crimes on his patch but with his hands tied by Whitehall's rules and targets". "What matters most is that the police should have the resources to prevent crime and catch criminals. In Nottinghamshire, they clearly don't," agreed the  Daily Mirror. At least help was on the way through the forthcoming Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), said the Times. The paper urged that the new agency be developed into a British version of the FBI as swiftly as possible: "The law of the gun is the grim alternative."