Detectives probing an alleged prostitution and brothel racket recently arrested an unnamed female police constable based in Byker, Newcastle. A male colleague of hers at the same station is also charged, along with a civilian man, as an accessory to prostitution and grievous bodily harm, and of procuring women to leave their homes to frequent a brothel.Shocking as these allegations will be to many, it will come as no surprise to any of the thousands of women working as prostitutes in Britain today. Jenny, a former prostitute who worked both on the streets and in brothels told me that many of her customers were serving police officers. "They would threaten to arrest me unless I gave them a freebie. Often they would come into the sauna, or pick me up in the street and take me to their squad car. I knew it was pointless complaining, and so did they, so I just had to put up with it. Most of the girls I worked with had similar experiences."The police service, and wider society, has long had an ambiguous relationship with prostitution and the sex industry. Police officers accepting "sexual favours" in return for "turning a blind eye" to the activities of individual prostitutes and brothel owners is seen as unimportant compared with, say, accepting money from drug dealers. Prostitutes are seen by much of society as their own worst enemies - and to blame for any abuse that they suffer. We only have to compare media coverage of the so-called bin-bag murders and the murder of the two young women in Birmingham to realise how little sympathy the former were afforded. In some tabloid reports, the three women's names were not even given; they were simply referred to as "vice girls", "prostitutes" or "hookers". It is as if as soon as the news came out about who these women were, we stopped looking for explanations of why they had been brutally murdered. NHI ("No Human Involved") was a common phrase used until recently by some police officers to describe a prostitute murder by a pimp or punter. We need to think about how we, as a society, can humanise these women in the eyes of the public. Prostitution is not a "victimless crime", highlighted by the shocking levels of sexual violence which the women suffer on a daily basis.Have we come to see prostitution as harmless, and such an inevitability that we don't care if police officers and social workers pop into the local brothel or kerb-crawl King's Cross on their way into their offices to deal with the fallout of this industry? Men's right to use prostitutes is embedded in our culture - we call it a "choice" and, wrongly, the "oldest profession". There is a prevailing attitude that men "have needs" that their regular partners cannot fulfil, and that prostitution doesn't hurt anyone involved. So what are police doing to control the sex industry? Liz Kelly and Linda Regan's report for the Home Office, Stopping Traffic, which detailed the trafficking of women for sexual exploitation into the UK and involved a national survey of the 43 police forces in England and Wales, found that only one police area actively monitored the off-street sex industry, an obvious case of "what the eye does not see the heart does not grieve over". Why is it that policing prostitution is such a low priority, even though the sex industry has proven links to organised crime, homicide, drugs and guns? There are clear links between the sex industry and other forms of criminality, as has been shown by those researching the consequences of street prostitution, such as Roger Mathews in a recent London-based study. We seem to care so little about the women involved, even though the likelihood is that many will have suffered abuse in childhood, be under the control of a pimp, be addicted to hard drugs and suffering from health problems. Police rarely arrest pimps or brothel owners, yet regularly pick up prostitutes on soliciting charges. Legalising prostitution would not stamp out police corruption. Reports from Australia, where brothel prostitution is legal, suggest that the illegal layer of the sex industry still flourishes, as do its links with organised crime. Nor will legalisation help women escape. There are examples of effective social and policing interventions on prostitution that we should look at more closely. Glasgow city council and the King's Cross development initiative warn their employees that they will face disciplinary proceedings if they are found using prostitutes. In Sweden, where demand not supply is seen as the problem, anyone attempting to buy sex will be prosecuted, and those attempting to sell will be assisted to leave the industry. The only sensible way to deal with this abuse of women's human rights is to decriminalise the women, put government funding into helping women leave prostitution, and for police to start treating the issue as a serious crime. One prostitute dies in the UK every month. The police, in being so complacent, are effectively saying that some women's lives are worth more than others. · Julie Bindel is a researcher at the child and women abuse studies unit, University of North London j.bindel@unl.ac.uk