Detectives hunting for the escaped killer Shaun Walmsley have offered £20,000 of his own money as a reward for information leading to his capture.Walmsley, 38, has been on the run for nearly four weeks after being sprung from custody by armed men outside a hospital in Liverpool last month.Merseyside police said the £20,000 was seized from the prisoner after his conviction for the murder of Anthony Duffy in May 2014.DS Natalie Perischine said: “We have had a really good response from members of the public around the country following our appeals, but we still need that crucial information about his present whereabouts.“We have invested significant resources in trying to trace Walmsley to no avail, and we don’t think it is right that public money is being used in this way.”A high-level investigation is ongoing into the ambush as Walmsley was getting into a minicab with three prison guards outside Aintree hospital at 3.05pm on 21 February.The prison guards were threatened with a gun and a knife by Walmsley’s accomplices who fled with the prisoner in a gold Volvo. The car was later recovered on a residential street near the hospital.Walmsley, a drug dealer who ran a nationwide crime network, is serving a life sentence with a minimum of 30 years at HMP Liverpool for the murder in May 2014 of Duffy, who was lured to a street near Aintree racecourse and repeatedly stabbed.Perischine said: “Walmsley and those that released him had put in a considerable amount of planning to execute his escape and it is only right that we use Walmsley’s own money to encourage people to tell us where he is. “It’s a month since Shaun Walmsley escaped from prison custody at Aintree hospital and we are as determined now as we were then to find him and put him back behind bars.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   CCTV image of Shaun Walmsley at Aintree hospital on the day of his escape. Photograph: Merseyside police/PATen days ago detectives released a CCTV image that showed how Walmsley’s appearance had changed considerably since a police mugshot taken two years ago. The image shows that Walmsley’s face is more gaunt and he has lost a considerable amount of weight.Walmsley is described as white, 6ft and of slim build with dark brown hair and blue eyes. He was last seen wearing dark trousers and a dark jacket. The first man who helped him escape, who was believed to be armed with a gun, is described as having his face covered. He was wearing white shoes, grey tracksuit bottoms with a stripe down each side, a grey hoodie and a dark coat. The second man, who was believed to be armed with a knife, is described as having his face covered. He was wearing a green coat, dark Nike trainers and grey tracksuit bottoms. Detectives are advising the public not to approach Walmsley if they see him, as he could be in the company of the others who helped him escape and they are believed to be armed. Walmsley himself is also described as dangerous. Four men who were arrested in connection with Walmsley’s escape were released pending further enquiries on 4 March.