Two men have been arrested on suspicion of the murder of a severely disabled man who apparently vanished with his mother at the weekend, police revealed last night. Heather Wardle, 39, was found with a ligature around her neck at the base of a tree on Monday evening, five minutes' walk from the family home in Redditch, Worcestershire. It is believed the body of her son, James Hughes, who is 22 but has the mental age of a toddler and cannot fend for himself, was found at the family home or at an address very close to it. Superintendent Jane Horwood, of West Mercia police, said: "Two men have been arrested on suspicion of the murder of James Hughes and are currently helping police with their inquiries at Redditch and Kidderminster police stations." She would not say who had been arrested, but she confirmed the body was found in the Church Hill neighbourhood of Redditch, and the "immediate area" had been cordoned off. Wardle lived with Hughes, her partner Brian Kirby, 36, and three other sons, aged six, eight and 18, in Church Hill. Last night a police forensic tent was erected outside the house. Hughes's natural father, Paul Hughes, a company director, also lives in Redditch.A postmortem examination was under way to establish the cause of death, and arrangements were being made to formally identify the body. Detectives had appeared to be struggling to piece together Wardle's last movements. They said they had been told she left the family home on Friday evening saying she was going to visit a friend. Her body was found in undergrowth on Monday evening by a group of teenagers. It is thought she took her own life.Police had been unable to confirm whether Hughes was with her when she left - and had not been able to pin down a last sighting of him. Hughes had a mental age of 18 months. He could not communicate, or walk very far, or feed himself and did not usually respond to his name. He needed medication for epilepsy. Sources close to the investigation said the family had dispensed with social services support several months before Hughes vanished and neighbours said they had not seen him for several weeks, "perhaps even a couple of months". Neighbours also said Wardle had recently appeared distracted, talking to herself. At a police press conference on Tuesday officers said that, as Hughes's main carer, she looked after him 24 hours a day, seven days a week, putting a "tremendous strain" on her. A spokesman for Worcestershire social services would only say that Hughes was "eligible" for help. Earlier yesterday Kirby, 36, had paid tribute to a "brilliant mother" who doted on her children. "Her priorities were the family and the house. She was an excellent mother and really lovely. She was great, she was my star." Kirby said he and the children were devastated by her death. Because of her experiences with Hughes, Wardle had been thinking of a career as a respite care worker, he said. They had had "problems" in recent months.