Members of an international car theft gang which stole £4.5m-worth of luxury vehicles were jailed for a total of 16 years yesterday.The 10-strong gang snatched at least 300 vehicles, swapping numberplates with cars from Belgium at a small garage in south-east London before selling them on to unsuspecting buyers.The cars included top-of-the-range Ferraris, BMWs, Mercedes and Porsches, in some cases valued at more than £100,000 each.At Southwark crown court, Judge John Price said smashing the network had been "extraordinarily complicated" and required thousands of hours of police work."It was a very substantial conspiracy; not all of the conspirators are in the dock. Some of the controlling forces may have escaped or run away. But they [the police] destroyed an enormous organisation that was causing distress and financial loss to innocent people."The court heard that the gang often used violence during the thefts. In one instance, a mother had to plead with the thieves to let her grab her child out of the back of the car before they drove off in it.In another theft, a man who had just pulled up outside his house was forced at gunpoint out of his car and a shot was let off by the attackers.Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Dark, head of the Metropolitan police's stolen vehicle unit, said after the hearing that the investigation was the biggest inquiry undertaken by Scotland Yard's stolen vehicle unit in a decade."This was a particularly ruthless organised criminal network," he said. "The upper echelon of the network directed others to engage in excessive violence through robberies or burglaries with no regard for the trauma and anguish caused to their victims."Their only concern was their reckless pursuit in obtaining their high-value, ill-gained commodities, which in this case were vehicles."After registering the cars in the UK using bogus plates, the gang sold them on through second-hand dealerships, auto trade magazines, or the internet. The criminals also paid bribes to a DVLA official to ensure the newly registered cars were not investigated.But the court heard that insurers would eventually catch up with the stolen cars and repossess them, leaving the people who had bought them out of pocket.Police were first alerted to the conspiracy after they noticed the large number of cars from Belgium being registered in the UK and traced them to the garage in south-east London.They placed it under surveillance, filming stolen cars being dropped off and large amounts of cash being handed over to known thieves.Eight members of the gang were sentenced to a total of 16 years. Two others were given community sentences.The gang's leader, car-obsessed Robert Taylor, 36, from Peckham, received two and a half years, having already served 20 months for a linked offence. The "master mechanic", Omar Abbas, 36, from New Cross, received five years.To Abbas, the judge said: "You were at the heart of this conspiracy. There may have been other workshops run by those higher up the chain, but you worked on a regular basis ringing these vehicles and changing their identities. You would use your considerable skills to change their identity. Without you and people like you, the conspiracy wouldn't have worked."Outside court, DC Ian Haywood, who led the investigation, said: "This was the most sophisticated car theft network I've ever seen."