This is the first and probably the only time I'll ever write this sentence, so make the most of it: David Cameron is right. He's right when he talks about Broken Britain, and he was right during the recent Glasgow East byelection when he said of social breakdown:The thread that links it all together passes, yes, through family breakdown, welfare dependency, debt, drugs, poverty, poor policing, inadequate housing, and failing schools, but it is a thread that goes deeper, as we see a society that is in danger of losing its sense of personal responsibility, social responsibility, common decency and, yes, even public morality.A few months ago I might have disagreed with him; I might have argued that he was quite simply scaremongering, that the country is at heart, just as Gordon Brown has said, basically "decent and compassionate". But that was before this week. A week when three separate events showed the depths to which this society has finally sunk.It all kicked off on Friday, when Simon Cramer and a group of his employees took justice into their own hands after they discovered that one of their colleagues had been stealing from the firm. Rather than do what any normal people would do and report their suspicions to the police, the gang of vigilantes instead lay in wait for their prey, wrestled Mark Gilbert to the floor, then tied his hands behind his back and paraded him through a nearby town with a cardboard sign around his neck reading "Thief". They then frogmarched him to the local police station, where unsurprisingly they were all promptly arrested: Cramer and his gang now face charges of assault and false imprisonment. This is all very amusing for some I'm sure, but this is 2008 not the middle ages, and unless I'm much mistaken we did away with the village stocks and other such forms of public humiliation several centuries ago. It's worrying that some people appear to want to see a revival of those times.But things got worse on Saturday, when 17-year-old Shaun Dykes climbed on to the roof of the Westfield shopping centre in Derby and threatened to throw himself off. For three hours afterwards trained negotiators tried to talk him down, but their efforts were destroyed when people in the crowd that had gathered below decided to egg him on. Amid cries of "Go on, jump!" and "how far can you bounce?" Shaun hurtled the 60 feet to his death. Then, as if their callous indifference to this young man's life wasn't enough, members of the baying mob rushed forwards and took pictures of his broken body with their mobile phones.Finally, in the early hours of Sunday morning, Frank McGarahan came to the aid of a homeless man and his partner who were being set upon by a gang in Norwich city centre. The 45-year-old father of two, who was in Norwich for a family christening, was beaten to death for daring to intervene. Another have-a-go hero who has lost his life for choosing to be a Good Samaritan. Is it any wonder that so many people these days would prefer to walk by rather than stop to help out others?Maybe I'm reading too much into all this: maybe this was just a typical week in 21st-century Britain, and things like this go on all the time, up and down the country, and always have done. After all, the government and the latest British crime survey tell us that crime in the UK, and that includes violent crime, is actually decreasing, and that contrary to the media hype and the Tory politicians' spin on things, our fear of crime has also reduced. But in all honesty, that's not how it feels to me: and it's not how it feels to plenty of other citizens of this rapidly sinking ship. I haven't been gripped by rightwing hysteria, and I'm not going to hark back to some idea of the halcyon days of my youth when spinsters cycled to evensong and the warm summer evenings rang with the sound of leather on willow. That's not my history: it's not a past that I remember. But neither do I remember a time like this, when innocent people got beaten to death in the streets of our cities for trying to do their bit for society, or when distraught children were encouraged to leap to their deaths by braying hordes of onlookers. I'd go even further than Cameron on this one, we're not in danger of losing our sense of common decency and public morality, we appear to have lost it already.Arguing about who or what is responsible for this moral decline gets us nowhere. Whether it's Thatcher's fault, or whether it's due to the failure of successive Labour governments to tackle the underlying causes of poverty, social exclusion and crime is immaterial. What matters is what's going to be done about it, and so far neither of the two main parties has managed to come up with any definitive proposals to address the problem. But they need to, and soon: before any more innocent lives are lost, and before this society descends any further into the barbarism of our ancestors.