The stories of two men dominate the media. Both have recently emerged from the criminal justice system. Both are portrayed as wronged heroes by the tabloids paying them handsomely (and, in one case, controversially) for their accounts. These facts apart, there seems at first little to connect John Leslie and Tony Martin. Mr Leslie, whose indecent assault case collapsed last week, had his private life raked over following the claim by the TV presenter Ulrika Jonsson that she had been raped by an unnamed man. Mr Martin, a Norfolk farmer, left jail after serving two-thirds of his manslaughter sentence for shooting a teenage burglar, Fred Barras, in the back.What unites two very different men is their role as Trojan horses for campaigners demanding changes in the law. Mr Leslie's case has brought calls for rape defendants to be granted the same anonymity as their alleged victims. But that measure was dropped in 1988 because it hampered justice and let guilty men go free. We agree with the Lord Chief Justice that trial by media is abhorrent. But the problem lies less with the existing law than with the eagerness of the media, often in collusion with their 'police sources', to leak and tarnish the names of those who may never even face charges. Mr Martin's story raises different issues. It should, his advocates say, serve to toughen the law of self-defence, which currently allows use of reasonable force. Any change, though, could lead to vigilante justice on the part of home-owners. It is the police who deal with criminals, not the civilian. It should remain so. Separately, the Home Secretary has promised to amend the Criminal Justice Bill to stop intruders injured by householders suing their assailants. This is an issue worth exploring. It is easy to see why victims of crime and the public at large find it difficult to fathom how a criminal has the right to take such legal action. Although everyone - burglar or vicar - has rights, maybe it is time to limit the possible courses of action for the former. Such a move would restore public trust in a criminal justice system badly in need of it.