Men accused of rape will no longer be able to get off by arguing that they honestly believed a woman was consenting, however unreasonable that belief might have been.The government has listened to women's organisations, which have campaigned for years for reform of the "honest belief" defence. The defence has been available since 1975, when the House of Lords ruled in the case of Morgan v the director of public prosecutions that a man's genuine belief that the woman was consenting was a defence to a rape charge, even if the belief was unreasonable in the circumstances. Morgan had invited three strangers to have sex with his wife, telling them she liked to struggle to get "turned on." The men were convicted but appealed, eventually to the House of Lords. The convictions were upheld but the Lords ruled by a three-two majority that there could be no rape conviction if a man honestly believed a woman had given her consent, and that his belief did not have to be reasonable. The "honest belief" defence was one of the most contentious issues tackled by the interdepartmental working party, which recommended far-reaching changes to sex offences law in July 2000. To the disappointment of many, it decided to keep Morgan while trying to fetter "inappropriate use of honest belief". A man would not be able to claim honest belief if he had made himself drunk, failed to take all reasonable steps to ascertain that the woman was freely agreeing, or was reckless as to whether she was consenting. More than half of those responding to the recommendations, however, wanted to scrap Morgan altogether, and the government has listened to their voices. The white paper proposes that "where the prosecution can prove that there is reasonable room for uncertainty about the complainant's consent and that the defendant did not take reasonable action in the circumstances to ensure that the complainant was willing to take part in the sexual acts", rape will be proved. This introduces a new test of reasonableness, to be judged by what an objective third party would think in the circumstances. In deciding whether the defendant acted reasonably, the jury would have to take into account the actions of both parties, the circumstances in which they placed themselves, and the level of responsibility exercised by both. The government hopes to make the issue clear by including in the statute a non-exhaustive list of circumstances in which consent is presumed to be absent: where the victim was subjected to force or fear of force; threatened or put in fear of serious harm to herself or another person; abducted or unlawfully detained; unconscious; unable to communicate consent because of physical disability; or had agreement given by a third party. The new law would make it clear that children under 13 were incapable of giving consent to any sexual activity, and any sexual activity with someone incapable of consenting because of a learning disability or mental disorder would be an offence.