Four teenagers who filmed themselves beating a homeless man with a wheel brace face lengthy prison sentences after they were convicted yesterday. The group's ringleader, Oliver Skeggs, 17, was found guilty of attempted murder after jurors heard he posed for his friend's mobile phone camera before hitting Paul Vickers around the head with an iron wheel brace. After the attack in Fishbourne, West Sussex, in July 2007, the group left Vickers for dead. Police say he will never recover fully from injuries that have left a fist-sized hole in his skull.The group, who are all from Chichester, later returned to the scene to take photos of their victim as he lay in pool of blood.Alistair Field, 17, and Terence Bryan, 19, were found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm with intent following a 10-day trial at Lewes crown court. Ross Beeby, 19, pleaded guilty to the same offence at an earlier hearing.The court was told they were arrested after Bryan showed the 25-second mobile phone footage to a neighbour, who told Bryan's mother about the horrific footage. She contacted police. Vickers is still recovering at a neurological rehabilitation centre for adults. The attack left him blind in one eye and with slurred speech.Detective Inspector Nigel Brown, who led the inquiry, said: "This attack was on a defenceless and homeless victim, who was asleep on a bench at a bus shelter when he was attacked without reason or warning. "Mr Vickers was struck repeatedly over the head with a metal bar and sustained life-threatening injuries. This horrific and callous act was apparently committed for no other reason than to satisfy the offenders' need for violence, and for their own sadistic pleasure."Brown said the filming of the attack was a "particularly sickening aspect that highlights the nature of them as individuals". He added: "Our thoughts at this time are with the victim, Mr Vickers, who will never fully recover from this attack."Restrictions on naming Skeggs and Field were lifted after the verdicts were announced. The four will be sentenced at a later date at the Old Bailey.