David Blunkett signalled the single biggest overhaul of failing police forces last night, saying the public was 'bewildered' about the police and branding force detection rates 'appalling'.In an exclusive interview with The Observer, the Home Secretary said the public would lose confidence in the police if detection rates in England and Wales did not improve. He admitted that elements of the Labour Party had often ignored crime for education and health, issues apparently of keener interest to its heartland. It had been forgotten that tackling crime was part of the 'social renewal' project. 'Detection and conviction rates are appallingly low,' he said. 'Detection is down to 24 per cent and conviction is down to 9 per cent. 'That is demoralising for the police and it is totally bewildering for people in the neighbourhoods most affected. Their rights matter.' Blunkett's hard-hitting message comes three days before a Government White Paper on reforming the police, which is set to plunge him into a bitter war of words with senior police officers. He will announce measures including a huge increase in the number of special constables and neighbourhood wardens patrolling the streets; reserve powers for the Home Secretary to take over failing forces; league tables to allow the public to compare police performance neighbourhood by neighbourhood; and a rapid rise in uniformed officers to a record 130,000 by spring 2003, an increase of 5,400. By next year the Government wants the figure to reach 128,300. 'There is a big missing factor on the liberal Left and that is that we have forgotten crime and disorder and the misery this brings,' he said. 'Tackling crime is part of the social renewal agenda. We have often, quite rightly, talked about education, health and the minimum wage. But we haven't said the thing that really bedevils people in the most disadvantaged areas is crime.' Blunkett said that there were unacceptable variations in detection rates across the country. He is now set to pave the way for Her Majesty's Inspector of Constabulary and the Home Office Standards Unit to take over command units within police forces that are considered not up to scratch. In a reform that has echoes of earlier education policies brought in by Blunkett before the last election, new managers will take over the failing units to inject 'new thinking'. Chief constables have told The Observer they are 'very concerned' about the proposals for intervention powers, and fear a blurring the independence of police forces. They also said that any proposals from the Home Secretary to take powers to sack chief constables would be strongly resisted. 'Mr Blunkett cannot use his war on crime as an excuse to muscle in on legitimate police work,' one chief constable said. 'We have already made a lot of improvements. The Home Secretary should recognise that.' Blunkett's most radical proposals include new league tables for the police, which will list the performance of Basic Command Units within force areas. The public will be polled on the attitude to their local police and strict targets will be set on clear-up rates from crimes such as burglary and vandalism. The Home Secretary argues that the tables will allow people who live in the city centre of Liverpool to compare their crime clear-up rate with those who live in similar areas in London or Bristol. 'We want to tackle the force variation and we are mindful that for most people it is the Command Unit - the local police station - that really makes the difference,' he said. 'People [need to see] where the accountability lies.' He said many more powers would be devolved down to front-line policing, giving police superintendents more powers to run police stations. Blunkett will also launch plans for a 'police family' of community support officers and special constables who will help mount high-visibility patrols in crime hotspots. 'That combination can provide a real back-up so that you have not just got one or two people policing a community but you also have a neighbourhood commitment with eyes and ears, in a way that can relate to the particular needs of that community,' he said. He also pointed out that having more volunteers in the force would allow the ethnic make-up of local communities to be better reflected. 'Obviously if you can get people from the most disadvantaged areas into the force, you get a spin-off in terms of ethnicity, in terms of socio-economic make-up, in terms of trust within the community.' The Home Office is plan ning to pay at least some of the new 'volunteer' police force. Enhanced powers of detention will also be given to traffic wardens and some neighbourhood officers, powers Blunkett said would only be given to those registered with the agreement of the relevant police force. The Home Secretary denied that the growth of the wider police family was the start of a new 'two-tier' system of policing. 'The police are saying that they are not against the broader police family, but [they ask] are they going to be used instead of uniformed officers and the answer is no, they are not,' he said. 'Our indication of good faith is precisely to speed up [the recruitment] target. I am going to announce that we are toughening the targets, so we are going to go for 130,000 [uniformed staff] by the spring of 2003 instead of 2004. And for next spring we are going to see if we can reach the all-time record of around 128,300.'  kamal.ahmed@observer.co.uk