The French would view it as a classic crime passionelle: a woman unhinged by the theft of her marriage. In Britain, we make no such allowances. On Friday, Rena Salmon, 43, was convicted of murdering her 'bubbly love rival', Lorna Stewart, and sentenced to life imprisonment. Yesterday's newspapers added a further twist. The 'spurned wife' had killed her husband's unborn child as well as his mistress since Stewart had been two months pregnant.'Poisoned mind of the fantasist who savoured taking revenge in cold blood,' read a headline in the Daily Mail, echoing the view of Detective Chief Inspector Steve Morris. He described the killing as 'cold-blooded and premeditated'. Another detective had described how, after the shooting, Salmon had summoned an ambulance 'like she was ordering a cab but Lorna's dead body was lying only inches away from her'.'In cold blood' implies clarity of thought and evidence of sound, if perverted, judgment. The jury had duly unanimously rejected Salmon's claim of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility. They had heard how days before the killing she had obtained her weapon by lying to a locksmith so she could gain entry to her husband's gun cabinet. An expert shot, she had loaded it with two cartridges which undermined her defence that her intention had always been to commit suicide. Rational acts, the jury presumably decided, which had their climax in a ruthless murder. 'Have you come to shoot me?' Lorna Stewart had asked. This calculated behaviour, however, also equally well illustrates how Rena Salmon's mental state, never robust, had cracked under the cumulative weight of her own past, her marriage breakdown, and her husband's brutal rejection. Or, to put it another way, how could the jury get it so wrong? It was a toxic cocktail consisting of adultery, jealousy, betrayal - and race. Rena Salmon has a white mother and a Bangladeshi father. She claimed that her mother used to scrub her and her half-sister with bleach and call them both, 'little black bastards'. Lorna Stewart's husband, Keith, is a black Australian. Shortly before Rena Salmon took a gun to Stewart's beauty salon in Chiswick, she says Keith Stewart had told her that she was trying for a baby with Salmon's husband and, if they succeeded, 'it will look like us'. 'It was happening all over again,' Salmon said. 'Because I was black, because Keith was black, because our kids were black - we could be discarded.' Salmon's mother denies the allegation that she was a prostitute and that Salmon had been the result of 'a ten-bob' job with an Asian client. Whatever the truth, something caused Salmon to 'act wild', run away and be placed in care. As an adult, she was bulimic, an attention-seeking liar - telling neighbours in Great Shefford, Berkshire, that she had multiple sclerosis - and she suffered from obesity and depression. She said of her marriage to Paul Salmon, a divorcee, in 1985: 'He was the first person to ever love me and it didn't matter that I was black.' Rejection; self-hatred and a rotten childhood doesn't equal a licence to kill but in the nine months before Stewart's death, Salmon's sense of worthlessness prompted her to attempt suicide twice, egged on, she claims, by her husband. She also threatened to take the lives of her two children. She assaulted Stewart. Leone Griffin, Salmon's friend, said Paul Salmon - a man who appears remarkably at ease with tragedy - mounted a campaign of extreme cruelty. One text message told her he couldn't visit the children, because he was 'busy shagging'. Four psychiatrists agreed that, at the time of the killing, Salmon displayed signs of mental disorder; a fifth disagreed. The court's disregard for a woman's state of mind while displaying over indulgence towards male behaviour, has a long tradition. In 1955, Ruth Ellis shot her lover, David Blakely and was the last woman to be hanged. Blakely's brutality and Ellis's depression was never raised in court. More recently, Rajinder Bisla, married for 18 years, strangled his 'nagging' wife, Abnash, and received an 18-month suspended sentence for manslaughter. Joseph McGrail kicked his alcoholic wife and she died of internal bleeding. He was found guilty of manslaughter and given a suspended sentence. The judge said his wife 'would have tried the patience of a saint'. The courts are beginning to acknowledge that men and women may react differently when provoked. Men are more likely to act literally hot-headedly; women slow-burn. As Baroness Helena Kennedy, QC, writes in Eve Was Framed, Women and British Justice , they experience, 'a snapping in slow motion, the final surrender of frayed elastic'. It is desperately sad that Lorna Stewart lost her life for love - but was Rena Salmon mistress of her own mind at the time of the killing? No. Perhaps, in part, she is paying the price for that fusion of fact and fiction which creates a modern myth: the bitter and twisted revenge seeker who is menacing, sadistic - and sane. And allegedly far deadlier than the male. She should appeal. For both families, the nightmare has barely begun. As Detective Inspector Morris pointed out: 'The impact cannot be overstated... after all, there are four children of school age without a mother...' · The Observer Crime and Justice debate www.observer.co.uk/crimedebate