A teenager used a hunting knife to murder two friends in a "savage and brutal" attack which left one schoolboy with his head almost severed, a court heard yesterday.Thomas Palmer, who was 18 at the time, cut 16-year-old Steven Bayliss's throat and stabbed 14-year-old Nuttawut Nadauld to death in a quiet wooded lane near their home in Finchampstead, Berkshire, in September 2005.Reading crown court was told that Palmer admits killing the boys, but the jury will have to decide whether he was suffering from "such abnormality of mind" that he was not responsible for his actions. Palmer denies murder but admits manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.The jury heard how an argument started with an exchange of insults on a footpath. Palmer, who was obsessed by knives and once carved a swastika into his chest, pulled out a 17cm blade and attacked the two boys.Steven was attacked with such ferocity that police believed an attempt had been made to sever his head. He died almost instantly, but Palmer continued to attack him with the 17 centimetre long blade, stabbing him five more times. The hunting knife was found lodged in his body.Nuttawut, who was known as T-wood and had moved to Britain from Thailand a few years before, was stabbed in the chest and received more than 14 other wounds.Police were alerted when Palmer made a 999 call saying that "somebody has been cut a little". But he claimed not to know what had happened and asked officers to take him back to the scene of the crime so he could help. It was there that police noticed his hands and feet were covered in blood. He had discarded his blood-stained sweatshirt and T-shirt earlier as he left the scene. After a helicopter search of the woodland area where Palmer told police the incident had occurred, they stumbled across the bodies of the two boys.Steven was found curled up in the foetal position, still holding his rucksack. His blue BMX bike lay nearby.Julian Baughan, prosecuting, said: "The manner in which these two boys met their deaths was particularly savage and brutal." Palmer did not hear the evidence against him yesterday on the advice of mental health staff who said the details would not be good for his state of mind.The prosecution said that after his arrest a collection of knives and martial arts equipment was found in his bedroom. Palmer, who worked as a school cleaner, had been a member of the local cadets and had ambitions to join the Royal Air Force.The jury was told that he had been seen carrying knives in the most ordinary of circumstances. On one occasion his girlfriend discovered that he was carrying the knife, later used to kill his two friends, as they went out for a walk.The court will also hear from young witnesses who will describe Palmer's predilection for very violent films. One that he watched with his girlfriend nine days before the killing depicted a serial killer using a knife to dispatch his victims - Palmer allegedly said the film was "cool".The court will also hear evidence that although Palmer claimed to have drunk six cans of strong lager and said he was drunk at the time of the attack, no alcohol was found in his blood when he was tested several hours later.The trial continues.