Nearly 50% of adults know someone who has suffered domestic violence, a report claimed today. The research carried out for cosmetics retailer the Body Shop and campaign group Refuge was released as a shocking new advertising campaign was launched to tackle the problem. The cinema advertisment - rated 15 - shows a man bullying and violently slapping a woman in a restaurant as fellow diners look on.The study found domestic violence did not only occur behind closed doors. Of those interviewed, four in ten new a victim and 42% reported seeing someone physically or verbally abused in a social situation.The survey of 1,000 households by TNS Global claimed almost 19 million Britons reported knowing someone who had suffered at the hands of a violent partner. And almost four in five people said domestic violence was one of the nation's major crimes that needed to be stamped out. Dame Anita Roddick, founder of the Body Shop, said: "One in four women is abused in her lifetime and two women die every week at the hands of current and ex-boyfriends or husbands. "I find these statistics absolutely devastating - they should compel everyone to sit up, listen and help stop violence in the home."Dame Anita stressed the importance of services such as Refuge and encouraged "everyone to get behind this vital campaign and support the excellent work Refuge does across the country in supporting women and children who are victims of domestic violence". Refuge opened the world's first safe-house for women affected by domestic violence in London in 1979 and since then has been supporting victims and raising awareness.The charity's chief executive , Sandra Horley, said: "Sadly, even in this day and age, domestic violence is not only widespread but largely unacknowledged, hidden or otherwise excused. It is a crime and it must not be ignored." In the "Don't Ignore It" commercial - which was backed by the equivalent of £2m in creative costs and advertising space donated by the media industry - a couple are seen eating in a restaurant with friends. The man begins to verbally abuse the woman, then gets up from the table and pulsl her hair, before slapping her so hard that she crashes to the ground. Her dining companions, however, remain oblivious to the abuse taking place in front of them. Ms Horley said: "The advert acts as a metaphor for the way in which society continues to hide, excuse and ignore domestic violence. And everyone has a part to play to stop the crime." The Body Shop is raising funds for Refuge by asking customers to recycle old mobile phones - with £2.75 from each phone going to the charity - or buy £1 daisy pins to help launch a national website and on-line help facility. Funds raised will also help Refuge continue to operate the network of safe houses it provides in the community, as well as outreach services for women from minority ethnic groups.Refuge runs a 24-hour, national domestic violence helpline on freephone 0808 808 9999.