1963: The great train robbery On August 8 1963 armed robbers stole £2.6m, mostly in used bank notes, from a Glasgow-London Royal Mail train, near Bridego Bridge north of London.The 15-strong gang wore helmets, ski masks and gloves, and were aided by an anonymous insider who provided sensitive train-schedule and cargo information and another person who provided Leatherslade farm in Buckinghamshire as a hideout for the gang. The robbers stopped the train by turning off a green track signal and turning on a red signal. The train's fireman went to investigate and was captured. The engineer was severely injured by a blow on the head. The robbers took about 120 mailbags the farm hideaway, where they divided the loot. Six people were hired to burn down the farmhouse but did such a poor job that the police found everyone's fingerprints. With this and other evidence, 12 of the 15 robbers were caught, convicted and jailed. Biggs escaped from prison in 1965, had plastic surgery and fled to Brazil via Paris and Australia. 1983: Britain's biggest cash robberyAlmost £6m was stolen from the Security Express headquarters in Shoreditch, east London, in 1983. Ronnie Knight, the former husband of actress Barbara Windsor, was jailed after admitting handling some of the proceeds. He denied taking part in the robbery.Knight was jailed after spending 10 years in Spain, where he fled the night his brother, John, was arrested in 1984. Knight's brother was jailed for 22 years.1990: £292m City bonds robbery At 9.30am on 2 May 1990, John Goddard, a 58-year-old messenger with money broker Sheppards, was mugged at knifepoint on a quiet side street in the City of London. Mr Goddard was taking Bank of England Treasury bills and certificates of deposit from banks and building societies. The bonds were in bearer form and as good as cash to anyone holding them. The mugger escaped with 301 Treasury bills and certificates of deposit, mostly for £1m each. The total haul was £292m. Keith Cheeseman received a six-and-a-half-year jail sentence for his part in the robbery. Four other people were charged in Britain with handling the bonds, but were acquitted after the highly unusual step was taken at the opening of their 1991 trials to offer no evidence.Police believe the City mugging was carried out by Patrick Thomas, a petty crook from south London. Thomas was found dead from a gunshot wound to the head in December 1991. He was never charged with the robbery. City of London police and the FBI infiltrated the gang involved in laundering the bonds. The police recovered all but two of the 301 bonds thanks to an informant. 1996: The hole-in-the-wall gang A global conspiracy by an elite team of criminals, including the M25 murderer Kenneth Noye, to steal millions from cashpoint machines . Seven conspirators, from Kent and London, admitted their part in a plot which would have undermined the public's confidence in cash dispensers. The plan was discovered when a computer expert the gang tried to recruit went to the police. Police said it could have been the biggest theft in British history. The gang planned to use corrupt British Telecom employees to install phone taps on lines between cash dispensers and banks. The phone taps would supply vital information. Cashpoint cards contain a Pin number and a card verification value or CVV hidden on the magnetic strip. These numbers are encrypted each time the card is used and transmitted to banks and building societies. The gang planned to record the numbers in their encrypted form on a memory board. Data would be fed into a computer and decoded. The decrypted data would then be restored on a new plastic card and magnetic strip. A network of criminals could then use thousands of fake cashpoint cards to withdraw huge sums from Britain and abroad.November 8 2000: The Millennium Dome gang Police foiled "the robbery of the millennium" when they caught a gang smashing their way into the Millennium Dome with a JCB earthmover to snatch £200m worth of diamonds.The botched heist prompted quips that the robbers were the only people keen to visit the floundering attraction in Greenwich, south-east London. Four men were sentenced today at the Old Bailey for conspiracy to rob. A fifth man was found guilty of the lesser charge of conspiracy to steal.February 11 2002: the Heathrow heist A gang of thieves carried out a dramatic robbery at London's Heathrow airport, attacking the driver of a security van before escaping with an estimated £6.5m in cash.  Police hunting for the gang said the driver of the van was attacked by at least two men in a secure area at the airport's Terminal 4 at about 6.30am. The robbers forced him to the ground and bound his wrists before transferring the cash into another British Airways van. The second van was later found abandoned and burned.