The release of the latest figures about the number of ex-soldiers serving prison sentences or on probation adds to the growing public concern about the treatment that British troops receive after returning from operations or leaving the military, often with serious injuries. It seems to be further evidence of the carelessness of the armed forces and the Ministry of Defence towards its own personnel.The figure of 20,000 convicted soldiers, the size of a full army division and more than double the number of troops in Afghanistan, is sobering. However, some care needs to be taken with these statistics. A conservative estimate would suggest that there are at least four to five people in civilian life who have served in the military over the last two decades for every current serving member of the forces (180,000). Consequently, there are somewhere in the region of 720,000 to one million ex-military personnel in Britain. That is approximately 1-2% of the population. Constituting 10% of those incarcerated or on probation, the ex-military population is over-represented in the penal system, then, but the over-representation is not quite as dramatic as it at first appears.There are also significant methodical questions to be asked about the recent survey commissioned by probation officers' union Napo, based on only 90 cases. The survey points to domestic violence precipitated by trauma and alcohol abuse as the primary cause of ex-military conviction but a larger sample might reveal quite a different kind of profile. It would be unwise to place too much weight on this survey alone. Nevertheless, the results seem to indicate a plausible phenomenon that has been documented anecdotally elsewhere. Traumatised soldiers returning from Iraq or Afghanistan are at serious risk of mental illness and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). They have demonstrated an unusually high incidence of alcoholism, drug abuse, homelessness and crime.Further care needs to be taken here, however. Although the stresses of current operations are likely to have affected soldiers, British troops are generally drawn from some of the most deprived socio-economic groups. Many soldiers in the British army have poor standards of literacy and numeracy and are the product of troubled and often actively dysfunctional families. They are vulnerable and in some cases damaged before they enter service. Once in the armed forces, they are trained extremely well, disciplined and incorporated into the total military institution where they find a purpose and comradeship lacking in their civilian lives.In this way, things are strangely reminiscent of the British army in the Napoleonic era of which the Duke of Wellington famously observed:People talk of their enlisting from their fine military feeling – all stuff – no such thing. Some of our men enlist from having got bastard children, some for minor offences, many more for drink; but you can hardly conceive such a set brought together, and it really is wonderful that we should have made them the fine fellows they are.At the same time, the very service of today's personnel – separating them from the fragile networks of civilian life – exposes them to huge risks once they leave the military. Often, they have few family and friends to support them and faced with loneliness and isolation, many turn to drink and drugs, ultimately dropping out of society. Their over-representation in these latest crime figures is not then totally surprising, nor is it definitively a product of their army careers – or necessarily the army's lack of care for them. Indeed, a survey of those in their peer group who remained in civilian life may be disturbingly similar. It is widely recognised that young inner-city males in Britain have become a deeply problematic social group, under-represented in education and over-represented in crime and deviance.Nevertheless, given that some correlation is likely to exist between active service and some cases of violent behaviour, it seems necessary that the soldiers and their families receive greater support than some of them seem to be enjoying at present. This is not simply the duty of the MoD or the army. It requires the public to engage in the debate about what level of treatment is due to service personnel, especially those who have risked their lives and wellbeing on the front line. It is after all public money – taxes – that will be needed to pay for this increased support. If the public recognises its moral obligation to soldiers – its side of the military convenant – then it needs to pay for better support for these soldiers. Indeed, in the long term, such support may be wise. Many experts anticipate a major crisis in the coming decades as a wave of ex-military PTSD sufferers collapse, with a potentially catastrophic social cost.