A mother killed in front of her children in a suspected road-rage attack died of head injuries, a postmortem has confirmed.Christie McHugh, 33, was carried along on the bonnet of a car before falling off and hitting a Belisha beacon. Police and ambulance crews were called to Barnet in north London shortly after 6.30pm on Monday but she was pronounced dead at the scene.The postmortem was carried out at Finchley mortuary on Wednesday, Scotland Yard said.It is believed the mother of two had a run-in with another driver who had apparently blocked in her car outside the Lord Kitchener pub.McHugh was described by her colleague as a person who was always smiling. George Leonidou, chief executive of Luxx Light Technology where she worked as a PA, said: "She was non-confrontational, but she would have been fiercely protective of her children."She was blocked in trying to get her five-month-old daughter into the car and another car had parked, so that she couldn't do so."I know that Christie would have asked the person in a polite way to move their car. But I was told the other person was very aggressive and totally out of control."However bad your day has been it clearly doesn't give you the right to do that to someone in front of their children."We all miss her here, but we're talking about someone leaving a five-month-old daughter who will never know her mother, a five-year-old boy who is constantly asking when mummy's coming back."He said staff at the company were all in shock at McHugh's death. She had only recently returned from maternity leave.Leonidou said: "She was a lovely lady, always smiling, she loved her family and her children. She was a brilliant PA and had been with me for four years. She was the most conscientious worker I've ever had."We all miss her. The whole office and warehouse is in shock and we're just trying to work our way through it today."She will be sorely missed by everyone who knew her."Detectives from Scotland Yard's homicide and serious crime command are investigating. A woman was arrested in Barnet in connection with the death and released on bail until April.Police are appealing for witnesses to come forward. Anyone with information can contact the incident room on 020 8247 7821 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.