Following David Cameron's call for a sociological analysis of the riots "when the dust settles", sociologists from universities around the UK have come together to provide an initial analysis of the riots.The articles contained in this series cover nine affected areas: Birmingham, Manchester, Salford, Brixton, Clapham, Hackney, Lewisham, Wood Green and Walworth. The last six areas are in London. Three weeks after the action, the articles provide important insights into the causes, motivations, actions and consequences of the disturbances. Through interviews with young people, they start to illustrate much-needed local pictures of what happened in different places and why.Following the riots, the vast majority of defendants that came before magistrates' courts were young people under 25. The articles show that, if we are to understand the riots, it is young people not politicians we should be listening to. Some those interviewed were involved in the action, some were on the fringe, some knew people who took part, and some decided not to be involved. The authors of the articles are all sociologists who live or work in the areas covered. Together, they are writing in association with the British Sociological Association, Race and Ethnicity Study Group.Each article functions as a window into the local contexts in which the riots unfolded. And while there is not, nor should there be, a single catch-all analysis summing up the riots nationwide, common themes and interconnections do emerge.From the death of Mark Duggan in Tottenham, the riots fanned out into 46 local authorities. Whereas Cameron quashed the disturbances as "pure criminality", devoid of any political meaning, there was evidently some shared motivation, cause or desire for the actions that followed. Young people we interviewed thought the motivation political, even if they also recognised that some actions were opportunistic. They acknowledged that while the riots were about "getting paid", they were also (particularly in London) caused by Duggan's death, and the subsequent disrespectful treatment of his family by the authorities.The looting, discussed by some as an ironic critique of consumerism – "shopping riots" – was often more directly explained as a response to repeated stop-and-search, racist policing, deprivation, poverty, unemployment, cuts to the educational maintenance allowance (EMA), anger, and inequalities between the haves and the have-nots.Many interviewees identified deprivation and inequality as root issues. Some spoke about the lack of work opportunities and access to education, as well as the EMA cuts. Some believed that getting an education was the key to the golden gate, but a year after graduation they were still struggling to find work. For others, also out of work, a university degree had never been on the cards.But much of the anger was directed at the police. Young people spoke of incessant stop-and-search accompanied by rudeness, arrogance and racism. Some young people talked of Duggan's death not as a unique injustice, but as yet another example of police murder. Young people spoke of the riots as a means of "sticking two fingers up" at the authorities, and for a couple of nights relishing having the upper-hand.They spoke of the multicultural make-up of the riots. They were clear – these were not race riots. This is not to say, however, that in some places race was not an issue. Following the deaths of three Asian young men on Dudley Road, the longstanding tensions between Birmingham's black and Asian communities resurfaced, and abated, as people turned away from race relations and towards problems with community representation and leadership.Finally, many young people talked about the riots as a consequence of the anger and frustration felt at not seeing a future. Unable to see education, jobs and pensions on their horizon, some explained how they sought pleasure in consumerism. But while those they looked up to accessed and displayed these objects freely, for young people they were often out of reach. As consumers first and foremost, the inability to shop made them feel unfulfilled and lacking in self respect. In some places the signs of these divides were part of the architecture around them – the upward mobility of the cityscapes of global capitalism looked increasingly remote.Some young people hoped the government would hear the riots as a call to close the gap between the haves and the have-nots. But they didn't think this likely. David Cameron and David Lammy (MP for Tottenham), they felt, were not of their world. They arrive by parachute into local cafés for press shoots. The rest of the time they live in a land where you get a slap on the hand for huge expenses fiddles, rather than a six-month sentence for stealing a case of bottled water. Indeed, there was a sense that things would go from bad to worse. Some young people thought stop-and-search had been stepped up and that unjust criminalisation on the streets was more likely than ever.Three weeks after the riots took place, the dust has settled. The articles in this series begin the task of painting the necessarily nuanced pictures of what happened, and why, in different locations. This was not simply "pure criminality". This introduction confirms the riots can only be understood by thinking about both the common concerns and the local contexts. While the riots were to some degree about "getting paid", they were also political responses to local, national and global social injustices.• Malcolm James is a social researcher and is undertaking a PhD at Department of Sociology, London School of EconomicsThis article was amended on 5th September 2011. The original article referred to the "murder of Mark Duggan" and "Duggan's murder". The Independent Police Complaints Commission are still investigating this incident, and there have been no charges of any kind so far. This has been corrected.