On a wet autumn day last year, Rebecca Aylward's 15-year-old former boyfriend – Joshua Davies – lured her into woods near their homes in south Wales and battered her to death with a rock.After the attack, when a friend phoned him in the woods to ask him if he was with Rebecca, Davies coolly asked him to "define" what he meant by "with".Rebecca's killing was a huge shock in Maesteg, in Bridgend county borough, which in recent years has had its fair share of bad news in the form of a series of suicides by young people that have attracted national attention. This was another devastating blow.Becca, as she was known to most friends, had taken some GSCEs early and had been expected to do well in the rest of her exams she would have sat this summer. The 15-year-old had a wide circle of friends from a variety of local schools.One of them was Davies. Even Rebecca's mother, Sonia Aylward, admitted she had found him "very friendly and charming".Davies, who is now 16, and Rebecca knew each other for some years and dated for three months a year before she was killed. They gave different reasons for the breakup. Davies claimed Rebecca tried to trick him into getting her pregnant, which is dismissed as nonsense by those who knew her. She said it was because he refused to wear condoms.Whatever the reason for the breakup, Davies began to talk about killing Rebecca. He told friends he would find a way of murdering her and get away with it. He spoke of making a poison out of plants such as deadly nightshade.He even once asked his friends what they would give him if he carried out the killing. They say they did not take him seriously and promised him a big breakfast at their favourite cafe.On Saturday 23 October last year Davies and Rebecca agreed to meet in woods at Aberkenfig, a popular hangout for teenagers. Rebecca wore an outfit she had bought the day before. Before he left for the woods Davies smiled at one of his friends and told him: "The time has come."He later boasted to his friends that he had attacked Rebecca, who was 5ft 2 (1.6 metres) and weighed six stone (38kg), from behind. She was screaming and the worst thing, he said, was seeing her skull give way. The rock was so heavy that in court during Davies's trial a well-built official struggled to pick it up with one hand.After murdering Rebecca, Davies summoned a friend, Boy B, to the woods. Boy B described how he "glimpsed" Rebecca's body lying face down, her arms splayed out. He said he felt like he had walked "into a cold shower". Davies seemed a "bit shaky" but "didn't seem upset at what he'd done".The alarm was raised when Rebecca failed to return home and a hunt for her was launched.Davies's actions in the aftermath were extraordinary. He updated his Facebook page to say he was "chilling" with friends. He had a cup of tea and watched Strictly Come Dancing and the film No Country For Old Men.As the search for Rebecca gathered pace, he sent a text to her phone asking her to get in touch: "We're all worried," he wrote.Rebecca's body was found in the woods by a police officer next day. Her mother had already told police that Rebecca had been going to meet Davies and both he and Boy B were arrested.Davies said he had not killed Rebecca but told Boy B he had done so as a prank and asked him to join him in the woods to see the body. He continued that when Boy B arrived in the woods Davies and Rebecca – still alive in his account – laughed at him. Boy B was so angry that he attacked and killed Rebecca.But Davies had no real explanation for why he did not intervene and stop the attack.In the aftermath of the killing some people in Bridgend expressed concern that, following the string of suicides, Rebecca's death was another sign of deep problems in the area.But the feeling now is that this brutal killing was a shocking one-off. The motive still remains a puzzle. The best the police and prosecution can do is that Davies had spoken about killing Rebecca so often that he "talked himself into" carrying out what started off as an empty schoolboy threat.