Police confirmed today that they had found a white van thought to have been used to transport more than £53m in cash during Britain's biggest robbery.Detectives said a vehicle fitting the description of the 7.7 tonne Renault Midlum truck caught on CCTV at the Securitas depot in Tonbridge was now being examined by forensic experts after being recovered in Kent."Kent detectives hunting the gang behind the £53m Securitas robbery believe they have now found the white lorry used in the raid," police said in a statement."The Renault lorry was used to load the money at the Securitas depot in Tonbridge and is also believed to have been used to dump money crates in fields at the top of Detling Hill near Thurnham."Police did not specify where the lorry was found, but repeated a plea for anyone who saw anything in the area around 9.30am last Wednesday to contact them. Separately, a woman was arrested yesterday in connection with the investigation, police said. No further details have been released.They confirmed yesterday that four other people were being held in connection with the robbery in which the depot manager, Colin Dixon, his wife, Lynn, and their nine-year-old son, Craig, were held hostage at gunpoint.Magistrates last night granted warrants of further detention for 26 hours, allowing detectives more time to interview two men arrested on Sunday. A dozen people have now been confirmed to have been arrested in connection with the robbery. Seven have since been released on police bail.The latest details emerged as police carried out an intense search at a farm in Kent. Around a dozen police vehicles parked outside the sprawling property in Staplehurst, near Maidstone, and around 20 officers in overalls could be seen searching through piles of wood in a thicket. Kent police initially refused to confirm that they were searching the farm or whether it was believed to be where Mr Dixon was held after being kidnapped.However, a Sky News helicopter clearly showed police and a number of vehicles - including a specialist search truck said to be from Sussex police - parked around the farm and an adjacent country house. A number of other vehicles were outside the farm and police could be seen examining a white hatchback car, caravan and other vehicles near a small shelter in the grounds.Andrew Hutchinson, the landlord at the Lord Raglan pub in Staplehurst, said police had been in the area since Sunday."On Sunday night we had two police cars in our car park. We went out to see who they were and it was the police. But yesterday there was the most activity." Today, police also carried out road checks at sites across the county which have been linked to the robbery. They have released photographs of a Volvo, similar to the one used by two bogus policeman to kidnap Mr Dixon on the A249 near Stockbury last Tuesday evening, and a silver Nissan Almera similar to the one driven by Mr Dixon that night.Police sources said the Kent force was continuing to follow up leads and that searches were under way at a number of premises in Kent and across the south-east. Officers said they were are not able to go into detail about individual activities or lines of inquiry at this stage.In total, four of the men arrested were detained in "pre-planned firearms operations", Kent police said. One involved a vehicle being driven in Tankerton, near the town of Whitstable, on Sunday afternoon, during which police were said to have shot out the wheels of a BMW.Another involved two men who were arrested in a vehicle in Deptford, south-east London. The gang implicated in the robbery is said to be six-strong and operating at the top level of organised crime.Mr Dixon and his family were left tied up, along with 14 other workers at the site, as the robbers fled with £53,116,760 - more than double the amount taken in the raid at the Northern Bank's Belfast headquarters in December 2004, police revealed.The Securitas risk manager Paul Fullicks said tonight: "Our staff have described their ordeal as brutal, horrific and traumatic but all have handled their experiences with great professionalism. "They share the anger of Colin Dixon that his wife and son suffered this ordeal. One cannot underestimate the effects of the robbery and counselling will be offered to all the staff."Craig - who was eight when the robbery took place - was reported to have wriggled out of one of the steel cages in which employees were imprisoned and freed his fellow hostages. "Craig did it by making a hole with his bare hands or squeezing through an existing one," depot worker Alun Thomas told the Sun."One of the girl hostages hadn't been searched properly and had a key to a padlock in her pocket. His dad told him to go over to her and get the key from her pocket. He did as he was told without hesitation. "He was able to undo a cage. Once the padlock on the first cage was opened, Craig helped my colleague to get other keys."