"We taught Macpherson and Macpherson taught the world," was the way a black activist who had given evidence to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry greeted its findings. For her, it was not just the report's conclusions that mattered - ordinary black people, who had borne the brunt of institutional racism knew all about it - but the fact that, due to the unrelenting campaign of the Lawrence family, they were able to get their voices heard at last.Little by little, as the inquiry went on and the evidence piled up, the public became aware of the level of racial violence in society; of how a police force, by virtue of its own racism, compounded the problem; of the routine miscarriages of justice to which working-class black people were subjected; of the increasing confidence, consequently, of white racists that they could do anything to black people and get away with it. Macpherson, in that sense, was not just a result. It was a learning process for the country at large and, in the course of it, the gravitational centre of race-relations discourse was shifted from individual prejudice and ethnic need to systemic racial inequality and injustice. Personal prejudice is not a matter of central concern to black people. They are not bothered whether a particular white person likes them or not; that is the problem of the individual concerned. But when such prejudice is acted out in socially discriminatory ways so as to become racial discrimination, it does concern them that they cannot get their child into the school of their choice or that they cannot buy the house they can afford. And it is when such discrimination becomes embodied in the apparatuses of the state that racism becomes institutionalised. Institutional racism had never before been acknowledged by government or by official inquiry. In fact, Lord Scarman, appointed by the Thatcher government to look into the causes of the Brixton riots of 1981, had declared that there was no such thing as institutional racism, only personal prejudice, which "does manifest itself occasionally in the behaviour of a few police officers on the street". Macpherson, however, was unequivocal: the Metropolitan police force was institutionally racist - as were other institutions in society. Ways had to be found to police racist crimes more effectively. Here was a significant new codification of racism, even a significant new tone of (muted) outrage - and a call to the government to bring the "full force of the race relations legislation" to bear on "all police officers". Clearly, what Macpherson had intended was that the provisions of the race relations act of 1976, which related to both direct (overt) discrimination as well as indirect (institutional) discrimination and from which the police had been exempted, should now be extended to cover them. And, in the first flush of acclaim for setting up the inquiry, the home secretary agreed to extend the race relations act not just to the police force but to all public bodies too. The prime minister declared his commitment to "drive home a programme of change". Institutional racism, it appeared, was an issue that the government was determined to pursue. But in the Queen's speech in November, it was announced that the race relations act would be extended to the police and other public bodies only in relation to direct discrimination - thereby leaving institutional racism in crucial areas. Only the public outcry that ensued forced the home secretary to retreat and accept that indirect discrimination should be targeted in government bodies as well. The auguries, however, are that any such legislation would be made ineffectual by operational conceits and caveats on the one hand. And on the other, it would be undermined by the way the government is indirectly bringing discrimination into other areas of public life - through the bills on freedom of information, jury trial and terrorism. But that is New Labour for you. It faces both ways at once. Inevitably, because it has no principles, only policies; no ideology, only programmes. Everything it does is ad hoc, majoritarian, opportunist. To shift something as ingrained as racism is in British society requires commitment, passion, a visceral hatred of injustice. Take the matter of police operations. Although "performance indicators" - for specialist training and targets on ethnic recruitment to the force - may be in place, the performance on the ground for the black community is racism as usual. Nothing has been done to dismantle stop-and-search, in which young black men are six times more likely than their white counterparts to be picked up. Except that, if the recent "stops" of Neville Lawrence, Bishop Sentamu and Lord Taylor are anything to go by, the practice has been extended to cover middle-aged, middle-class blacks as well. (To the copper on the street, colour is classless.) Nor does the policing of racial violence - to which almost half of the 70 recommendations in the Macpherson report is devoted - show much change in the areas that matter. The families of Michael Menson, Ricky Reel and Kofi Hodasi have all had to go through the same travail of police prevarication, fobbings-off and denial, and bring their cause before the public, as the Lawrences had, before the police would even acknowledge the possibility of racially motivated murder and investigate the case as such. The freedom of information bill institutionalises such indifference by exempting the police from having to make full disclosure of their actions in all areas of policing, as recommended by Macpherson. Worse, it has shut the door once more on police accountability. If the Lawrences' long struggle highlighted anything, it was the way the police withheld vital information, covered up for one another, closed ranks, and took no responsibility for their mistakes. But still it continues, with the Mensons, Reels, McGowans, and Chhokars having to go through the same humiliating confrontations. The withholding of information, however, does not stop at deaths involving racial violence; it extends to deaths in custody. At least five black people have lost their lives in suspicious circumstances in police custody in the last year. But for the families of those who die in police or prison, the quest to find out how someone died has become near impossible. The lesson is clear. Without freedom of information, there is no accountability; without accountability, no justice. Similarly, the bill (thrown out by the Lords but due to be reintroduced) to abolish the right of defendants to elect to be tried by a jury for offences such as minor theft, assault and criminal damage, will have a greater impact on black people since they are overrepresented in these areas If passed, it will further institutionalise racism in the criminal justice system. So too with the proposal in the new prevention of terrorism bill to extend its remit to domestic groups which threaten violence to advance "a political, religious or ideological cause". This will impact more heavily on refugees fighting the tyrannies they have fled and black groups fighting organised racism. And the asylum and immigration act, with its "commonsense" arguments for treating asylum-seekers as a species apart and enclosing them in a cordon sanitaire , dissolves racism into xenophobia and makes it appear reasonable. If the government has shown little earnest about dismantling institutional racism, non-governmental agencies have seized the opportunity to tackle racism in their organisations. For 20 years, through Thatcher's onslaught on left-wing local authorities which were beginning to address issues of racial justice, these organisations floundered in a morass of Scarmanite ethnic programmes, all too readily promoted by an emerging ethnic middle class. In the process, the fight against racism was transformed into a fight for culture, the fight against a system into a fight for the individual. Smash-and-grab ethnic politics came to replace community self-reliance and inward-looking preoccupations with the self became elevated to a politics of identity. Ethnic programmes, with their skin counts and internecine rivalries, debased equal opportunity into equal opportunism. Meanwhile, identity politics descended into the politics of victimisation - from "who you are is what you do" to "who you are is what is done to you". People pulled rank in a hierarchy of oppressions. But now Macpherson had put anti-racism back on the agenda - and in the year since the report there has been a flurry of activity on tackling racism. Sadly, though, most organisations keep falling back on old established palliatives as an off-the-peg blue-print for every problem and every occasion. The point, however, is not to look to Macpherson for a solution. It is enough that it has put institutional racism on the map and drawn attention to its prevalence in society. The challenge for such organisations, then, is to examine their particular roles, the context in which they work and the way in which racism has developed in their fields. Racism has become ingrained in different ways in different institutions - and has therefore to be fought specifically, in terms of the specific policies, practices and procedures of a specific institution. But the non-governmental sector does not operate in a vacuum. It is influenced and guided by the political culture around it. And it is the state which - through its laws and its edicts, its administration of the public services - sets the tone and tenor, the climate, of race relations in society. By refusing, therefore, to examine and outlaw the racism in its own structures, the state gives a fillip to popular racism and embeds it in popular culture. Since public officers such as the police are drawn from that society and culture, the virus of racism is carried back into the body politic. State racism contaminates civil society. Hence the fight against institutional racism is a fight against state racism - against asylum laws, against deportations, against stop-and-search, against deaths in custody, against school exclusions, against miscarriages of justice. Which, in turn, calls into question the larger issues of accountability, freedom of information and judicial impartiality that constitute the fundamentals of democracy. In the final analysis, institutional racism is the litmus test of a society's democracy. Ambalavaner Sivanandan is director of the Institute of Race Relations.