We're back after a longish break, due to holidays and also working on other stories (mainly about allegations of police corruption, see here and here).Mark Kennedy has resurfaced in the news - he is now working for a US private security firm advising corporations on how to deal with the "threat" of political activists. He says he is providing "investigative services, risk and threat assessments" to the Densus Group.We wrote this on it (hat tip to Indymedia which reported it first here).To many, this move will be further confirmation of Kennedy's true loyalties and will silence his claims that he developed sympathies for the activists. He has clearly chosen his future, and it is not to help activists. It is plain that, for all his claims, he has not done anything to help the campaigners since he was unmasked by activists in 2010. For instance, he was at the heart of the police operation to spy on activists for many years and therefore knows a lot. But he has done little to explain how and why the campaigners were infiltrated.He may have fallen out with the police, but this was mainly because he felt that he was treated badly by his bosses, not out of a desire to blow the whistle on a domestic surveillance programme.Throughout the interviews he gave to the media, he rarely deviated from a set script in which he sought to justify what he did, but rarely disclosed much of what he and his spymasters were doing.So now he is following the well-trodden path of many ex-coppers - into the private security industry where he can exploit the skills and knowledge he gained while in the police.(Incidentally it is staggering how many private investigators in the UK are ex-police - even industry representatives estimate that between 50% and 65% of private eyes are former police officers.)The news about Kennedy's new job did not come from a leak - it was put in the public domain by Kennedy who announced it on his LinkedIn profile (doubtedlessly because he is touting for more business). He may of course be working for other firms.His own description of his covert work raises two interesting questions.Firstly he says that he was deployed in animal rights groups. It seems that the only time that Kennedy had any involvement in animal rights campaigns was after he left the police. As this chronology shows, he appeared at animal rights gatherings in 2010. This was the period when he was apparently working for a private security firm, Global Open, whose clients include firms which have been the target of animal rights activists. If this is true, he would probably have continued doing that for some time unless activists had exposed him.Kennedy has denied that he worked for the private security industry at this time, although the value of that denial is now surely questionable.We have blogged before (here) about his connection to Global Open - as ever, any information on this would be appreciated.Secondly, he says he was deployed in the US. This implies that he was working for the FBI spying on activists. We are pursuing various leads on this and have also blogged on this (here) before, so please do get in touch if you can help.