Remember the "broken Britain" theme? Interesting how David Cameron didn't use it prominently at the launch of the Conservative manifesto. It looks like it has been quietly sidelined in favour of a rather more upbeat tone of people taking power over their lives. The only nod in its direction is the quaint marriage bonus of £3 a week.I've just been discussing the issue with Matthew Taylor and Brenda Almond, professor emeritus of social and moral philosophy, for the BBC World Service. As Taylor pointed out, broken Britain was always a rather odd bundle of very different issues: anxiety about the rise in binge drinking, youth crime, dysfunctional families, multiculturalism and a general sense that material wealth had not brought wellbeing. Many of these issues are really important, but they never amounted to a coherent critique that something had "broken".The broken Britain thesis carried a strong imprint of Iain Duncan Smith's Catholicism and its gloomy assessment of moral decay. Although there was considerable sympathy for many parts of this analysis with voters, gloom won't win elections – hence the quiet sidelining. To Almond's great regret; she argued that this was exactly what should be central in the election – she has written a book, Fragmenting Families, which sells itself as throwing a timely challenge to the liberal consensus about personal relationships – and robustly defended marriage and the role of the state to promote it.Taylor was having none of it. He argued that on balance people are wealthier, have more choice and are better educated than 15 years ago. Along with this progress have come some drawbacks – increased access to cheap alchohol – but you can't tease them apart from the benefits. Britain may have a louder, more excessive night-time economy than some European countries, but that is part and parcel of a vibrant, irreverent culture which is innovative and widely admired in many parts of the world where a higher premium is put on a narrower social conformity.As Almond rightly pointed out in our discussion, we had set plenty of hares chasing, and that is precisely the problem with the whole concept of broken Britain. It created an enormous amount of heat at the time because everyone could throw in their own ha'penny worth of bad behaviour – rudeness, road rage, crime, aggression, bad language – and curiously these kinds of moral failings when dwelt on or repeated, often prompt a peculiar kind of outraged satisfaction. But this is not an emotion that convinces the voter to get to a ballot box because while the politicians can talk about this kind of thing, there is not much faith that they can or will do much about it.