The victims of serial killer GP Harold Shipman would have been dead within 10 minutes of a lethal injection of pain killers, a pain relief expert testified today.On the second day of the public inquiry into Shipman's crimes, Dr Henry McQuay, professor of pain relief at Oxford University, said that 30mg of diamorphine would take effect within minutes, causing the patient to stop breathing.Shipman, 55, of Hyde, Greater Manchester, was convicted in January last year of murdering 15 elderly female patients with lethal injections of diamorphine. The inquiry in Manchester, chaired by high court judge Dame Janet Smith QC, is investigating the deaths of another 459 of his former patients and is expected to last about two years.Today Professor McQuay he told the inquiry that the effects of diamorphine would be worse on elderly people. He said: "If you do not breathe for three minutes then your brain will be starved of oxygen and you will die." Professor McQuay said to cause someone to stop breathing 30mg of diamorphine would have to be injected within five minutes. The standard dose used to inject an adult for acute pain relief would be 10mg of morphine or 5mg of diamorphine repeated every four hours."The greatest amount I have ever administered is 15mg of diamorphine over about five minutes to a large Swedish man who had been out cross country skiing and had broken his femur (thigh bone)." He said there was not much call for GPs to inject diamorphine these days. "The amount of injections that a GP gives has gone down partly because of the use of paramedics," he told the inquiry. Yesterday Dame Janet heard how one elderly man died in August 1996 while left alone for five minutes with the doctor while his brother was in the kitchen. Richard Lissack QC, who is representing nearly 200 of the families, said Kenneth Smith, 73, went into the kitchen of the home he shared with his brother, Sidney, on Garden Street, Newton, to give him some privacy with Shipman. When he returned five minutes later, 76-year-old Sidney was sitting dead in his favourite chair, although he had been shopping that morning.Only four months later Kenneth too was dead after a visit from the doctor, the inquiry was told.Yesterday the inquiry was told that Shipman's career could have been cut short if the home office and General Medical Council had taken tougher action against him after he was convicted of forging prescriptions for massive quantities of pethidine in 1975. The doctor became addicted to the painkilling drug in his first practice in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, as a young, enthusiastic GP. Despite his conviction, a committee of the GMC decided no further action should be taken against him, a decision backed by the home office. The hearing was adjourned until tomorrow when Dr John Grenville, an expert on GPs, is due to give evidence.Photo gallery The story in picturesAudio Angelique Crisafis in Hyde. (2mins 03) Harold Shipman is questioned by the police Read the transcriptGovernment audit Download the report Extracts from the reportThe trial Complete case reportsRelated articles  21.06.2001: Killer fooled authorities for 24 years  11.01.01: Police investigate deaths of more Shipman victims 08.01.01: Minister admits watchdog is not Shipman-proof 05.01.01: Safeguards were not tough enough, admits department of healthUseful links The Shipman inquiry Greater Manchester police General Medical Council Department of health