A 22-year-old mother who left her two-year-old son alone in a flooded kitchen while she spent a weekend with her boyfriend was yesterday found guilty of child cruelty. Kelly Tollerton was told that a jail sentence was "almost inevitable" after a jury heard how she left the toddler penned in the kitchen to fend for himself. The boy was found after three days, when water from a running tap started to leak through the ceiling of the flat below.Police discovered him standing barefoot in several inches of water and shaking with cold. He was wearing a filthy vest and pants and had been using a pile of dirty clothes as a bed.The jury at Lincoln crown court heard that he had eaten from plates left on the kitchen floor, but when they were finished he had been forced to search through bags of rubbish for food. Tollerton was yesterday convicted of one count of child cruelty by way of neglect, one of child cruelty by way of abandonment and one of perverting the course of justice. Recorder William Harbage QC said: "You have been convicted on the clearest possible evidence of leaving your two-and-a-half-year-old son home alone while you went to stay for the weekend with your partner. This was the culmination of a period of wilful neglect of him and, on the evidence, your parenting of this child was totally inadequate. "These are very serious matters and a custodial sentence is highly likely." The court heard how Tollerton, a trainee beautician, came home from college, put her son in his baby seat in the kitchen, got changed and went out.She claimed she had spent the weekend with her boyfriend, 36-year-old Ken Hill, leaving her son in the care of her friend Emma Barton. But Barton denied this, telling the jury that while she had baby-sat for the toddler in the past, she had not spoken to Tollerton for weeks, after an argument over money. Yesterday it emerged that the child, who cannot be named for legal reasons, had been placed on the at-risk register at the age of two months because he had failed to gain weight, but social services ceased contact with him when he started attending a nursery at 15 months.Lincolnshire county council said an inquiry into the case would now be launched. The boy, who turned four on Monday, is now in foster care and is expected to be adopted.