Helen Mirren has fallen into a common trap. She appears to think that there is such a thing as "real rape", which is not the same as "date rape" – that awful term which is, of course, an American import.In an interview with men's magazine GQ, Mirren said that in her younger days she was raped, "a couple of times. Not with excessive violence, or being hit, but rather being locked in a room and being made to have sex against my will."How awful for her, not just being raped, but not allowing herself to believe that it was "real rape", presumably simply because she was not left bleeding and injured. I sympathise with her, as I would any woman who endured such horrendous acts of sexual violence.But I also feel very, very angry with Mirren. How dare she impose her twisted logic upon other women who have endured similar, and want the right to demand justice as a rape victim or survivor? What gives her the right to proclaim that Mike Tyson, who served six years in prison for raping a woman in 1992, is not a rapist, as she said in the interview? How would his victim feel if she read her words? That brave woman who reported the attack to the police and endured a court case to ensure he paid for his crime?Mirren has decided that men who rape women while out on a date should not be taken to court, even though she fully acknowledges, in a highly contradictory fashion, that it is indeed rape which even if the woman is naked and in bed with a man when he forces her to have sex.Vera Baird, the solicitor general, was quoted as saying in response that, Mirren's remarks are, "dangerous". She is right. Women should be enabled and encouraged to report rape, whether they know their attacker or not. Actually, Mirren should stick to acting and shut up about atrocities towards women. Earlier this year she was proclaiming that prostitution should be legalised as it would keep women in it safer, when mountains of recent evidence shows that the opposite is true.Some of the women reading Mirren's words will take notice of her daft views. She is a role model and a highly respected individual. They might think that if they reported a rape by a man they were intimate with that the police will think they are wasting their time. Some might feel shame that they have been devastated by an attack by a man who chose not to beat her up and put a knife to her throat. I hope not, but it is likely that her words will influence some in entirely the wrong way.But most dangerously, Mirren's ridiculous opinion on this heinous crime might make some men feel that forcing a girlfriend into sex, so long as no marks are left and no violence used, is not a criminal offence. What a shame that such an admired member of society did not, on this occasion, think of the wider consequences before waxing lyrical.