I'm a punk publisher, me, following the DIY, independent attitude of the music scene I grew up with – a 'get out and do it' approach, as opposed to asking someone else to do it for you. Putting out books that increase diversity and unorthodox voices as the music scene had with artists like Fad Gadget, The Sisters Of Mercy, Joy Division and, If you're over a certain age, probably half your record collection.As I didn't have thousands of pounds to spare I opted for print-on-demand where the initial costs are low. You can print anything from one to one million and the books filter through distribution (Amazon or the nation's bookshops) without you seeing them. I think this relatively new technology has revolutionised and democratised publishing. All you need is a computer. The next major innovation for the company I use is print as you wait books. They'll install terminals in book shops that will print out any of their books on the spot, no more out of stock, distribution problems or wasted journeys.We've just had the launch party for Armley Press's latest offering, Blowback, a Leeds Noir thriller by John Lake and it's now out there in the big, bad world. Not to worry, the book is big and very bad; although we've found the three thrillers we've produced so far to be a hard sell.Ironically – as it's the second instalment of John's Leeds 6 trilogy – Manchester's What's On guide Chimp are the first to review it and although they playfully tease Leeds/Yorkshire the reaction is good:The pace of Hot Knife is reprised ... and Lake adds detail after often quite gory detail with a surprisingly subtle touch for someone from Yorkshire……Lake knows his locations: Blowback almost literally drips Leeds as well as the malevolence, the desperation ……. to be found lurking not far below the surface of any big-ish city….with suspense delivered this consistently there's little doubt this'd make by far the better film(Than Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels.)We used this testimonial from Anthony Clavane on the book cover:This pulsating sequel to Hot Knife confirms Lake as one of the most compelling writers around. Raw, visceral, brutal, often painful to read, it delves into areas of life less honest writers fear to tread.That reminded me of where all this started. It was the fist-full of rejection letters that Lake's London agent had for Hot Knife (the first of the trilogy) which persuaded me not to waste years looking for an agent or publisher for my own stuff. The letters were confusing, "I think that Lake writes with real verve ... He's got such originality as a stylist ... The dialogue is especially wonderful, and I think many publishers would sell their own grandmother to be able to write such natural, effortlessly believable lines." It was the 'unfortunately, it's not what we're looking for right now' ending of the letters that showed the dichotomy between a passion for literature and their business model that the major publishers faced.  Brandishing the book. That's how to outsell Booker shortlisters? Photograph: Mick McCannThe first title I published left me wide open to the 'vanity publishing' accusations that would never be levelled at bands. It was my own Coming Out As A Bowie Fan In Leeds, Yorkshire, England. Whilst I was scrambling around Amazon with my guerrilla marketing, trying to boost sales, John Lake was discussing the books sales with a publishing expert. The guy sent him a link to the sales of the Man Booker Prize shortlist. Months after the competition, with all its attached publicity, Coming Out had outsold four of the six books, one of them by over three times. This publishing lark was so easy, or so I thought until I published John's Hot Knife and then my own Nailed - Digital Stalking. OK so we didn't lose any money but whatever I'd captured with the whimsical, cocky, life affirming Coming Out wasn't as easily transferable in terms of sales to the gritty thrillers that followed. As well as the northern press coverage which Nailed - Digital Stalking received, it also got a full page feature in Metro (3-5 million readers) and a long interview on Radio 4 but these seemed to have only a slight effect on sales – less than a feature in the Yorkshire Evening Post had.   David Peace - big voice speaks up for tiny publisher. Photograph: Eamonn McCabeMaybe I just don't understand the thriller market or maybe the majors have got it sewn up and the market is saturated. The thrillers are important to me. As Anthony Clavane said, I'm also convinced that all three have a realism, an edge, an honesty, a colour and northern character that you'd be unlikely to find on a major publishers list. There's the possible exception of David Peace but he's dealing with big topics whereas we're much more everyday life, more domestic, more kitchen sink. I see our thrillers as picking up that powerful and influential northern tradition of kitchen sink realism and applying it to the C21st.Given these difficulties, it was a great relief when at the end of the Blowback launch party we'd broken even on the book. David Peace describes it as:a brilliant and ambitious slice of Yorkshire Noir [which] leaves you desperate for the third part of John Lake's Leeds 6 Trilogy.Whatever the sales of Blowback, I'll certainly bring you that sequel – I just wish I knew how to reach the larger audience that John's work deserves.