Two 16-year-old British girls who were allegedly carrying cocaine worth £300,000 have been "provisionally charged" at a court in Ghana, the Foreign Office confirmed tonight.The girls, from Islington, north London, were arrested 10 days ago at Accra airport by officers from the Ghanaian Narcotic Control Board. They were allegedly carrying 6.5kg of cocaine as they tried to board a British Airways flight.A Foreign Office spokeswoman said officials from the British embassy had been supporting the two girls. "We are aware of the arrest of two British national minors on July 2 at Accra airport," the spokeswoman said."Next of kin have been informed, and we are providing full consular assistance. We are unable to confirm any personal details due to their age."An HM Revenue and Customs spokeswoman told Guardian Unlimited that the girls had apparently been "recruited" by drugs smugglers in Britain, and had travelled to the west African country by themselves without their parents' knowledge. The drugs were allegedly found within their luggage."They were given [bags] to carry and we do not know if they knew what was in them," the spokeswoman said. "They were recruited in Britain and travelled to Ghana."It is unusual in that they are so young, but it is not unusual for British people to be bringing drugs into the country in this way."Ghana, along with other African countries, has become a key staging route for drugs from South America since authorities cracked down on long-established smuggling ports.More than £10m worth of drugs has been seized by Ghanaian or British officials from people travelling between the two countries in recent months.The girls, who have had an initial court hearing, could face jail sentences of up to 15 years if convicted. It was not clear whether British authorities would ask for leniency due to their age.An uncle of one of the girls said he was worried about them. The uncle, who was not named, told ITV News: "These girls have apparently had all their clothes taken away from them, and all they have is the set of clothes in which they got arrested. "They've not been given proper food. The British consulate have been helping out by giving them some food, but all they've been getting is water and biscuits. These girls are held with adults, other criminals, who are much older than them." Justice campaigners Fair Trials Abroad said they intended to take a keen interest in the case. The officials at Accra were taking part in Operation Westbridge, set up by UK customs in conjunction with the Ghanaian authorities to tackle the problem of drug smugglers using the airport as a gateway to the UK and Europe.Tony Walker, leading the operation for customs, said the alleged use of such young girls as couriers "vividly illustrates the ruthlessness of the criminal drug gangs involved in this traffic"."The dedication of UK and Ghanaian drug detection officers has prevented deadly Class A drugs from entering the UK," he added."The Westbridge collaboration between Ghana and the UK is delivering real results in this and other cases by helping to protect both countries from the violence and corruption that always accompanies the trade in illegal drugs."The operation - launched last November - sees customs officers providing technical and operational expertise, including training in the use of Foreign Office-funded scanning equipment, to the Ghanaian government.It follows the success of Operation Airbridge, a joint UK and Jamaican initiative to catch drug couriers with internal concealments of Class A drugs before they board planes from Jamaica.Customs officials believe that operation proved the value of working in partnership with local law enforcement agencies, with the number of "drug swallowers" detected at UK airports having travelled from Jamaica falling markedly.Drug runners are known to target vulnerable people, including women and children, to carry drugs across international borders. Known as mules, they carry the drugs in their luggage, taped to their bodies or concealed in clothing. Drugs can even be dissolved in drinks.Ghana was the first country in Africa to introduce high-tech scanning machines that are able to detect the faintest traces of cocaine and other substances.Sending the machines and officers to train and aid Ghanaian authorities in counter smuggling measures costs £250,000 a year, the customs spokeswoman said. The cost is being paid for by the FCO and Home Office. Customs officials are currently in discussion with other countries, including Nigeria, about establishing similar liaison schemes.