Forty years after the murder of Brighton schoolboy Keith Lyon on the Sussex downs, police said yesterday they finally have the DNA which could lead them to his killer.The officer leading the hunt for those responsible for the death of the musically precocious 12-year-old said they were "one telephone call away" from solving one of Britain's most puzzling murder mysteries after finding DNA on the murdered boy's clothing.At the scene of the place on the downs where Keith was stabbed to death, his younger brother, Peter, now 48, issued a call for those who know the identity of the killer to contact the police."For God's sake, now is the time to come forward," he said, standing at the idyllic spot, which overlooks the Channel and stands just above the girls' school Roedean. "There is nothing worse than shielding a cowardly child-killer."Detective Inspector Tim Nunn, who has been heading the inquiry since it was reopened last year, said that scientists had now given police a DNA profile which would link the killer to the scene. He has also outlined what he now believes to be the likely scenario for the murder.On May 6 1967, Keith, the son of a popular Brighton band-leader, Ken Lyon, was walking across the downs from the family home in Ovingdean to Woodingdean to buy a geometry set with his four shillings pocket money. Dressed in his Brighton and Hove grammar school uniform, he strolled across the almost deserted bridle path.Two women living nearby saw what they later described as four boys "sparring" and apparently involved in a scuffle by some bushes on the path. Shortly afterwards, a teenage girl walking her dog spotted a body lying by the bushes. The pockets of his trousers had been pulled out and the money and his keys were missing.Yesterday, Mr Nunn unveiled his "most likely hypothesis", which suggested that Keith had been approached by three youths who intended to rob him. "Keith resisted in some way and one or more of the youths stabbed him repeatedly," said Mr Nunn, who also retraced the steps of the schoolboy to the downs yesterday. The boys then supposedly ran off across the fields, washing away the blood at a nearby public lavatory which probably only a local would have known of. A bus driver reported seeing two youths in an "agitated" state on his bus to nearby Whitehawk.Although 2,000 children were interviewed and 75,000 house-to-house calls made at the time, no one was ever charged, though fingers were pointed at a group of local youths. The case, which went quiet some months after the murder, was reopened in 1976 and again in 2002.The latest reinvestigation was prompted by a discovery by workmen who found a sealed store room while they were installing a sprinkler system in the corridor between Brighton police station and the magistrates court.Inside the store room, unseen for more than a quarter of a century, was a cache of evidence from the case, including items which have yielded up DNA traces; the murder weapon, a bloodied serrated steak knife, with its tip broken, had been found at the time in the grounds of Fitzherbert school.Last year, two men, now in their 50s, were arrested on suspicion of murder but they have now been eliminated from the inquiry. Then in June this year, another man, understood to be from East Sussex and also in his 50s, was arrested as a suspect. Although he has now been released, he has not been eliminated from the investigation, Mr Nunn said yesterday.What the police now have is DNA of a quality to link the murderer to the scene, and Mr Nunn said that they were "just one anonymous telephone call away" from matching the DNA to the killer. He believes that the youths, now grown up, could be the key to the killer."They may have helped toss Keith's lifeless body from the bridlepath down the bank," he said. "They have lived with those images for 40 years, protecting the main offender by not coming forward. What would give them the courage to tell their story? Will it be an arrest for drink driving and the subsequent DNA profile that will lead to their identity? There are people out there who I am sure know the identity of the killer."Although two mentally ill people had confessed to the murder, they too had been eliminated, he said. Police have not been able to trace a family who supposedly moved to Canada with their teenage son shortly after the killing.Keith's parents, Ken and Valda, have both since died, in 1991 and 2005, but his only brother, Peter, who is also a musician, has always hoped that the case will one day be resolved."Keith would have just been 52," said Peter, a former keyboard player with such groups as Love Affair, the Vandells and the Splinters, who has spent much of the past decade in Thailand, where he has a young son. "Having a son of my own who is a little younger than Keith was when he was killed has made me realise even more what my parents had to go through and appreciate the dignity with which they did it. It is every parent's worst nightmare. I am only sorry that they did not live long enough to see someone arrested for his murder. What we are hoping for is the final piece of the jigsaw puzzle."Timeline1967 May 6 Keith Lyon murdered on Sussex downs.1976 The case is reviewed and a file submitted to the director of public prosecutions. Two men are named but the DPP decides there is insufficient evidence to charge them.2002 Exhibits from the murder inquiry are found in sealed cupboard at Brighton police station, leading to fresh DNA tests.2006 March Det Insp Tim Nunn appointed as senior investigating officer.July Two men arrested on suspicion of murder. Released and eliminated from inquiries.2007 June A third man arrested on suspicion. Released and no longer on police bail.September Police announce DNA breakthroughs and call for fresh information.