Last week, Ofcom announced that Hollyoaks, broadcast daily on Channel 4 at 6.30pm, has replaced EastEnders as the UK's most violent soap. As we cast our minds back over soap stories of recent years – murderous plotting, trams crashing into back bedrooms, Poundland gangster families – it's clear this is some achievement. Hollyoaks, you have my awed congratulations. Bravo on your 11.5 violent scenes per hour last year, overtaking EastEnders – the butt of a thousand jokes regarding the competence of the Walford police and the personal safety of Albert Square residents – who were slacking with only 2.1 violent scenes, down from a respectable 6.1 per hour in 2001/02.If I reach into the tombola of current soap plots and pull out a few for your perusal, you'll see that Coronation Street (three violent scenes per hour) is reeling from the arrest of Tina's (RIP) adulterous lover, a story that shares similarities with the Lucy Beale whodunnit on EastEnders. Meanwhile in Emmerdale (four violent scenes per hour), Belle is wiling away her days in soap Borstal for the killing of her Mean Girl friend Gemma.Hollyoaks, which has an audience comprised mainly of teenagers and young people filling the period between getting home from school and their mum calling them for dinner, is the most frenetic, the most double-lash, triple-backcombed glamorous of all the soaps. Its villains are the most villainous, the cast turnover is faster and the drama more ludicrous. It is the soap that on Friday revealed the identity of a killer via Snapchat. It is amplified for its young audience, and loved because it never patronises. It was the first soap to address same-sex domestic violence, it ploughs through issues of gender identity, child abuse, STDs and incest while its older soap relatives cross their fingers for positive viewer reactions to gay couples. It broached the subject of suicide pacts with a character called Newt and his imaginary girlfriend, and still managed to do it sensitively.Soaps cater to a largely female audience; the reason, I suspect, that they have never shaken their frivolous image. Meanwhile, women are murdered by their partners every day in Britain. When Mandy and Beth killed the wife-beating, child-raping Terry Jordache in Brookside in 1995, press campaigns to "free the Brookside Two" were launched and the issue was taken up by Women's Aid, the group that ultimately (and successfully) lobbied parliament for greater legal protection for the victims of domestic violence. Facts such as these are conveniently overlooked when soaps are wheeled out to act as the canary for moral sensibilities, monitored for unsavoury themes by people who have no interest in them unless they can be used to measure the values of their audience.In a wider TV context, soap violence is actually pretty tame. In other dramas – Game of Thrones springs to mind – violence is routinely employed for reasons less than vital to the plot. Rapes are committed for light characterisation, beatings impart a bit of titillating juiciness, and the corpses of dead women – The Bridge, for example – are added to scenes for sexy noir decoration.Soaps, meanwhile, are dictated by two forces each as fearsome as the other: rules on pre-watershed broadcasting, and the just and merciless soap gods, who leave no crime nor minor moral trespass unpunished. Soaps also have the unique advantage of being able to string out events for weeks or months, allowing the effects of each dramatic twist to be picked apart in intricate detail. And when there is a highly charged scene, it's milked for all its worth both in dramatic tension and the ensuing fallout – why have a robbery end in a call to Claims Direct when it can herald the complete breakdown and emotional decline of the woman who had her bag pinched? When these stories reach violent peaks, the camera pans back to reveal the gawping face of the protagonist as the horror of what they've done, along with months of future miniplots unfold in front of their eyes. The maddening guilt, the casting out by neighbours and friends, the justice that is always, without fault (give or take the odd twist along the way) served. What a comforting distraction this reliable machine is to real life, where cheats live to cheat again, teachers accused of inappropriate behaviour with pupils rarely fall off tall buildings, and where people have even been known to get away with murder.There is no soap death that hasn't inspired heavy eye-rolling from some soap fan, somewhere, temporarily broken away from the co-dependent waltz of plausibility that soaps engage in with their viewers. We know small towns in Cheshire don't have 11.5 violent incidents per hour, just as we know high-drama plot devices are a soap necessity, and a death neatly concludes a storylines in a format that is open-ended and unceasing. I can assure you that, rabid letters to Elstree detailing the precise reasons Kat wouldn't have slapped Ronnie notwithstanding, we can tell the difference. When a scene calls for Phil Mitchell to run through his thundering grumpy bear routine, the fourth wall is prone to slight rattling. We are aware that soap is theatre, and we can handle the theatrics.