The prisons minister, Paul Goggins, has been forced to apologise to the widow and family of John Tero, who was wrongfully jailed at the age of 72 and died of a cancer which went undiagnosed while he was in prison.The Prison Service is to introduce changes in prisoners' healthcare as a result of an independent investigation into the failures in the medical care of Mr Tero while he was in Woodhill and Wymott prisons. He was treated for indigestion for eight months when he had developed cancer of the stomach. The formal apology to his family comes 16 months after he complained to his MP about his treatment in prison. A month before his death in September the Home Office released a statement saying the minister refused to apologise because the Prison Service had done nothing wrong. Mr Tero was sentenced to five years in prison in December 2000 but won an appeal against his conviction a year later and the case against him was dismissed. By the time he was released he was critically ill, spent most of 2002 in treatment, and died, aged 74, in September. In a letter to his widow, Lilian Tero, of Northampton, Mr Goggins said: "I should like to offer my sincere apologies, on behalf of the Home Office and the Prison Service, for the failures in the medical treatment afforded to your husband at Woodhill and Wymott prisons." The apology was made after an independent clinical review of the case by Dr Joseph Blackburn, who is responsible for GPs in the Prison Service. As a result of the case every prison is to be told that it must have and use the official guidelines used by all GPs in suspected cancer cases. They are also to be told that each prison must have a senior manager who is responsible for ensuring that escort staff are available to take priority patients to hospital. A prisons ombudsman's report has already criticised Woodhill, near Milton Keynes, for failing to properly handle the paperwork in Mr Tero's appeal, and Wymott prison, near Preston, for making Mr Tero travel home by public transport when he was seriously ill. Sally Keeble, the Labour MP for Northampton North, who took up Mr Tero's complaint in September 2002, said yesterday: "The Home Office consistently denied any failures but John Tero has been vindicated. Sadly, it is too late for him. "The Home Office has been forced to apologise and forced to make changes in the way the prison medical service works. "It is important that they are carried through." She said the case had illustrated how poorly complaints about the prison medical service were dealt with, and said she hoped there would be major changes when it was taken over by the Department of Health and became part of the NHS. "It should never have taken 16 months for this to be sorted out," Ms Keeble said. "He should have received an apology before he died. That is all he wanted. "Everything he complained about has been proved to be true."