It was "extremely rare" for patients to die in front of their doctors with no one else in the room, the public inquiry into Harold Shipman heard yesterday.John Grenville, an expert on general practice, said that only two patients had died in front of him in 20 years. It was also rare for someone to die in the hours following a visit from a GP. The inquiry in Manchester is investigating the deaths of 459 of Shipman's former patients. Dr Grenville, who gave evidence at Preston crown court where Shipman was convicted of murdering 15 of his elderly female patients by injecting them with a lethal dose of diamorphin, said: "It is unusual for a patient to die in the presence of a GP or within a few hours of having seen the GP. "The vast majority of such cases are where the patient is known to be terminally ill and the doctor has been visiting the patient at home on a regular basis at the end of the patient's life. It is extremely rare for no-one else to be present." Shipman, 55, claimed his victims had died suddenly from heart attacks, strokes or of natural causes. During the trial witnesses told how they discovered their relatives or friends often sitting fully dressed on a chair or lying on their beds fully clothed. Dr Grenville said this did not fit with the causes of death recorded by the doctor. People suffering heart failure would loosen their clothes and open doors and windows because of the feeling of suffocation. "It is extremely uncommon for a deceased person to be sitting, head to one side, appearing peaceful and asleep. "It is more usual to have a few moments of consciousness during which they will attempt to seek help and it is common to find a deceased patient lying on the floor near the chair on which they have been sitting but obviously have moved in the direction of a telephone or a door." Dr Grenville said Shipman had felt for "brain stem activity" at the back of the neck of his victim in front of a witness. "This is nonsense. Brain stem activity does not produce any effect which can be felt by a hand on the back of the neck." The inquiry has also heard evidence from Henry McQuay, an expert in pain relief, who said lethal injections of diamorphine would kill within minutes. People injected with the drug would fall asleep and stop breathing, starving oxygen from their brain. It would have greater effect on the elderly as kidney function was reduced. Press Association