Ian Huntley claimed he invited Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman into his home after one of them had a nose bleed, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Mr Huntley is alleged to have told his then partner, Maxine Carr, that the girl went into the upstairs bathroom to try to stem the bleeding. The other also went upstairs and sat on the edge of their double bed. On the third and final day of the prosecution's opening speech, the court was given details of the spot where the bodies of the 10-year-old girls were found almost two weeks after their disappearance. The prosecution said a pathologist believed the most likely cause of their deaths was asphyxiation. Mr Huntley, 29, a former caretaker at Soham village college in Cambridgeshire, denies murdering the girls, who went missing on August 4 last year. Ms Carr, 26, pleads not guilty to two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The prosecution claims she backed Mr Huntley's false account by pretending she was with him in Soham when she was more than 100 miles away. For the first time yesterday the jury was given details of the story he allegedly gave Ms Carr. Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, said that two months after the pair were arrested, Ms Carr made two calls to Mr Huntley's mother, Lynda Nixon, from prison. In the first she said that Mr Huntley had told her on the day after the girls disappeared - when she was in Grimsby - that they had been in the house and that one of them had a nose bleed. Twelve days later, during a second call, she said Mr Huntley had claimed the girl with the nosebleed went upstairs to the bathroom to try to stop the flow. The other girl sat on the edge of the bed. Mr Huntley also went upstairs. Mr Latham also told the jury that the bath had been cracked. "As the case progresses, you may well need to consider just how this bath did get damaged." Mr Latham said Ms Carr claimed she had lied to the police for a good reason. He said Ms Carr claimed Mr Huntley had been falsely accused of a crime before she knew him. It was several months before the charge or charges were dropped, and he suffered a breakdown. She lied because she did not want him to go through such an experience again because he had admitted being the last person to see the girls. Police found a "crib sheet" allegedly in Mr Huntley's handwriting when they searched their house. The note read: "4.55-5pm get in bath; approx 5.40-45 dog home; approx 6.15 girls; 6.25 come down to put tea on." Ms Carr had told police she was in the bath when the girls passed their house. The prosecution said that when she lied for him Ms Carr knew or believed he had killed the girls. Mr Latham accused of her of telling "persistent, devious and detailed lies". He told the jurors that they might be asked by the defence to consider if the deaths might have been a "ghastly accident". They would have to ask themselves how two girls suffered an accident. "These were not two little babies. They were fit, 10-year-old girls. Ten-year-old girls don't just drop dead." Mr Latham said the jury might be asked to assess if Mr Huntley was "incapable" at the time of the girls' deaths. But the way he disposed of the bodies and tried to cover his tracks showed evidence of a "calculating" mind. Earlier the court had been told how within hours of Mr Huntley and Ms Carr being arrested in the early hours of Saturday August 17, the bodies of Holly and Jessica were, by coincidence, found. Three people were walking along a track near the Suffolk village of Lakenheath in an area known as the Carr when they smelled rotting flesh. They found the charred bodies lying on their backs, side by side, in a deep irrigation ditch. Both still wore their necklaces. The bodies were substantially decomposed and attempts had been made to set fire to them. Had they not been discovered within a short time, nothing would have been left but the skeletons. They had to be identified using dental records and DNA tests. Mr Latham said it was impossible for the cause of death to be established. There were no signs of broken bones or other major injuries. However, a pathologist, Nat Carey, believed the most likely cause of death was asphyxia. Dr Carey, the court was told, had not been able to exclude the possibility that the girls were sexually assaulted. When police examined the scene they found that a path had been made into the ditch through a clump of nettles. A strand of what turned out to be a strand of Jessica's hair had snagged in a branch. A second route into the ditch, which began from further up the track, was discovered at the end of that. Police also found a scrap of cloth in the ditch matching Jessica's tracksuit trousers, which by this time had already been found in a bin at Soham village college. Mr Latham said the prosecution was suggesting that the bodies were placed in the ditch clothed and their garments cut off at a later stage. The scrap of material in the ditch supported this scenario. Mr Latham asked the jury to remember what he had told them of Mr Huntley's actions on the Wednesday before the bodies were found. He had been asking several police officers about DNA evidence. There was then a possible sighting of him at his grandmother's home, which is just two miles from the ditch. The prosecution believes this was the day Mr Huntley returned to the ditch, removed the girls' clothes and set fire to their bodies. Mr Latham claimed Mr Huntley knew the area. At one point his father lived only half a mile away. It would have taken around half an hour to drive from Soham to Lakenheath. "If he had been in a blind panic there are plenty of other places." It showed Mr Huntley was thinking "quite clearly and calmly, not in a panic". Mr Latham told the jury about how police set about linking Mr Huntley to the ditch and to the girls. Detectives discovered that the track was made up of an unusual material - chalk excavated from ditches laid over a bed of concrete rubble. Samples taken from the interior and exterior of Mr Huntley's red Ford Fiesta matched the track. A botanist matched types of pollen found in and around the ditch to microscopic grains of pollen found on Mr Huntley's belongings. Scientists also discovered 49 fibres matching the girls' Manchester United shirts on Mr Huntley's clothes and at his home. The trial continues on Monday.