The children's green paper pledges that the welfare and wellbeing of every child in England matters. But the Children's Society questions whether this is the case when young people in trouble with the law, and those in prison, are not recognised as being at risk.An accompanying document to the green paper, youth justice - the next steps, published by the Home Office, seems to close the door on the fundamental reforms needed if some of the country's most troubled and abused children are to receive the protection they need.The children who get in trouble with the law and end up in prison are often the same group who suffer abuse, school exclusion, family and mental health problems. Prison is no place for them. There has been an explosion in the use of custody for children, particularly those under the age of 15. The new Home Office proposals would make it easier to lock up 12 to 14-year-olds. This plan appears to ignore that between 1998 and 2002, 12 boys aged 16-17 killed themselves while in custody.As soon as you look behind their offences, it is clear that children in trouble with the law have some of the most acute, complex and challenging needs and face severe risks to their health, safety and future.Government inspectors in last year's safeguarding children report said of youth offending teams (YOTs) and their work with children in prison: "The focus was almost exclusively upon the offending behaviour of the young people, and there was little evidence of welfare needs being considered and addressed." Despite this criticism, the Home Office now wants the only factor to be considered when a court passes sentence on a child to be stopping them from re-offending. No concern is shown for the welfare of the child.The children's green paper will place a new responsibility on agencies like health and police to make sure that child protection is their highest priority. Yet under the new Home Office proposals, YOTs and the courts will have a quite different - often contradictory - emphasis. Some of the government's plans are positive, such as a commitment to the use of bail. There is also an acknowledgement that more could be done to address serious welfare concerns in the youth justice system. The Children's Society welcomes the green paper's suggestion that YOTs could be potential partners in children's trusts, which bring together local health, education and social services, as well as careers advice. We would go further and recommend that YOTs should be an integral part of the new trusts.But in the face of continued criticism by the United Nations about this country's youth justice system, it is disappointing to see the government's proposals for reform being so narrow. The government has restated its commitment to this country having one of the lowest ages of criminal responsibility in Europe - at 10 - and a system that still sends too many children to jail. By doing this it has missed a real opportunity to really show that all children matter.· Sharon Moore is the policy manager for the Children's Society