Paedophiles throughout the world who download evidence of their crime on to computer databases can no longer rely on the size and anonymity of the internet to keep them safe from detection.The Observer can exclusively reveal that Britain's National Crime Squad is about to launch the most powerful image recognition computer program in the world, using ground-breaking technology that will enable them to link images of abuse to individuals with unprecedented efficiency and speed.The system, known as ChildBase, is so secret that the police forces who will be using the program have not yet been told of its existence and the computer companies that helped develop the technology have been served with gagging orders to stop them revealing any details. 'This is the most powerful tool we have ever had, and will transform the speed and success with which we can track down abusers and their victims,' said Jackie Bennett, of the National Crime Squad. 'But if we say what ChildBase is capable of, the paedophiles will change their modus operandi and the entire system will become useless before it is even launched,' she added. Computers seized from paedophiles commonly contain many tens of thousands of images; in a case currently pending, a computer was found that contained more than 500,000 pictures. Until now, police have had manually to retrieve, categorise and log each individual image: a task so huge that investigators are frequently forced simply to give up, leaving thousands of images - each one evidence of abuse - uncatalogued and unused. This happened last week in the case of Roger Parker, the Manchester headmaster whose computer contained 36,000 images, of which police, restrained by other demands on their time, managed to recover just 308. ChildBase will change all that. The program will cross-reference and sort through hundreds of thousands of images in a fraction of the time it currently takes to do the same job manually. The program will enable investigators to compare recently seized images of abuse, about which little or no information is known, with a police database of limitless capacity containing images that have been previously analysed. By comparing visual clues, the search engine could identify the people within the picture, details about the location where a picture was taken, and links between known criminals and other suspects. ChildBase will also match single pictures to series of images taken from the same film roll or video string, providing investigators with insights into details about the camera used, the style of the photographer and even camera angles, which may reveal further information not previously seen. The database will also link apparently harmless images of children to a series that has been documented and captured as illegal. For example, a photo of a child smiling might be part of a pornographic cycle and contain vital information, but would have gone unlinked without ChildBase's powerful cross-checking program. Founded with the 750,000 images taken during Operation Cathedral, a British-led operation that smashed the so-called Wonderland Club ring of internet paedophiles in 1998, plus another 100,000 images from further operations, ChildBase is to be officially launched on 25 July. Even after the launch, however, no one outside the Squad will be told exactly how the database works. 'It's very hard for me to launch a system I can't tell anyone about, especially as we want the public and the victims to know this database exists,' said Bennett. The database has been developed by a small team of officers from the new Paedophile Online Investigation Team, a secret department within the National Crime Squad that was created last year to work on Operation Ore, the investigation into child pornography that has so far led to the arrest of more than 1,600 people. ChildBase's software, developed last year with the Canadian company Imagis Technologies for £500,000, will also help police to determine whether pictures are old or new, enabling investigators to judge whether the abuse is still taking place and whether they should launch a search to identify the offender. Although the database will be based at the NCS headquarters in London, the Squad hopes that Interpol will eventually take it over, incorporating information from police files across the world.