Almost a third of cases of domestic violence began or intensified while a victim was pregnant, a study for Scotland Yard reported yesterday.The research into domestic attacks and murders also showed that stalkers were likely to be more violent if they had previously had a relationship with their target. And it reported that women trying to end a relationship were among those most at risk of being attacked or killed by their partners. Senior officers hope the research, part of the Metropolitan police's Understanding and Responding to Hate Crime project, will allow them to spot patterns in cases of domestic violence and to intervene more speedily.As part of the project, which receives funding from the Home Office, researchers studied all domestic murders - which are thought to account for about a quarter of all murders - and assaults in London over the past two years. The study highlighted pregnancy and the time shortly after childbirth as one of the times when a woman is most likely to be attacked, with around 30% of violence cases starting during pregnancy. According to the report most female victims of stalkers know the man who is stalking them. It said potential victims ought to be warned of how dangerous stalkers could be. The study found that victims who were trying to terminate relationships were frequent murder victims. The report said: "Notions of 'If I can't have her, then no one can' were recurring features of such cases ... threats which begin with: 'If you were to ever leave me ...' must be taken seriously." It added that many domestic attacks also arose out of disputes about contact with children and child custody. The survey claimed that in general violence tended to get worse in subsequent attacks. It said 35% of households had a second incident within five weeks of the first. Commander Andy Baker, head of the Association of Chief Police Officers' homicide working group, said the research would help prevent murders. He said: "The ground-breaking research will directly affect our service to domestic violence victims." However, the project's behavioural analyst, Laura Richards, who led the research, warned: "It structures and informs decisions that are already being made. It is only a guide. "It must be recognised that escalating violence does not solely depend on the number of risk factors appearing. "It depends on what they are and how they apply in that situation as to whether there is an imminent risk posed to a particular individual."