Prisons are our most neglected and least visible public service, only emerging as a matter of national debate when something goes radically wrong. Successive home secretaries have striven to keep prisons out of the news. For years we have been imprisoning growing numbers of foreign nationals without working out how to manage them. The number of foreign prisoners has more than doubled over the last 10 years, while the imprisonment of British nationals has increased by a half. Yet years go by without a consistent strategy to deal with them. It is a serial failure. Sooner or later the situation was bound to come to light. It has now - on Charles Clarke's watch.The story over the past few days has focused on failures to secure public safety. However, the lack of a strategy for coping with foreign nationals in prison or on release cuts in every direction. One prisoner contacted the Prison Reform Trust recently because he has been held in prison for 10 months after the end of his sentence, waiting to be deported. We respond to many cases of this kind, and yet the Home Office is still not able to tell parliament exactly how many foreign nationals are detained in prison beyond their sentence.Nor is it fair to staff or prisoners when as many as half of a jail's population are foreign nationals, stuck together without the resources to cope. Failing to keep up with the rising population jeopardises prisoner welfare and public safety.The main reason behind the rise in numbers is simple. One in four foreign national men and 80% of women are being held for drugs offences. In many cases these were drug couriers or "mules". Reacting to changes in law enforcement, there have been shifts in their countries of origin. At one time many came from Africa, then Jamaica, then the wider West Indies. An increasing number now are from south-east Asia. One thing remains the same: big drug importers are always able to locate a stream of desperate people to take a foolish risk under duress or for promises of meagre reward.After one prison visit last year I received a letter from a group of women in prison for importation. They were full of regret for their crime and completely distraught at their 10 or 15-year sentences, away from their country and children. Clearly, they had committed a serious offence; their plea was for mitigation and mercy. Not all foreign-national prisoners are dangerous or violent people. Talking to prison staff, they will often refer to foreign-national prisoners as "good" or "biddable" people who cause no trouble - a stark contrast to the recent scaremongering in the media.When the Prison Reform Trust surveyed prisoners and staff in 2004 we found that information on prisoners' immigration status was inaccurately and inconsistently recorded. Many prisoners are held in bureaucratic limbo, as documents and requests pass between arms of the Home Office and their home country. One prisoner told us: "As I write this letter it is 10 days after my release date, yet I have received no written notification from immigration as to the reason and length of this continued imprisonment."This fits with our finding that there was also a lack of information for the prisoners themselves. Many prisoners are unaware of the workings of the criminal justice system in this country and have problems understanding prison procedures and rules. There was a clear need for immigration and legal advice. This is compounded by language barriers, because of a shortage of translation facilities and English classes for prisoners. Communication between staff and prisoners is the basis on which a safe and constructive prison regime is built.We also found strong welfare concerns for foreign-national prisoners, particularly isolation and racism. It is thought around three-quarters of foreign-national women in prison are young mothers separated from their children. Separation from family and isolation can damage mental health, and make an already long sentence feel yet longer. Racist treatment was also a recurrent concern of prisoners.Lastly, foreign-national prisoners were often ill-prepared for release. Language problems prevented them taking part in courses to prevent their offending behaviour and, because of uncertainty over whether they would be deported or not, they were not considered a priority for pre-release classes. In the context of this mess, it may not surprise anyone that serious errors were made in regard to consideration of deportation.The failings we have seen can be attributed to the absence of a strategy for managing the huge rise in the number of foreign-national prisoners. In an overcrowded, hard-pressed prison system, resources have been little more than "make do and mend". Until recently, prison, probation and immigration services have operated in separate spheres. With luck, this week's political storm could lead to a strategy that secures both prisoner welfare and public safety. It might even draw attention to the foreign nationals held for disproportionately long periods in our prisons.· Juliet Lyon is director of the Prison Reform Trust. prt@prisonreformtrust.org.uk