A slight rise of 2% in violent crime recorded last year in England and Wales masks apparently sharp increases in rape, stranger violence and harassment, according to the official figures published by the Home Office today.The figures also show a continuing rise in drug crime, with possession offences up 17% to 117,815, reflecting greater police enforcement. The Home Office now estimates that more than 1 million people have taken a class-A drug, such as ecstasy or cocaine, in the past year. But the annual figures indicate that the crime rate overall continues to fall, and the risk of becoming a victim of crime is now at its lowest for more than 20 years. Home Office statisticians said that the British Crime Survey (BCS), which is regarded as the most reliable indicator, shows a 2% drop in the crime rate in the 12 months to April 2003.The second official yardstick, offences recorded by the police, shows a 7% rise over the same period, but Professor Paul Wiles, the Home Office's research director, said that this raw figure represented a 3% fall when adjusted to take account of changes in the way police record crimes. This is the last yearly set of figures to be affected by the changes. The raw police figures record a 22% increase in violent crime, but the Home Office says that this should be adjusted to an increase of only 2%, to take account of the new national crime recording system. The BCS suggests that violent crime rates remained unchanged over the past year. The 22% increase in the raw, unadjusted police figures for violent crime has mainly been driven by the recording changes, which have seen some less serious offences, such as low-level thuggery in which nobody is hurt, included in the violent crime figures for the first time as harassment and common assault. But it also includes a 27% increase in rapes of women recorded by the police, from 8,990 to 11,441 over the past year, with an 8% increase recorded in stranger violence. Home Office criminologists said they did not know if the increase in rape was a result of more victims reporting the crime to the police, or an actual increase in attacks. The murder rate in England and Wales, at 1,048, was the highest ever, but is little changed once the 172 deaths in previous years attributed to Harold Shipman are taken into account. The overall crime picture, although obscured by the changes in police recording practices, appears to show that crime in England and Wales has broadly stabilised after eight years of sustained falls. "We have had a period of steep falls, but it is now shallowing. The downward trend is slowing," said Prof Wiles. His view is shared by senior police officers and by crime reduction charities. Chris Fox, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said that continued falls in the numbers of burglaries, car thefts and robberies demonstrated the value of targeted police initiatives, including Tony Blair's street crime campaign."The new system of recording crime is settling down, and gives a more accurate picture of the true levels of crime," said Mr Fox. "The apparent increase in violent crimes is accounted for by the inclusion under the new system of minor offences, mainly assault, where no physical injuries are caused," he added. Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said crime rates had now stabilised after the significant falls in recent years, and Britain now had the most accurate methods of recording crime in the developed world. The rises in rapes and domestic violence were bound to be interpreted as signs for serious concern, but actually meant that more victims were reporting such crimes.  Differing perspectivesMore than two-thirds of people believe crime has risen "a lot" or "a little" in the past two years despite the British Crime Survey, which asks 40,000 adults about their experience of crime, reporting a 17% fall since 1999, says the Home Office. The survey also explodes the idea that Britain is a nation fearful of crime and says that most victims (50%) get angry and only 25% say they became fearful. The BCS reveals a sharp distinction between different kinds of newspaper readers with 43% of tabloid readers believing crime has shot up over the last two years compared with only 26% of those who regularly read a broadsheet. Among the other main findings of the Home Office bulletin, Crime in England and Wales, published today, are:   Burglary and car crime After significant falls in burglaries since they peaked in 1995 the trend has now flattened with 974,000 domestic burglaries in England and Wales. The chance of a particular home being broken into is now no more than once every 50 years. Single parents living on inner city council estates and well-off urban professionals living in town and city are among those at highest risk. A burglar is now much more likely to take a mobile phone, credit cards or computer equipment than a video recorder or a television. Thefts of and from cars and other vehicles fell by a further 9% on the police recorded crime figures after being adjusted for changes in recording practices.   Robberies The police recorded a 14% fall in robberies to 108,045 in the aftermath of the government's street crime initiative. But the overall number of robberies was still above the 95,000 level of two years ago.  Drugs crime Recorded crime figures for possession of illicit drugs rose from 100,930 to 117,815 in the last year despite the more liberal rhetoric from politicians on cannabis. But the Home Office says possession and trafficking figures - which also show an increase - seriously underestimate offending and the figures reflect enforcement policies rather than changes in use.   Detection rates Only about 23% of the 5.8m crimes recorded resulted in a charge or caution and the detection rate changed little in the last year. The average detection rate falls to as low as 14% in London. Violent crime and sexual offences are much more likely to be solved than thefts, criminal damage or burglary.   Unemployment and crime The Home Office says there continues to be a strong relationship between unemployment rates and burglaries and car crime. The fall in domestic burglaries matches the fall in male youth unemployment and the fall in car crime is linked to the fall in the total jobless numbers.   Crime in England and Wales Household crime is highest in Yorkshire and Humberside and lowest in Wales. Londoners experienced the most violent crime with 32 offences for each 1,000 residents and south-east England had the lowest at 13 offences per 1,000 population. The highest overall crime rate was recorded in Nottinghamshire with 159 offences per 1,000 population. Crime in England and Wales 2002/2003, Home Office statistical bulletin, ONS