David Blunkett, the home secretary, today massively extended plans to abandon the ancient principle of double jeopardy which stops anyone being tried twice for the same crime.Unveiling the controversial new criminal justice bill - the centrepiece of Labour's parliamentary programme for the year - ministers revealed that double jeopardy will be reversed for 10 times as many crimes as previously indicated. A white paper published in the summer said the change would apply to murder, rape and armed robbery, but today's list included 30 different crimes such as Class A drugs offences, war crimes and hijacking. The move is part of a sweeping reform of sentencing and the way courts operate which ministers hope will rebalance the system in favour of victims. However, it is likely to face massive opposition in the Lords - where the government does not have a majority - from Tory and Liberal Democrat peers. It has also attracted criticism from civil liberty groups.Someone acquitted of a crime will face a second trial if "compelling new evidence subsequently comes to light" which indicates they were guilty, such as DNA or fingerprint tests or new witnesses. Home Office minister Lord Falconer conceded: "Although it looks a longer list the tone of the offences is very similar to those referred to in the white paper." Asked how many people would face a retrial for the same crime he replied: "It's very difficult to predict but it would not be a vast number of cases, a handful a year." Other controversial measures in the bill include allowing juries to hear of a defendant's previous convictions and ending the universal right to trial by jury. Judges will be allowed to hear cases alone in five different situations - serious fraud cases, complex financial or commercial cases, where jurors have been intimidated, where there is risk of intimidation or when a defendant chooses to have their case heard by judge alone. Labour peer Baroness Helena Kennedy QC has already criticised the proposals as "quite frightening" attacks on civil liberties. The billl - dubbed a "victim's justice bill" by the prime minister - faced a barrage of criticis before it was even published.Other proposals in the Bill included: · Introducing "indeterminate" sentences for dangerous, violent or sex offenders so they can be kept in jail after the end of their sentence if they are still considered a risk to the public.  · Doubling magistrates' maximum sentencing powers to 12 months.  · Abolishing all exemptions from jury service, apart from the mentally ill, to make juries more representative of society. ·Bringing in intermittent custody, or "weekend jails", so offenders can keep their jobs and family ties.  · Giving police powers to give "street bail" to suspects to save officers having to take every person they arrest back to the police station.  ·Granting police power of arrest for possession of Class C drugs to pave the way for the reclassification of cannabis from Class B to C so officers will still be able to arrest dope users in aggravated cases. · Granting the prosecution the right of appeal against the judge's decision to terminate a case for technical reasons. · Allowing hearsay evidence to be given in court in some circumstances. ·Creating new sentences of Custody Minus - effectively a suspended sentence - and Custody Plus, which would see offenders go to jail for up to three months followed by at least six months supervision in the community. Lord Falconer said the overall effect of the reforms would increase the prison population by "less than four figures in total". However, other groups in the criminal justice sector have estimated the figure could be as high as an extra 10,000 at a time when the number of people in jail is at an all-time high of 73,000. "This is seeking to address a whole variety of problems that victims and communities and witnesses feel exist in the system at the moment," said Lord Falconer. "More than 30,000 trials are lost in a year because witnesses don't turn up, sometimes it's because of intimidation but more often than not it's because they get fed up with the process.  "The system is not working in too many respects - that is a view held by people who work in the system and people who depend on the system." He added: "We are extremely keen to see these measures enacted. "There will, no doubt, be opposition in the Lords, but I am not sure what the Conservatives will do. "We will see from them whether or not, like us, they are prepared to roll up their sleeves and produce solutions to the problems that actually exist." The home secretary David Blunkett said: "Antiquated rules with arbitrary effects and unpredictable consequences must be reformed. "Obstacles to delivering a more effective and efficient system must be swept away to enable the criminal justice system to focus on what matters - the search for truth and the conviction of the guilty." The bill would help create a "more transparent and consistent system with the right punishment to fit the crime," he added. John Wadham, director of civil liberties group Liberty, said the bill was a "shameful attack on justice" which would be regretted in years to come. "Blaming fair trial protections for crime rates is wrong and misleads the public," he said. "In years to come, as more innocent people emerge after years in prison caused by these plans, we'll wonder how parliament let this shameful attack on justice get into law. "Over 90% of people who go to court are convicted. "The problem is that in over three-quarters of all crimes - over four million every year - no-one is arrested. "That's about resources and efficiency in the police and crown prosecution service - not about the courts." He added: "The government is focusing on the wrong end of the criminal justice system. "Making trials less fair won't cut crime rates: it will send more innocent people to prison. "The government wants to shortcut justice, because it's cheap and it gets good headlines. But it's wrong and it won't solve the problem." The chief executive of crime reduction charity Nacro, Paul Cavadino, said: "Victims of crime should be better treated, supported, informed and compensated. "But it is dangerous to talk about rebalancing the system as though there was a conflict between victims' and defendants' interests. "We should ask ourselves whether the criminal justice system is of any benefit to victims of crime if wrongful convictions become more likely. "Surely no justice system can be truly just if it is unfairly weighted against the defendant?" But Britain's most senior police officer, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, said: "Reform of the criminal justice system is long overdue and is much-needed if we are to strengthen public confidence in the system and provide the justice that victims deserve. "If enacted, the legislation will bring about improvements in the performance of all those involved in the system from start to finish, including us, the police. "It will see a rise in the number of offenders brought to justice and an improvement in the treatment and support that victims and witnesses receive. "The public must have a justice system that it can believe in and depend on and for that reason I strongly welcome this bill." Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes said of the double jeopardy proposals: "Making this legislation retrospective risks causing serious problems in our criminal justice system. "It would also be very difficult for a second trial to be fair, especially in cases that attract a great deal of media attention during the first trial." He added: "Liberal Democrats welcome many of the proposed reforms, especially the introduction of "custody plus", which is a rational alternative to short prison sentences. "But the government's belief that by removing judicial safeguards they will improve the lot of victims is totally misplaced." Reducing the right to trial by jury "risks eroding one of the cornerstones of British justice", he said, and his party would also oppose disclosure of previous convictions. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of probation union Napo, said the plans would make prison numbers spiral and require an extra 10 jails to be built. "The effect of less jury trials, doubling the maximum sentence in the magistrates' court, indeterminate custody and allowing previous convictions into court prior to sentence will add up to 10,000 to the prison population. "The government will need to build 10 new jails with running costs in excess of £200 million per annum. "The cost of custody has already doubled in the last four years to £3 billion. "Custody plus and other non-custodial options could act as a counter balance, but funds for the probation service are not available in the medium term. "As a consequence the criminal justice system will not be able to cope." 