Half a mile from Manchester's thriving city centre, where flats sell for hundreds of thousands of pounds, is the urban wasteland of the Beswick estate. It was here in late 1999 that Sean, Joseph and Michael McCann - when they were 16, 15 and 13 - became subjects of one of the government's first anti-social behaviour orders. The McCanns' home has since been bulldozed, but other impoverished terrace houses and flats remain - some lived in, some burnt out. Security cameras monitor residents' every move and a walkway has been boarded up by the council in an effort to prevent crime. This area of east Manchester has been described by Brian Robson, director of Manchester University's urban policy studies centre, as "land of the forgotten". Anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) were introduced by the government in April 1999 as a flagship of home secretary Jack Straw's law and order programme. Local authorities and chief police officers, acting in consultation, may apply to a magistrates' court for what is in effect a banning order, protecting the community from a named individual alleged to cause harassment, alarm or distress to others. The order, issued under the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act, involves civil proceedings, with a case needing to be proved only according to the rules of civil evidence; the burden of proof is less than demanded by criminal cases. Hearsay evidence is acceptable, as it is so difficult to persuade witnesses to appear. Yet a breach of an order is a criminal offence, the penalty for which may be anything up to a five-year jail sentence.Gillian Crossley, the McCanns' solicitor, argues that Asbos should have been set wholly within the criminal justice context. Indeed, she is taking the case to appeal on this point. "I do not think it was a very well thought through piece of legislation," she says. "It is silent on standards of proof and I think it was naive to consider that these orders would be dealt with by duty solicitors in a five-minute hearing." "By their very nature, they are not dealing with nice, compliant and friendly people with respect for authority. They are dealing with people with an inbred distrust of authority who are more likely to say no than yes". The order against the McCanns has anyway proved counter-productive, Crossley claims. "To some people, they achieved enormous notoriety and gained hero status, and to the ordinary population they were seen as the scum of the earth," she says. "The family was marginalised and the order caused more trouble for them." The family, one generation removed from travellers, has been divided by the order, she says. Forced to move away, the boys have been unable to maintain links with relatives who still live in Beswick. Debate over the rights and wrongs of Asbos has been inflamed by an allegation by Straw that solicitors who challenge the orders are out to make money. He told a conference: "Very aggressive defence lawyers sometimes forget about their wider social responsibilities and their responsibilities to the court, and, in trying to protect their niche markets with the local criminal fraternity, act in a way which would have been unacceptable when I was practising [as a barrister] 25 years ago." Crossley says she does not understand the basis for the minister's outburst. More important, she contends, is that Asbos have made no difference to the crime rate in Beswick. Superintendent Dave Thompson, of Grey Mare Lane police station in the heart of the estate, disagrees profoundly. He says that since the orders were introduced, crime has fallen by a third and burglaries by half. Takings at the local supermarket increased £14,000 a week when the boys were banned, says Thompson. "At the time when we obtained the order, there was a feeling that anything went round here," he says. "A lot of people had lost confidence in the police and there was a perception that they [the McCanns] were untouchable. The three boys caused an enormous amount of problems for local people and committed a range of anti-social behaviour. And because residents were so scared of them, they were not willing to go to court."  In the McCanns' case, there was no mediation and no attempt to sort out their problems prior to use of the Asbo. Since then, however, there has been a subtle change and orders are now regarded locally as a last resort for dealing with similar cases. Thompson says: "We don't just want to beat them over the head with the orders; we're trying to explore the support systems that can be kicked in." Frank Whiteley, of the Association of Chief Police Officers, reckons Asbos have been relatively successful, but concedes that there have been teething troubles. He says the association believes the orders are not a single answer to anti-social behaviour, but part of a bigger tool kit. "We have never looked at Asbos on their own," Whiteley says. "But we have looked at the wider strategies and we have had some good successes." Orders can be used as part of an inter-agency approach involving mediation, injunctions and bail, but by themselves they are not a complete solution. "We are cautiously optimistic about their success so far." The Home Office acknowledges that take-up of Asbos has varied across the country. More than 160 orders have been issued, including at least 50 against under-18s, but figures range from 18 in London and 15 in the West Midlands to just one each in Thames Valley, Leicestershire and south Wales. "There is some anecdotal evidence that the threat of an Asbo is often sufficient," says a spokeswoman. "We should not just judge it as a policy by numbers."Ten years as an outcastA 15-year-old Manchester youth last week received what is believed to be the longest anti-social behaviour order so far issued. Billy Kelly will be unable to enter the Fallowfield district, in the south of the city, for 10 years. Manchester magistrates imposed the order after hearing that Kelly threatened staff of the city council's housing department when his family was being evicted. He was said to have told a police officer: "I'm going to come back and terrorise Fallowfield."Kelly is currently finishing a six-month detention order for threatening to firebomb a neighbour. He is expected to be released next month and to live in Sale, Greater Manchester. Magistrates were told that he was involved in incidents dating from October 1998, including shoplifting, taking cars - one of which was involved in a police pursuit - and stealing a charity box. He is thought to have been involved in a gang, two other members of which were already subjects of Asbos.Kelly, whose application to be allowed into the exclusion zone to visit his father was turned down, is also banned from entering part of the Rusholme district.Basil Curley, Manchester council's executive member for housing, says: "We asked for a 10-year ban and we think it is fitting because there is no reason why this man should enter Fallowfield. It is also an indication to others who are contemplating creating havoc."