Rape victims are receiving a postcode lottery in care, a major review set up by the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, will reveal.The report, due to be published next month, will conclude that, although most investigations are of a suitably high quality, a centrally organised unit would ensure that victims receive a uniform treatment. They are handled at present by local police forces as part of a specialist unit inside CID. 'We have been looking at whether rape investigations should be moved into the Serious Crimes Department, where child protection, domestic violence and hate crime investigations currently are,' said Brian Paddick, Met deputy assistant commissioner, in charge of London's 32 dedicated Sapphire rape units. 'Moving rape investigations into a centrally organised unit under the same serious crimes roof would ensure that the same standard of investigation is being carried out across the city. This would mean a victim in one part of London would get exactly the same high standard of care as in any other.' Government figures published this year found that rape convictions are at a record low, that the crime still goes largely unreported, and that, although complaints and prosecutions have risen, the percentage resulting in convictions has fallen. A Home Office report revealed that the proportion of rape allegations resulting in a conviction has dropped from 24 per cent in 1985 to 5.6 per cent in 2002. The overall picture is worse. In 2002, 11,676 rape cases reached court, but just 655 led to a conviction - and in 258 of those the rapists had pleaded guilty. This means the women were believed in only 3.4 per cent of contested cases, despite a huge effort to overhaul how rape investigations are held. Police and health services have been brought together in 13 Sexual Assault Referral Centres across England and Wales, with three due for expansion and six more in the pipeline. Specialist training is being developed and the Home Office, the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Crown Prosecution Service will jointly implement the action plan. The review will also emphasise that detectives specialising in rape cases must not be expected to work across the other serious crimes departments. 'The important lesson that has come out of child protection issues is that we need to have specialist officers who don't move from one type of investigation to another,' said Paddick. 'The case for having specially trained officers is a case well made. I think we need special detectives to tackle each issue, but that they should be co-located.' However, the review will not tackle a problem identified by an Observer investigation, which discovered unqualified detectives doing the jobs of senior officers because of lack of funding and a shortage of qualified officers. Paddick admits the review found no way around these problems. 'The difficulty we have is a general shortage of experienced detectives in London, so despite the policy being that only experienced detectives should be involved in rape cases, trainee detective constables are being employed.' A senior Sapphire detective, who wants to remain anonymous, believes the review might be a turning point for rape investigations. 'Victims already receive a very high level of care from police, but we are so pushed that it is inevitable we will miss things and not be able to follow every lead we would like,' he said. 'We need uniformity across London in dealing with rape investigations. Detections are being missed because different boroughs deal with investigations in different ways, depending on each one's individual responsibilities and pressures. 'If rape investigations are reclassified as part of a serious crimes team, it will attract more detectives, which will lead to fewer trainee detectives being in senior positions. This will mean less pressure for the rest of us, which will mean fewer mistakes. Added to which, it is an important statement to make: if rape is a serious crime, then why shouldn't it part of the serious crimes department?'  Here are some of your responses to the opening of our rape campaign last week: I work in a Sexual Assault Referral Centre and have responsibility for the aftercare of men. Just as with women, men have many issues after they are sexually assaulted. They are afraid of approaching authority and have often suffered major violence. If there is a major campaign for the rights of women who are raped, could there at least be a mention of the problems men face too as they try to get justice within the same criminal system?  Dr Tom McManus It was refreshing to see such a thorough examination of the low conviction rates and poor support for victims. But we must be cautious in believing that Sexual Assault Referral Centres alone will remedy the situation. They are a welcome improvement to the criminal justice process but only deal with very recent assaults and do not offer long-term support, advocacy and counselling services like those provided by rape crisis centres. These independent community organisations provide support services based on women's needs, rather than the needs of the criminal justice system, in a women-only setting. Unless the government improves funding, closures and cutbacks will mean even less support for victims. Vivienne Hayes Director, Women's Resource Centre, London EC1 From our blog: How can we expect men to treat women as sentient beings when pornography objectifying women is served up on a daily basis, and women are equally media-fed a diet of how to be an object?  Posted by Roe Woodroffe Violence is closer to 'normal' sex than we like to admit. It is eroticised in pornography and a lot of young people get influenced by pornography, blurring the lines between sex and rape.  Posted by Barbro A factor not mentioned is the notion, perpetuated in the media, that 'date rape' is often down to confusion between both parties over whether the woman consented or not. Rapists commit rape because they want to, and it's insulting to real men, who know what consent is and wouldn't dream of persisting without it, to suggest otherwise. Posted by Marie 