Detectives hunting the killer of Amelie Delagrange had no witnesses, no DNA and no forensics to go on.Without the benefit of modern science, they were facing, in the words of Detective Chief Inspector Colin Sutton, "the sort of case that could have happened in the 1950s". Instead, the breakthrough came instead from old-fashioned police work – the meticulous piecing together of the jigsaw of evidence before them.Three months into the investigation of Delagrange's murder at Twickenham Green in August 2004, police on Operation Yeaddiss used CCTV footage to identify a white Ford van parked nearby at the time of the attack. Further inquiries were leading nowhere - the number plate could not be identified and there were 26,000 such vehicles registered in the UK. None of those registered locally matched.Desperate for leads, officers were sent to local road bridges to look out for similar vans. Others sifted through 129 messages to the incident room from people claiming they knew someone who could be the killer.One named Levi Bellfield as a violent man, saying he was a wheelclamper with a white van.A detective remembered that a registered owner from Isleworth had told him he had sold his white van to a wheelclamper, but had kept getting parking tickets. He had no name for the man, only a mobile number.When the number was punched into the Holmes computer, Bellfield's name came up as someone who had reported a neighbour as a suspected terrorist. His van was found to have the same distinctive features as a van seen on CCTV: a missing hubcap, a missing left-hand front lamp, and a mark on the roof where an orange beacon had been removed. He had fitted aluminium strips at the back of vehicle, and they appeared on the CCTV film as a dark smudge.Police knew they had their man. Bellfield was arrested on November 22 2004, and it was then a matter of going back to similar attacks and finding any links to him.Through intelligence records, detectives discovered that he drove a white people carrier with blacked out windows - the same type of car that Kate Sheedy, 18, described as having run her over in May 2004. CCTV footage of a white van following her bus that night showed a petrol stain on the bodywork - the same stain found on his vehicle.Footage of the spot where Marsha McDonnell got off her bus in February 2003 recorded a Vauxhall Corsa following behind. Bellfield had a silver Corsa registered to him and his clamping firm. Interviews with his colleagues yielded another alleged victim. A witness told police he had seen Bellfield attack Irma Dragoshi in December 2003.Officers, ploughing through similar unsolved violent crimes, found an attack on Anna Maria Rennie in 2001.She was traced to an address in Spain and asked whether she could identify her attacker from a video ID parade.Rennie picked out Bellfield.