From a date yet to be announced, the ancient double jeopardy rule, which provides that no one acquitted of a criminal charge can be put on trial again for the same offence, will be swept away for a range of serious crimes.Under the Criminal Justice Act, which received the royal assent in November, it will be possible for a defendant acquitted of one of a wide array of offences to be tried again if compelling new evidence emerges which was not available at the time of the original trial and that evidence is "highly probative" of guilt. The appeal court must also agree that it is right in all the circumstances for a new trial to take place. Controversially - and highly unusually in English law - the change is retrospective, and could allow the Crown to re-open cases dating back years. Lord Lloyd of Berwick, a former law lord who put down an unsuccessful amendment to remove retrospectivity, said he had no doubt the police had a list of perhaps a dozen names of people they believed had been wrongly acquitted. He described backdating the change to allow those people to be re-prosecuted as "profoundly shocking". The change was prompted by the Stephen Lawrence case and the realisation that three of the five men widely believed to be responsible for the racist murder of the black teenager could not be retried after a private prosecution against them by the Lawrence family was thrown out. The report of the inquiry into the death recommended referring the question of a change to the double jeopardy rule to the Law Commission, the official law reform body. It recommended abolition of the rule, but only for murder. The Criminal Justice Act, however, abolishes the rule for a large number of offences, including murder, manslaughter, rape, arson endangering life, armed robbery, sex with a child under 13, importation of class A drugs, hijacking and war crimes. The act includes safeguards against police harassment of people who have been acquitted of serious crimes. The Director of Public Prosecution's consent will be needed before a suspect can be re-investigated by police and before an application can be made to the court of appeal to quash the acquittal. Only one application for an acquittal to be quashed will be possible, so there is no prospect of repeated retrials. Both the DPP and the appeal court have to consider the interests of justice, including "whether existing circumstances make a fair trial unlikely." This would rule out prosecutions where media coverage was deemed prejudicial to the fairness of any new trial. Other factors include the length of time elapsing since the original trial, and whether the new evidence could have been adduced at the earlier trial but for failures by the police or prosecutors.