The government cannot be accused of not trying. Countless avenues have been explored to improve the dismal statistics surrounding convictions for rape. The problem was never going to be solved with one brilliant masterstroke that would suddenly lead to most raped women reporting the assaults against them and most rapists being convicted and punished. Instead, the last 20 years or so have gradually seen bits and pieces of the law and the investigative process turn in favour of the victim.Just to take three positive examples: women reporting rape to the police are now treated with kindness and sympathy, not suspicion and derision; in a trial (with few exceptions) it is no longer allowed to ask an alleged victim about her previous sexual history; an accused can no longer successfully raise the defence of "I really believed she wanted it". There have been many other progressive, though not headline-making, reforms.But not, it seems, enough to make a big difference. The latest statistic is that only 5.7% of rape complaints result in a conviction (a small improvement on the previous year). Even allowing for different interpretations and explanations of that figure, it is clearly unsatisfactory and unacceptable, especially in the context of another statistic, that 85% of women don't report rapes against them at all. The new measures announced by the solicitor general, Vera Baird QC, last week, are all sensible and welcome, but are unlikely to have more than a modest impact.The difficulty is that many of the proposals aimed at improving the conviction rate involve, directly or indirectly, a diminution of the accused's rights, with the undoubted result that many innocent men would be wrongly convicted. Reducing the standard of proof from near-certainty to a "balance of probabilities" would produce huge injustice to defendants. So would some of the proposed schemes to tamper with the rules of evidence so as to give, in effect, the alleged victim's story greater weight than the accused's denial.Rape has long been the most difficult of crimes to fit into the English criminal trial system. It usually depends on one person's word against another, with no forensic or witness evidence to corroborate either side. It is a sad fact that a truthful person does not always perform well in the witness box, while the lying defendant - the rapist - appears genuine and persuasive. The jury's job of choosing between the two versions is especially difficult when - as is the case in most rape trials today - the central issue is the woman's consent and the accused is a past or present lover, husband, friend or acquaintance. Bring alcohol into the picture and a jury's task becomes near impossible; can anyone tell if a woman has drunk so much that she cannot give a true consent to sex?Is there a method of convicting more rapists without convicting large numbers of innocent men? The government has not yet found a way - not through want of trying - and its options are getting fewer and fewer. It may be there is no realistic solution.