A former evangelical church leader who presided over one of Britain's largest congregations was yesterday jailed for sex attacks on members of his flock.Pastor Douglas Goodman was jailed for three and half years after being convicted of two indecent assaults, one attempted indecent assault, and perverting the course of justice. Judge Gerald Gordon told Goodman, the former head of the Victory Christian Centre in Kilburn, north London: "You have no doubt been a charismatic pastor to whom your loyal flock were utterly and blindingly loyal. "Because of your position as pastor and your total hold on your congregation, some members of your congregation may have felt duty-bound to submit to your sexual demands." The judge added: "You built the church up but it is you who brought it down." As he was led to the cells, the father-of-four looked up into the public gallery where more than 30 supporters watched. Courtenay Griffiths QC, defending, said many other supporters had been locked out of court because there was no room and these represented "just a fraction" of Goodman's worldwide support. Outside court Detective Sergeant Simon Smith praised the women who came forward to complain about the pastor. He said: "These women were sexually abused by Goodman, which affected them so much that some made attempts at suicide. It has taken a great deal of courage for them to come forward." The court heard that Goodman, 47, who preached in an American charismatic style, built the VCC into one of the most powerful black churches in Europe. He also became rich, living in a million pound house and owning a fleet of cars, including a Ferrari. His downfall came after four women aged 17 to 32 complained that he had made unwanted sexual advances to them over a five year period from 1997. Goodman, 47, of Northampton, denied 14 charges involving four women. He was convicted of four charges but the jury, which cleared him of two other indecent assaults, could not agree on the others. Goodman agreed he had an affair with one of the women. The church was closed by the Charity Commission in December 2002 amid allegations that Goodman had misappropriated funds. Police are investigating.