A soldier turned thriller writer who set up a chain of secret gun factories from which he supplied weapons to street gangs in Liverpool, Manchester and the West Midlands is facing a lengthy prison sentence after admitting a string of firearms offences.Paul Alexander converted replica guns at factories in an Essex village and Bath and then sold them for as little as £1,500 a time, complete with ammunition, silencers and carrying cases, in what police have described as "assassination kits".Alexander, 53, who was born Paul Daintry, used 30 aliases, including John Bourne and Franz Bauer, apparently after the fictional agents in The Bourne Identity and 24. He acquired the skills that later allowed him to convert replica firearms and manufacture ammunition while serving in the Royal Artillery for 20 years.During interviews, he insisted that he supported himself through sales of thrillers that he wrote under the name Paul Hunter-Mann-Purdy and paid to publish.The novels feature an action hero called Mac who, according to the publisher's blurb, "operates in a violent world where rules are broken, assassins are commonplace and nothing is quite as it seems".According to the publishers, their author served in special forces, although police say Alexander had no such background. The publishers added that he "currently works for corporations, organisations and individuals as a surveillance and courier operative. He has travelled extensively, and continues to do so." Police said Alexander had travelled to Brazil, the US, Canada, often to Germany and once to Pakistan. The purpose of many of those trips remained unclear.Alexander had been arrested in Britain and the US for a number of minor offences after retiring from the army with an exemplary record in 1992. But his secret firearms enterprise began to unravel only after his DNA was discovered on a handgun seized by Merseyside police two years ago, during a crackdown on gang violence in the wake of the murder of 11-year-old Rhys Jones in Liverpool.Initially Alexander could not be located, but after his DNA was also found on two identical "assassination kits" seized nine months later in Manchester, police and the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) traced him to Essex and he was arrested in September last year.Soca described him as "a very significant player". A police raid on his country mansion, which he paid £3,800 a month in cash to rent, uncovered 28 firearms and more than 10,000 bullets.Investigators also seized equipment that Alexander had used to convert replica and antique firearms and to manufacture ammunition. Forensic examination of the ammunition showed that many rounds bore tell-tale markings left by his manufacturing equipment, enabling police to link him to ammunition and guns used in 28 incidents. They include one alleged murder, four attempted murders, nine other shootings and an armed robbery. Among the rounds discovered were around 200 soft-point dumdum bullets, prohibited under international law.Alexander previously lived in Bath, where he had used a garage as a gun-making workshop.He was remanded in custody today until 2 November for psychiatric reports before sentencing. He pleaded guilty in July to two counts of possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life, converting imitation firearms into real guns, possessing or manufacturing prohibited ammunition, cultivating a cannabis plant and money laundering.Detectives believe that several more of Alexander's firearms remain in circulation, and will inevitably be employed in future crimes. Police have also identified a series of bank accounts into which Alexander deposited £135,000 over an 18-month period up to September last year, and are now attempting to locate overseas accounts that Alexander is thought to have used.His wife Caroline Hunter-Mann-Purdy, 59, and her daughter Rachael Hunter-Mann, 39, were each given two-year community orders today after having pleaded guilty to money laundering. Hunter-Mann-Purdy, who had already served the equivalent of a 14-month jail sentence in custody on remand, passed £74,000 through her bank accounts, but Judge Charles Gratwicke said she was "clearly a vulnerable woman". Alexander's other stepdaughter, Jasmin Purdy, 22, was sentenced to 12 months in jail after admitting cultivating cannabis but walked free from court having served eight months on remand.Soca's deputy director, Mick Layton, said Alexander had been "dealing in death" and the investigations into the criminal network he was involved with continued. "Our message to Alexander's criminal associates is a stark one ‑ be worried, this hasn't ended here," said Layton.