An outspoken Metropolitan police commander who caused a furore by saying he found anarchism attractive was strongly rebuked yesterday at a meeting with the force commissioner, Sir John Stevens.On his first day back from a holiday in Australia, Brian Paddick, 43, was summoned to Scotland Yard to explain comments he made during an online chat for the www.urban75.com website. He was warned that his remarks had embarrassed the Met and undermined his authority in Lambeth, south London, where he is the borough commander. Though the episode irritated senior officers - not least because Mr Paddick was on holiday and uncontactable when the story broke three weeks ago - the Met stressed that he had not broken any disciplinary codes. Using the tag name Brian: The Commander, Mr Paddick told the website, which is renowned for its coverage of direct action protests, that the concept of anarchism "has always appealed to me". He also hinted that he believed some drugs should be legalised. "We need to take the criminality out of it by legalisation and strict control ... the bottom line is, screw the dealers, help the addicts," he said. Other remarks included: "Do not treat all police officers as lapdogs of a corrupt capitalist system. Dogs sometimes turn on their owners." Following his meeting with the commissioner yesterday morning, the Met released a terse statement. "Concern was expressed about some of the language he used, its wider interpretation and the impact on his role as a senior manager of the Met," it said. "[Commander Paddick] confirmed that he is strongly opposed to any form of anarchy and has never believed that anarchism is a practical alternative to the rule of law and the maintenance of order. This matter is now considered closed." This is not the first time that Mr Paddick has been summoned to headquarters to explain himself. During evidence to a House of Commons committee last year, Mr Paddick seemed to suggest that he was not interested in taking official action against weekend "recreational" users of small amounts of cocaine and ecstasy. He has also been under pressure since introducing a pilot scheme in Lambeth that allows officers to caution rather than arrest people found with cannabis. Senior Met officers believe that Mr Paddick is a courageous and liberal minded officer, but have warned him that his "big mouth" could be his undoing.