The Moors murderer Ian Brady will not be charged with the two other child killings he has admitted, the crown prosecution service said yesterday.It examined the possibility of charging Brady - and before her death Myra Hindley - with the murder of Keith Bennett and Pauline Reade, and consulted the treasury counsel, then concluded that there was "no realistic prospect" of a successful prosecution. Sources said a prosecution would have been riddled with problems, not least the near impossibility of one of Britain's most notorious killers getting a fair trial. But the decision angered Keith's mother, Winnie Johnson, 71, who has asked for the case to be reopened and said: "I'm gutted but I'm not going to give up. I'm determined to get justice for my Keith." Her son's body has not been found, even though Brady and Hindley were taken on to the moors to try to find it. Mrs Johnson said: "I've had nearly 40 years of this. I'm going to write to the home secretary, to the law lords and to the European court about it. "It's just not right that after all this time Brady is still escaping justice." Brady and Hindley were jailed for life in 1966 for murdering Leslie Ann Downey, 10, and Edward Evans, 17. Brady was also convicted of murdering John Kilbride, 12, and Hindley was found guilty of being an accessory. They were suspected of being responsible for the death of Keith, 12, and Pauline, 16, but it was the mid eighties before they admitted it. Hindley recalled Brady leading Keith "like a lamb to the slaughter". The police took both of them to the Pennine moors to try to find the bodies. Only Pauline's was found. The possibility of prosecuting them was examined and dismissed in the late 80s. Last May Mrs Johnson wrote to Greater Manchester police and the CPS asking for the cases be looked at again. She was alarmed by a European court of human rights ruling on the power of the home secretary to veto the release of murderers, which some feared could pave the way for Brady and Hindley's release, and she believed that if they were convicted of further offences they would almost certainly die behind bars. Christopher Enzor, head of the CPS casework directorate in York, said the case had been looked at again because of the "exceptional nature and sensitivity of the background".