"You can get a better sleeping bag on the Strand than you can buy in the camping shop Blacks. There is a sense of belonging on the streets and a feeling of safety in numbers. But where there is help inside, people should not take their help out on to the streets ... Even the Big Issue is perpetuating the problem."On being appointed to the rough sleepers unit in 1997"One of the key lessons I've learned from running the rough sleepers' unit is that changes in attitude, culture, policy and services are just as important as money."On tackling homelessness, 2002"Some central areas in big towns have got prostitutes' cards in phoneboxes. What is the response of one area I was in? To pay for someone to audit the number of cards. This is the sort of thing that sends me over the edge. I have to control myself in meetings, still look calm and smile afterwards with a cup of tea and not go, 'Are you crazy, have you lost your mind?' By all means count them, but take the effing things down at the same time. I am clear. There is absolutely no point in more legislation in this field, or extra money. We just need to bloody enforce things."Attacking the "let's-assess-it mentality", in 2004"It is not a case of poor kids, they have nowhere to knock the football about. If only it was, my life would be a lot easier."Urging people to act against yobs in 2004"Sometimes I wish people like Asbo Concern and some of the people who write letters to the Guardian could just see it from the point of view of the people in the communities."Defending Asbos in June 2005"I suppose you can't binge drink anymore because lots of people have said you can't do it. I know. I don't know who bloody made that up. It's nonsense. Particularly when you are 40 you can binge drink whenever you want. Life's downhill from there ... Doing things sober is no way to get things done. I try to explain that to ministers but they don't get it."Her widely-reported speech to senior police officers last July"There is an obsession with evidence-based policy ... If No 10 says bloody 'evidence-based policy' to me once more I'll deck them one and probably get unemployed."More from that speech"I've seen ... the shock on the face of someone who thought it was okay to urinate in the high street and was fined on-the-spot - I don't think he'll be doing it again."On the government's Respect agenda, 2006"We have never encouraged people to be vigilantes and never would do so."On the government's "don't moan - take action" campaign, 2006"Key for me is what parents allow their children to watch on TV, DVD and video games. This is why more widely we need to give parents the tools they need in order to bring up their kids properly." On Asbos, 2006"There are more police officers on the streets at any time than ever before and by April 2007 every ward in London will have a dedicated neighbourhood police team." On tackling crime, 2006