Farmer Tony Martin, who was jailed for life in April for murdering a teenage burglar, was yesterday told that he would not receive legal aid to fund his appeal against the conviction.The ruling means that Martin, 55, could be forced to sell his Norfolk farm to fund his legal fight. During a preliminary appeal court hearing Martin's new legal team said it wanted vital papers from the solicitors whom Martin had instructed for the original trial at Norwich crown court but has since sacked. And outside court it emerged that the new team is contemplating civil action against the previous solicitors in connection with money which had been held in a trust fund for Martin's case. Martin's new solicitor, James Saunders, said after the hearing: "We're determined that Tony Martin's case will be properly prepared for the court of appeal. We're hoping to find some money to finance that. "If no one helps him he will have to sell the very thing that provides him with his purpose in life - his farm. In order to be free, to get back to his previous life, he will have to destroy his previous life." A court can rule that a person has sufficient wealth to fund an appeal. The value of Martin's assets is not known but he does have valuable farmland and machinery as well as his dilapidated farmhouse. Martin's new legal team told the court it was hampered because the farmer's previous solicitors, Leicestershire-based M&S Solicitors Ltd, had not handed over papers which could help in the appeal. It is thought that one of the arguments the new team could put forward is that medical issues could have had an impact on Martin's state of mind. The farmer's new lawyers want to find out if this was discussed with Martin and if any steps were taken to draw up a report on his psychiatric state. Another bone of contention between the old and new legal teams is a trust fund set up to help Martin's fight. The various problems mean that the appeal, which had been expected to be heard this autumn, might not take place until the start of next year. Nick Makin, of M&S Solicitors, said that his firm was hanging on to the case papers until costs due from the legal aid authorities were paid. He said he was not aware of any action in relation to the trust fund - the firm was happy to transfer the funds in accordance with the trustees' instructions. 