There is an old saying among lawyers; "Good lawyers know the law; great lawyers know the judge."It would be outrageous to suggest – in our transparent and sophisticated legal system – that anything could be achieved simply by hobnobbing with judges. But what about knowing the justice minister? Or more to the point, what if the justice minister knows you?Jade Goody struck the heartstrings of justice minister Jack Straw before her wedding last week. This is not to say that Straw's intervention in the case – lifting fiance Jack Tweed's curfew conditions so that the couple could spend their wedding night together – was done at her behest. It simply seems that Straw, like the rest of the nation, was following Jade's plight, and was moved by the prospect of a last-minute and urgent wedding being blighted by the absence of the groom on the wedding night. So Straw did what any compassionate justice secretary would do. He temporarily varied the terms of Tweed's curfew so that Goody could have the wedding we are told she dreamed of.This is certainly not the strangest thing the justice secretary has ever done. There is a lot of good feeling towards Goody right now – even her harshest critics feel compelled by her story. And the criminal justice system – faceless, nameless machine that it is – is meant to balance punishment and deterrence inherent in criminal sentences with fairness. Naturally the facts of every case, including any exceptional circumstances, should always be taken into account.The problem is that, for many people convicted of crimes, this could not be further from their experience of the criminal justice system. The Home Detention Curfew Scheme under which Tweed was sentenced is a prime example of this. It allows prisoners serving certain sentences to finish the last half at home, provided they stay indoors between 7pm and 7am and wear an electronic tag to monitor their whereabouts. It was not introduced to make life more bearable for prisoners, but as a desperate attempt to deal with a rapidly expanding prison population. Nevertheless, it is supposed to be tough enough to form part of a prison sentence, but fair enough to take any exceptional circumstances into account.Instead, as lawyers have long been complaining, the scheme is being operated rigidly, with decisions taken by prison governors where they should be made by judges. In one case, a man who was serving a sentence for growing cannabis asked to be released on home detention so that he could spend time with his mother who was dying of cancer. His request was refused – the only concession was to allow one, one-hour visit while he was handcuffed to two guards. No justice secretary in sight.It's great to know that Straw has such a compassionate side. Maybe he should consider showing it more often.