Last week's Comprehensive Spending Review contains the promise that the government will 'pilot radical new approaches to meet the specific needs of women offenders, to tackle the causes of crime and re-offending among this group and reduce the need for custody'.How radical? Does this mean calling a halt to locking up our most damaged women in bleak, oversized, understaffed institutions that further isolate them? How much will be invested outside criminal justice in education, work, housing and health, where the solutions to women's offending really lie? Government policy on women offenders is riddled with contradictions. Committed to reducing women's imprisonment, it is still pressing ahead with opening two new private prisons to hold a further 800 women. Overturning a long-standing agreement to remove girls from the prison system, the Home Office is now spending £16 million on juvenile jail units. In the past few months, it has uprooted t he only therapeutic prison for women to make way for men from overcrowded jails. Women's prisons are not full of serious and violent offenders. A harsher political climate and tougher sentencing, rather than an increase in severity or rates of offending, account for a trebling of women's prison numbers in the past 10 years. More women are jailed for shoplifting than any other crime. Two thirds of women enter prison on remand. Home Office figures show that 40 per cent of sentenced women serve just three months or less. There is a high price to pay for overuse of custody. Imprisonment will cause a third of women to lose their homes, reduce future chances of employment, shatter family ties and separate more than 17,000 children from their mothers. Women's prisons are not full of happy, healthy women. More than half the women in prison report that they have suffered violence at home, and one in three has experienced sexual abuse. Many have been in local authority care. There is a vastly higher incidence of mental disorder than in the general female population. Half of the women in prison are on prescribed medication such as anti-depressants or anti-psychotic medicine. More than a third of women will have attempted suicide prior to custody. Prison is no place of safety. Nine women have already died in jail this year. Tragically women's prisons are being used as providers of accommodation, cheap drug detoxification and low-level mental health treatment. If the government is serious about 'stability, security and opportunity for all', it must act to divert vulnerable women from the criminal justice system and plug the gap in public services that have failed to meet their needs. · Juliet Lyon is director of the Prison Reform Trust