Tony Blair became the first serving prime minister to go to prison yesterday. He visited Pentonville in London. If only he had gone before yesterday's publication of the government's 10-year crime programme, there may have been less emphasis on tougher sentences. A criminal justice system in which three top professionals - the chief inspector of prisons, the prison director general and lord chief justice - have all in the last month emphasised prison's negative results, is still preparing for a further expansion: a £700m programme providing 2,500 extra places over three years.The prime minister made it clear the Tories were not going to outflank Labour. He boasted about the government's tougher penalties: third-time burglars getting three years, increased penalties for drug traffickers, increased mandatory drug-testing, and "toughened up community sentences so breaches are more likely to lead to custody". There is a similar unequivocal message in yesterday's plan: a "justice gap" which must be closed by catching and committing more hard core criminals. But neither addressed the chief inspector's assertion in G2 this month that 20,000 inmates - women, boys, elderly, mentally ill, petty offenders - should never have been sent. An election approaches. Do not expect politicians to listen to pleas for a reduction in the prison population, even though we already have the highest in Europe apart from Portugal. Crime may be falling but custody will continue to rise to slake the thirst of an avenging public. They are not as hardline as purported. But who stokes up the presumed public lust for retributive justice in the first place? Politicians of course.To be fair to the government, it was not all hardline rhetoric. There was considerable constructive tenderness too. And, compared to its predecessors, considerable evidence-based policy making, which progressives can embrace. True to its old mantra, Labour has been tough on the causes. Its multiple anti-poverty programmes - new deals for the unemployed, literacy and numeracy schemes, truancy patrols, support for families under stress, neighbourhood renewal - are playing a key role in the drop in crime. There is a coherence to their changes to the system: new coterminous boundaries for police, probation and magistrates; a reform process which began with the most urgent areas, youth justice and the crown prosecution service (CPS), which will now move on to courts, sentencing and the police. Just how abysmal it had become can be measured by two related statistics: a fall in conviction rates from 18% of all recorded crime in 1980 to 9% last year; and a CPS, in which even by last November, only one in five lawyers and case workers had access to a computer. CPS gets a 23% increase from April and probation 31%. The plan contains three large holes, two created by committees - on courts and sentencing - that have still to report. The third is the failure of the government to produce a comprehensive strategy on alcohol, which fuels so much violent crime. There are plenty of ideas which liberals must watch: a clear desire to tilt the system more in favour of the prosecution; more use of previous convictions by judges and jurors; pilot schemes which could create two-tier policing by allowing private security firms to be accredited by the police. Britain's crime rate, as last week's international survey showed, is among the highest in the world. But there is no need for panic: burglary and car crime have been drastically slashed by targeting. Robbery is rightly next in line. Related articles 26.02.2001: Blair unveils 10-year crime plan 23.02.2001: England and Wales top crime league 17.01.2001: Sharp rise in violence mars figuresUseful links Home Office report on criminal justice Prison service