The amount of over 50s coming into the prison system has trebled in the past 20 years. The most recent statistics collated in 2005 show that 7.5% of the prison population are classed as "older prisoners".A pilot project being led by Age Concern in the south-west is aiming to address the expanding needs of this group after identifying a gap in current provisions. The population of older prisoners is growing because of an increase in retrospective sentencing and improvements in DNA. Many of the older people facing prison for the first time are sex offenders and can be in their 70s and 80s.The official prison service position is that they do not have a specific policy for older people but every prisoner has an individual prison plan. Christina Snell is the chief executive of Age Concern Gloucestershire. "The reality is that older people's needs in prison are rarely met," she says. "Essentially the system just isn't geared up for older people; prisons are old Victorian buildings with steep staircases. If you have mobility issues they are very difficult places to live in".A typical example that convinced the project founders that there was a need for a new service is of a 70-year-old man who was put into a bail hostel awaiting trial. The council house in which he had lived for 40 years was taken from him and deemed to have nothing of value in it. All his personal papers and possessions were removed and destroyed including all his photos.Another example comes from an HM inspector's report. A prisoner returned to prison after having major hip surgery, an occupational therapist recommended a raised bed, chair and also a raised toilet seat. The seat was provided, but as the prisoner was sharing a cell it was deemed inappropriate to put the seat in. The prisoner received none of the recommendations.Ms Snell believes health considerations will be a major part of their work. "Prisoners are often 10 years older than their biological age," she says. "This is due to the levels of stress and the profile of prisoners. Poor physical and mental health problems are common. Drug issues, smoking, poor diet, lack of exercise and lack of daylight are all factors."In addition to health needs, Ms Snell identifies some of the other less obvious ways the group hopes to be of use. "The culture can be very difficult for older people. The majority of prisoners are young men, so they can feel alienated and lonely; the older, vulnerable prisoners are particularly susceptible to bullying by younger inmates," she explains. "They can also be discouraged from taking education as the officers don't think it will benefit them, as they are less likely to work on the outside," she continues. "If they are of retirement age they won't be eligible to work in the prison and we can help them by giving them something to focus on. Otherwise, they just end up sitting around".The project will aim to help older people in prisons, but also prisoners resettling into the community with housing and benefits issues, supervised by the probation service. Ms Snell says, "over 50s are unlikely to work again. If you get the resettlement issues right, ex-prisoners are going to be more stable and then they are less likely to re-offend".Led by Age Concern, the project also has representatives from probation, health and housing on the steering group. Representing prisoner needs is Stuart Ware, who started campaign group Restore 50+ 10 years ago with several other prisoners when he was a serving prisoner himself."I was shocked by what I saw, the way older prisoners were treated and I decided to do something about it. Ageism exists in general society but it seems to be magnified in the prison environment," says Mr Ware."When older people are being released some social service departments are unable or unwilling to assess their social care needs. For example some may well need a care-home environment. This project would seek to advocate in such situations," he adds.Ms Snell understands that some people will think helping offenders is controversial, especially sex offenders: "Age Concern's stance is that we are not here to judge. What the criminal justice system doesn't take into account when they are sentencing is how much more difficult it is going to be for an older person. It is about humanity and it isn't about condoning what they have done in any way".The charity-funded pilot project will run in the south-west for three years. The project also represents a new challenge for Age Concern. "We are here for all older people in need," explains Ms Snell. "This is about discrimination, older people are getting sentences based on their offences but are getting a more extreme experience in prison".