He was a father who was out of control, with a family around him too scared to come forward and explain what was going on. The fear he engendered was total – but according to the report published today – an executive summary of a serious case review – there were clues that could and should have been picked up and pursued. And because they weren't, the man was allowed to continue raping his two daughters over 25 years despite social workers, healthcare professionals and others suspecting he was the father of their seven children.The 39-page document details the crucial opportunities to intervene which were missed "individually and collectively", even though the family received input from 28 agencies involving more than 100 social, healthcare, police, housing, education and voluntary staff over a 35-year period. Even when abnormalities in some of the children pointed to incest and sexual abuse, no action was taken.In total, there were 12 reported disclosures of physical abuse, seven allegations regarding sexual abuse from family members, and 16 child protection conferences and strategy meetings.But failure to act meant the two daughters "experienced physical, emotional, sexual and psychological abuse for most of their lives", during which they endured 18 pregnancies between them.The summary, written by Professor Pat Cantrill, a senior civil servant at the Department of Health, depicts a family living in fear of a man who controlled them through "physical violence, intimidation, bullying and emotional control".He moved his family 67 times to different properties in Sheffield and Lincolnshire as he attempted to stay one step ahead of the authorities. His wife, S, escaped to a refuge on several occasions, finally leaving him in 1992, but leaving their three children, two daughters M and N and a son T, with him.Adult T would leave home at 15, and go on to suffer mental health problems.SheffieldThe report states that between 1975 and 1988 the family lived in Sheffield. During that time, there were five occasions when the children presented with injuries considered "consistent with non-accidental injury", according to records."On several occasions, the school, hospital, and ambulance staff expressed concerns about the neglect, the hygiene of the children, parental demeanour or behaviour. All three children had significant periods of absence from school," the report said.There were also six referrals alleging neglect and physical abuse between 1975 and 1978. And between 1978 and 1982 five disclosures were made by the three children about physical abuse by their father, but nothing to indicate the daughters were being sexually abused.There was evidence of escalating violence towards the children, and seven child protection conferences were held in Sheffield detailing concerns about physical abuse.But professionals had difficulty gaining access to the house, and some admitted being "afraid" of the father. The children were on the child protection register for 10 years, until 1988 when the family moved to Lincolnshire. But "professionals failed to listen and consider the situation from the child's perspective. They did not see the children, and, where possible talk to them to find out what they thought or felt".The family was living in poverty, and there was alcohol misuse. But while the health visitor and headteacher realised plans in place to protect the children were not working, social workers "failed to escalate action to meet the needs of the children".There was, said the report, "enough" evidence to take the children into care. But "numerous" opportunities were missed."The response of the services were not sufficiently effective in protecting Adults M, N and T and they went on to experience years of physical, sexual and emotional abuse. It says a lot about the resilience of children as individuals that they were able to survive."LincolnshireBetween 1988 and 2004, the family lived mostly in Lincolnshire."Between 1988 and 2002 Adults M and N were pregnant 16 times. Between 1990 and 1996 either M or N was pregnant every year or on some occasions twice a year. On four occasions they were pregnant at the same time," said the report. There was "increasing professional suspicion that R was the father. There were also seven allegations, reported to professionals, regarding incest/sexual abuse".On 23 separate occasions, from 1998-2005, the two daughters were specifically asked about paternity by various individuals.By 1997, the two had either lost nine babies or pregnancies as a result of genetic disorders, where both parents had to be carriers of the genetic abnormality.The father's "aggressive and threatening" behaviour, and their refusal to accept genetic counselling "fuelled the belief that incest offered a possible explanation", the report said. "However, professionals considered that, as there was no evidence to prove this, there was nothing that they could do."Professionals such as the police and some doctors took the fact that geneticists could not definitely state that the pregnancies and babies born to the women had an abnormality as a result of an incestuous relationship to mean no action could be taken. This information formed one piece of a substantial picture by 1997 when action should have been taken."It was not until the family returned to Sheffield, and police were given a clear statement alleging sexual abuse and incest in 2008 that steps were taken to arrest the father."Nearly all of the services involved with the Q family suspected or were aware of the suspicions of incest," said the report. But they waited for the women themselves to disclose it, even though between 1988 and 2002 "there had been seven disclosures by family members and professionals, none of which were effectively investigated".There was a culture of "having a quiet word", where "informal, unwritten information was passed between services".With the family mostly back in Sheffield between 2004 and 2008, R had regular contact with his "grandchildren".Yet despite the suspicions about paternity, "there seems to have been no acknowledgement of any potential risks that he may offer to the children in this family".The executive summary of the review makes 128 recommendations, including eight national recommendations which include improvements in sharing information and record keeping.