A fanatic who planned an Iraq-style kidnap and beheading of a British soldier plucked from a Birmingham street was jailed for life yesterday.Parviz Khan, 37, pleaded guilty to the plan, that was disrupted in January last year and which UK counter-terrorism officials believe was backed by al-Qaida. The aim was to convulse Britain's armed forces with fear and show the terror group could still strike at the heart of Britain.Khan was the leader of a Birmingham-based terror cell which, for three years, had shipped equipment to terrorists in Afghanistan. In 2006 he hatched a plan to kidnap a Muslim soldier serving in British forces, video his beheading and broadcast it over the internet.He was caught discussing the plot via an MI5 bug placed in his home. Covert recordings captured Khan bragging about cutting the soldier's head off "like a pig", before burning the body and sending the video to terror leaders based in Pakistan.Khan was sentenced to a minimum of 14 years in jail. The jury heard he had even indoctrinated his five-year-old son, teaching him to express his love of Osama Bin Laden and to call for the death of Bush and Blair. Khan talked of marrying off his three-year-old daughter to a terrorist and also referred to the July 7 suicide bombers as "brothers".Sentencing Khan at Leicester crown court, Mr Justice Henriques said the father-of-three held "violent and extreme Islamist" views and added: "It's plain that you were absolutely serious and determined to bring this plot to fruition."Unfortunately your enthusiasm was infectious and you dragged in your co-accused, every one of whom should curse the day they set their eyes on you." The judge said it may never be safe to release Khan. "So rampant are your views, so excitable your temperament, so persuasive your tongue and so imbued with energy are you, it's quite impossible to predict when, if ever, it will be safe for you to be released." Police would not say how close Khan was to kidnapping a soldier. Detective Superintendent Liam O'Brien, who led the investigation for West Midlands police said: "My strong view [is] if we had not taken the action we took last January ...we'd be sitting here now talking about the kidnap and murder of a British soldier."British security sources believe the network wanted to show it could strike in Britain more than a year after suicide bombers killed 52 people and injured 750 in London.A conversation between Khan and another man involved in the terrorist cell was recorded via a bug in his house by MI5. In that conversation, on November 6 2006, Khan discussed how he would lure the soldier to his death and how much panic would be caused by terrorists being able to pluck the soldier off a British street before murdering him. The Guardian has learned that after the conversation counter-terrorism officers discovered that Khan had gained the names and addresses of several soldiers who were to be a potential target.A source with knowledge of the operation, which involved police and the security services, said al-Qaida believed the tactic of kidnapping and beheading ran less risk of detection than an attempt to bomb multiple targets, because it needed less material and less planning.O'Brien said: "I'm convinced this plot was, if not sponsored by al-Qaida, was supported [by them]." He added that Khan had gone to Pakistan to get approval for his plan.Khan wanted to fight, but al-Qaida leaders thought he was more useful to their cause buying equipment in Birmingham and sending it to fighters in and around the Afghanistan and Pakistan border.Khan, 37, who had been a keen footballer and cricketer, turned from a drinker and smoker to an extremist obsessed by the speeches of Bin Laden and Abu Hamza.He also had an elderly mother to care for and received £20,000 a year in benefits to look after her. He was recorded as saying that bleeding the British state was part of the extremist mission: "There is a financial war and we're going to make them bleed financially."Khan and his fellow terrorist cell members turned shopping into a way of supporting violent jihad. They bought gloves, video cameras, electronic equipment and laser rangefinders from shops in the West Midlands, and shipped them out to Pakistan where they would be used by those fighting British and coalition forces.O'Brien said the operation by counter-terrorism officers was about more than thwarting the soldier plot. "This is about dismantling what was a well organised, well established supply line taking equipment, material and finance to terrorists and training camps abroad," he said.Four other men either pleaded or were found guilty by the jury. Basiru Gassama, 30, was jailed for two years and faces deportation after pleading guilty to failing to disclose information about the plot. Mohammed Irfan, 31 and Hamid Elasmar, 44, were given four years and three years, four months respectively after they pleaded guilty to helping Khan with the supply of equipment. Zahoor Iqbal, 30, who the crown said was Khan's "right-hand man", was jailed for seven years after a jury found him guilty for his part in the shipment of goods. Amjad Mahmood, 32, was cleared by the jury of knowing about the plot and failing to tell the authorities, and of supplying equipment.Anil Patani, assistant chief constable in the West Midlands force, said some Birmingham Muslims who alleged the arrests were part of the persecution of Islam "need to look in the mirror" and reflect on their doubting of the police.