A murder inquiry is under way after a fatally injured man was found in the back of a van that was chased by armed police and pulled over in Berkshire.Witnesses said the victim had been badly beaten and wrapped in plastic, and was barefoot. Police had been searching for the vehicle after receiving a tip-off, and said the man was seriously injured when he was discovered in the van on London Road, Sunningdale, where an officer at the scene said the man appeared to have been tortured.Attempts were made to save his life but he is understood to have died shortly after being found. Onlookers said an ambulance arrived 45 minutes after the van was pulled over."At about 1pm today, officers were tasked with looking for a white Mercedes Sprinter van that was believed to be travelling in the Sunningdale area of Berkshire," Superintendent Richard Humphrey of Thames Valley police said last night."The officers were acting as a result of information that was given to the police, which made officers suspect that the occupants may be involved in crime."Four men are in custody and a murder investigation has been launched.David Redding-Lang, 52, landlord of the Sunningdale Lounge pub opposite where the van was stopped, said he saw two men being arrested by officers. "They were in their late 40s or early 50s," he said, adding that the men were white, with short hair, and dressed in jeans and shirts. "At no time was there any shouting. They both looked very solemn and very quiet."The two other men fled from police and were both later arrested. One was caught with the help of a police helicopter.Redding-Lang said it was "around 45 minutes" after the van was stopped that an ambulance arrived. He said he could see the body beneath the van, saying "the person had no shoes on and was very still".After the body was discovered a police officer came in to the pub to request a "sharp knife", he said, but the officer gave no indication as to why it was required, returning it a few minutes later. Police were unavailable to comment on why the knife was required last night.Speaking at Slough police station, 10 miles from Sunningdale, Humphrey said officers "immediately commenced first aid and called an ambulance" when the man was found in the windowless van.He added: "This injured man was not readily visible from outside the vehicle and was only found when a thorough search was undertaken. Despite the efforts of the officers and of the paramedics, this man has now died."Eyewitnesses said the dead man was wrapped in bags and one officer at the scene remarked he appeared to have been tortured. Reports said a sledgehammer had been removed from the van.The body remained beside the van at 8pm last night, covered by a tent to keep off the rain. Cardboard boxes had been placed around the base of the vehicle to deter prying camera lenses. All four lanes of London Road remained cordoned off for around 100 metres."It's a nice area. You certainly wouldn't expect that kind of thing to happen," said Pauline Hollidge, in her 50s, who was meeting friends in the Sunningdale Lounge at around 1pm for lunch when she witnessed the arrests. She was still there seven hours later, prevented by police from driving out of the car park."We were initally being a bit flippant about it - saying 'It's a bit harsh to stop someone for a traffic offence', but we soon realised it was more serious and became quite sombre really," she added.