A businessman has been charged with attempting to murder a solicitor as he worked at his desk in a market town.Michael Raymond Chudley, 62, is accused of attempting to murder Jim Ward, who suffered life-threatening head injuries in an attack with a sawn-off shotgun at the solicitors firm Morris, Goddard and Ward in Devizes, Wiltshire.Chudley, who lives in Rowde, a village two miles from Devizes, is also charged with making threats to kill, possession of a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence and carrying a firearm with criminal intent.He is in police custody and will appear at Salisbury magistrates on Wednesday morning.Ward, 58, a father of three, suffered a single gunshot wound in the attack on Monday afternoon. Police have said four other people were in the office at the time but were not hurt. Two members of the public, including an off-duty paramedic, rushed in to try to save the injured man.Ward was airlifted to Frenchay hospital in Bristol and his family was at his bedside. Police said on Tuesday he remained seriously ill.A neighbour at Ward's red-brick farmhouse in Westbury, Wiltshire, who did not want to be named, said the solicitor would do anything for anybody.He said: "He is just such a lovely man. The whole family is lovely. It is such a shock this has happened – he wouldn't hurt a fly. It's the type of thing you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy – I can't think why anybody would have done this."We have all been praying for him at the local village church and we hope that he gets better – you have to have faith. He's just such a nice man."Morris, Goddard and Ward was set up in 1988, specialising in matrimonial and family law, personal injury, general legal claims and residential conveyancing. Ward is listed as principal solicitor at the practice.Police emphasised that such incidents were uncommon. Local inspector Ron Peach said: "I would like to stress how very rare incidents such as this are in Devizes, and across the county. However, we recognise that the community will be concerned and will experience some disruption as officers conduct inquiries. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim at this difficult time."