I fear Chris Huhne protests too much in his attack on Rupert Murdoch. His accusation that "the Murdoch press" targeted him, and was consequently responsible for his downfall, because he called in 2009 for the police to reopen the voicemail hacking inquiry seems far-fetched.It is possible, but there is precious little evidence to support his claim. One objection to his theory is his implication that the Sunday Times and the News of the World acted in tandem against him.To anyone who has worked in Wapping, that scenario sounds very unlikely. Even if Rupert Murdoch called separately on the editors of both papers to "get Huhne" - which I doubt - the chances of it having happened in reality are remote.I am sympathetic to his general argument that politicians' private lives should, in the main, remain private. I therefore agree that it was unjustifiable for the News of the World to place him under surveillance because he was having an affair.But the paper wouldn't need any encouragement from Murdoch to do that. It was the NoW's normal modus operandi, as we discovered during the Leveson inquiry (and many of us knew way before that).Huhne goes on to link that activity with the "grooming" of his ex-wife, Vicky Pryce, by the Sunday Times in order to coax her into divulging details of how she took three driving licence penalty points that he had incurred for speeding.Although there may have been a degree of grooming in the way the paper's reporter went about the task of obtaining the evidence from Pryce, it was not an unusual journalistic tactic. The Sunday Times smelt a story and went for it. I would doubt that Murdoch even mentioned the stories in passing when talking to his editors at the time. For each paper it was simply business as usual.I think Huhne may be guilty of seeing himself as more important to the hacking scandal than was the case in reality. His call for a reopened hacking inquiry, though politically brave on his part and somewhat embarrassing for Murdoch's company, was nothing like as crucial to the unfolding of events as Huhne wishes us to believe.He makes some excellent points in his article. Media ownership is hugely important. Diversity of ownership is necessary, as is plurality of voice.His mistake, stemming I fear from his desire to obscure his guilt, is to exaggerate the impact of his intervention and then to make his arguments from the context of his subsequent experience. The "Murdoch press", in the way he suggests, is an unproven villain.