It's not every day that a cabinet minister strips off in front of you, but these are strange times: times, we're told, of great constitutional change. More of that in a moment. First, I must report that if the creation of the Department for Constitutional Affairs was not a jerry-built job at the end of a botched and rushed reshuffle, no one told the office managers.I find our new secretary of state for constitutional affairs, Lord Falconer of Thoroton, engulfed in brick dust wafting in from the room next door. The builders are in. In the corridor outside his new office, two more workmen are busy dismantling the ceiling. Before the walls literally cave in we decamp to another ministerial office. It is here that we discover the next small calamity. Lord Falconer has a constant air of mild calamity about him - his self-deprecating amusement about the world around him is what makes him appealing as a politician, so different from all those stuffed shirts. This time though, it is the shirt that is the problem. He has carefully selected contrasting hues of blue - tie and shirt - to look smart and efficient for his first day as Man of the Moment, the only new cabinet minister with a stream of television and radio appearances ahead of him, and this, his first newspaper interview, complete with large photograph. But unhappily, he had a leaky pen in his pocket. The smart shirt has a large blue stain, so an aide is dispatched to buy him a new shirt from the Army and Navy stores over the road. Meanwhile, we sit down to talk, but every five minutes he hops up and down to take another call - most of them from Downing Street, I suspect, about the junior ministers likely to join him. Aides rush in and out demanding his attention. At one point there is a farcical circling through three different office doors with Lord Falconer and one of his team looking for - and missing - each other several times. But at last I put to him the angry allegations that have greeted his appointment: that he is simply a Tony crony, an unelected portly peer who, with his ex-flatmate Tony Blair, has cooked up a private plan to destroy more than a thousand of years of constitutional history. (He has lost two stone recently by giving up his habit of munching all the biscuits when meetings get boring). He takes on the "crony" point first: "I've been in government for six years, I've been a member of the Labour party for 25 years, I must be judged by how I do in the jobs that I've done."He had not, I suggest, done that well as Lord Dome - that whole project had been a disaster hadn't it? He points out, as he always has done, that "the dome brought long-term regeneration to the Greenwich peninsula", but does admit that "it didn't get the number of visitors that we said it would and that led to great difficulty and obviously requirements for more money". Since then, however, he has been "utterly committed" to other jobs, in housing, planning and regeneration and then in the Home Office, reforming the criminal justice system. Does he feel he has bounced back now? "It's for others to judge precisely what the level of bounce is," he says, but clearly the criticism flung at him is not causing him sleepless nights: "You've got to listen to criticism, but it seems to me that if you got too upset by what was said all the time, it would prevent you actually doing the job." He insists that the recent reshuffle was not a botched affair - all the big changes, like the end of the role of the lord chancellor, the supreme court and the changes to the way in which judges are appointed, "represent a real step forward in our constitution, and were done deliberately, with our eyes open". Nor was it all cooked up, he says, between himself and the prime minister: "No, I didn't know I was getting the job until Thursday afternoon," though he agrees that the question of a constitutional affairs ministry "has been an issue that's been much discussed for a very long time". Despite the confusion surrounding the changes, at the heart of it all is a desire to shake up the archaic criminal justice system, something which progressives everywhere should applaud. When I ask him to encapsulate why the changes were necessary he replies that the justice system has to be made more effective. "I think that the criminal justice system is still failing too many people in a large number of respects." The system had to be improved, but "without endangering the independence of judges". That's why there will be an independent appointments commission, so that judges are not appointed by the lord chancellor, a minister. "The time has come to make it clear that independence is the critical aspect of the judiciary. They do from time to time have to hold the executive to account." But, he tells me, the more important aim is to open up the judiciary, which for so long has been dominated by white, middle-class, middle-aged men. "If the judiciary is simply a reflection of the person who appoints them, who has always been an over-50-year-old member of the English bar, that's what the judiciary will reflect. We need to open it up to be much more diverse- gender diverse, race diverse, experience diverse. To do that you need to open the eyes of, and expand the experience of, the body that appoints them. It's about making the process of appointments a driver for real change in the make-up of the judges." His intended outcome is clear: "We obviously need a diverse judiciary that reflects society," he says. "I'm very keen to see a higher proportion of female judges, a higher proportion of black and ethnic minority judges." He intends to waste no time in setting up the appointments commission: "This has got to be done quickly. We want to produce a consultation document by the middle of July so that we can legislate in the next session." Lord Falconer says its members must be "people that any reasonable person would think were totally independent. They must be divorced from politics, but they must be connected to the communities which the courts serve". Changing the face of the judiciary, he argues, is essential to restoring confidence in the criminal justice system: "I think it depends on the system, including the judges, having a proper understanding of, and being properly reflective of, the society which they serve as judges." It sounds like a genuine challenge. Meanwhile he has been dealing with a huge hue and cry about the takeover of the duties of Scottish and Welsh secretaries within his department, with confusion over who will be accountable for what. He tells me several times, somewhat unconvincingly, that it's crystal clear what will happen and denies that the Welsh have any reason to complain: "Peter Hain speaks for Wales in the cabinet, supported by a junior minister, with the officials simply being in this department. It reflects neither a desire to change the constitutional settlement for Wales, nor a desire to reduce the voice for Wales in central government. It simply reflects the fact that less is done in London and more is done in Cardiff, which was the point of the settlement." But there's anger too that Mr Hain and Alistair Darling, who will speak for Wales and Scotland respectively, already have full-time jobs - as leader of the Commons and as transport secretary. I ask whether Mr Hain and Helen Liddell, the former Welsh and Scottish secretaries, had said they simply didn't have enough to do. He doesn't answer that directly, simply arguing that devolution has changed their workload. Similarly, he elegantly bats away questions about what Lord Irvine really thought of it all. He is not a lawyer for nothing. At this point, the new shirt arrives, a crisp white one, and Falconer hurries into the next door office to change, only to rush back in slightly aghast, because there are lots of people in there he doesn't know. Time is running short, the phone keeps ringing and others are demanding his attention, so I promise not to look (I didn't keep my word), while the secretary of state for constitutional affairs whips off his shirt in front of me, with his press chief looking on wearing an expression of polite astonishment. Lord Falconer says he seems to have done nothing but change his clothes on this, his first day in the new job. That morning he'd put on the lord chancellor's full regalia and wig and sat on the woolsack in the House of Lords, since he will have to carry out the duties of lord chancellor until a new system is devised. Did he feel a bit silly? He pauses, then: "I felt slightly unusual." In due course the lord chancellor's role will be abolished and a new figure chosen to act as Lords speaker; but "what happens to that aspect of the job has to be decided by the House of Lords". I leave still not fully convinced that the new DCA is as thought-through as Lord Falconer claims - somehow the billowing brick dust and the cheery chaos stick in the mind longer than his reassuring words. But his relish for change is surprisingly keen - behind that smile, he means it.