  Deborah Kinsella says her family's world has been turned upside down. Photograph: Dominic Lipinski/PA"On 29 June 2008 our beautiful son Ben was brutally and savagely stabbed to death."We, as his family, have been left devastated and in total despair. Our whole world has been totally turned upside down."Ben went for a good night out and never came home again."Ben had only just finished school – a straight-A student, he had a job and had got his place in college."He never learnt of the wonderful exam results he had achieved and worked so very hard for."Ben loved life, he loved living, and he had so much to live for. He knew where he was going and where he wanted to be."Ben loved nothing more than to make people laugh, he was a fun-loving, happy-go-lucky boy with a heart of gold and would do anything for anyone."A testimony of this was his funeral that was attended by so many friends who filled the church and pavements outside."Ben loved art and wanted to be a graphic designer, he loved his family, cooking, football, music and girls."The people who murdered him knew nothing about our Ben, not a hair on his head, a bone in his body, not anything about our wonderful son."They had never met him before or spoken to him, they just cruelly took his life away with knives for no apparent reason."We had brought Ben up to always walk away from trouble. This sadly cost him his life."He walked away to get safely home and they took advantage of that – he was one boy on his own. It seems unfair their intent was to stab someone that night."We were a big, happy, loving family. We are one down, one missing. We are hard-working and just wanted the best for all our children in life. There are now just three of us at home."We have had to move house because it broke our hearts to not see Ben in his bedroom curled up sleeping and safe in his bed … He had values and respected everyone he met."We, as a family, will never know the man he would have become, the wife he would have met and the children he would have had. This has all now been taken away from siblings, his grandmothers, aunts, uncles, cousins, friends and us … Nothing we can say or do will ever bring Ben back."All we can hope and pray for is that justice will prevail. Maybe then we can find some form of closure to this awful event that has devastated our family's lives."