The three tons of gold bullion worth £25 million stolen from the Brinks Mat security warehouse near Heathrow airport at the weekend has probably already been melted down and smuggled out of the country.The 6,800 ingots were individually marked and Commander Frank Cater, head of Scotland Yard's Central Robbery Squad, believes that those responsible for Britain's biggest robbery have already disposed of the loot.Police admitted yesterday that they had no clues to the whereabouts of the gold or the raiders, despite a record £2 million reward offered for information. They think that only three of the six-man gang were seen and they wore balaclava helmets.Their haul also included diamonds worth £12,000, two pouches of traveller's cheques, and three drums of scrap gold - the sweepings from jewellery. Police are also investigating, but not connecting, an attempted break-in at Heathrow Customs warehouse hours after the Brinks Mat robbery. An inquiry into security at the Queen's Warehouse had already been started after an attempted break-in two weeks ago. That robbery was foiled by a secondary alarm after security officers had apparently switched off the main system because it kept giving false warnings. But the main alarm system at the warehouse, in which millions of pounds worth of impounded heroin is stored, stopped the latest attempt. The Brinks Mat gang, some with guns, surprised six security staff as they started the Saturday shift between 6.30am and 8.15am at the warehouse, on the Heathrow industrial estate at Hounslow. The ingots were to be flown to the Far East, and the Robbery Squad will examine the possibility that the robbers had access to inside sources. They had such an intimate knowledge of the warehouse's formidable array of security devices, including closed circuit television, that they were able to work undetected until the arrival of the security officers.They handcuffed the staff, hitting one on the head with a pistol. Another had clothing cut away from his stomach, and petrol poured on him which the raiders threatened to set alight. The man suffered blistering but none of the staff were seriously injured. One of the staff managed to break his handcuffs and raised the alarm at 8.30am. The gold weighed three tons but it would have been contained in packages measuring 6ft by 3ft by 2ft. Police are appealing for witnesses who may have seen the robbers' van in Green Lane, Hounslow, at about the time of the robbery. Commander Cater was also in charge of the police investigation into the £7 million robbery at Security Express in east London in April. He would not say whether he was linking the raids