Like many young offenders, 16-year-old Nathan loathes depending on a "front". He says: "It's what landed me in here. I feel I have to be the 'tough' guy or the 'cool' guy to survive, and the next thing I know I'm inside for stealing cars. Even in here [Feltham young offenders' institution, Middlesex], nobody says what they really mean. It's a frightening place, so you just pretend you're a certain kind of person that you believe will keep you the safest. That makes you do it all the more when you get out, and so the cycle goes on." What does make Nathan stand out from other young offenders, however, is his willingness to admit it and even to change it. It is, he says, the result of an innovative drama course that the Geese Theatre Company - a touring company based at the Midlands Arts Centre in Birmingham - has extended to young offenders to help them examine their behaviour and develop more constructive ways of handling challenging situations. It works like this. Masks, representing a variety of "fronts", are worn by the actors, who then play out a scene according to the rationale of that behaviour. The mask for Cool ("Listen, you're all making a lot of fuss about nothing - if you want the TV, just steal it") is an ominous, green face with dark glasses; Target ("I don't feel in control of this situation - it's everyone else's fault I'm doing this") has an archery target on the forehead. At various points in the performance, the audience of young offenders calls out for the character to lift the mask and explain what he is really feeling - and how he might find ways to act on that feeling, rather than according to the front. The actor then tests out the consequences of that option. "It's not about truth, but more about what is being withheld - highlighting hidden vulnerabilities and concealed thoughts and feelings," says Sally Brookes, the theatre company's programmes director. "That's why we use 'fragment' masks because they display only a fragment of behaviour. Few people are The Joker, The Mouth, The Victim or any other front all the time." Through workshops, lasting one day, and "residencies", which last several, the mobile company focuses on the young offenders' motivation and ability to change. Brookes says: "We recognise that wider social and economic factors have a major influence on crime - particularly when it comes to young offenders - but we work from the premise that he can nonetheless make active choices and has a responsibility for his actions." She admits that many of the 14 to 18-year-olds are sceptical about the idea of drama. "They feel it's childish and silly," she says. "But it's overcome fairly quickly - not only because there is a clear logic to what we're doing, but because they get to explore behaviour patterns one step removed through the medium of an actor. That means they themselves don't end up feeling judged or interrogated." Also popular among under-18s is the fact that there are no scripts, and no feeling of intimidation that can be associated with being asked to read aloud. There are simply events, scenarios, settings and masks. And humour is particularly important in working with this age group, Brookes says, because most have had negative experiences with adults in a learning environment. "Our emphasis is on making the work both enjoyable and useful," she says. Geese believes that each workshop must be tailor-made to the needs of a particular group. One, for instance, may focus intensively on aggression, while another may explore a range of knee-jerk reactions and their ramifications. One may focus on behaviours outside prison, while another may include the experience of prison itself. Lou Heywood, the company's touring director, says: "The objectives must be clear. One session we recently ran was for young offenders who had been in the institution less than a week. Many seemed confident, but you could tell that almost all of them were frightened, particularly if they didn't understand the system. "The first part of the drama involved acting out a scene in which a lad went into his cell for the first time. Using the masks, we explored what he might be thinking. The aim was to let the group talk honestly about the kinds of feelings they might have, rather than letting them out through destructive behaviour." Like all the trainers at Geese - which expanded from the US to Britain in 1987 - Heywood comes from a background of drama training, with a strong interest in issue-based theatre. In addition, all staff receive six-month training in teamwork, the criminal justice system, probation services and aspects of offending behaviour. "Young offenders are a difficult group to measure in terms of the effects of the course," admits Brookes. "But the verbal feedback from prison workers and probation workers, as well as the young people themselves, is certainly positive enough for us to be booked up for months ahead."