The father of Baby P described today how he made a frantic dash to be at his son's bedside only to find he was too late and the boy – since named as Peter – was already dead.In a victim impact statement read to a hushed courtroom at the Old Bailey in London today , the toddler's father, who cannot be named, said that since his son's death he felt he had been living a nightmare. "My only son must have suffered weeks if not months of pain, fear and loneliness with nobody to help or comfort him," he said. "No human being, and especially a child, deserves to suffer like Peter suffered."Jurors, who last November convicted Peter's stepfather and a lodger of causing or allowing his death, were invited to court today for the sentencing hearing, which will end tomorrow when the two men and the baby's mother – who admitted the offence – are expected to receive lengthy prison terms.Members of the jury wept as the toddler's real father, who is divorced from his mother, described the day he learned of his son's death. "I received a telephone call from [his mother] … she told me he was on his way to hospital and was experiencing breathing difficulties."The father ran to his nearest taxi office, but they had no drivers free, so he jumped onto a bus to the next nearest taxi rank to find a driver to take him to the hospital."I received a second call from [his mother] who told me Peter was not breathing. I was frantic with worry and felt an overwhelming need to be with Peter."Arriving at the hospital he pushed his way past the queue of people at the casualty reception and was guided to the resuscitation area."I saw his little, limp body just laying there, naked except for a nappy. I could not believe what was happening, I could not believe that was my son."He appeared to be asleep and I just wanted to pick him up and take him home. There was nothing I could do for him … all I could do was kiss his forehead and say 'goodbye'. My son was gone forever."He told the court that he had been delighted to learn he was having a son, and was present at the boy's birth."Having a boy meant the world to me, the thought of having a son to continue the family name was a source of great pleasure … Peter was a bright and bubbly child who was always smiling. He was such an adorable, lovely little boy, he loved to be cuddled and tickled, his laughter and smile could not help but make anyone in his presence feel happy."He described how when Peter was five months old his marriage broke up and he was forced to leave the marital home. He continued to see his son, and described the last time he looked after him, which was on the weekend before his death. By this time Peter had been subjected to more than eight months of violent abuse at the hands of his stepfather which had not been picked up by police or social services despite numerous contacts."Peter had come to stay with me over the weekend," he said. "When I returned Peter to [his mother's care] I remember him screaming and shouting 'daddy, daddy' so much that [his mother] actually brought him back to me to say goodbye again and give him a cuddle."I have to live now with the knowledge that Peter was actually screaming for me to help him, he did not want to go home because this was a place that he associated with pain and suffering."The father said in his full statement that he initially assumed that his little boy had been a victim of cot death. "I recall [his mother] saying 'I'm sorry, I'm sorry' and 'They'll blame me for all this,' and I instinctively tried to reassure her."Even when she was arrested the true nature of what had happened did not occur to me … Not until a week later did I learn of the horrific injuries which had been inflicted on my little Peter."It is one thing to lose a child but to learn your child has been the victim of such appalling cruelty is something I shall never come to terms with. I can only describe it as total devastation, an all-consuming pain which is both mental and physical."He ended his statement reflecting on his great loss. "Like all fathers I had imagined watching my son grow up, playing football with him, taking him to see Arsenal play, watching him open his Christmas and birthday presents and just develop as a person. All that has been taken from me."