On the wall of the home secretary's sparkling new office on the southern perimeter of Whitehall hangs a black and white photograph. Unmistakable in his top hat is Winston Churchill, a predecessor of John Reid, personally directing the 1911 siege of Sidney Street which ended with several dead anarchists and Churchill in trouble. Like terrorist threats and their mishandling by the police, the headline-grabbing desire of home secretaries to interfere in operational matters never dies. But yesterday's Home Office reforms may finally be about to change all that.Not before time. As it groans under a case work load unimaginable in Churchill's day the department becomes increasingly unpopular. On immigration, asylum, and prisoners, risk-averse officials have long shoved too many individual cases in front of ministers while neglecting to tell them more important things. Every immigration minister has 50 such files on his desk. Tomorrow a Commons committee will savage this old-fashioned department's mishandling of the foreign prisoners policy (another case of under-briefed ministers), urging it to concentrate on core tasks. In effect, it is now Britain's ministry of the interior "protecting the public" from crooks, terrorists and the neighbours, as Reid explained to MPs yesterday.So he, his permanent secretary and Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, who also gave the department a still-unfit-for-purpose report yesterday, are racing to hold public anger at bay. Today they will unveil plans to "rebalance" the criminal justice system which 80% of voters feel is "too fair" to the accused. Senior officials are being moved. Next week ministerial new boy Liam Byrne will shake up the Immigration and Nationality Directorate (IND). Reid likens it to a series of controlled explosions to ease specific problems of a department under daily missile attack. It is an old joke among home secretaries that, unbeknown to them, officials are always working on 20 policies that could ruin their career.But the key change is already clear. In addition to making IND an arms-length agency whose director, Lyn Homer, can expect to justify her team's decisions on Radio 4's Today, there will be a wider contract between ministers and officials, clarfiying their respective roles. Officials will have clearer managerial responsibilities, more freedom to take decisions and to be held to account for them. Ministers will do the policy and politics.