A woman who stood by as her young daughter was blindfolded and gang raped was jailed for 12 years today.Caroline Dunsmore, 43, and John O'Flaherty, 50, both of Edinburgh, were among a group of paedophiles who took part in abusing children over a 12-year period. One of the victims was Dunsmore's own daughter Dana Fowley, who waived her right to anonymity and welcomed the sentence in a statement outside court afterwards. The 26-year-old said: "At the end of the day it was a justified sentence," she said. "It was a victory, the sentences that were handed out." She added: "Where do you start? From me being a child, my whole life has been hell and going through trials have been hell and today was hell." Detective Sergeant Callum Lamond, of Lothian and Borders Police, described the case as "horrific". Lord Malcolm told Dunsmore: "It is hard to imagine a more grievous breach of trust on the part of a mother towards her child." The judge continued: "Over many years you have participated fully in a paedophile group whose repeated abuse of your daughter obviously caused her very serious damage and you took no steps to remove her from that situation." The judge said he took account of Dunsmore's own deprived background and history of being sexually abused as well. Dunsmore and John O'Flaherty had earlier admitted the horrific abuse of Dana in a caravan in Perthshire on a single night between April 1990 and June 1990 and to years of earlier sexual abuse and rape of the same girl at a house in Edinburgh when she was as young as six. Dunsmore went on to give evidence against serial sex offender Morris Petch, 50. He was previously jailed for a sex attack in 1986. Petch went to the cells still protesting his innocence - even though a jury took only minutes to bring back unanimous verdicts of guilty on charges of raping and abusing two sisters at his then home in the Muirhouse area of Edinburgh. He is due back in court in August with a possible life sentence hanging over him. The judge said that he would take account for "public revulsion" at the offences in passing sentence. The three have been described as members of Edinburgh's worst ever paedophile ring - orchestrated by Dunsmore's husband, Billy King, who has since died. O'Flaherty and Petch were his friends.