The husband of a professional violinist who killed herself after giving evidence against a former music teacher over his indecent assaults on her when she was a teenager, said his wife felt traumatised after being accused of lying in court.The death of Frances Andrade, who died days after testifying against Michael Brewer, has prompted a debate on how courts handle such cases, with the former solicitor general, Vera Baird QC, questioning why police advised Andrade not to receive therapy until after the trial in case it affected her evidence.Levene Andrade, married Frances, known as Fran, in 1988, and the couple had four children. He said his wife had been devastated by questions from Brewer's barrister, Kate Blackwell QC, about whether she was telling the truth.In an interview with the Mail on Sunday, Andrade said his wife initially refused to speak to him about the experience for several days. He said: "We sat down one night with a bottle of wine. We were watching TV and then we realised we hadn't watched anything at all. Once she wanted to tell me she couldn't stop. She burst into tears. She was so sad, almost inconsolable."It was horrible. She said, 'Do you think I'm lying?' I told her, 'No, of course not.' I'd never doubted her. But all her life people hadn't believed her, including her mother. When that happens, you doubt yourself, everyone. It was terrible."How do you convince someone when they have convinced themselves of the opposite? She was like a little girl. It was like seeing her how she must have been back then. The worst thing was we couldn't discuss the trial because we were told not to, even after we'd given evidence. So we were talking but we still had to be careful."While Brewer, 68, former director of music at the Chetham's school of music in Manchester, was found guilty of five charges of indecently assaulting Andrade when she was 14 and 15 and a pupil at the school; other charges were dropped earlier during the case. This appeared to have also been a trigger for the suicide, Andrade explained.He said: "[W]hen I found her, there was an iPad on the bed next to her with a story saying Brewer had got off five of the charges. I think she thought 'He's been let off, he's been proved innocent. They didn't believe me.' Poor thing, poor, poor thing. If only she could have heard the verdict today. It's not the most amazing verdict but at least it shows she wasn't lying. They believed her."Andrade, 59, also a professional musician, said the lead-up to the case had been hugely stressful for his wife, who had tried to kill herself on two previous occasions: "There was a downward spiral in the course of the last year. She was dreading being a witness. She had to go on antidepressants, possibly her drugs were getting stronger and having no effect, but the court tipped her over the edge."It was during this time, he said, that police advised his wife against seeking immediate counselling or therapy: "She become really withdrawn. She went to the doctor as she was having trouble sleeping. He suggested she speak to someone and said he could refer her – but she said she'd been told not to by the police."I don't know if it was Manchester or Surrey [police] but they said psychiatric help might affect her evidence – she might change her mind or it might confuse her. I hope this is something that will be looked at during the inquest."Fran Andrade killed herself at the family home in Guildford, Surrey, a day after Brewer started to give evidence, labelling her a "fantasist" who was "largely living a fantasy life". The jury was not told about her death until the end of the trial.Andrade said his wife had told him about the abuse, and that she had suffered when much younger at the hands of an uncle. She had told her mother about the uncle's abuse but was not believed, he said, something which made being called a liar in court all the more dismaying.He said: "That was devastating because it's what her mother used to tell her. I know it's not personal, she [the barrister] has to do that, she has to attack, she has to defend her client. But Fran found it amazing that a woman could do a job like that."I understand. If I was put in that position as the accused, I'd want the very best fighting on my behalf but maybe it was unfair it was a woman. Maybe she was chosen thus."I hope they can change the law. Fran felt as if she was on trial. She kept saying 'I can see why nobody comes forward. I can see how people crack under the pressure.'"