Police investigating the murder of Damilola Taylor yesterday detained three teenage boys they first arrested in the weeks after the stabbing four years ago but never charged.In what one of Scotland Yard's most senior officers described as a "very significant development", detectives were last night questioning two brothers, aged 16 and 17, and a young man, 18, about one of the most high profile crimes of the last decade. The inquiry team has been concentrating on applying new DNA techniques to existing forensic evidence and trying to flush out new witnesses to crack the wall of silence surrounding the case. The 10-year-old south London boy bled to death on a stairwell on the North Peckham estate after being knifed in the thigh on his way home from school in November 2000. The killing shocked the nation and led to a huge police investigation. Officers originally rounded up 12 suspects thought to belong to a gang known as the Young Peckham Boys. Four of them, aged between 14 and 17, were charged with the murder. But the £7m Old Bailey trial in January 2002 collapsed and all four were cleared, after the star prosecution witness, a 14-year-old-girl, known by the pseudonym "Bromley", was discredited as a liar. None of the four original defendants is among the three arrested yesterday. But all seven youths were believed to be members of the Young Peckham Boys, and the three currently being questioned were all previously held in connection with the murder, although they were not charged. The three are from south London but were not arrested at their home addresses. Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner, Bill Griffith, said: "These significant developments [the arrests] are the result of a determined effort to establish the truth of what happened on that day. I pay tribute to Mr and Mrs Taylor for their patience, understanding and support throughout the course of this investigation." The investigation team, headed by Detective Chief Inspector Nick Ephgrave, raided several addresses in south London in October. But a police source said: "The basis of yesterday's arrests was evidence gathered over a much longer period, which has been examined and re-examined during the course of the investigation." He said police had consulted the Crown Prosecution Service over "evidential issues at appropriate stages" and would continue to liaise with the CPS. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, who retires at the end of this month, said last year that the failure to convict anyone for Damilola's murder was the biggest regret of his career, but he has vowed that the hunt for the killers would go on. Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, moved to London from their native Nigeria a few months before Damilola's death to get medical treatment for their daughter's epilepsy. The police said they had been kept up to date with the inquiry and were informed of yesterday's arrests. Mr and Mrs Taylor have never given up hope that their son's killers will be brought to justice but they were devastated when the 2002 trial collapsed amid recriminations between police and lawyers. Witness Bromley's evidence - that she had seen the four defendants attacking Damilola on the North Peckham estate - was the main plank of the prosecution case. But after extraordinary scenes, in which Bromley swore at the barristers, ran from the court and changed her story repeatedly, the judge threw her evidence out, saying she was a liar who appeared to be motivated by a £50,000 newspaper reward. He criticised the Met's handling of the girl, saying that police offers of inducements to her to describe the attack on Damilola had created a very real danger that she was "persuaded to tell untruths". Two of the defendants, aged 17 and 15, were acquitted on the direction of the judge following the collapse of Bromley's evidence. But the crown case went on until the end when the remaining two defendants were acquitted by the jury after it rejected a series of "cell block confessions" from two young offenders' institutes. A street culture of silence and loyalty to gangs on the estate hampered the first inquiry. At one point, police were so frustrated they resorted to an appeal through the church. But they had few breakthroughs and the only forensic evidence at the scene was a bloody footprint and a broken bottle, covered in Damilola's blood. With echoes of the Stephen Lawrence case reverberating around them, officers were under pressure to arrest someone for the murder of a black boy on the streets of London.