A man who pleaded guilty in Scotland's biggest heroin bust - originally said to be worth £10m - has had a five-year sentence quashed because of a high level corruption investigation into customs officers' handling the case.Lawyers from the Scottish prosecutors office volunteered information to the solicitors of Shauakat Ali, an unemployed textile worker from Oldham, and suggested he should appeal after they had been informed by the West Midlands police that some of the customs officers involved in the case - based outside Scotland - were under investigation.Prosecutors for the Scottish crown office then told the court of appeal in Edinburgh that there may have been a miscarriage of justice and it was no longer in the public interest to sustain the conviction. Mr Ali, 47, with no previous convictions, had his conviction quashed in a 15 minute hearing last month. He was the victim of a customs "sting" in which 18.5kgs of low-grade heroin, thought to be worth £1.6m, were seized in 1997. His lawyers are considering claiming compensation for wrongful imprisonment. He said yesterday: "It was customs smuggling, not me. They brought the stuff over to this country." Mr Ali's case is the first of a series of trials coming under scrutiny after customs volunteered details to the criminal cases review commission. Another three men in two other prosecutions are due for appeal hearings in London. All of them involve the use of "controlled deliveries", a controversial method in which customs officers import large quantities of drugs in an attempt to catch the foreign seller and the British buyer. An undercover police operation into the possible abuse of this method led to a four-year corruption investigation by West Midlands police. So far nine customs men, including a senior officer, have been questioned under caution and may face criminal charges. A report is to be presented to the crown prosecution service by the end of the year. The police investigation has examined at least 11 operations believed to involve the importation of up to 200 kgs of heroin by customs, some of which is thought to have gone missing and may have ended up on the streets. At least three kgs of heroin disappeared in two operations alone. During the operations, custom officers worked with local informants to identify drug shipments, importing the drugs themselves to try to catch the British dealers. The informants, who pose as drug couriers, were paid a reward of £1,000 a kilogram. Mr Ali was arrested in Glasgow with four other men in 1997 after becoming involved with a customs informant. All five were accused of smuggling the 18.5kg haul, said to be Scotland's largest ever. The prosecution ran into problems in the case. Charges against the other four were dropped and it emerged that the informant had given Mr Ali two kgs of heroin which he took back to Oldham. At the trial, customs claimed that the release of the large sample was unauthorised. A successful prosecution of Mr Ali became less likely after his defence team found a witness willing to testify that customs officers were setting up bogus drug deals to entrap victims. This man had also been caught up in a similar sting and claimed he had been offered a deal by customs to grant him immunity from prosecution in return for his help in catching potential dealers. Prosecutors went for a deal. Mr Ali would plead guilty and not call the new witness, in return for the charges being reduced to being concerned in the supply. A potential sentence of more than 20 years was reduced to five years, to which Mr Ali was sentenced in 1998. But after serving a year his solicitors received a letter from the Scottish crown office suggesting he might like to appeal even though he had pleaded guilty because some of the customs officers involved in his case were under investigation by the police. His lawyers then claimed that Mr Ali had been lured into supplying heroin by the informant who had stood to gain £1,000 a kilogram on his conviction. On July 4 the Scottish appeal court was told that there may have been a miscarriage of justice and that if they had known what they knew now, Mr Ali would not have been prosecuted.