Police have said that two women who were murdered at a house in Southport were asphyxiated, as the search continues for a lodger who may have fled the country.The bodies of Angela Holgate, 54, and her mother, Alice Huyton, 75, were found at a house in Merseyside shortly before 6pm on Saturday.  Barry Morrow. Photograph: Merseyside Police/PAMerseyside police have appealed for help in tracing a man who lodged at the semi-detached house, which belonged to the younger woman.A police spokeswoman said officers want to trace Barry Morrow, 51, who may be in France or Spain.In a statement on Monday, the force said:"The bodies of both women were found at Mrs Holgate's home in ... Southport, on Saturday afternoon."A murder investigation is now under way and detectives continue to seek to trace Barry Morrow, who was a lodger at Mrs Holgate's home, as they believe he may have information vital to the investigation."They are also trying to find Angela Holgate's white Citroën car, registration number PN11 RWK, which was missing from the property.Morrow is described as white, 5ft 7in (1.7m), of a medium to stocky build, with straight, short brown, receding hair and blue eyes. Police believe that he may have travelled from Dover to Calais on Saturday evening and that he has connections in Spain.Officers were called to the house by Holgate's son-in-law, who had discovered the bodies.Angela Holgate was last seen on 26 November. Her mother had not been seen since Friday evening, when she went to check on her daughter, who had been ill. Huyton's husband, who is in his 80s, is said to be devastated at the news of the deaths.Chief Superintendent Nikki Holland, of Merseyside police, said: "We are investigating the tragic deaths of these two women and our sympathy goes to their families."Detectives are investigating the circumstances around these deaths and are trying to piece together the women's last movements. We are appealing to anyone with any information that may help us with this investigation to come forward as soon as possible."In particular we are keen to trace Mr Morrow, who lived at the house for a period of time and who we believe may have vital information for this investigation."Neighbours said Holgate had lived in the house for about 20 years. A neighbour, who asked not to be identified, said: "It's a pretty well-to-do area around here so we don't get much police activity at all."I saw that there was a man coming and going from the house recently, doing the front garden, but I never knew he lived there."Angela and her daughters were always pleasant. She seemed like a lovely woman and they were a lovely family."Forensic experts are examining the house and officers are carrying out house-to-house inquiries.• Anyone with information is urged to contact Merseyside police on0151 709 6010 or the Crimestoppers anonymous line on 0800 555 111.