A former abattoir worker who killed two teenagers in a care home on the Isle of Man was jailed for life yesterday. The judge said he had expressed no remorse for the murders. Peter Newbery, 23, strangled 16-year-old Samantha Barton and slashed her shoulders, back and thigh. He also stabbed her friend, George Green, 16, in the chest before strangling him with a shoelace. The double murder, in February 2002, shocked the 76,000 islanders. Police said nothing like it had happened in living memory. Newbery left a note in the window of the Leece Lodge care home, where Samantha was living semi-independently, in an attempt to delay the discovery of the two bodies. It read: "Gone to court and for a drink. Back at 7pm." Her body was discovered 12 hours later and her friend's body was found the next day hidden in a nearby thicket. During the trial, which ended in December, evidence emerged of hard drugs, shoplifting sprees and heavy drinking involving children at the home. A social worker admitted it was a "virtual no-go area". Acting deemster Simon Fawcus told Newbery yesterday: "I have read the psychiatric and psychological reports on you and they make sorry reading. There is nothing in them which serves any form of mitigation for what you did. "Their content gives a chilling insight into the sort of young man you are and how, leading a life of self-centredness and violence, you may have come to commit these, your most serious offences. "You have shown not the slightest remorse for taking these young lives. And whatever lives they were leading, they did not deserve to be treated in the way you treated them or to be killed." Samantha was 10 when she was taken into voluntary care on the Isle of Man because her mother could not cope with her tantrums. Two years later she assaulted a social worker and was placed in an adult prison on the island, a move that caused an outcry. At 16, still in care and a convicted criminal and seasoned drug user, she was living at the care home, near Douglas. Shortly before she was murdered she had been jailed for 28 days for possessing cannabis and ecstasy, assaulting a police officer, burglary, criminal damage and stealing from cars. George Green had been under the care of social services and had attended a school in Cumbria, returning to the island for Christmas. Samantha's mother, Rose Burnell, said her treatment by social services was "absolutely terrible". She unsuccessfully tried to regain parental rights in the year before she died. She is on anti-depressants and said she was often so full of despair she found it difficult to get out of bed. "Had it not been for social services' carelessness, my daughter would not be six feet under now," she said. After the verdict, her solicitor, Chris Gawne, said: "The families can gain some relief from the fact that the criminal process is now over. They don't feel that any sentence is sufficient to make up for the loss of their loved ones. They have many questions still to be answered surrounding the circumstances of George and Samantha's deaths and their lives whilst in care." Mr Gawne welcomed the announcement by the chief minister that he intends to hold a public inquiry into the issues surrounding the deaths: "They hope the inquiry will bring about necessary change to ensure that no other family will have to go through the traumatic events that these families have had to endure." The Isle of Man authorities have since closed Leece Lodge and have vowed that it will not be used as a care home again.