The best friend of Stephen Lawrence yesterday described how his life had been shattered after witnessing the stabbing of the black teenager by "racist thugs".Duwayne Brooks told the public inquiry into Stephen's death that he had thought about his friend each day since the attack. "I am sad and confused about this system where racists attack and go free, but innocent victims like Steve and I are treated like criminals," he said.Mr Brooks, aged 23, added: "I saw his blood running down the floor. He could not speak. I saw his blood running away."Shortly before his description, Stephen's father, Neville Lawrence, left the hearing and collapsed in the family room. The proceedings were adjourned while he was examined by a doctor, who said he was "very overcome".The inquiry, held in south London, heard that, on the night of the attack in April 1993, Mr Brooks and Stephen had been searching for a bus in Eltham, south-east London, when six white youths had approached. The ringleader had called out, "What, what, nigger", and then pulled from his jacket a weapon of steel or wood, the size of a rounders bat. "I saw [him] raise his right arm in the air . . . I saw him strike a blow towards Stephen. I heard Stephen scream as if in pain [and] fall," Mr Brooks said.They began running, but Mr Brooks heard Stephen call out, "Duwayne. Look at me. Tell me what's wrong". "I looked back and saw blood on his jacket. I said, 'Just keep running', and he said, 'I can't. I can't'." When Stephen slumped to the ground, Mr Brooks rushed to telephone for an ambulance, and tried to flag down cars.He said: "I was pacing up and down. I was crying. I was desperate for the ambulance. It was taking too long. I was frightened by the amount of blood Steve was losing. I saw his life fading away."He said that the police arrived but seemed to be "repulsed" by the blood, and they refused to drive Stephen to a hospital two minutes away. When he pointed out the road where the attackers had run, PC Linda Bethel "did nothing". "It was like she didn't believe me . . . she was treating me as if she was suspicious of me, not like she wanted to help," he said.Mr Brooks, who has been diagnosed as suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder following the murder, said the police officer asked "stupid questions" instead of attending to Stephen, and persisted in believing the gang was known to the boys.Mr Brooks denied police allegations that Stephen had been "goaded" into "standing his ground". He said: "I never knew Steve to fight. He wasn't street-aware of the dangers of being in a racist area at night. He didn't understand that a group of white boys was dangerous, or that anything would have happened."The police also showed a lack of support and sensitivity, Mr Brooks alleged. They failed to offer him adequate protection. And the hotel, where he stayed, during the private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family at the Old Bailey in 1996, was in Eltham - the place of the attack, and "the worst area of London they could have chosen".On another occasion, Mr Brooks said, he was given the protection of a police officer who had arrested him for taking part in an anti-racist demonstration.The hearing continues on Monday.