The criminal psychologist who advised police over the Rachel Nickell murder case criticised his professional body yesterday after a disciplinary case against him collapsed. Paul Britton was accused of breaching the British Psychological Society's code of conduct when he helped detectives design the "honeytrap" operation meant to establish if the suspect Colin Stagg had killed Ms Nickell. But the seven allegations against Mr Britton, often regarded as a model for the television character Cracker, were dismissed because of an eight-year delay in bringing the case against him. Mr Britton, who says his health and career have been blighted by the case, is now considering taking legal action against the BPS. The collapse of the high-profile case is a severe blow to the credibility of the BPS, which has been lobbying the government for stronger powers. Mr Britton was asked by the police to help them find the killer of 23-year-old Ms Nickell, who was stabbed 49 times on a walk on Wimbledon common, south London, in 1992. When Mr Stagg became a suspect, Mr Britton gave his opinion on the honeytrap which involved an undercover police officer who befriended Mr Stagg and encouraged him to talk about his sexual fantasies. Mr Stagg was charged with murder, but in 1994 the case was thrown out by a judge at the Old Bailey, who described the honeytrap as "wholly reprehensible". Soon afterwards Mr Stagg made a complaint against Mr Britton. The BPS claimed its disciplinary process had been delayed for four years because of the possibility that Mr Stagg could bring civil proceedings against Mr Britton. It took a further four years to gather evidence and find a date to bring all the parties together. Mr Britton argued that the process contravened human rights laws which state that a person is entitled to a fair trial within a reasonable time, and claimed his case had been harmed by the delay, partly because crucial documents had been lost or destroyed. A three-person disciplinary committee agreed and threw out all the allegations. Afterwards, Mr Britton's solicitor, David Hooper, described the proceedings as "scandalous". Mr Britton said the case showed the BPS was not "mature enough" to become the "statutory custodians" of psychologists in the UK. He said he had been frustrated in not being able to give his side of the story. His role in the Nickell case, he said, had become a "myth". During the two-day hearing it emerged that the honeytrap had been approved at the "highest levels within the Met" and Mr Britton's work had been checked by the offender profiling unit at the FBI's headquarters in Quantico, Virginia. Turning to the family of the victim, he said: "Today has been a good day for me. Every day is still a bad day for the Nickell family." Mr Britton, 56, a father of two who left the NHS because of ill health, now intends to begin teaching a postgraduate course in criminal psychology. Mr Stagg was not present when the case collapsed. But David Kessler, the co-author with Mr Stagg of a book called Who Really Killed Rachel?, said: "The case shows the BPS is incapable of policing its own members." Stephen White, a BPS spokesman, said: "It was perhaps inevitable that such a complicated case would suffer delays." The case follows efforts by the BPS to gain accreditation as a statutory body regulating psychologists. It wants all psychologists to be required to be BPS members. At the moment anyone can set up as a psychologist without having to be a member of a professional body.