After a series of failed initiatives over the last few years, there is a growing sense of optimism on the Grange estate in Stoke-on Trent that the government's decision to make the Grange one of five police priority areas may at last be improving life on the estate.The project is still in its infancy but there are already signs that crime on one of the most deprived estates in Britain is decreasing. There is no doubt that dramatic change was needed. Ten years ago council tenants were enthusiastic if they were offered one of the 250 homes on the estate. It is convenient for the town centres of Burslem and Hanley and backs onto fields with pleasant views. But then the reputation of the Grange plunged. Drug dealers began to offer crack and heroin on the streets. Prostitutes drifted in and bored youngsters with no job and few prospects just drifted. Last summer the Grange hit the headlines when 100 British Asian youths clashed with the police after a false rumour that rightwing extremists were going to march in the area. Retired nurse Maureen Clarke, 58, who has lived on the estate for seven years, said: "For the first couple of years it was lovely but then it started to go wrong. The dealers would get the children to run drugs for them and the kids would cause chaos. There would be disturbances all day and night." Mohammed Pervez, chairman of the Grange estate residents' association, said: "In recent years it's been terrible. People were coming from as far away as Manchester because they knew they could buy drugs here. Kids were running riot, pulling down fences and setting fire to them in fields. They knew they were not going to get caught."By the start of the year, one in 10 homes on the estate were boarded up. Even the police admit that the criminals were in charge. In January the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced that the estate was to become a police priority area (PPA) together with areas in south London, Bristol, Bradford and Rhyl in north Wales. The idea is to target areas with high crime and low community confidence and to try to get the agencies - police, education, social services and so on - to work together. By the time the six-month project, managed by a former senior police officer, Philip Dutton, began on the Grange in March drug dealing was largely under control after a successful police operation, codenamed Duplex, which led to the jailing of seven dealers. The police have continued to fight the dealers and now have more bobbies on the streets. Pressure has been put on housing officials to get tenants back into boarded-up homes and only a few remain empty. These are tangible changes. Perhaps more difficult is the challenge of leaving behind a system - crucially with local people at its centre - which will force the agencies to work together. Next Tuesday the first PPA steering group will meet to decide what actions they want the various agencies to take. Mr Dutton hopes the steering group will evolve into a community forum which will continue to operate after the PPA project ends: "The pilot is for six months but we want to put something in place which will have long-term benefits."