The way "instant justice" cautions are used to deal with some offences involving violence, including 40,000 assaults each year, is to be reviewed after concerns raised by magistrates, the director of public prosecutions and senior police officers.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, said that he and the home secretary, Alan Johnson, were concerned at the wide variation around the country in the rates of use of "out of court" penalties by police forces."We have decided, not least because of representations from magistrates … that we shall jointly be announcing a review of the use of out of court disposals, which will be led by the Office of Criminal Justice Reform, and will involve the inspectors of constabulary and the inspectorate of the criminal justice system."The review will look in detail at the use by the police of the range of out of court disposals, including fixed penalty fines and conditional cautions and their impact on the court system in England and Wales."The guidance about cautioning is actually very clear," Straw told the BBC's World at One. "It says a simple caution should be used for low-level offending. Only in exceptional circumstances should it be used to deal with more serious offences."I understand the concerns that have been raised … but the guidance is actually very clear. What we are going to look at is how that guidance is properly applied."He said the system was supposed to ensure that no violent offence more serious than a common assault was dealt with by a police caution and without going to court. Straw denied cautions were being used as a way of keeping down prison numbers.The announcement follows concerns that cautions are being used to deal with cases of grievous bodily harm. In England and Wales half of all criminal cases are now dealt with by way of a fixed penalty fine, a caution or a formal warning. Their growth was officially encouraged as a way of freeing the courts to deal with the most serious cases.The DPP, Keir Starmer QC, in a Times interview this morning was among those who called for an overhaul."There is now a case to be made for a review," he said. "My view is that there should be a structured tiered approach which specifies what case will be dealt with at what level — and will be transparent."He said that while there was a proper place for trivial offences to be dealt with outside the courts, the system had developed in an "incoherent way" and needed to be looked at again.His remarks echoed those of Sir Paul Stephenson, the Metropolitan police commissioner, who said that cautions should not be used for "theft and thuggery". The police chief's comments, in a Sunday Times interview, came as official figures showed a surge in the number of offenders issued with multiple cautions.Stephenson said attempts to reduce pressure on courts and overcrowded prisons meant police were expected to assume a criminal justice role."The outcome of that has been an almost uncontrollable increase in cautions, and the introduction of the fixed penalty ticket, which in the public's mind equates to a parking ticket, which should not be [the case] with theft and thuggery."It's put the police in the correctional business, instead of what we should be in, the law and order business, preventing and detecting crime."Stephenson said he wanted more criminals, particularly violent offenders, to be brought before magistrates.