Two detectives are under investigation after the judge in a trial in which they had been the lead officers throughout yesterday accused them of perjury, saying that they had arranged for the suspected armed robber in the case to use heroin to help them extract a confession from him while he was drugged.The trial of the suspected robber, William Melia, 31, a heroin addict, collapsed yesterday at Liverpool crown court as the judge, Bryn Holloway, said that never in his 31 years working as a barrister and a judge in the city had he heard of such a case. He said of detective constables Steve Bradley and Paul Wynn: "They have conspired with him to use drugs and have committed perjury in the course of proceedings in front of me." The solicitor for Mr Melia, Robert Broudie, had said that the officers promised to get the accused heroin in exchange for a confession to the armed robbery in Liverpool in February 2001 in which £10,000 was stolen from a cash box. They had deliberately facilitated the purchase of heroin while Mr Melia was in their custody. "This matter provides the clearest evidence of corrupt conduct of the two officers," he said. Mr Melia was allowed to take heroin on two separate occasions while in the custody of the two officers. They were captured on CCTV cameras in August 2001 allowing Mr Melia's girlfriend, a prostitute who is also addicted to heroin, to inject the drug into his groin. The judge said the officers had thought that had Mr Melia complained "no one would believe a drug addict and robber, let alone a drug addict and prostitute". But the footage supported Mr Melia's account. Within minutes of their arrival at the home of Mr Melia's mother, the investigating officers allowed him to phone his girlfriend and a drug dealer to deliver heroin to the house. After concerns were expressed about Mr Melia's mental state, the officers decided that his girlfriend, Rachel McKenzie, was an appropriate adult to accompany him during an interview. The judge, however, questioned the suitability of the defendant's 19-year-old girlfriend as an appropriate adult, and the fact that he had been taken out of a police station and allowed to meet her to get the class A drugs and then use them. The judge said: "It seems to me a 19-year-old heroin addict and prostitute was wholly unsuitable to perform the role. I am quite satisfied that when these officers went to arrest this defendant, they were fully aware this man was a heroin addict. "This man answered the door in his underpants and allowed these two officers in. The search lasted for 12 minutes and nothing was found. There was no effort to locate the roof space or make any search of the garden." Mr Melia was allowed to ring Ms McKenzie and a drugs supplier. The judge said a search of the officers' log made no reference to the phone calls. But phone records had revealed two calls made to the YMCA and to an unregistered mobile number belonging to a drug dealer. In evidence, both detectives claimed that Mr Melia, on the phone, had been telling his girlfriend that he loved her. They claimed they allowed him to make the call because he was upset. Judge Holloway said: "I do not accept that within nine minutes of arriving in the bungalow, they established such a rapport with a virtual stranger and a suspected armed robber that they would act in such a way." He said the officers "were not telling me the truth". DC Bradley reportedly took Mr Melia into the kitchen to smoke the heroin. "Curiously his [Bradley's] fingerprint was found on the tinfoil," said the judge. "The only reason he said his fingerprint was on the foil was because the item must have been picked up and moved during the search. I am satisfied drugs were delivered that morning while officers were there. "I am satisfied [McKenzie] helped inject heroin into his groin whilst he was in the care of Bradley. I am satisfied that it was a pre-arranged rendezvous with Rachel McKenzie with the purpose of supplying heroin." The officers then had lied at the Liverpool crown court trial by claiming that they had allowed Mr Melia out of a police car so he could urinate. The judge rejected this. Bradley and Wynn also claimed it was a coincidence that they had then met Ms McKenzie, but a phone call had already been made from the police station custody suite to the YMCA. The officers claimed they had taken Mr Melia out to try to find a cash box stolen during the armed robbery, which reportedly he had thrown into a dustbin. The judge said it was "simply ridiculous" to expect that the cash box would have been there six months after the armed robbery.  Cigarette The judge added that neither he nor the police disciplinary panel was impressed by the detectives' actions in allowing Ms McKenzie into the back of a police car with Mr Melia to "enjoy a cigarette". The judge said: "There was an opportunity for her to pass something to him. It put their safety into jeopardy, the custody sergeants' and Melia's. The sergeant had never been told of the unauthorised visit in the back of the car, nor was Melia searched when he got back to the police station." When the CCTV footage emerged, Bradley and Wynn said they got out of the car as Melia needed to urinate. "My view is he never demanded to urinate ... He is seen outside the car with his trousers lowered and his groin exposed so a vein could be injected into." Mr Melia had been due to stand trial at Liverpool crown court last week on an armed robbery charge. "I hope I never hear again about such an eventuality," the judge said. "This is certainly in no way typical of how Merseyside police conduct themselves. It is a matter restricted to these two officers." He said the idea that the system rewarded suspects who were being interviewed was "wholly unacceptable". It had been a most difficult and most unusual case. "I have been practising in this city since 1972 as a barrister and judge in the criminal field and I have never come across a case of this type before." The officers have already been the subject of a disciplinary hearing set up by the chief constable following a thorough and detailed investigation. The panel concluded that they had acted with a distinct lack of professionalism, and they were fined £750, but it cleared them of nine misconduct charges. The disciplinary hearing said: "It exposes you and Merseyside police and strikes at the very heart of confidence in the police service." The panel had been astounded that a prolific criminal and suspected armed robber had been allowed to make two telephone calls after he was arrested. "DC Bradley was the prime mover in relation to these events," Judge Holloway said. "DC Wynn was subservient." Afterwards, Mr Broudie said: "The only thing that still causes concern and astonishment is that the CPS were sent the papers last year and somehow they incompetently reached the conclusion there was insufficient evidence for a prosecution." Merseyside police said they noted the judge's comments with grave concern and had launched a full inquiry.