A knife-wielding teenager dubbed The Slasher, sentenced to life last week for a series of violent attacks, was allowed to continue his reign of terror because youth justice professionals repeatedly refused to classify him as a risk to the public, The Observer has discovered.Elias Cecchetti, who was arrested last year for stabbing a female jogger in a London park, was on an electronic tag at the time of the attack and had a string of convictions for violence, theft and drug possession. He was first identified as out of control in 2000, when his local council, Hackney, applied for an antisocial behaviour order. But social services sources have said that the local youth justice team - which comprises experts from the criminal justice, health and education system - said it was impossible to carry out an official risk-assessment on Cecchetti, as he had not been offending for long enough. Three years later, when he was imprisoned for the frenzied attack in the park, he was considered so dangerous by the Prison Service that he was sent to Woodhill high-security adult jail near Milton Keynes, even though he was only 15. Woodhill houses some of the most dangerous prisoners in the country. Hackney officials have admitted that they had been unwise to apply for an Asbo to curb Cecchetti's behaviour. Almost as soon as the order was issued in August 2001 the teenager was back within the criminal justice system. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation union Napo, said: 'It's essential that youth justice teams develop the culture of risk assessment without delay.' Cecchetti's case will lead to calls for a rethink of the use of Asbos to control juvenile criminals. One condition of the order was that Cecchetti should not carry a knife, a measure that was completely unenforceable. The council said it was unable to enforce the order because Cecchetti was not living at home in Hackney and committed many of his offences outside the area he was restricted from entering. 'Elias's behaviour was nowhere near "low-level". The Asbo almost became an irrelevance compared to what he went on to do. It wasn't the right tool to deal with his behaviour,' said a spokeswoman for Hackney. The council initially applied for a five-year order covering the whole of the borough, but the court watered it down to two years, covering the area around Cecchetti's home. It was also felt inappropriate to identify the young man at the time. The council is bracing itself for serious criticism of its approach to Cecchetti, but Councillor Jamie Carswell said that no one agency should take the blame for the mistakes made in the case. 'To exonerate his behaviour and say that it's the council, or the police or the courts' fault, because they should have done something, misses the point. This was a disturbed and violent man,' he said.