Jamaican crime gangs have targeted Yorkshire, sparking a surge in street shootings as they battle it out for the lucrative drug trade with local gangsters.The gangs, known by the slang name Yardies, have gained a foothold in Leeds and Bradford, breaking out from their territory of London.Yardies are feared by police and criminals for their casual use of guns and their culture of 'respect', which can see violent retribution for the smallest of perceived slights. Last month there were three shootings in a single week in the Chapeltown area of Leeds. Between April and November last year, there were 15 attempted murders with guns in Leeds alone: the same total as during the previous five years. A police crackdown has seen scores of suspected Yardies without visas sent back to Jamaica. In a six-day period this month police in Leeds made 49 Yardie-linked arrests. Police in the city have set up special armed response teams to deal with the Yardie menace. 'They have a feeling they are untouchable and we want to try and redress that,' said Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Brown, head of the anti-Yardie operation. Innocent people on city streets have been caught up in the gang wars. Bradford taxi driver Mohamed Basharat paid the ultimate price when his car knocked the wing mirror of another driver two months ago - unfortunately, police believe, a Yardie gangster. A day later Basharat was shot dead at point blank range in his taxi office by a masked gunman. 'He was just a lovely person. I can't understand why anyone would kill him,' said Basharat's sister Nourin Akhtar. The weapon used to kill Basharat was a Brocock air pistol converted illegally to use real bullets. It is a deadly Yardie 'signature' weapon. Police believe Basharat was killed in revenge for a minor road accident involving a gangster. 'It is all to do with respect. This man simply did not get his own way in traffic and he killed someone for it,' said Det Supt Colin Stansbie who is leading the manhunt for the 28-year-old suspect. Police believe the Yardies are seizing on a recent fall in the amount of drugs coming from Pakistan and Afghanistan. Supply routes have switched to Colombian drug cartels, which usually transit drugs via Jamaica. It has given the Yardies the chance to enter into previously untapped markets and to challenge existing Asian drug gangs in northern cities. The networks the Yardie gangs use are sophisticated and stretch back to Jamaica. Couriers bring the drugs from Jamaica on regular flights and are then transported to Yorkshire. There is a network of Yardie-run safe houses in Bradford and Leeds, as well as crack houses where addicts can use their drugs. In big deals, cash is exchanged between Britain and Jamaica by using money transfer companies. Jason Lewis, 29, was part of one such Yorkshire operation, recently broken up by Leeds police. Last week he was sentenced to seven years for his part in a cocaine deal worth more than £300,000. The Yardies have concentrated their efforts in the Afro-Caribbean communities of Yorkshire's cities, in particular the Chapeltown area of Leeds. One local churchman who spoke on condition of anonymity said: 'It sounds terrible to say, as a priest, that I am afraid, but I am.' He showed The Observer dozens of discarded needles in his churchyard and pointed out gangs of youths dealing drugs on the street. Recently, a dealer had parked outside his church to sell crack from his car. 'I went outside and he just shouted at me "This is my area. I tell you what to do",' he said. Last week, Chapeltown councillor Norma Hutchinson held meetings with local church leaders to discuss tackling the rise in drug-related gun crime. 'The community and the streets belong to us. We should be able to walk out of our doors at any time without worrying about being shot,' she said. Hutchison and other community leaders, including the local MP, Fabian Hamilton, have backed the police crackdown in an area where community and police relations have often been strained. The residents of Chapeltown and other communities in Leeds and Bradford do not want another innocent life to be taken by Yardie gangs. They want Basharat's killing to be the last.