He was not a famous or great man, just a boy with bright dreams for his future. He did not have mighty friends or high-powered contacts, just a couple of stubborn parents who refused to be pushed aside. He did not set out to be a leader of men or to turn the world upside down, but Stephen Lawrence has done something for which he will never be forgotten: he has given his country a chance to change. The report into his death, published at long last yesterday, marked a moment rare in our national life. It forced us all to take a long, uncomfortable look in the mirror, to examine not just the people we pay to protect us but ourselves. As the Home Secretary said in an admirable statement to the House of Commons yesterday, Sir William Macpherson's searing report 'opened our eyes to what it's like to be black or Asian in Britain today'. As Jack Straw conceded, it contains some painful truths, all of which we now have to face - 'each and every one of us'.  We cannot load all the blame on to the Metropolitan Police, or even its Commissioner. The officers who turned a blind eye to justice, failing to pursue Stephen's killers, are, along with the killers themselves, not aliens: they did not land in Eltham from Planet Racism. They are members of our society: they grew up in it, they are rooted in it. If they are a problem, then so are we. This is why the Macpherson report is a volume of shame. It depicts a police culture riven with prejudice and ignorance. It reveals a company of men, and some women, who regarded those with black or brown skins as less than fellow citizens, perhaps even less than human beings. Their suffering was valued less, the lives of one of their sons was valued less. Doreen and Neville Lawrence's enduring contribution to British life has been to expose that fact to all of us - and to refuse to take it. They forced us to look at the conduct of those who police our society in our name. So the sight of the Lawrences at their press conference yesterday, seated apart, their faces worn down by grief and struggle, was doubly heavy. The heart breaks, not just for them but for what we have done to them.  The Macpherson report has given us a chance to make amends, to make what Jack Straw called a 'watershed' in the relations between Britain's races. It lays bare a history neatly summarised by the churchman who told the inquiry that over 30 years black Britons have been consistently over-policed and under-protected. Overall, Macpherson is thorough and wise - and a devastating indictment of the 'pernicious and institutionalised racism' running through the Met as well as the 'flawed and indefensible' police work the inquiry discovered everywhere it looked. Reform in the police has, regrettably, always been scandal-driven. Will this latest scandal produce equally rewarding results? There were several initiatives announced by Mr Straw yesterday which reformers could embrace. First and foremost the police - along with other public services - are to be brought within the ambit of the 1976 Race Relations Act, as they should have been from the very beginning. This will allow the Commission for Racial Equality to begin its own inquiries into deaths in custody, discriminatory use of stop and search, or stations suspected of harbouring racist officers. This is an accountability that is long overdue, but to be totally effective the Race Relations Act will need amending to restore to the CRE the original powers which have been subsequently curbed by the courts. Then there is to be a new police disciplinary regime beginning from April, under which police officers will not be able to retire early to escape prosecution. This is a start, but Macpherson was calling for something much more substantial than this, including an independent investigation of police complaints and a code of conduct which would ensure that racist acts by police officers would be a dismissable offence. An immediate inspection of the Met has been ordered by the Home Secretary with HM inspectors ordered to apply a much stricter level of standards than applied in earlier reviews. Mr Straw had already signalled his intention of setting much higher targets for the recruitment, retention and promotion of ethnic minority officers for all police services. Two decades ago in the wake of the Scarman inquiry, visiting Americans could not believe Britain was still trying to police black communities with such tiny numbers of black officers: a mere 0.5 per cent in the Met. Two decades ago America had several forces where 40 per cent were black and a half a dozen led by black chief constables. Twenty years on just 2 per cent of police officers in England and Wales are from ethnic minorities. Straw is insisting this rises to 7 per cent nationally, and even higher in areas of high concentrations of ethnic minorities. Sensibly, the Home Secretary is referring to the Law Commission the daunting and dangerous Macpherson proposal that the Court of Appeal should be given power to permit prosecution after acquittal where fresh and viable evidence is presented. The Commission will be fully aware of the dangers which such a proposal holds. The principle of a person not being tried twice for the same offence is one old and ancient concept which should be protected. The Met itself pointed yesterday to its more rigorous anti-racist training and its new specialist anti-racist squad, which has doubled the number of people being charged with racially motivated crimes since last August. But what was missing yesterday was just how much closer supervision will be applied to officers on patrol and involved in investigations. No other professionals work with so little supervision or with so much discretion. Tighter supervision is crucial. Doreen Lawrence rightly asked what would be done to ensure the officer on the beat behaved properly.  What of Sir Paul himself? He escapes serious criticism in the report, though there is a strong implication that he was not sufficiently sceptical of the first Barker Review of the investigation. There is a plausible view that Sir Paul has escaped lightly. The buck inevitably stops with the Commissioner, and this is some buck. It may be argued that Sir Paul has been at the helm of the Metropolitan Police for some six years now and that he cannot evade responsibility for the catalogue of incompetence and racism described by Macpherson. Sir Paul's acknowledgement of institutionalised racism within his organisation was belated and accompanied by a certain amount of semiotic self-justification. Against that should be set a general acceptance that Sir Paul has a long and public record of fighting racism within his force, and also his courage in tackling police corruption - often in the face of considerable hostility from his own officers. His resignation would have had a certain symbolic cleanness about it. But if he is to stay, he must surely realise that yesterday's report was a beginning, not an end. In the 10 months he has left he has much to prove. All the fine work of Macpherson will have been wasted unless it inspires extraordinary efforts by the police to win the confidence of the black community which it patently lacks at the moment. That fight should start today and, yes, the buck really does stop with Sir Paul.