Would-be gang members in university cities are being told they have to attack and steal from students as part of their initiation.The existence of the ritual - known as 'bag a student' - in at least two major cities has been identified by academics at Huddersfield University, who are researching the prevalence of crime against students.The main findings of the research, from the university's Applied Criminology Centre, was that those studying at city universities were far more likely to become victims of robbery than local residents because they were seen as the 'archetypal easy victim'. They warned that universities were failing fully to inform hopeful students about the crime risks because of 'concerns that raising awareness would damage reputations'.The studies found that criminals aged 16 to 18 thought students were 'naive', 'un-streetwise', carried 'desirable and valuable' goods and were easily identifiable. Many lived in housing estates that bordered deprived areas where locals became jealous of their affluence.'Offenders said they targeted students because they felt it was easy,' said Michelle Rogerson, one of the researchers. The study has involved work in Manchester, Liverpool, Leeds and Birmingham. 'In a few of the cities it was a requirement for gang initiation to "bag a student".'The fact that many undergraduates were living alone and in big cities for the first time made them unaware of the risks, she added. A CCTV operator quoted in the research described how undergraduates wandered around with iPods and expensive mobiles clearly on show. A police officer, meanwhile, said many young women would happily walk through dangerous areas alone at night.Rogerson and her colleagues argued that universities were nervous about highlighting the risks. 'There is a sensitivity around using the "crime" word because that worries parents,' said Professor Alex Hirschfield, co-author of the research and director of the criminology centre. 'But you are importing a large cohort of potentially vulnerable people who are not used to living in inner-city areas. We would argue that universities are benefiting from fees and it would be positive for them to address the issue.'Wes Streeting, president of the National Union of Students, added: 'I am particularly concerned about gangs targeting students. I think institutions need to raise the rate of awareness of this.'According to the research, the 100,000 students in Manchester make up a fifth of the city's population but are estimated to form between a quarter and a third of its robbery victims. Michael Joslin, a second-year politics student in the city, started a safety campaign in the city because he had his bike stolen 10 times.'One third of those who come to the university become victims of crime, but most are not really aware of the risks,' he said. 'Local criminals frequent the areas where students are because they see us as easy targets.'The research also highlighted work being carried out by police in the West Midlands, where a dedicated officer co-ordinates campaigns across a number of universities. The 'Best Mates' campaign encourages students to watch out for each other, stay in groups, take licensed taxis and follow safer routes home.Emma Thompson, the officer in charge of student crime reduction for the force, added: 'Students are vulnerable because they have lots of valuable, easily stolen items that are easily concealed and have a sell-on market - and because there are lots of them in a concentrated area. If you are a burglar, you will be more profitable in a student house, where there may be several laptops, rather than other properties where there may just be one.'