Two men have been found guilty of stabbing a businessman to death as he attempted to stop them stealing his sports car.The Old Bailey heard that Rory Gordon, 23, and Jae'Don Fearon, 21, only stood to gain £500 for the carjacking, during which Harjinder Singh Bhurji, 32, was stabbed in the heart.The pair drove off in his Mercedes SLK coupé, leaving Bhurji dying on the side of the road in Ilford, Essex, in the early hours of 13 September 2011.Jurors unanimously found Gordon guilty of murder while Fearon was convicted of Bhurji's manslaughter after being found not guilty of murder.A third defendant, Andre Campbell, 23, was found guilty of a charge of handling stolen goods after selling the victim's iPhone for £100.Adjourning sentencing to 27 May, Judge Michael Topolski told Gordon: "You have been convicted of a brutal murder of a innocent man. A brutal murder committed with a knife in the course of a commission of a crime, and all for perhaps £500."He said he would need to consider what minimum life sentence term to impose, adding: "That time in circumstances such as these is a very significant one indeed."A victim impact statement was read out to the court by prosecutor Sally O'Neill QC on behalf of the family, who described Mr Bhurji as a "humble and reserved character" who enjoyed life and loved to travel.They said Bhurji had a passion for cars from an early age and studied electronics before getting a job at Mercedes-Benz, where he won many awards and certificates.He went on to start his own business, becoming the main breadwinner so his parents did not have to continue working."Knife crime has got to stop," the statement added. "No one should have to experience the pain of losing their loved one this way. Rory Gordon and Jae'Don Fearon have deprived Raj and his family of the rest of his life. At 32, a healthy, intelligent man was snatched from his future, his hopes and dreams."The trial heard that Bhurji was parked in Stoneleigh Road, Ilford, talking to a female friend, when they were attacked by the carjackers, who pulled the woman out of the vehicle and demanded the keys.Bhurji told them he did not have the keys and threw them behind the driver's seat, the court heard. He was stabbed in the heart but was able to lean down to retrieve the keys and hand them over before he collapsed.The Mercedes was then driven off at speed, leaving Bhurji dying by the road.The vehicle was fitted with a tracking device and was found later parked near Epping Forest.Det Insp Andy Yeats of the Metropolitan police's homicide and major crime command said: "Mr Bhurji was a loving son and brother who had everything to live for. He was a successful businessman and worked hard to provide for his family. Gordon and Fearon have no concept of hard work. They spotted Mr Bhurji's car and decided they would take it by force without a single thought for the devastating consequences."Mr Bhurji's female friend was threatened with a knife before Mr Bhurji was stabbed through the heart without any chance of defending himself. We can only hope that today's result offers the family of Mr Bhurji some solace."