It's in the nature of British press culture that our newspapers choose to highlight the exceptional rather than the run-of-the-mill. The extraordinary always takes precedence over the ordinary.That may be understandable, but does it help readers to understand?Look at today's front pages. The Sun, Daily Mirror, Daily Express and Daily Star all splash on the story about "Olympic girl" Chelsea Ives - an 18-year-old alleged to have thrown a brick at a police car during a riot in Enfield.She is an Olympics ambassador, one of the people appointed to meet and greet visitors at the London games next year.The Daily Mail front page features a picture of "millionaire's girl" Laura Johnson, who has been charged with stealing electronic goods from a store in Charlton, south-east London.We are told she is a university undergraduate who went to a grammar school and is the daughter of a supposedly high-earning businessman.The Times's page 1 is dominated by the picture of a university graduate, Natasha Reid, under the headline "Why did I do it?". She is alleged to have stolen a TV.We learned that she was comes from "a comfortable background" and was preparing for a career as a social worker.The Daily Telegraph front page showed us two pictures of a 12-year-old boy convicted of stealing wine from a store in Manchester. He "walked free", said the story, after being given a nine-month referral order.What unites the stories of Chelsea, Laura, Natasha and the anonymous 12-year-old boy is that they are untypical examples of the hundreds of people arrested during the riots.They do not exemplify the characteristics of the overwhelming majority of people - male, teenage and 20s, poorly parented, poorly educated, and just plain poor. Yet the quartet are given top billing by papers. I can appreciate editors' reasoning. I've been there. I've done that. But standing back, years on from being responsible for producing a paper, it's possible to see how skewed our news agenda has become.These four individuals do not tell the real story. They do not share the life experiences of most of the people who went on the rampage through our towns and cities.In fact, by putting the spotlight on them, papers tend to obscure the wider and deeper social problems that gave rise to the unprecedented phenomenon of mass mayhem with vandalism, looting, arson, assault and four murders. Each of the four fulfils a story description coined by a former colleague: they have the "Hey Doris factor".In other words, they excite interest because of their difference. But does this interest extend beyond the oddity itself? Does it lead to people overlooking the genuine story?By the way, I accept that the picture of the 12-year-old was also the main image on The Guardian's front page. But it was a sidebar to the splash, which was about the clash between the prime minister and the police.And, for the record, The Independent (and i) also concentrated on a political story, about David Cameron preparing to give the police extra powers.