More than 13 years after she was last seen in a nightclub in Bath, Melanie Hall was finally given a funeral yesterday in the city's abbey. Among hundreds of mourners was a man who should have been sunning himself on a far-flung beach, enjoying the first weeks of his retirement.Mike Britton was serving his final days as detective sergeant when he received a phone call one evening in October: skeletal remains had been found in scrub by a slip road on to the M5 north of Bristol and they included a gold ring. The only surviving senior member of the original investigation, Britton remembered Hall had been wearing her grandmother's wedding ring when she disappeared in 1996. He showed a photograph of the ring to Hall's parents, Steve and Pat, and shortly afterwards a postmortem match with dental records confirmed their worst fears: as Steve Hall put it, the "bag of bones" discarded "like a crisp packet" on the motorway verge belonged to the 25-year-old psychology graduate.After retiring at 50, Britton always thought he would return to work as a civilian investigator in Avon and Somerset police's major crimes investigation unit – but the discovery gave his plans new urgency. Forensic analysis confirmed beyond doubt that Melanie Hall had been murdered so Britton cancelled his holiday plans and started his retirement job immediately: hunting for her killer in the case that has obsessed and frustrated him more than any other.Britton, a Bristolian who has been with his local force for more than 30 years, stresses it is a team effort: he is only assisting the lead investigator and 40 officers in Operation Denmark. But he is not just an expert in Hall's disappearance: he knows how to work old cases too, after a stint on the cold cases review team. In TV shows such as Waking the Dead, stalled investigations can be revived using fancy new forensic and DNA techniques, but Britton says he was "amazed" by what could be uncovered in 30-year-old cases with old-fashioned police work. "You have to have a mind that thinks sideways," he says.  Melanie Hall disappeared after a night out in Bath in 1996. Photograph: PAHall's disappearance was one of the Avon and Somerset's biggest and most baffling investigations in the 1990s. A hospital clerical worker, she was enjoying a Saturday night out in the Cadillacs nightclub with two friends and her boyfriend of three weeks, Phil Kurlbaum, when she argued with the 33-year-old doctor, apparently over her dancing with another man. Kurlbaum stormed out and Hall was left alone after her two friends believed he was still in the club. No one, apart from the murderer, knows what happened next: no CCTV captured Hall and there were no mobile phone records (this was just before the mass mobile era). Hall simply vanished.She was declared dead in 2004 and Britton admits he was losing hope of ever finding her body. "Even I had started to resolve myself to the possibility that Melanie's remains may never be found," he says. "I thought we would never get to this stage. Finding Melanie was a milestone. Now we want justice for Melanie's family. We want the people responsible found and taken to court in order that justice can be done."Speculation has flourished over 13 years, including the possibility – not ruled out – that more than one person was responsible for her death. One lurid theory is that the murder was orchestrated from prison by John Cannan, serving life for murdering a Bristol woman, Shirley Banks, in 1987 and the prime suspect in the Suzy Lamplugh case, who could have encouraged a newly released convict to conduct a random attack in the Bristol area. Cannan denies the allegations and no charges have been brought against anyone.When Hall first disappeared there was the usual innuendo about the boyfriend but Kurlbaum, now a married GP in Cheltenham, was ruled out early on. Britton won't comment on theories involving Cannan or anyone else but says persons of interest have been re-interviewed in recent weeks and, so far, this time, no one has been ruled out."We have tried to exhaust every line of inquiry to say that various people are no longer suspects. However, it's fair to say there are still lots of unknowns in this investigation, such as how Melanie got from Bath to where she was found. Everybody is being looked at again to see if they have links to that area."Britton admits he is emotionally involved and the case has got under his skin. "Having been involved in the investigation from day one and seen the way its affected her parents over the years it can't help but become very personal about wanting to catch the person responsible," he says.He hopes his presence is also reassuring for the Halls. "I got to know them very well and they became good friends. Obviously when the skeletal remains of Melanie were found, they were able to see a face they recognised because other officers have now since retired. It's nice to have some continuity throughout the investigation and I've almost become that continuity for them and the investigating team."Britton vows to continue working through retirement until Hall's killer, or killers, are caught. Can he imagine getting a call when he is 70? His eyes gleam; he does not seem to think it will take that long. "I am extremely hopeful and confident we will catch Melanie's killers." Does he have a theory about who did it? "I have my own theories as to what potentially happened to Melanie but they are my own opinions, not necessarily supported by evidence. When we find out what happened to Melanie, when we catch those responsible, it will either be proved right or found to be ill-based." Do other detectives share his theory? "A lot share my thoughts and several don't." His eyes gleam again, with determination and emotion, and he says: "This is one I've spent an awful lot of my investigative career on and always wanted to get to the bottom of."