I heard about Monday's murder in Edmonton sooner than most people, as my friend had witnessed the aftermath.The local schools had just been dismissed; the streets were packed with frenetic crowds, understandably upset by what had occurred. Aside from the injuries, one of the most disturbing sights my friend reported was several young teenagers wearing stab-proof vests over their clothing, fighting with police to get closer to their dying friend.The attack took place at the bottom of my old school's road. It wasn't an inviting neighbourhood then, either. And, ours being the geeky school of the area, we often feared being attacked on the walk down to Silver Street. Many of us saw knives; some were beaten up; sometimes there were fights between local kids.That is to say, the area was roughly the same then as it is now - this was only 10 years ago. But the language was different. Then there were groups of kids fighting; now there are "gangs at war". Then there were muggings and beatings; now there are "gangland revenge attacks" and "streets of fear".It is hard to say whether "things have got worse", as we are constantly being reminded by a media and public overcome by fear. According to statistics, things are improving, as far as London's violent crime rates - and, specifically, knife attacks - are concerned, though statistics should be taken with a pinch of salt.Either way, London murders certainly occurred 10 years ago, and they occur today - though there has been a rise in violent youth crime. However, what has risen most noticeably is the attention paid to the crimes, giving the impression of a pandemic of teen killings in the capital.Of course these killings are as disturbing as they are unacceptable, and the crimes must not go unreported. Yet there is coverage, and there is sensationalism. Compare, for instance, these two reports of the same attack. One is from the BBC; the other is from the Evening Standard. Notice how the former keeps to dry facts while the latter uses quotation to hype up the news with emotionally charged conjecture.It is, indeed, an emotional issue, but how much does this kind of reporting really help to improve the situation? One might argue that it is not a newspaper's job to improve the situation. OK. But to what extent does this kind of analysis actually make things worse?Not once did I see teenagers wearing stab-proof vests in the street 10 years ago. Now they not only wear them under their clothing, but in some cases ostentatiously over their sweaters, blatantly embracing and perpetuating the image of life on the frontline. Likewise, this range of slash-proof streetwear did not exist until last year. And now there are recommendations to introduce metal detectors at troubled schools.On the one hand, these measures are designed to decrease the prevalence and impact of knife-carrying children. On the other hand, though, they are symptomatic of a growing sense of moral panic, entrenching the view that London is a murder-ridden ghetto among those who most need to be convinced otherwise - namely London's impressionable youth.Take the example of this young black boy from Bow, whom my friend teaches photography in a scheme for underprivileged children. When my friend suggested that the boy attend a college in Latimer Road, he replied: "West London? I'd have to take my shank, then."The idea that a boy from east London thought he could not travel to west London without a knife would be laughable if it were not a telling indicator of the impact that the sensationalising of violent crime is having on young people, males in particular.Boys need to feel free to travel from one part of London to another without fear of attack. And in reality the chances, both statistical and anecdotal, prove they can indeed travel without incident. Yet young men are growing up with newspapers, TV, teachers and even the current home secretary - all of whom should be responsibly leading society - hysterically reporting that London runs red with violent crime.The youths' response: to come prepared; to carry more knives, wear vests over their clothes and tell everyone just how ghetto their manor has become.So if today's children, who grow up seeing galleries of killed kids in the daily paper, decide to wear vests and carry more shanks, then, in 10 years' time, what will the children who grew up around stab-proof vests and metal detectors do?Teenage violence needs to be urgently tackled. However, image is everything to impressionable young people, and as long as adults tell them that they live in a war zone, then they will increasingly act as though they really do.It is imperative that those in positions of responsibility keep their heads, to keep inner-city youths from losing theirs.