Myra, Medusa. Medusa, Myra. No matter what she looked like after she was sentenced to life imprisonment in 1966, Myra Hindley was fixed forever in the public eye as the peroxide-haired gorgon of that infamous police snapshot.Look at her defiant, evil eyes, we are meant to say. Spawn of the devil, God knows, she probably had a head of snakes, covered by a blonde wig to fool us, this evil, evil woman. If only the women and children of Soham could have got to her first and driven a stake through her heart before stringing her up from a lamppost and then chopping off her head. And... None of us can ever say "poor Myra", but that is what this working class Lancashire girl was: poor. Born in Gorton, her parents were factory workers and she a clerk in a chemical merchants. Ian Brady was, she said, the first man she ever met who had clean fingernails. Glamorous, like. Looked at again, the snapshot is rather glamorous in a peroxide 60s way. It fascinated the artist Marcus Harvey, who used a cast of a child's hand as a brush to create an acrylic portrait of Hindley for the Royal Academy's Sensation show five years' ago. It was pelted with eggs and ink. The photograph fascinated The Smiths, a Manchester band, who were rounded on for "glamourising" Hindley in song and record sleeves. Families like the Hindleys were largely strangers to cameras - not like today when the smallest child from the Manchester suburbs knows how to pout moodily like a TV starlet or sneer like some superchilled rapper and how to edit digital snapshots so that their portraits look good. Hindley would have stiffened up for the camera whether Box Brownie, Instamatic 50 or standard HM Police issue, which is why she looked like she did on film. In any case, criminal or otherwise, many people freeze in front of a lens. Most of us still do when sat, like the accused, in photo-booths waiting for the flash. When the damp passport snaps emerge we step back in horror, or laughter. Oh God, we exclaim, I look like a member of the Baader-Meinhof gang, or a... Mad Axe Murderer. The same mad, staring eyes, bleached out cheeks. We can all be Myra Hindley or Ian Brady lookalikes if forced in front of a camera, shot with flash against white walls, or fixed in an attitude of shock and surprise.Like Winston Silcott, whose shocking police picture made this otherwise handsome man look like the approved-of model of a modern, axe or machete murdering villain, innocent or not. Bonnie Parker, the young American gangster seems glamorous today, but this is because the person we see in our mind's eye is not the real-life scrawny, 4ft 11in, 23-year old freckled blonde, but the gorgeous Faye Dunaway in the 60s movie Bonnie and Clyde. A film, Myra: the Manchester Medusa will surely flicker across the silver screen soon enough; the Lancashire blonde will be played by a beautiful women, lovingly lit, carefully shot. The old photograph will lose its power to shock.