Speaking after the Home Secretary's presentation of the report to Parliament, Sir Paul said: "I have encouraged a public debate on the issue of institutional racism because I believed it important to carefully consider the implications for my service and the public interest at large. I expressed my anxiety about the broad range of definitions being given to the Inquiry and the interpretations being made of them."That is why I wrote to the Judge and asked him to provide, in the report, a rallying point for reform by addressing the challenge facing public institutions as they seek to combat racism. He has responded with a new and demanding definition which sets a new standard for policing. He has addressed my specific concern and fear that the old definitions could be used to label most police officers as deliberately racist. They are not and the new definition, which will apply to all public bodies and the wider community, makes this clear. That is why I accept its application to the Metropolitan Police Service."Significantly, the Inquiry's proposal has broadened the definition to include unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness and racist stereotyping. While this gives us a broad steer, the practical application of the issues must now be discussed, debated, reviewed and the legislative implications considered, not only by the Met but by the police service as a whole together with the wider public sector and the communities we serve."We intend to lead in taking things forward so that the new standard can be applied in practical ways. It will mean doing things very differently from the way we responded in 1993." "We feel a sense of shame for the quality of the investigation and in our dealings with the family. As the report has made clear - we failed and we could and should have done better.""By the time I leave the Met next January I expect us to have demonstrated significant progress on all fronts. I also hope that our renewed efforts to bring those racists responsible for the murder of Stephen Lawrence to justice will bear fruit."Stephen's brutal and racist murder has already brought about significant change and the legacy of his tragic death will be enduring reform."Sir Paul outlined three new developments to add to the Met's existing programme of change in responding to the issues raised by the Inquiry. These are:1. Integrity testing has been introduced to help diagnose racism in the organisation with some precision by spot checking on both officers' behaviour and the service delivered to victims of race crime.2. Redirecting resources to create a well trained quick reaction force to deal with murders in the first critical hour, when so much can be achieved or lost, to the first four days. This will shift resources to assist crime teams in bringing early resolution and control of crime scenes in a structured way and lead to at least a dozen things being done differently from now.3. All Londoners are to be asked what they expect from their police service through an extensive and comprehensive research project. This will help create a better shared understanding between the police and the community and provide a realistic programme of the needs, priorities and expectations of those we serve. These will reinforce the changes already introduced which include:The introduction of dedicated murder investigation teams across London in 1994The adoption of the ACPO major crime review, manual and review proceduresA significant increase in the number of crime analysts from 20 to 200New technological developments in recording and analysing major crimes, andThe provision of community and race relations training