Teenage gang members who were named and shamed under antisocial behaviour orders for a two-year campaign of intimidation and violence on an estate yesterday lost a landmark high court challenge which claimed that widespread publicity had breached their human rights.A senior judge said he was dismayed at the conduct of the three boys and criticised the way they were able to bring lengthy legal challenges against the Asbos. He suggested that in the public interest time limits should be imposed on contesting the orders to prevent "those who have engaged in antisocial behaviour from engaging in another form of abuse". The case cost £250,000 in legal fees alone to Brent council in north-west London and the Metropolitan police, who issued the Asbos against Martin Kelly, now 19, William Marshall, now 17, and Jovan Stanley, also 17. The boys, part of a larger group of seven who were issued Asbos, were legally aided and backed by the civil rights group Liberty. A Home Office spokesman welcomed the decision, saying it supported David Blunkett's policy on antisocial behaviour. "The court agreed with the principle that publicity is necessary to help with enforcement of an order," he said. "By informing local people of the prohibitions imposed by the order, they are able to identify and report breaches to the police, or to local authorities, social landlords or other bodies who can pass the information to the police for investigation." The court heard that the gang had been behind an epidemic of bad behaviour on an estate in Neasden. Such was the scale of intimidation that a male cleaner had to be accompanied by a security guard for three weeks, and a carpenter was surrounded by the youths and threatened when he tried to fix the electricity box. Lighting on the estate was smashed by the gang the night it was repaired. The gang also threw stones from balconies, smoked drugs in communal areas, started fires in the main staircase, let off fireworks, and abused and threatened residents and visitors to the building. When the police arrived one night in October 2002 to get information from residents to enable Asbos to be issued, a "mini-riot" ensued. An unmarked police car was stoned, and a firework, rocks and other missiles were thrown at police. Christopher Johnston, appearing for the police, told the high court that it was hard to imagine "the hell of the residents' daily existence", which made the community lose faith in the authorities and led to the Asbos being obtained from a district judge. The Asbos - one for life, one for 10 years and the remainder for five years - were issued by magistrates after a 15-week hearing. The gang appealed in a five-week hearing at the crown court but their application was dismissed. Then Kelly, Marshall and Stanley, backed by Liberty, launched a challenge, claiming under article eight of the European convention on human rights that the publicity surrounding the Asbos breached their right to a private life. The publicity had included the handing out of 3,000 leaflets showing the boys' pictures, an article in a council newspaper and an internet story about the case which described the gang's behaviour as "animalistic" and gang members as "thugs and bully boys". But Lord Justice Kennedy said the impact of the publicity on the boys could not have been great, given their past which had already drawn media attention. "They [the claimants] had been shown to be members of a gang responsible for serious and antisocial behaviour over an extended period," he said. "They had all previously been convicted of serious criminal offences ... they had all been stopped, searched, arrested and brought before the courts but they continued with antisocial behaviour and defiance of authority." He ruled that the publicity was reasonable and appropriate and had to contain the teenagers' names, photographs and partial addresses to be effective. "The language in some of the publicity was colourful ... but it was entirely appropriate," he ruled. Ann John, the leader of Brent council, welcomed the decision to dismiss the teenagers' challenge - one that local authorities across the country had been watching with interest. "The young people in this case had been involved in serious and persistent bad behaviour, which was often of a dangerous, threatening and violent nature, and the residents affected were terrified in their own homes." She expressed surprise that Liberty had backed the teenagers. "There is an issue here about the human rights and liberties of the residents in the neighbourhood who were subjected to verbal and physical assaults," she said.