A drive to recruit more women, ethnic minority and solicitor judges to make the judiciary more closely represent the general population was launched yesterday by the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, and the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf.The move is an attempt to change the overwhelmingly white, middle-aged, male profile of the judiciary, which has changed little since Labour took office in 1997. Recent months have seen the appointment of the first woman law lord, Brenda Hale, and the first black high court judge, Linda Dobbs. Ms Justice Dobbs is the first ethnic minority judge ever to reach the high court bench and women still account for only 8% of judges in the high court and above. Proposals by Lord Falconer could mean a clear career ladder for judges, who could be appointed earlier than at present to a low rung on the ladder, so gaining time to work their way up. The period of time a lawyer must have been qualified to be eligible for a judicial post, which is now set at seven to 10 years, could be reduced under the plans. Posts could also be opened to those who have not been practising lawyers, such as university law teachers. Rules requiring candidates to spend years sitting first as part-time judges while practising law - which solicitors find hard to comply with - could be altered to allow for intensive periods of part-time sitting. To remove candidates' fears of taking an irrevocable step by accepting a judicial post, judges in more junior posts could be allowed to return to work as lawyers and even advertise themselves as "former judges". The proposals would radically alter the existing set-up, whereby judicial appointments are made for life. Lord Falconer said: "The quality of our judicial system is second to none but it is not representative of the society it serves. We are determined that over time there should be significant change. It really matters in terms of the judicial system and in terms of our society." Lord Woolf, the senior judge in England and Wales, said: "It's essential that we dispel stereotypes and get the message out that we want people from all backgrounds to put themselves forward for judicial office. "Only by doing that can we achieve a judiciary that is more reflective of society." They said that the proposal to allow judges to return to working as lawyers was likely to apply only to posts that were below the level of a circuit judge. Lord Woolf said it was unlikely to be readily accepted that a high court judge could go back into practice, but at the lower levels of the judiciary there "could be room for a different approach". Lord Falconer said it would be "inconceivable" for a circuit or high court judge to be allowed to return to practice as a barrister or solicitor. The 135-page consultation paper, Increasing Diversity in the Judiciary, said: "There is anecdotal evidence that individuals with a wide range of skills and expertise can be deterred from applying for full-time appointments because it represents a final career choice, and they may not wish to close the door on other career choices. "If the preclusion policy were to be removed, it would give individuals the freedom to consider judicial appointment earlier in their legal career, knowing that they still had choices available to them about whether to return to practice or continue on the bench. "It is important to note that allowing judges to return to practice might have an adverse impact on the stability of the judiciary as a whole if large numbers of judges decided to make such a change."