 A jewellery shop assistant held at gunpoint during a £40m raid in central London "expected the worst" as armed robbers used her as a hostage to make their getaway, she told a jury today.Petra Ehnar said her thoughts were of "life and death" as, with a gun pressed in her back, she was forced out of the shop towards the robbers' waiting car.When, during the confusion, and panic on the street she heard a gun being fired, she did not know if she had been shot. "I didn't know if it was me. It felt like it was right behind me. I didn't know which direction it had gone off," she told Woolwich crown court.Ehnar, who had worked at Graff Diamonds in New Bond Street, Mayfair, for only three months before the robbery last August, said the two suited robbers, one black, one white, began waving guns moments after entering the salon and asking to see a 2-carat ring in one of the windows.The two, alleged to be Aman Kassaye, 24, and Craig Calderwood, 27, began screaming something like "this is a raid, everyone down on the floor", she said. "I tried to go down on the floor but the black man came towards me with a gun and said 'Not you, you're going to help us, you're going to open the windows.'"She did not make eye contact with him. "He was so close I didn't dare look at him."She said she was terrified because the black man, alleged to be Kassaye, was very stressed and she didn't want to make a wrong move. She added that he started clearing the windows, "grabbing handfuls of jewellery quickly and shoving it into a bag".The white man, alleged to be Calderwood, was standing over the shop manager, Martin Leggatt, who was spreadeagled on the floor. "He kept screaming threats. Repetitions. Variations of 'keep your fucking heads down or I shoot'," she said.Philip Bennetts, prosecuting, asked: "What was your concern at that stage?"Ehnar replied: "Life or death. I was terrified."She unlocked three of the windows. But when the white man asked about the fourth, the black man said to him, "'No, we're going' and he says to me 'and you're coming with us'," she said. They moved towards the door, which she had to open. "I feel them right behind me, but then I feel the gun on my back," she said. "I expected the worst. I thought they were taking me in the car."Outside there was confusion. "I just wanted them to get away quickly and easily and for me to be left. I was hoping there wasn't any commotion or anything that would stress them. I thought if anything goes wrong they might shoot me," she said. "Then I hear screaming, 'emergency'. We walk very quickly and all of a sudden I hear the gunshot."She spotted the white man running to a car and felt the black man was no longer behind her, so she ran to a nearby shop "to look for some rescue and to hide. Someone catches me in their arms. I tried to explain what happened, but I don't think I was making much sense. I was in a terrible state of shock. I was shaking and I was all white. I couldn't put a sentence together," she said.Kassaye and Calderwood deny conspiracy to rob and firearms offences. Kassaye denies kidnap. Soloman Beyene, 25, Clinton Mogg, 42, Courtney Lawrence, 31, Gregory Jones, 30, Thomas Thomas, 45, David Joseph, 23, and Benjamin McFarlane, 22, all deny conspiracy to rob.Defence lawyers have alleged that the robbery was an "inside job" set up with knowledge of store staff for "the insurance". Denying this, Ehnar was asked how she felt at the suggestion that it was a "set up" and that she "was in on it"."I think it's obscene. I was the victim. My life has been put under threat. I had the worst experience of my life," she said.The trial continues.