Three key witnesses in Tommy Sheridan's £200,000 libel victory against the News of the World have been charged with perjury, two months after the former Scottish Socialist party leader was charged with the same offence.Police are investigating allegations that a number of senior members of Sheridan's Solidarity party lied on oath during his defamation case against the newspaper, which had accused him of taking part in drink and drug-fuelled orgies. Sheridan won his case in August 2006 after a jury in Edinburgh heard highly charged testimony from his wife Gail about her husband's fidelity and his own repeated denials of guilt. She and her father Gus are due to be formally interviewed by police as part of the same perjury investigation on Tuesday.His closest allies have also denied claims from former colleagues that Sheridan had admitted sexual misconduct at a private meeting of the Scottish Socialist party.Lothian and Borders police confirmed yesterday that it had now charged three of those witnesses in connection with their perjury investigation, which was set up at the request of Lord Turnbull, the judge in the 23-day libel trial. Rosemary Byrne, 59, a close friend of Sheridan's and herself a former MSP in his socialist party Solidarity, was arrested and charged with perjury earlier this week, a party spokesman confirmed. The spokesman confirmed that another close friend of Sheridan who testified at the trial, Jock Penman, 58, was charged last week. The third man charged is his friend Graeme McIver, 39. Byrne is now co-convenor of Solidarity, the party the pair set up after splitting off from the SSP after the News of the World's allegations were printed in 2005. Both she and Sheridan lost their Scottish parliamentary seats last May.Sheridan was arrested last December as he left the Edinburgh-based radio station talk107 after his weekly talk show Sunday Morning with Citizen Tommy.In a simultaneous raid, nine police officers searched his family home in the Pollok area of Glasgow. After his release from custody Sheridan angrily denounced the police, stating that he was "furious and shocked" at his arrest. "It's nine days before Christmas. My house has been ransacked, my wife has been traumatised, and my two-and-a-half-year-old child has been reduced to tears by the presence of nine police officers." Lothian and Borders police refused to comment on the new charges yesterday but a spokeswoman said: "In addition to the 43-year-old man charged with perjury in December, a further two men, a 58-year-old and a 39-year-old, and one woman, who's a 59-year-old, have been charged and released."Jim Monaghan, a spokesman for Solidarity, said: "We consider this to be a political witch-hunt." · This article was amended on Tuesday February 19 2008. Tommy Sheridan's family home is in the Pollok, not Pollock, area of Glasgow, as we said in the article above. This has been corrected.