A mother beat her two-year-old son to death after professionals missed a "significant" number of chances to intervene and save him from months of abuse, a court heardon Monday.Rebecca Shuttleworth, who was described as a "monster" by police, explained away the numerous injuries to the boy, Keanu Williams, by saying he had been fighting with siblings or was clumsy.Shuttleworth, 24, will be given a mandatory life sentenceon Tuesday at Birmingham crown court after being convicted of murder and four charges of child cruelty. The judge, Mr Justice Spencer, will set a minimum term before parole is considered.When found, the boy's body carried 37 external marks of injury. He had bruising to his lower chest, abdomen and back, and had suffered a fractured skull.A postmortem identified "tramline" bruising consistent with Keanu having been struck with an object such as a stick or rod. A fist-sized tear was discovered in part of the child's abdomen, which had caused substantial bleeding.In a statement issued after Shuttleworth was unanimously convicted at the end of a six-month trial, the chair of Birmingham's Safeguarding Children Board acknowledged that chances to take action had been missed.Jane Held, the independent chair of the multi-agency board, said: "The person responsible for his death has been held to account." But she added: "It is already clear there are lessons to learn from how various agencies worked together to support Keanu and his family."A serious case review will be published shortly. Held added: "It is clear from this trial that professionals in the different agencies involved missed a significant number of opportunities to intervene and take action."Shuttleworth, from Hay Mills in Birmingham, closed her eyes briefly, bit her lip, looked upwards and shook her head after the jury found her guilty.The boy's body was found by paramedics in January 2011 after Shuttleworth's partner, Luke Southerton, dialled 999, claiming the boy had stopped breathing, was pale and had not been well. It is thought the fatal injuries were suffered two days before at Southerton's flat in Ward End, Birmingham.Christopher Hotten QC, prosecuting, told the jury Keanu's injuries were the culmination of a long period of ill-treatment.Speaking outside court, Detective Chief Inspector Caroline Marsh, who led the inquiry, said: "Keanu has lost his life in heart-breaking circumstances. It's extremely difficult to understand how someone could do that to their own child. Rebecca Shuttleworth is clearly somebody who is not like a normal member of society. In the past, I have described her as a monster and perhaps I would stand by that."Marsh said: "During his short life he, and his family, came into contact with various professionals in the world of healthcare, social services and police. It is tragic that his mother put greater effort into offering excuses for his ill health than ensuring his care and wellbeing."Detective Superintendent Clare Cowley, of the police's public protection unit, said it was "inevitable" one of the key lessons to be learned would be a need for better inter-agency communication.Cowley said it was "very hard for us as professionals to understand that messages didn't get through or the bigger picture wasn't seen".Wendy Bounds, special casework lawyer from West Midlands Crown Prosecution Service, said: "Keanu Williams craved for what all children want, the love and attention of his mother but he was ignored, pushed away and later abused."Between November 2010 and January 2011 Keanu sustained a series of increasingly serious, unexplained or inadequately explained injuries."The boy's aunt and Shuttleworth's sister, Angela Shuttleworth, said the death of the boy, who was known as Kiwi, had left "a gaping hole in our lives".She said: "Keanu was an amazing little boy full of life and loved playing with his siblings and cousins. He enjoyed all his toys. Kiwi also loved food – he ate everything and was hungry all the time."Southerton, 32, was convicted of one count of child cruelty – an assault on Keanu – but cleared of murder and other offences. He will be sentenced alongside Shuttleworth.