The government has been warned not to impose on reluctant police forces a new breed of patrol officers with powers short of those of a constable.A report published today by the Commons home affairs committee, chaired by the former Labour minister Chris Mullin, says the new community support officers should wear a different uniform from a fully-fledged police officer to avoid confusion for the public. The first 450 community support officers will appear in London this summer. They will have the power to issue fixed penalty fines for anti-social behaviour, demand a name and address and detain a suspect for 30 minutes pending the arrival of a police constable. Although the Metropolitan police have been keen to adopt the cheaper patrol officers, only about a dozen of the remaining 40 forces in England and Wales have expressed any interest in going down the same road. The MPs say that there are fears among police authorities that ministers will ring-fence new money to pay for the support officers and so put reluctant police forces under financial pressure to adopt the scheme. The MPs' report backs the introduction of support officers, but only on condition that no force is compelled to adopt them. "We recognise the genuine concerns about the powers to be given to the community support officers, but believe that the only way of finding out whether this proposal will work is to try it. It may well be that it will only ever be used by a few police forces and that the powers will be needed to be amended in the light of experience." But the Labour-dominated committee also expresses strong opposition to the idea of giving private civilian detention officers working in police cells the power to undertake intimate body searches. Mr Mullin said the committee gave a guarded welcome to the police reform bill now going through parliament, which also includes powers for the home secretary to intervene in "failing" police forces. "No one has seriously questioned the need for police reform. This bill contains many desirable measures, we have concentrated on the most controversial. We believe the safeguards introduced in the Lords have gone some way to meet the widespread concerns about the home secretary's powers of intervention in individual forces," he said. The safeguards were announced by ministers after they suffered a series of defeats last month to the bill in the House of Lords. The safeguards include greater consultation for chief constables and police authorities before the home secretary steps into a particular force. The Commons has yet to debate this piece of legislation.The home affairs committee said it was particularly pleased that at long last the bill contained powers to set up an independent police complaints system. But the MPs say it should be supplemented by further reform of the police's own disciplinary system and that police officers who wish to report wrong-doing in their own ranks should be covered by the 1998 Public Interest Disclosure Act, which protects whistleblowers. The MPs also rejected a demand from the Police Federation that it should be a criminal offence to make a false complaint against the police.The report also expresses scepticism that there is a long-term need for the new Home Office police standards unit, set up by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to monitor the performance of individual forces. The MPs believe it is inevitable that eventually it will merge with the existing inspectorate of constabulary.