The situation in prisons is, on the surface, an operational crisis which can be solved by providing more prison places or by releasing prisoners. Neither is easy to do, but the problem itself seems fairly straightforward. It is however related to the wider problems of failure in the Home Office, and behind it there are more complex questions about the nature of justice, the purpose and legitimacy of punishment, and the relationship between the judiciary and the executive. Getting those things right is fundamental to any civilised modern state. They need constant care and attention, especially in a country with no written constitution and no formal separation of powers.Relations between the Home Office and the judiciary have always been cautious, and even in the 1960s there was tension over sentencing and the demands it placed on accommodation in prisons. Lord Lane as lord chief justice acknowledged in the early 1980s that prison overcrowding was a relevant consideration in sentencing, and the tensions were on the whole managed with understanding and good will on both sides until the 1990s.Several things have happened since that time. One is the increasing politicisation of criminal justice as successive governments have made being tough on crime - in effect being tough on criminals - a major part of their appeal to the public. Another is their belief that the public can be effectively protected from crime by reforming the processes of sentencing and penal treatment. A third is the pace and scale of legislation and new initiatives.The combination of a higher political temperature, ambitious claims for "effectiveness", and increasing turbulence has had two results (apart from any effect on morale). One is the situation where the system has proved unable to "deliver" what governments have led the public to expect. That is partly because their claims were unrealistic in any event, and partly because they were beyond the system's capacity (capacity for this purpose includes political and professional leadership, experience, expertise and time - not just the number of prison cells).The other result is a deterioration in the relationship between the government and the judiciary. That has been caused on the one hand by ministers' frustration at what they have seen as the leniency, inconsistency and "ineffectiveness" of sentencing, and on the other by the increasing volume of legislation which complicates the process and restricts the judges' discretion to pass what they consider to be the "right" sentence. There has also been regular criticism of the judiciary and the legal system by ministers and by the media, often with ministers' encouragement.That is the situation in which the home secretary and the secretary of state for constitutional affairs have suggested creating a Department of Justice which would be responsible for criminal justice and the treatment of offenders as well as the existing functions of the Department for Constitutional Affairs.A Department of Justice is not a new idea. It was debated in the middle of the 19th century, and again after the first world war. The Labour party included it in its manifesto for the 1992 general election, and Justice and the Institute for Public Policy Research have joined the argument since then. The argument for the Department of Justice has sometimes been made, unconvincingly, on grounds of administrative efficiency, or of resolving the anomalous position of the lord chancellor (now largely completed) and of the attorney general (not so far attempted but of topical relevance in relation to prosecutions in which political interests might be involved). The present case is partly one of efficiency, based the need for the home secretary and his department to concentrate exclusively on matters of security and public safety; and partly one of principle - that those responsibilities should be separated from responsibility for justice, which should have its own separate focus in government.The second argument is the one that counts. It relates to the country's conception of justice (and so indirectly to the present debates about British identity and values), and to the quality of decision-making in the government as a whole. It starts from the view that justice is more than a collective name for the mechanisms by which the state controls and punishes crime. It is an aim to be pursued in its own right, separately from any instrumental purpose that the criminal justice process might be able to achieve. There are thus certain subjects - the principles, content and administration of the civil and criminal law, the organisation and management of the courts, the appointment and training of the judiciary, the prosecution of criminal offences, the treatment of offenders, and human rights - where considerations of justice, legitimacy and the rule of law have a special importance. Together they form a coherent and distinct set of responsibilities and need a clear focus and commitment within government. Just as economic matters have an institutional focus in the Treasury, so should justice, respect for the rule of law and human rights have an institutional focus in a Department of Justice, with a minister who can argue for them across government and if necessary against the home secretary. The formation of a Department of Justice would also be consistent with the aims of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005 and the establishment of a Supreme Court.For many years it was argued that such a focus already existed in the Home Office, where it was part of the culture and the tensions between the liberty of the individual and the welfare of the community could be resolved within a single department. That argument has become less convincing with the passage of time, and the change which has taken place in the character of the Home Office since the early 1990s, and especially since 2001, now makes it unsustainable.No one should suppose that the creation of a Department of Justice will itself provide an early solution to the present problems. The situation in prisons calls for early and drastic and action which will demand political courage and leadership from ministers, and judgement and skill from officials and practitioners. But a new department could provide the space within which existing policies could be dispassionately reappraised and new approaches could be developed, so that more sustainable solutions can be found for the longer term.