Footage of the moments two of the July 7 bombers detonated their devices on the London transport network was shown to a jury yesterday at the trial of three men accused of helping to plan the attacks.Previously unreleased film showed clouds of smoke filling a platform at Liverpool Street station 40 seconds after Shezhad Tanweer detonated his bomb. The court also saw the chaos and horrified reaction of those near the No 30 bus in Tavistock Square after Hasib Hussain detonated explosives in his rucksack.The jury at Kingston crown court was also shown photographs of the carnage caused aboard the tube trains and bus.Waheed Ali, 24, from Tower Hamlets, east London, and Mohammed Shakil, 31, and Sadeer Saleem, 27, both from Beeston, Leeds, are accused of conspiring with the bombers to cause explosions between November 17 2004 and July 8 2005. All three are alleged to have carried out a previous two-day reconnaissance mission in Londn on December 16 and 17 2004 with two of the bombers, Hussain and Jermaine Lindsay. They deny the charge.The four suicide bombers, Tanweer, Hussain, Jermaine Lindsay and Mohammed Siddique Khan, murdered 52 passengers and injured hundreds more when they set off their homemade devices in 2005. Tanweer's bomb killed seven passengers when it tore apart the carriage of a Circle line train heading towards Aldgate. CCTV cameras at Liverpool Street show commuters hurrying on to the train. It pulls out of the station, but just 40 seconds later a flash is seen in the tunnel. Clouds of dust partially obscure the view of cameras on both sides of the track before people on the platform are seen running away.Pictures from a bus just ahead of the No 30 in Tavistock Square show panicking passengers jumping out of their seats in shock after the vehicle behind them explodes, killing 13 of its passengers.The first of the four bombs, detonated by Khan, killed six travellers on a Circle line train between Edgware Road and Paddington. The jury was shown a picture of the mangled wreckage of the train with the doors and windows blown off and the interior charred and blackened.Similar pictures of the train blown up by Tanweer showed the same devastation, with blood stains on the floor.The bomb exploded by Lindsay murdered 26 passengers on a Piccadilly line train between Kings Cross and Russell Square. Pictures showed only one side of the train intact after the blast.The hearing continues today.