Maxine Carr claimed that Ian Huntley once slapped her in the face so hard that it left a bruise but she denied that she was frightened of him or that he had a hold over her, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.During police interviews, which were read out in court, Ms Carr gave details of a sometimes stormy relationship with the man accused of killing Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Asked by a detective if there had every been any violence in their relationship Ms Carr replied: "Yeah". She said: "I wanted to go out somewhere with his mum... and he got quite angry with me and I was just shouting at him and bantering at him. "I can't really remember what the argument was about, but he just slapped me across the face and that is the only thing that happened really and because of my bone structure in my face it bruised." Ms Carr, 26, said she was "shocked". He was "very sorry about it". Asked if she felt she deserved the slap, Ms Carr said: "Well, I can understand the other side of it." She said the incident took place three years ago when the pair were living in Scunthorpe. But Ms Carr said Mr Huntley did not assault her again. Nor did he make her do anything she did not want to do. "Are you scared of Ian?" she was asked. Ms Carr said: "No" Questioned about who "wore the trousers", she said: "Neither of us". Their relationship was a "team effort". Later she was asked again: "Have you been a victim of some sort of abuse by Ian?" She replied: "No, I haven't been a victim of any bloody abuse by any bugger!" She was pressed: "What sort of hold has he got over you, Maxine?" But she replied: "He ain't got any flaming hold over me." Ms Carr revealed they had spoken a number of times during the weekend of the girls' disappearance when she was in Grimsby visiting her mother. He would ring her to check she was eating properly because she had an eating disorder. She told detectives he rang her at around the time of the girls' disappearance, quizzing her over her plans for that night. Ms Carr sent Mr Huntley a text message back: "Don't make me feel bad when I'm with my family." Asked what normally made him angry, Ms Carr said: "Running out of muesli". But she insisted he did not habitually "lash out" but "storms off and wants to be on his own". Ms Carr said that cleaning the house was her job and she used to clean the house every day, vaccuuming, stripping beds, and wiping skirting boards. She added: "Ian doesn't know how to use a Hoover... He just slouches about on the couch." Ms Carr said her fiance had never expressed a sexual interest in children. Asked if she had any such interest she replied: "No thank you, no". The officer asked: "What do you think about me asking that question?" She replied: "I think it's disgusting". Ms Carr said a 14-year-old neighbour used to visit them. Mr Huntley did not like her to call when he was in the house alone, "because he doesn't want anybody putting two and two together and getting six". On Wednesday the court was told that Mr Huntley had been accused but acquitted of raping a woman in 1998 and had spent time in custody. Ms Carr said in an interview:"I only met him like sort of three months after he'd been released ... he told me the truth and let me decide for myself whether I wanted anything to do with him or not." Asked if they had plans to get married, Ms Carr said: "Gonna get married but I don't know when." She said: "I know him inside out... I've had three and half years with Ian of good relationship. Yeah, we've had our rows, fine, but nothing's ever made me think, Oh God I've got to get away from this man."