Police investigating the disappearance of five-year-old April Jones are to ask the courts for more time to hold the man suspected of her abduction.On Wednesday a police superintendent gave detectives who have been questioning Mark Bridger an extra 12 hours to keep him under arrest. That ran out in the early hours of Thursday, meaning they have to go to magistrates in Aberystwyth to get another extension. In all, police could be given 96 hours to hold Bridger, which would take them through to Saturday.Police are continuing to ramp up the search for April, who went missing while playing near the family home at Machynlleth on Monday evening.A police statement on Thursday morning said they did not need volunteers to help search."We do not at the moment need to call upon their assistance and we have made no appeal for any existing volunteers or fresh volunteers to come out to assist us today," a spokeswoman said.However, the request was being defied, with people organising themselves into groups and going out to search.One of the organisers, Network Rail worker Carl Jones, confirmed the search was not arranged by the police – though they were talking with officers and would avoid areas they were asked to stay clear of.He said some people were frustrated that the police seemed to be only targeting the immediate area around Machynlleth. He said he felt the search ought to cover a wider area.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest More than 200 residents had registered with the volunteer co-ordinators of the local search at the leisure centre in Machynlleth. They gathered in the community hall, Y Plas, were split into groups and then began their own searches. They were planning to visit around 32 hamlets and settlements around Machynlleth.One of them, county councillor Michael Williams said: "We're all determined to find her. We've got to keep hoping she's out there somewhere."   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest On Wednesday, police described the scale of its search as "unprecedented in the UK" and said it continued to build. "I want to emphasise this is a growing operation. In no way are we scaling back our search," said Superintendent Ian John. "We remain completely focused and committed to finding April." He said police were working through 1,200 pieces of information provided by the public.Also on Wednesday police took the unusual step of naming the man they were holding. They released a photograph of 46-year-old Bridger (video) and his left-hand drive Land Rover and appealed for help in piecing together his movements since April vanished.The most visible signs of the search on Wednesday were on and alongside the swollen river Dyfi, which runs through Machynlleth. Vessels from kayaks to RNLI lifeboats and a hovercraft were brought in to help scour the river, its banks, and the large Dyfi estuary.Police said they had pinpointed 20 search sites including homes, outbuildings and the hills and fields that surround the town as well as the river.John said: "The terrain we're working in has been described as a hostile environment. The ground is treacherous, it's wet, we've got a flooded river we're working around." Asked what the chances were of finding April alive so long after she was last seen he said only: "Our efforts are completely focused on doing that."Three experts from the police national search centre had arrived to help co-ordinate the effort and more specialist police searchers from Welsh and English forces had been drafted in.April went missing as she played on her bicycle with friends near her home on the Bryn-y-Gog estate around 7pm on Monday. One of her friends told police that apparently April got into a vehicle "willingly". It also emerged that April has cerebral palsy. Her family confirmed she had the condition but declined to comment further.The police held four press conferences on Wednesday, reflecting the increasing urgency of the case. At the second one, Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan, who is leading the inquiry, said police arrested Bridger at 3.30pm on Tuesday just north of the stone bridge over the Dyfi around a mile from Machynlleth town centre. He was walking towards the town.Bevan said the suspect was wearing a green camouflage jacket and black waterproof trousers over camouflage trousers. His Land Rover was found at a nearby repair garage. The detective said police were trying to piece together Bridger's movements from 5pm on Monday until his arrest. He asked people to look carefully at the images of Bridger and the vehicle and come forward if they had seen anything.At lunchtime on Wednesday April's mother, Coral, 40, made a heart-wrenching appeal for information. "There must be someone out there who knows where she is and can help the police find her. We are desperate for any news. April is only five years old. Please, please, help find her."An update about the search and the process of interviewing Bridger was given on Wednesday evening by which time Bridger had been interviewed twice. Bevan refused to say if he had undergone an "emergency" interview, which allows police to speak to a suspect before a lawyer arrives if they believe that by doing so they can save a life.Bevan said only: "He has been interviewed twice. Clearly our focus in those interviews is to find April. That is what we've been discussing with him."Bridger was born in Sutton, south London. He has lived in Machynlleth for more than 25 years, for a time on the estate where April's family live. The Ministry of Defence was checking reports that Bridger was a former soldier.Residents said he worked as a lifeguard at Machynlleth leisure centre. He married in 1990 and is the father of at least three children; one with his ex-wife – a boy who is now 20 – and another boy and girl, 12 and 10, by another partner. One of the places police were searching was a whitewashed farmhouse five miles north of Machynlleth, where Bridger had been living for a few weeks.Officers had also been examining factory units, farm buildings and forestry shacks in the area.Police refused to speculate on how close Bridger was to any members of April's family but said they were looking at links as they built a profile of him.Detectives have emphasised that the arrest of Bridger was just one of a number of lines of inquiry they were following.