The real issue is: how come two-thirds of the population don't keep anything under the bed at all? We're talking weapons here, of course, makeshift or otherwise. A survey today shows that the rest of us do, indeed, sleep slightly more securely with some kind of implement at arm's reach, with golf clubs, cricket bats and heavy torches appearing to be the favoured form of self defence against burglars.It's the kind of behaviour that sends shivers down the spines of police officers up and down the country - fearing an army of have-a-go heroes are waiting up all night, poised to react with ninja-like quickness to disable any intruder that dares come into their home. As weary detectives know all too well, there is only one place this will end: in a magistrates court, with said homeowner accused of grievous bodily harm, and headlines in the Daily Mail that will not make pretty reading for either them or their chief constables. The answer is to dial 999 - easier said than done when you are lying in bed, frozen with fear that there might be someone downstairs, desperately trying not to draw attention to yourself while prodding your partner in the hope that she might have the solution.I started hiding things under the bed when I was a student, after our house was burgled twice in two weeks. I was in a room on the ground floor, next to the kitchen. It occurred to me that anyone who came into the house could use one of the knives we had against me. So I started putting them under my bed. But when you think like that, it doesn't stop there. I started wondering what else there was in the house that could be used by a burglar.And very soon, I was stockpiling every sharp object, tool, fork, torch, club and tin can that I could fit under a single mattress.Rather than hide the keys to my old car, I'd leave them out, with directions on how to start it on cold mornings.This had nothing to do with being brave, and I had - and have - absolutely no intention of confronting anyone in my house unless it's absolutely necessary. But if I do, at least I'll be face to face with someone who isn't threatening me with the Sabatier knives my in-laws gave me for our wedding.I have progressed slightly since those early years of hording. At the moment, I have a weapon of a different order by my bedside table. It's a horn, the type you used to see on children's bikes, but appear to have gone out of fashion.One squeeze of the black rubber bulb and it lets out a surprisingly terrifying rasp. In the dead of night, it might scare off an unsuspecting intruder, and it would certainly wake the neighbours.