Will Josef Fritzl ever face trial? Psychiatrists are already investigating his state of mind to see whether he is fit to answer to his crimes in a criminal court. Fritzl represents the ultimate "bad v mad" dilemma. What he did is so heinous and so beyond anyone's capacity to comprehend that it could not have been done by a sane person. He must therefore be mad. The trouble with that conclusion is that it leads to the proposition that the more awful and horrific the crime, the less likely it is that the perpetrator is sane, and therefore the perpetrator is more likely to avoid a normal trial.I do not know the ins and outs of Austria's system, but, as in most countries, they do not put insane people through the normal procedures. But here we come across another variable - public opinion and expectations. In my experience, most people feel that those guilty of the worst crimes should not be allowed to "get away with it" by pleading insanity or some form of diminished responsibility and bypassing the usual criminal trial. They want to see the perpetrator - whether mad or not - put through the full process. Otherwise they feel shortchanged. The Fritzl dilemma is not unknown to Britain. In 1981 Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, stood trial at the Old Bailey for 13 murders. At the start, the attorney general, Sir Michael Havers, for the prosecution, announced that he was prepared to accept Sutcliffe's plea of not guilty of murder, but guilty of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. Several psychiatrists had agreed that Sutcliffe - who claimed that he committed his crimes on the orders of voices he heard - suffered from paranoid schizophrenia. He was mad, not bad, they concluded, and Havers accepted their conclusion.But the judge, Mr Justice Boreham, did not. He made it clear that he was not satisfied with the psychiatric evidence and refused to accept the plea of manslaughter. He ordered that the issue of Sutcliffe's mental state should be heard by the jury.Havers, having initially accepted Sutcliffe's mental illness, was now obliged to try to convince the jury that he was sane, and therefore guilty of murder. He did so. Sutcliffe was convicted of all the murders and sentenced to life imprisonment, although two years later he was found to be paranoid schizophrenic after all and sent to Broadmoor.I was told at the time that what lay behind the judge's insistence on a jury was his belief that the public interest demanded a full trial for murder. The public, incensed by the heinousness of the crimes, would be angry and dissatisfied if they were cheated of seeing Sutcliffe facing the full panoply of the law. The nation's psyche demanded it.Whether or not juries are the best assessors of the mental state of an accused is another question. But what the Yorkshire Ripper case showed was that, over and above the question of mad or bad, there may be an overriding duty to satisfy deep-seated public feeling to hold a proper, full-scale trial.Rightly or wrongly, if this is not done - in Austria as much as England - the public may well feel that justice has not been seen to be done.