That the Ministry of Justice and Prison Service have embarked on a course of activity in an effort to disrupt my blog only reinforces my view that I was right to intrude on the public. That they have the brass neck to portray themselves as guardians of the law while traducing it reveals the very underbelly of criminal justice morality that my blog wishes to illustrate.In 2008, the justice minister, Maria Eagle, told MP Sion Simon that prisoners could blog, subject to the rules of correspondence. Yet despite my complying with the law and ministerial pronouncements, the prison service is now reverting to its old habits – attempting to squash the vocal dissenter.This last post is actually one of the first that I wrote. Having 30 years' experience of the mendacity of my keepers, I supplied this to John Hirst to distribute in the event of my blog being molested by officialdom. Whether my keepers succeed in their sordid efforts is now a question to be answered by my determination and a chunk of legal aid money. And I am very, very determined.I feel moved to blog because of the quality of public debate around prisons and prisoners. The debate is sterile, a dance conducted around stereotypes and tabloid campaigns, whose sole effect has been to relegate criminals to subhuman status and to shift policy to reactive short-termism. The results have been a disaster, with no constituency being happy with the criminal justice systems.Giving a human face to criminality can only help inform and challenge popular conceptions. And as an individual I sharpen contrasts and undermine common beliefs with a vengeance. I was a boy when I committed my crime. I handed myself in to the police and pleaded guilty in court. That was the sole act of violence in my life and I feel revulsion at my crime, which is a permanent stain on my spirit. I have also tasted the bitterness of being a victim – my teenage sister was killed. From being uneducated, I have sweated to the stage where I am now researching towards my PhD. That biography defies stereotyping.That I am 20 years over tariff only adds to the moral and legal complexity of my blogging. My legal debt to society was discharged after 10 years. Legally and morally I am in a far stronger position to stand up in public than most lifers. Few of my peers can claim these life experiences and fewer still are willing to step forward. Someone needs to and if this is read, then clearly my intrusion into the blogosphere has had an effect.Throwing citizens into prison and placing the weight of the state on their neck behind closed doors is a power that should be exercised with deliberation. Instead, it has become a mindless political reflex. For far too long, society has abdicated its responsibility to give these profound matters due consideration. For even longer, political leaders and opinion-formers have avoided the necessity to base policy on a footing firmer than the approval of tabloids.I am arrogant, stupid and despairing enough to place myself fully in the public firing line in an attempt to shatter the current morass of waffle. Who better than a reformed murderer to step forward and challenge for a debate? My blog is a verbal, moral and intellectual slap in the face, an attempt to shake people out of their complacent bigotries before inviting them to think.In reducing discussions to trite slogans and vote-grubbing soundbites, we debase ourselves as a collective and as people. I realise that I pose a challenge, but regardless of any efforts expended by the government I am not going away. Welcome to the debate.Signed, Ben Gunn ("prisonerben")