The mother of the 11-year-old shooting victim Rhys Jones pleaded with the public for help to catch the killer of "her baby" last night as she described how she cradled her son in her arms as he died.Melanie Jones, 41, wiped away tears and clung to her husband for support as she recalled her son's last moments and appealed for witnesses to come forward."My baby was only 11. He didn't deserve this. He was shot in the back of his neck from a shot from behind, my baby," she said."Someone, somewhere must know who did this. Please come forward. Our son was only 11 - he was only a baby. This should not be going on. Please help us.Mrs Jones told of arriving at the pub car park where Rhys was shot on his way home from football training on Wednesday night. Still dressed in his football kit, he was found on the floor, covered in blood, and never regained consciousness."He did not come around after that," she said. "He was just lying there in a pool of blood. They put him in an ambulance. They tried for an hour and a half to resuscitate him but his little body could not take it, he had just lost too much blood."Rhys's father, Stephen, 44, a retail manager with Tesco, who heard of the shooting on his way to work, said he initially thought Rhys had been hit by a relatively harmless pellet gun. "When we got to Croxteth Park and there was police everywhere. I thought 'God, what's happened here?'" he said. "We are devastated, we have lost our world, and the world has lost a good guy."Mr Jones joined his wife at Alder Hey Hospital, where doctors operating in the major trauma room were unable to save Rhys' life. Describing their sudden loss, Mr Jones told how later that night, he went into his son's bedroom - a shrine to his favourite football team, Everton."I then go to his room where he should be, he should be asleep and opened his wardrobe." he said."There is his school uniform that we bought for secondary school - he should have been starting in September. His pens and pencils, are there, unopened. His calculator is there, unopened. His shoes are still in the box, his trainers are still in the box. It's just horrific, your worst nightmare."Both parents said they had not known of any gun problems in the area. "I was not aware of any guns on the estate," said Mr Jones. "There are gangs of teenagers, but there are gangs of teenagers everywhere."He said Rhys was a "bright and sensible lad" who lived for football, and knew nothing of gangs or guns. "The guy [Rhys] probably doesn't know what a gang is, he's never been in some sort of gang.""Football was his life. If he wasn't watching it, he was playing it. If he wasn't on the PC playing it, he was on the X-Box playing it."I would never, ever want to put anyone through what I went through last night, walking into that trauma room, seeing my son in pools of blood, fighting for his life. It's not real, it's not on."Rhys and his brother, Owen, 17, always observed a strict curfew to be home by 8.30pm, Mr Jones said."He's got his mates, he's got the people who he hangs around with, he goes and plays football. He plays for Fir Tree, they train behind that pub. He was on his way back, he normally gets a lift."I know people say they keep their kids in, they don't let them out, but you should be able to let your kids out to play."People are saying to me it was 'wrong time, wrong place'. [But] it shouldn't be a case of wrong time, wrong place. It shouldn't happen."Mr Jones said they had not decided whether they would continue family tradition and go to the next Everton home match against Blackburn Rovers. "Rhys would have wanted us to go," Mr Jones said. But his wife added: "I can't sit next to an empty seat.""Someone knows who did this," she said. "I know they might be frightened but we can't leave this killer out there. It could be their son, their brother next time, because it will happen again. If he's not caught, it will happen again."