Extra prosecuting lawyers are to be drafted into 67 courts in high crime areas to fast-track cases involving street robbers, carjackers and thieves, the crown prosecution service will announce on Wednesday.The move is part of the Downing Street-led crackdown against street crime that will also ensure that victims and witnesses are provided with secure waiting facilities in courts to prevent intimidation by the accused. The extra prosecuting lawyers - high-flyers especially experienced in street crime cases - will be used in 26 crown courts and 41 magistrates courts in the 10 highest crime areas, including inner London, Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool. These "supercourts" were first announced last month. This follows criticism that overlap and confusion between the police and the crown prosecution service has led to delays in trials and disillusion among victims and witnesses. As well as new powers to remand young street offenders in custody instead of releasing them on bail, magistrates are to be asked to "rigorously probe" applications for bail from others charged with street crime offences and to take a vigorous approach to breaches of bail. A detailed announcement on Wednesday by the CPS will specify how to speed up the processing of cases involving carjacking, robbery, possession or use of firearms, and snatch thefts. The initiative comes on top of a "premier service" which the CPS has been operating for some time in an attempt to reduce delays in the courts and to overcome criticism that more than 11,000 prosecutions are dropped each year with "little or no analysis of reasons for the decision". The home secretary, David Blunkett, will tomorrow give further details on his reaction to the official Halliday report on reform of criminal sentencing. He is expected to highlight the postcode variations in sentencing across the country for similar crimes. Home Office research shows that 3.5% of criminals convicted of receiving stolen goods in Reading, Berkshire, are sent to jail, compared with 48% of those convicted of the same offence in Greenwich and Woolwich in south London. The home secretary last July made clear his commitment to the development of a new "penal code" but he is not expected to respond this week to Halliday's proposals for a new independent judicial body to issue guidelines to all criminal courts on sentencing, particularly of persistent offenders. Further details emerged yesterday of new measures the government is considering to use against anti-social neighbours. A controversial private members' bill being piloted by Frank Field, the former welfare reform minister, with Tony Blair's backing, contains powers for children of criminally anti-social neighbours to be taken into care for a short period. The measure would only apply in extreme cases involving violent and criminal anti-social behaviour. Mr Blunkett has already talked about using intensive secure fostering schemes for children who are hardcore persistent offenders.