By most accounts, yesterday was the 3,247th time that Pete Doherty has stood in front of a beak on drugs charges, been found guilty and yet escaped heading directly for jail. An EU record.His punishment was instead a £770 fine. Which may seem like nothing much for a man with his Gio Goi fashion connections, but it's certainly milder than the punishment levied following his 1,456th appearance, when Doherty was forced to do 10 push ups and sing a medley of Arthur Askey favourites. In Dutch.All of which has caused much contemplation in Her Majesty's press. According to the Sun, whose opinion we must respect on matters of law and order, Pete escaped a sentence because he told the court he was set for a big old record deal. Quite why this should have convinced the judge not to bang him up, the paper doesn't go on to say, but presumably he thought that anyone who could be trusted with lots of record company money is an upstanding sort of chappie. And how right he would be.This continual evasion of chokey, however, is not going down well with everyone. Apparently, the Sun goes on to say, "campaigners were furious" at the judge's decision and almost as if to prove the point, Gail McCann of pressure group Mothers against Drugs was quoted as saying: "Others get banged up. He deserves jail."So which way do you incline? Misunderstood prospect? Junkie scum? Perhaps these two anecdotes of Doherty behaviour, as related in The Mirror's 3am, might help turn your runny opinion solid.Doherty night time incident 1: Sunday night saw Pete in the Wellington pub in north London, hurling pint glasses across the room "dangerously close to punters" and "crashing" into tables. "He looked out of it," said one observer. "It was chaos".Doherty night time incident 2: Last Wednesday Pete checked into London's Malmaison hotel - even though he lives in the city already! - for a night of ripping down lights, smashing mirrors, upturning furniture, setting off fire alarms and smearing blood on walls. And all in the company of a woman who wasn't Kate Moss!So. Roll these incidents around your mouth. Take into account what you already know of the man. And, of course, his music, and then Vote! Vote! Vote!