On October 5 1998, detective sergeant Mark Wareing and detective constable Marie Snitynski questioned Dr Harold Shipman over the death of Winifred Mellor. Dr Shipman had falsified her medical records to show she had a history of heart trouble but a later post mortem showed a fatal level of morphine.DC Marie Snitynski: Can you indicate to me how severe the angina was at all?  Harold Shipman: The severity of angina doesn't indicate the likelihood of a coronary. I'm sure your medical experts would agree that. Erm she only, she had no signs of congestive heart failure, and she only got the pain of she rushed, but it was lasting two to three minutes. How does one grade angina, severe angina you don't even get out of bed.  DC Marie Snitynski: But from the progression you've noted on your records this was not something that was going to be unexpected.  Harold Shipman: This was a progressive angina, and people do die of coronaries with no proceeding history of angina.  DC Marie Snitynski: Well there are certain facts I need to make you aware of at this stage. I don't think there can be any dispute in a lot of them. Mrs Mellor's body was buried on the 18th May 1998 at Highfield cemetery, Stockport. Would you accept that from me?  Harold Shipman: If you say.  DC Marie Snitynski: Now would you accept that the body of Mrs Mellor was exhumed with the consent of the coroner on the 22nd September this year? [1998]  Harold Shipman: If you say so.  DC Marie Snitynski: And I think from what you were saying earlier that you were aware that a post-mortem examination was subsequently undertaken. Certain samples were taken at the post mortem for forensic analysis. Would you accept that?  Harold Shipman: You're telling the story, of course.  DC Marie Snitynski: A home office pathologist, Dr Rutherford carried out that post mortem examination. I think that as you were going to mention, his findings do not support that this lady died of a coronary thrombosis as you've diagnosed. Would you like to comment on that, that finding?  Harold Shipman: Doctors don't always diagnose a heart attack as a heart attack, they'll call it coronary thrombosis or miscardiaschema, micardienfarcture to the average run of the mill GP. They are all the same, the patient's dead. With a coronary thrombosis you would expect there would be a bit of heart muscle damaged but you can't have just an electrical disorganisation of the heart which kills you just as effectively and leaves no symptoms at all. No signs sorry. Signs at all.  DC Marie Snitynski: Well in his expert opinion there was nothing to support your diagnosis is what I'm saying.  Harold Shipman: But he couldn't rule out a disorganised electric, electrical activity of the heart.  DC Marie Snitynski: Forensic examination of the samples taken, including muscle tissue at that post mortem have been examined. These are the samples taken from Mrs Mellor and there's certainly a high level of morphine still contained in her body. A fatal level to be precise. Can you account for that?  Harold Shipman: No.  DC Marie Snitynski: Well I've got to put it to you doctor that you are the person who administered that lady with the drug, aren't you?  Harold Shipman: No.  DC Marie Snitynski: The levels were such that this woman actually died from toxicity of morphine, not as you wrongly diagnosed. In plain speaking you murdered her  One feature of these statements from the family was that they couldn't believe their own mother had chest pains, angina and hadn't been informed.  Harold Shipman: By, by whom?  DC Marie Snitynski: By her  Harold Shipman: By her, thank you.  DC Marie Snitynski: They also found it hard to believe that she would refuse any treatment she was given in relation to this diagnosis and I think now that we can answer why that was. Because she didn't have a history of chest complaints and heart disease and angina, did she doctor?  Harold Shipman: If it's written on the records then she had the history and therefore  DC Marie Snitynski: The simple truth is you've fabricated a history to cover what you've done, you'd murdered her and you make up a history of angina and chest pains so you could issue a death certificate and placate this poor woman's family didn't you?  Harold Shipman: No.  DC Marie Snitynski: We've got a statement from a detective sergeant John Ashley who works in the field of computers. He has made a thorough examination of your computer, doctor, and the medical records contained on it. First of all he's produced a medical summary report which is that document. I'll put in on the table in front of me. It has a police reference of JFA41 and in essence it's what you've been looking at already on this lady's medical records. A copy of the records as they stand on the computer, but because this man's an expert he's able to interrogate computers and he has gone into this computer in some depth and what he's found is that there are a number of entries that have been incorrectly placed on this record to falsely mislead and to indicate this woman had a history of angina and chest pains. What have you got to say about that doctor?  Harold Shipman: Nothing.