Rebel Labour MPs today tabled an amendment to the counter-terrorism bill that could block Gordon Brown's attempts to extend the detention without charge limit to 42 days.The amendment seeks to scrap the 42-day limit and replace it with a "comprehensive package of alternatives", including holding suspects on police bail while they are under investigation.The move comes as the prime minister seeks to broker a deal with party dissidents to avoid a damaging split over the proposed detention limit.The new amendment has been tabled by Andrew Dismore, the chairman of the parliamentary joint human rights committee.He said: "If you use bail, subject to certain conditions, you can stop someone's use of the internet, you can stop them using a mobile phone, you can control when they go out and where they go out. You can effectively close them down."Dismore originally supported Tony Blair's proposal for a 90-day detention in 2005. But he says using a form of police bail – which must be approved by a judge – means suspects can be held for as long as the investigation takes, without any need to extend the 28-day detention charge."Our view is that the people who are the real bombers, you can catch them in 28 days. It's the 'back room' people, the inciters, fundraisers, the people who collect intelligence that take longer to investigate," he said."On police bail, people can be held for months. You can take as long as you need to investigate them. It potentially gives police much longer than 90 days and much longer than the government is asking for."The committee published their report on into the proposed changes to the counter-terrorism bill. These were then tabled as amendments to the bill today.Among those signing the amendments include Labour backbenchers David Winnick and Ann Clwyd. Winnick said: "I believe there is a reasonable chance that the government will be defeated, but I do accept that the government will do everything in its power to try and persuade some of my colleagues to agree on the basis of various concessions."Brown is seeking to shore up support for his 42-day detention limit in order to avoid a repeat of Tony Blair's defeat in the commons in 2005 over the proposed 90-day limit. As the Guardian revealed today, the prime minister has sent his chief whip, Geoff Hoon, the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, and Tony McNulty, the Home Office minister, to negotiate with the rebels.Sources say the compromise deal will not include a climbdown over the 42-day limit, but will involve changes to the powers parliament needs to invoke to the detention without charge limit.Measures being discussed include declaring that there is an "exceptional need" to use the power, such as after an atrocity like the July 7 bombings, authorisation by parliament, possibly within seven days, and a judicial review of the use of the power.A spokesman for Brown today said the prime minister and the home secretary remained convinced of the need to introduce legislation allowing for detention beyond 28 days. Speaking at a regular daily press briefing, the prime minister's spokesman said the government had put forward a "sensible and balanced" package of parliamentary and judicial safeguards. He made clear that extension beyond 28 days was not negotiable but indicated that fine-tuning of the package had not been ruled out.