William Roache had many people to thank as he left court after his acquittal on historical sex abuse charges. He lauded his family, who were with him for every day of the hearings, and the Circle of Love spiritual movement that provided support. But his most heartfelt thanks might have gone to the jury. It did what a jury is supposed to do: it rigorously examined the case put before it by the prosecution, and found it wanting. He leaves without a stain on his character to resume his career on Coronation Street. This is our system and the common sense of the ordinary citizen lies at the heart of it.And yet there is palpable unease about the case; concern reflected in many of today's newspapers. For many observers who sat through the proceedings, gaining a full picture rather than the snippets that made headlines, the wonder was that the case ever made it to its full and very public hearing at Preston crown court. The allegations went back as far as 47 years – not a disqualification in itself – but it quickly became clear that the quality of witness evidence was insufficient to climb the high bar set by the passage of four decades. Evidence given to the court differed from evidence given to the police. The judge set aside one charge prior to verdict because the complainant could not definitively assert that the crime had taken place. This is not necessarily to criticise those witnesses. The issue is whether, taken together, they provided enough detail to comprise a viable prosecution case.Nazir Afzal, the chief crown prosecutor for north-west England and the CPS national lead on child sexual exploitation, said it was right that a jury decide the case and pronounce. That is the lottery element of our legal system. But should the matter rest there? Might we not reflect that with some better process of pre-trial examination, a case that seemed weak in court might have been handled differently? In recent years we have moved away from the often lengthy old-style committal hearings that occurred before major cases were taken to full trial. Has that been a beneficial development?Might we think more about juries? They enhance the legal system with the common sense of the citizen. Might we utilise them earlier? In the US, they have grand juries. Citizens – and not just lawyers and judges – assess the strength of a case before a charge is brought. In this case, that might have spared the witnesses and Roache the ordeal we have just witnessed. The CPS might have dropped the case. Conversely, it might have identified deficiencies and sought to augment it or to construct it differently. It was right that this should go to a jury, says the CPS, but under such a mechanism, it would have done so sooner. Wouldn't that have benefited everybody?Of course, before extending jury input, we would have to look once again at the jury system. One of my most vivid courtroom experiences has been sitting in the Old Bailey on a Monday morning and watching the large pool of potential jurors whittled down to the proportion who arrive without the means or wit to escape jury service. "I have a holiday booked, your honour." "I'm part of a small company that can't survive without me, your honour." "I have hospital appointments in the next few weeks, your honour." The result, even allowing for attempts by the authorities to tighten up, can be juries failing to fully reflect the backgrounds and skills of wider society. One answer is to enhance the status of jury service. Another is money. Jurors and the companies that employ them must be properly compensated for their absence.But that is where it gets difficult, because, as we know, we have a justice system being starved of funds by a justice secretary who seems to think we can have a functioning and equitable system on the cheap.We can't and we won't, so what we must expect are more situations like this one, when the system is seen to have hurt everybody – the accusers, possibly traumatised, and the accused, now exonerated but declaring in that moment that there have been "no winners". And hurt just as much, the public that relies on the good working of our justice system for reassurance.