A sacked McDonald's worker who stabbed his former boss to death in a "horrific, frenzied, ferocious and crazed attack" in revenge for losing his job was jailed for life yesterday.Shane Freer, 21, killed Jackie Marshall, 56, with an eight-inch hunting knife, punching her and lunging at her in front of customers who had been dining at a Chichester branch of the fast food chain last year.Freer, who suffers from Apserger's syndrome, denied murder but pleaded guilty at Lewes crown court in East Sussex to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. He will be detained indefinitely at a secure unit under the Mental Health Act.Judge Anthony Scott Gall said: "What took place was a deliberately cold-blooded and wholly irrational killing of Mrs Marshall, a loving wife with children and grandchildren. One cannot even begin to contemplate the impact on the people in the McDonald's at the time."Addressing the defendant, the judge added: "There is no doubt you suffer from an abnormality of mind which arises from the condition of arrested and retarded development. You have no remorse or insight into what you did or why it was so unnecessary and wrong - it was totally without justification. You have no understanding of the impact of this on her family or your own family and therefore there is no barrier to repetition."The court heard that a week before the attack Freer had been suspended for hitting a girl who had been firing pieces of carrot and wet napkin at him through a straw.On the day of the killing, April 16, he attended a final disciplinary meeting at the restaurant, where he was told of his dismissal for gross misconduct. He also learned that he would not be allowed to reapply for his former position of dining area assistant.Simon Russell-Flint QC, prosecuting, said Freer reacted badly, crying and holding his head, and threatened to kill Mrs Marshall, who was his line manager.CCTV footage showed him leaving the restaurant and visiting an ironmonger's, where he bought a hunting knife for £32.95 and placed it in his rucksack. He returned to the McDonald's, where, said Mr Russell-Flint, he confronted Mrs Marshall and punched her with "full-blooded hits to the face" in front of the diners, many of them children. While diners fled, Freer lunged at Mrs Marshall with the knife before being restrained by a few customers, including an off-duty policeman.According to witness statements given to the police, Freer became calm and composed after the stabbing. He told police officers on the way to the station: "I had to kill her. She got me fired. She had to die."The court heard that Freer, who lived with his parents in Batchmere, West Sussex, had worked at the restaurant for two years. He had no previous convictions but had once hit a teacher and taken a knife to school to slash the throat of a girl who had teased him. Mr Russell-Flint said: "The psychiatrists concluded that the defendant poses a high risk to others."Anthony Donne QC, defending, said: "It was an offence committed by a very disturbed young man. He suffers from a very profound degree of autism in the shape of Asperger's. In the simplest terms, it means he lives in his own world, unable to respond or cope with everyday things."