A prison officer shot dead in an ambush last week represented "those things completely the opposite of the murderous thugs and bloodthirsty criminals who took his life", a minister at his funeral on Tuesday told mourners.David Black was described as a man of kindness, committed to peace in Northern Ireland. The 52-year-old was murdered by Republican dissident paramilitaries in an attack on his car along the M1 motorway outside Portadown last Thursday.Cookstown in County Tyrone came to a standstill at lunchtime as shops and businesses closed, and hundreds turned out in the town the centre to pay their respects.Up to 20 prison officers in uniform flanked Black's coffin as it was taken from the family's home following a private service to Molesworth Presbyterian church. There was also a discreet security presence, with sniffer dogs deployed to search the church grounds.Mourners included the chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, Matt Baggott, the director of the Northern Ireland Prison Service, Sue McAllister, the first minister of Northern Ireland, Peter Robinson, and the leader of the SDLP, Alasdair McDonnell. The deputy first minister, Martin McGuinness, is understood to have offered to attend the funeral, but the family requested that no members of Sinn Fein should turn up. McGuinness is understood to have expressed his desire to respect the family's wishes.Condemning those responsible for killing Black, who was a regular attender at Molesworth Presbyterian church in Cookstown, the Rev Tom Greer said: "It is so terrible that evil men with such hatred in their hearts should rob us of a great man like David with love and kindness in his heart."He said many prisoners who had been guarded by Black told how his help and advice had turned their lives around."David viewed his work as something that was meant to improve society. He wanted those who came into prison to leave as changed men," Greer said.He also paid tribute to the murdered officer's widow, Yvonne, and his children Kyle and Kyra for urging that there be no retaliation over the killing."They have determined not to seek revenge or to encourage it in anyone else. They long to see justice done, but will not meet other people's bitterness and hatred with any of their own. They set an example to us all," he added.Three men who were arrested following the fatal shooting have all been released unconditionally.David Black was the 30th prison officer murdered by paramilitaries since the early 1970s. He was buried after a private ceremony in Kildress parish cemetery.As the funeral was taking place, several hundred people turned up for a vigil at Belfast city hall organised by the Irish Congress of Trade Unions. A lone piper played a lament and Black's killers were denounced from the platform by the trade union movement.