The five men accused of murdering Stephen Lawrence yesterday broke their silence on television to answer questions for the first time about the stabbing of the black teenager six years ago. As widely predicted, the five youths all denied any involvement in Stephen's murder in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993. But there were new admissions about carrying knives and making racist comments. Two of the suspects, Jamie Acourt and his brother Neil, admitted they carried knives before the murder - something they vehemently denied under questioning at the public inquiry last year. This could potentially lay them open to charges of perjury. Another of the five, David Norris, now admits he may have been with his girlfriend on the night - about half a mile from the murder scene. At one stage Norris was asked by the interviewer Martin Bashir: `Would you call me a Paki?' Norris replied: `Some people would call you a Paki, Martin.' The first edition of Tonight, presented by Trevor McDonald, was preceded yesterday by some extraordinary manoeuvring by producers Granada, who suddenly cancelled an afternoon press preview for `legal reasons' while insisting that the programme would go out uncut. But there was a private screening in the morning for the family's lawyers, Imran Khan and Michael Mansfield QC, who said there were new lines of inquiry which he wanted the police to pursue. Stephen's parents yesterday accused ITV of mounting a cynical publicity stunt. Mr Mansfield said: `The Lawrences are concerned that such a programme should be broadcast to give a platform to people who have never taken the opportunity before.' At the inquest into Stephen's death all five claimed privilege and refused to answer questions. During the public inquiry questions about their guilt were not permitted under a High Court ruling. Stephen's father Neville Lawrence told BBC1's Breakfast News: `These boys have been given several opportunities in the courts I don't see any way this programme is going to take anything forward. This is just a publicity stunt to try and say they didn't kill my son.' Tonight's editor Jeff Anderson defended the interviews as `valid journalism'. He said the questioning by Mr Bashir - who has also interviewed Princess Diana and Louise Woodward - was `rigorous and detailed'. He added: `We are confident it will not prejudice any possible future prosecution of the five suspects. They did not ask for payment and none was offered.'