Three British terrorists who planned to blow up at least seven transatlantic flights from London, murdering more than 1,500 people, were jailed for life today.Abdulla Ahmed Ali, Assad Sarwar and Tanvir Hussain were found guilty last week of conspiracy to murder by detonating liquid bombs on airliners flying from Britain to North America. Mr Justice Henriques ordered Ali, the self-confessed leader of the plot, to serve at least 40 years in prison. Sarwar, 29, was given a minimum sentence of 36 years and Hussain, 28, a minimum of 32 years.Henriques said the men were guilty of "the most grave and wicked conspiracy ever proven within this jurisdiction"."The intention was to perpetrate a terrorist outrage that would stand alongside the events of September 11 2001 in history."Henriques said there was "every likelihood that this plot would have succeeded but for the intervention of the police and the Security Service. Had this conspiracy not been interrupted, a massive loss of life would almost certainly have resulted – and if the detonation was over land, the number of victims would have been even greater still."Ali had "an ambition to lead a terrorist outrage of boundless proportion", the judge said. Sarwar was described as a "vital and leading member" of the conspiracy and Hussain's role was said to be "substantial, albeit inferior to both Ali and Sarwar".The plan involved putting liquid explosives into empty bottles of Lucozade and Oasis, colouring the liquid so it appeared to be the same as the original. The bombs would have bypassed airport security, and tests by government scientists showed they were capable of blowing a hole in the skin of an aircraft.The investigation and trials are estimated to have cost £35m. Uncovering and ultimately destroying the cell, based in east London and High Wycombe in Buckinghamshire, was the biggest counter-terrorism operation in UK history, involving hundreds of police officers and MI5 agents. Henriques said the plot was driven by Islamic extremism and was an act of revenge against governments with troops in Iraq and Afghanistan, rather than an attempt to change foreign policy. "Ultimate control of this conspiracy lay in Pakistan," he said.Before sentencing, the defence counsel for the guilty men had tried to play down the scale and viability of the plot and their respective clients' involvement. Nadine Radford QC, defending ringleader Ali, said he was "greatly affected" by the suffering of fellow Muslims overseas. She described him as a victim of "political turmoil … where they [the plotters] misjudged what they should do". Radford also said Ali's offence was not as serious as other failed terrorist plots, citing the July 21 bombers and the 2007 attack on Glasgow airport.Malcolm Bishop QC, for Sarwar, argued that the plot was "not imminent" and "stood little chance of success", while Michel Massih QC, defending Hussain, claimed his client was "clearly subsidiary" to Ali and Sarwar.Another man, Umar Islam, 31, was found guilty last week of an alternative charge of conspiracy to murder. The jury was unable to reach a verdict about his involvement in the airline plot. He was sentenced to life in prison today with a minimum term of 22 years.The director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, is seeking a retrial of three other men on charges of conspiracy to murder. The jury cleared Ibrahim Savant, 28, Arafat Waheed Khan, 28, and Waheed Zaman, 25, of involvement in the airline plot but failed to reach verdicts on the conspiracy to murder charges.All of the men who stood trial, bar Donald Stewart-Whyte, who was acquitted of all charges, were previously tried last year. The first jury convicted Ali, Sarwar and Hussain of conspiracy to murder but stopped short of concluding that they had targeted planes. After a lengthy retrial, a new jury convicted them after 54 hours of deliberations.The plot was disrupted on 10 August 2006, leading to chaos at airports and restrictions on the amount of liquids travellers could carry aboard, which remain in force.