A gunman wielding an AK-47 opened fire on a table of uniformed troops at a restaurant in Carson City, Nevada, killing four people and wounding seven others before he turned the gun on himself.Five Nevada national guard troops sitting together at the back of an International House of Pancakes restaurant were shot – three of them fatally – and a woman was also killed. The gunman, 32-year-old Eduardo Sencion of Carson City, died at a hospital.The shooter's motive was unclear. He had never been in the military and had no known affiliation with anyone inside the restaurant.Witnesses and authorities described a frantic scene in which the gunman pulled into the large complex of shops just before 9am local time in a blue minivan with a yellow "Support Our Troops" sticker on the back. He got out and immediately shot a woman near a motorcycle, a witness said.Witness Ralph Swagler said he grabbed his own weapon, but it was too late to stop Sencion, who charged into the restaurant through the front doors."I wish I had shot at him when he was going in the IHOP," said Swagler. "But when he came at me, when somebody is pointing an automatic weapon at you – you can't believe the firepower, the kind of rounds coming out of that weapon."The gunman went all the way to the back of the restaurant and opened fire, Carson City sheriff Kenny Furlong said.When Sencion left the restaurant, he stood in the parking area and shot into nearby businesses, shattering several windows across the street.Police arrived minutes later and found Sencion and the person who was by the motorcycle wounded and lying in the parking area. The names of the victims, including the three troops who were killed, have not been released.Sencion left two more guns in the van – a rifle and a pistol, authorities said.As the attack unfolded, Nevada officials worried about the violence being more widespread. They shut the state capitol and supreme court buildings for about 40 minutes, and put extra security in place at state and military buildings in northern Nevada."There were concerns at the onset, so we took certain steps to ensure we had the capability to embrace an even larger circumstance," Furlong said. "At this point in time it appears to be isolated to this parking lot."Sencion was born in Mexico and had a US passport. In interviews with investigators after the shooting, his family raised concerns about his mental health, Furlong said. Sencion worked at his family's business in South Lake Tahoe and had no criminal history. The minivan he drove to the shooting was registered to his brother.The shooting shocked some who knew him, including Joe Laub, his lawyer in a bankruptcy filing in January 2009, who called it an "aberration of his character"."He's a gentle, kind man who was very helpful to friends and family," Laub said. "I couldn't venture to guess what would cause him to do something as horrible as this."Authorities provided few details about the seven other injured people, except that one was a woman who was found near a motorcycle. Three of those wounded have minor wounds; the others were shot in critical areas of the body, Furlong said.At a Reno hospital, service members gathered, waiting for news on those killed and hurt."You go a whole tour in Afghanistan and no one is shot. And you go to IHOP and several are shot," said Cameron Anderson, 31, a Nevada army national guard member. "It's a shock. I came to work today and had no idea I'd be driving the chaplain here."