Three people have been arrested over the murder of a mother of five who was stabbed to death in the New Forest.Penelope Davis, 47, was found by her husband, Pete, in a field near Beaulieu, Hampshire, on Tuesday.The supermarket worker, known as Pennie, died of multiple stab wounds inflicted as she tended to her horses.A spokesman for Hampshire police said on Saturday that one person had been arrested on suspicion of murder, one on suspicion of perverting the course of justice and a third on suspicion of assisting an offender.All three remained in police custody and Mrs Davis's family had been informed of the development. Specialist forensics police officers were continuing fingertip searches of the field and police also increased patrols in the area to offer reassurance to residents.Her husband, their children and her parents visited the paddock on Friday morning and left flowers with messages from each member of the family.One of her daughters, Georgia, left a note saying: "Dearest mum, you were a goddess. I swear I'll make you proud. I like to think you're sitting there, watching on a cloud. You had so much more to give. You had so much more to do. But now I'll be your legacy. I'll do it all for you. You climbed the highest mountains, you walked the longest plains, you'll never be forgotten. Forever in our hearts. I love you to the moon and back."A statement released by the family through police said: "We are devastated by the death of our beloved mother, wife, daughter, sister and friend."Pennie was a remarkable person. She was a devoted mother of five children who worked hard to ensure that they had everything they needed. She cared for and supported them in everything they did."In May she married her love, Pete, at a joyful occasion surrounded by her loved ones."Pennie was the kind of woman who once she became your friend she was a friend for life. We are overwhelmed by the outpouring of love and grief that her death has caused."She was particularly close to her mother who is devastated by her death and who joins the whole family in appealing to everyone for help in finding the perpetrator of this crime."Detective Superintendent Paul Barton had previously said Pennie Davis visited the field on a daily basis to tend to her horses and that her husband would often meet her there.He said it was not known if the killer was known to her, adding: "We urgently need to trace and speak to witnesses. We want to speak to anyone who was in the area of the paddock by Leygreen Farm on Tuesday afternoon between 2pm and 5pm."This is just north of Beaulieu and a popular route used by local commuters from Lymington to Southampton to avoid Lyndhurst."We believe there will have been tourists in this area at the time as well as commuters, walkers, and people out fishing in the adjacent river."He said she drove a dark green Toyota Land Cruiser which she used to travel from work in Blackfield, Hampshire, to the field where her horses were kept.He added: "We believe the weapon used was a bladed item, possibly a knife, and that it would have most likely been discarded close to the scene."