Shortly before I was elected mayor of Baltimore, Maryland in 1987, a local charitable organisation commissioned a study to assess the health of the city. That study, entitled Baltimore 2000: A Choice of Futures, described a number of wonderful aspects of Baltimore, but the most memorable line from the study was this: "In Baltimore, there is rot beneath the glitter." The HBO television show, The Wire, explores that rot.For those of us who live in Baltimore our biggest complaint about The Wire is that it does not reflect the fact that ours is in effect a tale of two cities. The casual viewer of the show would not know that Baltimore is the home of outstanding museums, fine universities, world-class medical research institutions, inviting tourist attractions, and beautiful, tree-lined residential communities. What the viewer would see and what The Wire exposes is the reality of the "other" Baltimore. That is the side of the city that is scarred by vacant houses, hampered by a poor performing public school system, and plagued by a concentration of poverty that leads to high levels of illegal drug abuse and violent crime. These two Baltimores co-exist in a relatively small area only 40 miles from the nations' capital, Washington DC.The characters and the major events portrayed on The Wire are composite images reflecting the reality of Baltimore. Longtime residents of the city could provide you with the names of people bearing great resemblance to the politicians, policemen, drug dealers, dock workers, teachers and preachers portrayed in this television drama. However, what is often missed is that the creators of the show (one a former newspaper reporter in Baltimore, the other a former policeman and school teacher) are trying to convey a message about many American cities, not just Baltimore. Characters and events similar to those seen on The Wire have their counterparts in other urban areas facing the problems associated with illegal drugs and the consequences of a flawed national drug control policy. Baltimore may be the site of the gripping drama that is The Wire, but Baltimore is not the only American city that is gripped by the fallout from the war on drugs.In its first four seasons, The Wire invites viewers to witness how the devastation of the war on drugs spread throughout the body politic of a major American city like cancer through a human body. Season 1 focused on the organised distribution of drugs at the street level. Indeed the reality was that Baltimore constantly struggled against such groups who congregated on the street corners of low-income communities and in the courtyards of the high-rise public housing complexes (estate housing) that existed in Baltimore until those high-rise buildings were imploded in the last decade.In Season 2, The Wire explored the fact that the drug problem was not limited to one racial group. The stories of white, working-class families, stevedores and others working near Baltimore's harbour echoed a reality that many civic leaders chose to ignore for far too many years.Season 3 returned us to drug distribution at the street level, but there is a sinister maturity and evolution that occurs in the drug trade, or "the game", as many Baltimore drug dealers refer to it. Drug dealers try to become legitimate business people and organise themselves the way criminal groups from the era of alcohol prohibition structured themselves. This development occurred in Baltimore. Furthermore, the frustrating attempt by police to destroy the trade by targeting leaders of these organisations as described in the show reflects a big city reality that organisation leaders come and go, but the trade (the game) remains.The heartbreaking, destructive impact of illegal drug use on school children and the school system is the primary focus of the show in Season 4. While Baltimore can boast of a select group of fine public schools, it is undeniable that The Wire captures the reality of the struggles faced by many teachers and students, especially in Baltimore's middle schools, those schools whose populations are adolescents between the ages of 12 and 14. Drug dealers often try to use children of that age as street-level distributors. Also, unfortunately, some of these children live in homes where parents may be drug addicts. Thus, the children hear an anti-drug-use message from their schoolteachers, but they see a different drug reality at home.The Wire began its final season this past weekend. The city of Baltimore begins this year with a new mayor (the first woman to serve in that office) and fresh optimism about its ability to build on its strengths and minimise its weaknesses. However, most will recognise that until there are improvements in national drug control policy, the war on drugs on the streets of Baltimore will yield no final victories. That is a reality that is conveyed in The Wire.