The agency set up four years ago by Tony Blair with a promise to seize £60m a year in assets from organised crime is to be closed, it was announced yesterday.The reputation of the Assets Recovery Agency (ARA) was damaged by the disclosure that in 2004-05 it had seized only £4.4m but cost nearly £20m to run. It was expected to break even this year.The Home Office said staff would be transferred when it merged with the Serious Organised Crime Agency from April 2008. Its unique powers to launch civil recovery proceedings are to be switched to crown prosecutors and its "centre of excellence", which has trained more than 650 financial investigators, moved to the National Policing Improvement Agency.Jane Earl, the agency's director, who is to step down for family reasons, has said the initial predictions of the length of time it would taken for cases to be completed had been over-optimistic. ARA lawyers had to break new ground in human rights litigation. Although more than £85m of criminal assets had been frozen they could not be seized because of legal challenges.The Home Office minister Vernon Coaker said the ARA had "successfully steered the radical new powers through every legal challenge it faced. It is recovering significant amounts of criminally acquired wealth, including a recent settlement worth over £12m."When the agency was launched in 2003, Mr Blair promised that he was going to hit organised crime hard. "We are going to seize their yachts, their cars, their homes and their cash wherever and whenever we find their ill-gotten gains."He promised that the new "high-powered" agency would double the amount confiscated to £60m a year and plough back the money into policing and community projects.Grant Shapps, Conservative MP for Welwyn, who uncovered the scale of the problems facing the ARA, said yesterday that it had cost £90m since it was set up. "This agency was a classic example of a glitzy Labour pledge which turned out not to be worth the paper it was written on."The shadow home secretary, David Davis, agreed it was common sense to merge with Soca. "This should not mean its costs and level of assets recovered are no longer published. We need to monitor its effectiveness."No public targets are published for the Serious Organised Crime Agency, which started last year with more than 4,000 investigators drawn from police, customs and the immigration service.