Two members of the Outlaws motorcycle club were yesterday found guilty of murdering a Hells Angel who was shot dead on the M40 on his way home from a bikers' festival last summer. A third member of the Outlaws has already pleaded guilty, and the jury at Birmingham crown court is still considering its verdict on four other men charged with the killing.Simon Turner, 41, a mechanic from Nuneaton, and Dane Garside, 42, a lorry driver and father-of-seven from Coventry, were convicted of the fatal shooting of Gerry Tobin, 35, a mechanic from Mottingham, south London, and a member of the rival Hells Angels motorcycle club. The pair were also convicted of possessing a firearm with intent to endanger life.Tobin, a "fully patched" member of the Hells Angels, was driving home from the Bulldog Bash biker's festival in Long Marston, Warwickshire, on August 12 last year when he was shot dead from a green Rover car that drove alongside him on the motorway. Two shots were fired at Tobin, who was travelling at around 80mph.Sean Creighton, 44, from Coventry, who was described by fellow bikers in court as the sergeant-at-arms of the Outlaws' south Warwickshire chapter, pleaded guilty at the start of the trial. He did not give evidence.Garside admitted driving the car but said he had no idea that a shooting had been planned. He said he had been ordered to drive the car but had thought that only a surveillance operation was under way."I was in bits," Garside told the court of his reaction to the shooting. "I didn't expect anything like that to happen. I thought: he's [Creighton] going to start shouting verbal. Then all I heard was bang! bang! I screamed: 'What the hell is going on'? I was told not to look round. As I looked round, I could still see the gentleman [Tobin] riding the bike. Sean Creighton said: 'You just fucking drive this car'."Turner, who was also in the car, denied murdering Tobin. He accepted in court that in 1993 he had been jailed for 10 years for grievous bodily harm for stabbing and throwing petrol over a man he had never met who owed money to a friend. He told the court it had been "a scare tactic". He had not been convicted of any other offences since then. Turner claimed that he had not even been in the car at the time of the shooting.Timothy Raggatt, prosecuting, said the murder had been carried out with "great skill and precision". He added: "This was a man who was targeted not because of who he was, but because of what he was. In one sense, Gerry Tobin was a random victim ... he was a complete stranger to each and every one of the men in the dock. There is not a scrap of evidence that any of them had ever met him. That said, of course, he was undoubtedly targeted, selected and, some would say, executed."It was suggested by the prosecution that the Outlaws may have regarded the area around Long Marston as "part of their patch". Tobin was travelling in convoy with two motorcyclists from Poland when two rounds were fired at him near Warwick services. The bullet that killed him probably came from a revolver, while a second handgun was used to aim a shot at his rear wheel, Raggatt said. The car was found burnt out later the same day.The jury retired last night to continue considering their verdicts on Malcolm Bull, 53, Karl Garside, 45, the brother of Dane Garside, Dean Taylor, 47, and Ian Cameron, 46, all from Coventry, who all plead not guilty to murder and possessing firearms. The three men who have been convicted will be sentenced after all the verdicts have been delivered.