Two portraits of Gemma Adams are taped to the lamppost where she used to stand, next to the BMW showroom. Half a dozen bouquets mark her pitch. 'Thinking of you all,' one message card reads. 'You didn't deserve this, no matter what you all done.' It is signed 'An Ipswich family.' A few miles away, roses flutter from the bridge over the brook where Tania Nicol's naked body was found.Chickens wander in the road and the nearby cottages are pink-washed. This was a tranquil place until the week when Ipswich and its outlying villages became a murder theme park. Mobile police stations are dotted through the town, where officers hand out rape alarms and safety leaflets. Beneath the sparkling Christmas tree in the main square, a market stall offers children's parkas for £14.99.That is also the going rate of a bag of heroin. It is the fee for cheap sex. And now it is the price of murder. You can get yourself killed in Ipswich for trying to earn as little as £15, the cost of a bargain anorak or a human life. Five women have paid that tariff. As the hunt for their killer narrows, his victims have become as familiar as sisters or friends.The short existences of Gemma, Tania, Anneli, Paula and Annette have been meticulously chronicled. Their faces, their photo albums, their private letters and, now, Anneli's unborn child have become public property. These 'working girls', in the upbeat police jargon, existed on the margins. In death, they are centre stage; recipients of the shame, sorrow, guilt, pity and outrage of a society that broods, belatedly, on their betrayal. What should we call them now that they are gone? Would they care? Death is still death, whether it says 'prostitute' or 'sex worker' on your tombstone.Public focus on these lives, though heartfelt, also reflects a voyeuristic fascination. Britain's first mythic serial killer, Jack the Ripper, has long since been superseded both in his cull - five known victims - and in his power to enthral. Pyschopathology blurs uneasily with romanticism. As the novelist Joyce Carol Oates has pointed out, TS Eliot once went to a fancy dress party as Dr Crippen: The New York Times described the urbane Ted Bundy, who may have slaughtered up to 100 young women, 'fascinating'.Thrillers and television series such as Wire in the Blood have reclassified mass murder as mass entertainment: A PD James novel is cited as a possible blueprint for the 'Suffolk strangler', and posters for the latest Hannibal Lecter book invites readers to wonder: 'What Makes a Monster?' Here to tell us are the profilers thrown up by the serial killer industry. In their various views, the Ipswich perpetrator is a local man or a visitor, a seasoned killer or a petty burglar. One criminologist, David Wilson, prefers to look at victims. His new book will profile the five groups targeted by serial killers: The elderly, gay men, babies and infants, young people and prostitutes. In other words, the vulnerable, people who fire public imagination only when tragedy propels them into the spotlight.In the blitz of detail about the Ipswich women, men are curiously spectral figures. If the mind of the murderer is unknowable, then the clientele that filters into Ipswich's red light triangle is hardly less mysterious. My taxi driver says he recently dropped off a sailor whose grain ship was docked at the town port. A prostitute talks of 'refugees' hoping for £5 sex. The police are vague when asked how helpful the 'punters' have been to their inquiry. No doubt these invisible men are the usual mix: council workers, chicken packers, insurance brokers - the lost, the lonely and the pillars of society with a covert taste for violence.Five women have had their lives extinguished and their pasts stripped bare, in every detail but one. Who are the men whose quest for cheap and loveless sex ordained the pattern of their existences and so contributed, however tangentially, to their brutal end? Drugs are held up as the proxy killer, perhaps because grieving families find heroin addiction more understandable than prostitution. But, though addiction drove them to the streets, these women died because they were prostitutes at the mercy of a killer abetted by cruel laws.Zero tolerance does not work. Asbos and fines make women more vulnerable, and the lack of drug rehabilitation ushers them down a one-way street in which they lose their children, their hope, and, sometimes, their lives. That makes, at the very least, a case for heroin on NHS prescription, for many more drug treatment programmes and for the sort of toleration zone that worked well in Edinburgh until the nimbys and property developers forced its end. The government must overcome its cowardice and dust off reform plans.Few doubt that the law pushes women into a dangerous twilight, but their safety also depends on knowing who else inhabits that shadowland. If you believe modern folklore, and listen to what many prostitutes say, the average man who pays for sex is a harmless soul, with Santa-like beneficence and Gladstonian good manners. Prostitution is always called 'the oldest profession', as if antiquity conferred some gilt-edged institutional status and made its practitioners into a charmed breed pitched somewhere between Venetian courtesans and Doll Tearsheet.The reality, in the cold and prurient light of the Ipswich street, looks very different. Almost every prostitute to tell her story has complained of humiliation and attacks. I talked to Toni, a career sex worker who takes no drugs and who chose this trade to spend more time with her kids. Even she has been a victim. When Toni called the police (not in Ipswich) to say she had been raped, the officer laughed and said it was part of her job. This weekend, she will mourn her friend, who vanished while working the streets. Ten years or so have passed, and this woman remains missing, presumed murdered. Sixty prostitutes have been butchered since then and only 16 murderers convicted. Two thirds of sex workers complain of vicious men.Yet Toni, like many prostitutes, speaks kindly of her clientele. Most are normal men, she says. And, besides, they are 'her bread and butter'. Even so, it seems to me that these faceless clients have triple-lock protection, while the women they use have none. Men are shielded by the paradox that any attempt to crack down on them means greater risks for women hustled into cars without a chance to check who's driving. Their character, however dubious, is protected by the women who rely on them for bread or heroin. And they are sheltered by liberals who hesitate to condemn prostitution for fear of sounding moralistic or judgmental.So, when a killer strikes, there is little mention of the imbalance of a trade in which women are betrayed in life and in an uncharted death. In Ipswich, the meek and the violent who might provide vital clues have melted away, like the pimps and drug-dealers, back into a British society that fails not just sex workers, but all its poor and vulnerable. There must be better exit routes to help women who want to get off drugs and out of an industry that should be legalised, as the English Collective of Prostitutes wishes, for the realistic reason that lack of stigma is the best guarantor of women's safety.But that does not mean that prostitution should ever be seen as accountancy in high heels. Nor should faceless clients be deemed ordinary blokes. The demand side of prostitution is, at best, exploitative, creepy and degrading. At worst, it is the torture of the helpless and the dying. As five women go to their graves, we should not hesitate to say so.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk