The banality of evil makes revenge unsatisfactory. Once caught, the monster that pulled the fingernails from the baby or the serial strangler of women always turns out to be an unworthy vessel for society's fury: just another psychotic lowlife, weirdo, child of violence, passing on the damage done to him with double force.That's why the world needs to find more satisfying quarry to blame. Conveniently, social workers are always there to fill the role required by a frenzy of media hate. They failed to save a child: they are the true killers. The fury stirred up by the Sun verges on lynch mob incitement: 200,000 have signed its petition calling for the heads of "all the social workers involved in the case". "Blood on their hands" was the headline. Pictures of these public servants asked "Do you know them?", with a number to ring. Surprisingly few children are murdered, given how many parents are drug addicted, psychotic, violent or profoundly inadequate; 29,000 are on the child protection register and another 300,000 are reckoned to be "in need", with concerns about their quality of life. Yet last year of all those children in danger, 68 were killed (15 of those by strangers). Given how extraordinarily vulnerable children are, that is a relatively low figure to be balanced against the thousands who survive precarious lives, often thanks to social workers, who are never thanked. Back in 1974, Maria Colwell was the first child murder I covered. It happened to be the case that set in motion the laying down of new child protection measures. Every time a child dies, another report finds failures in process or practice, and another bout of reorganising follows a media frenzy. This time the hysteria has reached a newly demented pitch. Everyone finds in this rare horror the "proof" for whatever it is they already think about society. Trevor Kavanagh in the Sun says it's caused by a "leftie mafia" and "the corruption of entrenched Socialism". David Cameron and Iain Duncan Smith call it a sign of their "broken society". Yet the number of children killed has fallen steadily - down 50% in England and Wales since the 1970s. Professor Colin Pritchard, an expert on child abuse, points to World Health Organisation statistics: Britain was fourth worst among western nations in the 1970s. Now it is among the best: only four countries have fewer child murders per million. Compare America, where child murders have risen by 17% since the 1970s. "Our child protection has never been better," Pritchard, of the school of health and social care at Bournemouth University, says. "Especially in the front line." And social workers are better trained. "I am awed by what these young people have to face." Pritchard's research shows most child murders are committed by severely mentally ill mothers; next come mentally ill fathers, then mothers whose children are already on at-risk registers, and stepfathers or cohabitees who have a record of at least one act of violence. There is a fixed trajectory in the reporting of horrors. Whether it is the death of a child or a train crash, someone can always be found who blew the whistle, who reported the need for more rail inspections - or a lower social worker caseload. Talking to directors of children's services reveals that a lot of social workers, a lot of clients and a lot of their relatives write letters warning of failings: it's an emotive and hard-pressed service. Panorama finds unsurprising evidence that some police officers disagreed with some social workers about whether Baby P should go into foster care. Anyone who has sat in on a case conference can hear different views: not all will agree with the final decision. When it is fatally wrong, as in this case, someone can claim "I told you so." Paul Ennals, of the National Children's Bureau, points out that 80% of children who die are not on "at risk" registers, which may make social workers more or less culpable.Is every child death preventable? Possibly. But it would come at a social cost the likes of the Mail and the Sun would certainly not tolerate. All children at any risk could be added to the 60,000 in care. But search the Mail and find no shortage of outrage on the lines of "How social workers took away our children for 11 months without a shred of evidence". The Sun may get its scalp: The director of children's services in Haringey is unlikely to survive a critical report. Labour has framed the rules to make sure there is personal accountability at the top in such cases. The fallout will be serious. Children's departments will cover their backs and take many more into care. The pendulum may be due a slight swing that way, but it has its own dangers: when social workers are seen as child snatchers, parents are less willing to seek help or take injured children to hospital. There is no evidence to show if it is better to take a child away soon after birth when there is a danger the family can't cope. A child might have a better life with adopters; and if the authorities delay until the damage is done, the prognosis for older children in care is poor, many ending up in prison. But few doubt that, if parents are "good enough", children are best off with their own families. What Solomon can make the right call every time?At a conference on the morning the Baby P story broke last week, those who have worked in children's services all their lives were cast down by the coverage. They said how much better things had been since Margaret Hodge's Every Child Matters and Ed Balls's Children's Plan - at last schools, social services and health were starting to work together, though dragging professions out of their silos is hard work. A new generation of headteachers understands that treating the whole child - from breakfast to after-school club - and connecting all the services a family in trouble might need is the way to improve education results, too. There is optimism in the air as the progress from 2,500 children's centres already looks good, working to catch family problems at the earliest age. There will always be catastrophic failures, but one case blasted out of all proportion can undo years of good. David Lammy, the MP for the Haringey constituency of Tottenham, wonders how his borough will ever attract new social workers with the Sun waiting to tell them they have blood on their hands. If too few are found and more children suffer, the Sun is unlikely to own up to blood on its hands.polly.toynbee@theguardian.com