Every home secretary rapidly learns that there is no moment when it is safe to peer over the parapet. All the same, this week incoming fire has thundered round John Reid's insouciantly colourful new headquarters in Marsham Street: a prisons crisis, a courts crisis, and yesterday (along with criticism from the high court over young asylum seekers) a youth-justice crisis as the widely respected chair of the Youth Justice Board resigned. Rod Morgan's decision to go came as no surprise to observers of the system, but his timing and valedictory warning that the system was being "swamped" by minor offenders heaped on the pressure. It is all the harder to handle for the salience that youth justice has always had in New Labour's programme.Professor Morgan, a former chief probation officer, has been on the case since 2004. Within a year he was warning that the system concentrated too much on locking up the under-18s and too little on stopping them offending in the first place. Successive attempts to reduce the number of children in custody made little progress, victims of the sentencing inflation which has so damaged attempts to use adult community service orders as a more effective alternative to prison. Yet locking a child up is almost a guarantee that they will reoffend.Last year custody took a disproportionate 70% of the YJB's £400m budget. Intensive supervision and surveillance programmes, although hardly a silver bullet to end reoffending, show better results. But the courts use them as an alternative to milder orders, rather than as a better option than custody. This is partly a response to the mood music emanating from speeches such as Tony Blair's last June when, with an unhappy Rod Morgan at his side, he talked of rebalancing the criminal-justice system in favour of the victim. In November Professor Morgan warned that an overcrowding crisis threatened. Some vulnerable children could no longer be found places near their families. It was becoming harder to do useful work with any of them. Only last weekend it emerged that as many as a third of the 3,000 under-18s in custody suffer from psychiatric disorders.Professor Morgan was working on trying to shift the government's emphasis. In the context of Mr Blair's respect agenda, it was never going to be easy. To be told that he would have to reapply for his job when his contract expired later this year was an obvious rebuff. He was left with little alternative but to resign. On these pages yesterday we said it was time to rethink criminal-justice policy. Today it has become an even more urgent demand. The one advantage of Professor Morgan's resignation is that he is now free to play a leading part in the debate.