It was the highest profile murder case since Stephen Lawrence was killed by a gang of white racists in 1993. It was equally poignant. Damilola Taylor was just 10 years old. His ebullience, captured on CCTV as he skipped over stepping stones just moments before he was killed, has frequently been replayed on television. His murder was condemned by the prime minister, the leader of the opposition and the home secretary in the run-up to the last election. The pressure on the police to find his killers - not least after their incompetence in investigating the Lawrence murder - was intense. More than 100 officers were involved in the search for the killers, who stabbed Damilola in the thigh with a broken bottle. Yet yesterday the last two of the original four defendants accused of the crime were acquitted. The other two were dismissed on the direction of the judge earlier in the three-month trial.Once again the criminal justice system failed. No part emerges unscathed. The police investigation was full of poor supervision, incompetence and serious breaches of procedures governing interviews with child witnesses. The prosecution service persisted with a young police witness who was shown to be emotionally disturbed, prone to telling lies, and too interested in the £50,000 reward money. Defending counsel, with their brutal demolition of the young witness, demonstrated the glaring injustices of an adversarial procedure. And the judge must be asking himself why he allowed the 13-year-old girl to testify and be destroyed, when defence counsel in pre-trial hearings had documented her unreliability and dishonesty. Policy makers should be looking at three fronts where reform is urgently needed. First, tabloid newspaper rewards need to be prohibited in respect of verbal evidence and retained, if at all, only for key tangible evidence, such as a murder weapon or blood-stained clothing. Second, the current training courses for police interviewing techniques need to be overhauled. Even with new technological breakthroughs such as DNA tests, interviews still play a crucial role in detection. Senior police managers know this reform is needed, but have done little to implement it. Thanks to the video-recording of the juvenile witness, we know what went wrong in the Damilola case, not least various inducements - like the reward money being "more guaranteed" if she had been at the crime scene. This case has a close parallel to the Maxwell Confait case, which led to compulsory tape-recording of police interviews with suspects. The Damilola case underlines the need for this procedure to be extended to police interviews with all witnesses, not just juvenile witnesses. A third reform would explore replacing the adversarial procedure in juvenile cases with an inquisitorial system. This would keep barristers under a much stricter and necessary rein. It could be a first step to wider application. A wider dimension of the case is the rise of teenage gangs, who are intimidating younger children on rundown inner-city estates. The fastest rising age group falling victims to street robbery are 10 to 15-year-olds. The vast majority of perpetrators are older teenagers. Children from Damilola's school are still being intimidated. The police are taking this development seriously. Yesterday's moves against 40,000 children playing truant every day is a useful first step. The call for local safety wardens could be met by using the government's new community support officers. But much more urgency needs injecting in the response.