The government's plan to set up regional residential treatment centres for 100 high-risk sex offenders, including child sex abusers, has unsurprisingly provoked public anxiety. Some experts have predicted that it will take years to set up the proposed hostels due to local protests and long-running judicial reviews. Meanwhile, adult survivors of child abuse question why resources are focused on the victims rather than the abusers. What this reaction highlights is the need for an effective campaign to educate the public about the benefits of residential treatment.The purpose of five hostels to be set up across England and Wales will be to assess the ongoing risk posed by people who commit sexual offences and to ensure that they undergo treatment programmes to reduce the likelihood of them reoffending. An evaluation of the work of the only residential treatment clinic to have ever operated in the UK, published by the Home Office yesterday, shows it was effective at changing offenders' sexual attitudes and was twice as successful at reducing reoffending rates than prison-based programmes.Despite its success, the Wolvercote clinic has been shut for the past two years. The clinic was forced to close in July 2002 because the Department of Health wished to sell the land on which it was based, and efforts to find an alternative location were thwarted due to public protests. Local residents accused officials of trying to keep them in the dark about the clinic. Since then the National Probation Directorate has commissioned research into the various programmes to assess and treat sexual offenders living in the community. This research cited Wolvercote as one of the preferred models of treatment. The report stated that 19 hostels would be needed to house all the high-risk sex offenders in the country who could benefit from residential treatment. But it concluded that public anxiety meant that setting up five regional clinics was more realistic. A national search for possible locations of clinics is now underway.The announcement will undoubtedly raise many concerns among members of the public, not least of which is what resources are being made available to the child victims and adult survivors of sexual abuse. At present the support services available to them are lamentably few in number. The provision of community and mental health services across the UK causes concern for two reasons. Firstly, such services have been inadequately funded to meet the needs of their local community and secondly, even when they are in a position to offer a service to someone who has been sexually abused, they do not always have the expertise and understanding in matters relating to sexual abuse.The question we need to ask is, does setting up services for abusers need to come at the expense of those for their victims, and vice versa? The reality is that both are required. Announcing the government's plans yesterday, the correctional services minister, Paul Goggins, highlighted that residential sex offender treatment cannot work "in a vacuum". It must be part of a matrix of services for victims and offenders. Children and adults who require therapeutic help should be able to access such services wherever they may be living in the UK. However, if we want to ensure that our children are safer we cannot but support any initiative that makes those who have a propensity to sexually abuse children desist from such activity. We cannot hide from the fact that there are many convicted sexual abusers already living in our communities and that there are many more abusers who are unknown to us. Society can do something to make those who are known to us safer, not only through assessment and intervention programmes but also through such initiatives such as circles of support and accountability, where volunteers befriend and monitor sex offenders in the community.Children cannot protect themselves from sexual abuse, it is the responsibility of all adults within society to protect children. Those who have or are intending to abuse children must face up to what they have done or are thinking of doing and change their attitudes towards children. Child protection experts know that they cannot do these things without undergoing assessment and intervention programmes.· Tink Palmer is the central coordinator of Stop it Now! UK & Ireland, a helpline which provides advice to people concerned they pose a risk to children