Twenty youths were being questioned tonight over the stabbing to death of a 15-year-old at a mainline rail station in London. Detectives from Scotland Yard's homicide command consulted CCTV footage from Victoria station in their hunt for the killers of the teenager, whom sources named as Sofyen Ghailan, also known as Bellamouadden.The victim was chased through the ticket hall during rush hour at Victoria station on Thursday evening by a gang of up to 10 youths, all in school uniform.He was surrounded and repeatedly stabbed. He died later in hospital.A Transport for London worker, who declined to be named, described the attack. "The boys attacking [the victim] couldn't have been any older than him as they were wearing a dark blue school uniform." Another member of staff added: "I saw too much. I saw him on the ground bleeding. I've been working but I think the shock of it has only just come down on me now."Tributes were yesterday posted on the schoolboy's Facebook site. Some entries supported suggestions that the killing was linked to a feud between rival west London schools and was gang related. The site, named RIP Sofyan, contained one entry which read: "RIP My Don Sofyen Ghailan never ever going to be forgotton!"Police hope that CCTV footage and witnesses' evidence will help them identify which of the gang around the victim began the fatal attack.The 20 youths, aged between 14 and 17, were arrested today and questioned at several London police stations.Police stepped up patrols at Victoria yesterday after commuters described how the day before the death rival gangs of schoolchildren had clashed inside the railway station in an outbreak of violence.John Angeli, 47, of Haywards Heath, West Sussex, said: "There was a big kerfuffle with about 10 or 15 kids all screaming. There were about two or three police officers all struggling to keep things under control. I only watched for a couple of minutes but I saw the police call for back-up to bring things under control. I assume nobody was hurt."Detective Superintendent Ashley Croft, from British transport police, said the stabbing was a reckless act of violence. "A teenager tragically lost his life, and our thoughts are with his family at this time. We believe the attack started on the steps leading into the tube station … before continuing into the Circle and District line booking hall."Police have recovered several weapons, including at least two knives, from the scene of the attack.Croft said his colleagues had been scouring CCTV footage from around the station. "There were a lot of people around yesterday evening and I am asking them to come forward. There are a lot of people who would have heard or seen something and I ask them to contact us."Refusing to confirm which school the suspected attackers were attending, he added: "What I am looking at is the background to all the people in custody. We have arrested 20 people and that is a positive step. It is a natural line of inquiry to look into their background, but it is too early to say more at the moment."