A number of Bristol police have been removed from their posts after allegations of public drunkenness and lewd behaviour, the deputy chief constable of Avon and Somerset, Martin Richards, said yesterday.The officers were attending a charity ball to raise funds for combating drug abuse and celebrate good community relations. Organised by Knowle West Against Drugs (Kwads), a group founded 10 years ago by residents in south Bristol alarmed about the increase in drug use, the dinner dance on May 25 included the presentation of awards for two retiring officers to thank them for their support. Neither could be present, but 10 other officers did attend to collect the awards for their colleagues. A number of business leaders, magistrates and journalists attended the black tie dinner, which raised more than £6,000 for the organisation. Mary Smith, the founder of Kwads, said the evening had been successful apart from the performance of the police. "It was an absolutely fantastic night," she said. "I have got a very good relationship with [officers], but I think they had to take action about this." Despite the evening's theme of drug awareness, officers allegedly began drinking heavily. One guest claimed she had watched a male officer openly groping a woman police constable who was dancing with her skirt over her head. "I thought that was bad enough," said Denise Britt, 48, Kwads' chairwoman. "But then I had a complaint that one of the male officers and a WPC had been spotted using a toilet cubicle together. I can guess what for. "It was absolutely disgusting what they got up to that evening. They all arrived late and they'd had a drink but were not that bad at that point. For starters there was a cold soup and they complained that it was cold, but that's how it's supposed to be. "As the night wore on, the officers continued to drink and one of the female officers got on the table but she was so drunk that she fell off. Some people tried to have a word with the chief superintendent about the disgusting behaviour of the police. But they seemed to have no care about what people said. They just dismissed us. "Not all of the male officers were involved but the five WPCs were all being groped. I heard they were [later] walking back towards the station and one of the men and women looked like they were having sex on the street. They're supposed to be the professional ones. They have really let us down badly considering they were there representing the police force. "How can the officers go out on the streets and arrest people when the whole community knows what they were up to? They are a laughing stock." In a statement, Mr Richards said: "Since that evening we have received a number of complaints alleging that police staff who attended the event behaved in an inappropriate and unprofessional manner. As a result I have now removed a number of officers, including the district commander, from their positions with immediate effect and a full internal investigation has begun." Avon and Somerset police declined to comment on the detailed allegations or say how many officers had been removed. A further statement on the investigation is expected today.