Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen Lawrence on the night he was attacked, sobbed openly in court as he described how his friend kept asking: "What's happened to me? Look at me?" after the fatal attack.Brooks came to the Old Bailey shortly after the death on Wednesday night of his father, the jury was told.Despite his acute grief, he had insisted on giving evidence of what he witnessed the night the teenager he called his "best friend" was killed.The two defendants, Gary Dobson, 36, and David Norris, 35, deny murdering Lawrence.Sitting in the witness box, Brooks began calmly, reading at times from a statement he made on the night of the killing in April 1993.It was at the moment he described how he and Stephen ran to safety after the fatal attack that he was overwhelmed by emotion."We were running, but he kept saying to me, 'What's wrong?' as he couldn't run properly."Blood was streaming out around his neck and through his jacket," he said before breaking off and emitting a low moan.Lawrence's mother, Doreen, clasped a hand over her mouth as Brooks began to sob audibly, wiping his tears away with the back of his hand.He tried again: "So, we was running … we was running, his blood is dripping on the floor …" but again, his crying overwhelmed him.The trial judge, Mr Justice Treacy, and the prosecutor asked repeatedly if he wanted to stop and take a break, but Brooks raised his voice: "No, I want to say what happened."He recovered his composure and went on: "He kept saying to me, 'What's happened to me?' He kept saying, why is he running like this? Look at him. I must tell him what's happened"Brooks stopped again, and explained that Lawrence was asking him this as he ran."We were running because I was frightened that these guys could come back round. He kept asking me, I just said: 'Just run, please run.'"He said to me one more time, 'Duwayne', and his voice was all funny and he fell at the tree."In the moments afterwards the court sat in silence. Members of the press wiped away tears; one woman in the public gallery hugged her daughter to her.Dobson, as he has done through much of the evidence, bowed his head to take notes and Norris, wearing headphones to listen to the proceedings, stared straight ahead.Earlier Brooks told the court he and Lawrence had met at secondary school and were best friends. When Lawrence went into the sixth form, Brooks left school and began a course at Lewisham College.On the day of the murder, Brooks met Lawrence at his school, Blackheath Bluecoat secondary, at lunchtime then he returned to meet him at the end of the day.They travelled into Eltham and from the railway station they caught a 286 bus.Reading from his statement he said it was 10.38pm when the friends left the bus stop and walked towards the roundabout.Lawrence was some distance behind Brooks. "I noticed on the left hand side that a group of boys were crossing the road. I made a mental note of how many there were."I looked back, Stephen was about eight to 10 yards behind me. I said: 'Can you see the bus?' Then I heard a voice on my left hand side. Then these guys crossed the road and one of them shouts: 'What, what nigger.'"Brooks said he immediately felt threatened. "I started running back [to the bus stop] and I shouted: 'Steve, run.'"As he ran, he said he turned round to Lawrence again. He could see him in the road and the group a few feet away from him."The group converged on him. I was running back, jogging backwards. A tree had blocked my view of the road."One of the other guys came round, it looked like round the tree, but I couldn't see. He has come round the tree and he is chasing me. I was running backwards, probably jogging, I was in fear."When I looked back I see that member of the group, if you want to call him the leader, the guy with the weapon, ran straight into him and wham, he hit him."Brooks raised his right hand to make an overarm stabbing movement. Asked how long the weapon was he raised his hands until they were about 30cm apart."It was something shiny," he added.Brooks said the youth who had been chasing him then ran back to Lawrence and attacked him with what he thought was a metal bar. The group then moved away."Stephen jumped up and I was relieved. I thought he had just got a kicking and we ran, we ran across the road."Lawrence made it a few hundred yards, according to evidence already presented to the jury, before heavily bloodied, he fell to the ground.Dobson and Norris both deny the murder of Lawrence.The case continues.