Two 16-year-old schoolgirls from north London are waiting to hear how long they must spend behind bars after being convicted in Ghana yesterday of attempting to smuggle cocaine worth £300,000 to Britain.Yasemin Vatansever and Yetunde Diya could be jailed for up to three years after a judge in Accra found them guilty at a court hearing of trying to take 6kg of the drug back to the UK hidden in secret compartments in laptop bags. The hearing took place behind closed doors - the blinds of the high court room were pulled down to prevent a crowd outside from viewing proceedings.People who had been at the hearing described how the girls, dressed in T-shirts and trousers, sat on chairs and listened in silence as the judge read out her summary of the prosecution and defence cases. It was an hour and a half before they were told of the guilty verdicts on counts of drug possession and attempted smuggling. As the judge left the room, both broke down in tears.Sentencing was adjourned until next month for social services reports to be prepared by the British and Ghanaian authorities. For the last five months the girls have been held in an unoccupied office of the Narcotics Control Board building.After the girls were driven from the high court in a 4x4 vehicle with darkened windows yesterday, their heads covered with cloth, Sabine Zanker of Fair Trials International - as representative of the girls, one of the few people present at the hearing - said they were likely to be moved to a very basic juvenile detention centre after sentencing."Conditions will get worse once they are going to a juvenile detention centre," she said. "They will not be as comfortable as they are now. They won't have their own bathroom and they will share a cell with many more people - at the moment it is just the two of them and they are safe. It will be much more basic."She added: "There is no chance to serve the time in England as there is no agreement between Ghana and the UK at the moment."The juvenile detention centre is in Osu, a busy suburb of Accra lined with shops and restaurants.Zanker said that the girls appeared "very upset". "It is a real blessing that they are together because it would be much harder if they were apart. They are very supportive of each other."Their families are very upset as well. They had hoped very much to have them home and they are very disappointed." She confirmed the girls' lawyers planned to appeal against the judge's decision.Their parents, who remained in London, defended their daughters in a joint statement. "Yasemin and Yetunde are two extremely vulnerable young girls whose naivety was ruthlessly exploited by the men who lured them to Ghana and left them to this terrible fate," they said. "Our daughters are not the criminal masterminds which the prosecuting authorities have attempted to portray."The statement, released by Fair Trials International, alleged the court had heard evidence that the girls had been denied access to a lawyer when they were first interrogated, and that evidence had been tampered with and destroyed.The two girls were held on July 2 at Accra's Kotoka airport as they prepared to board a flight back to the UK. Police investigators later said that they had told them a man in London had promised them £3,000 pounds each and an all-expenses-paid holiday if they brought the bags back to London.When they arrived in Ghana they were met by two other men who checked them into a hotel and gave a party for them before seeing them off after a week, they added.The girls were also said to have told their parents they were on a school trip to France. Neither of the two men who met the girls in Ghana has been arrested.During the trial their lawyers insisted they had not been promised money. They said that the laptop bags were only mentioned once they were in Ghana, and that they knew nothing of the real purpose of their trip.Vatansever's MP, Jeremy Corbyn, said the teenager looked after an elderly grandmother who would be devastated by the verdict."I hate to think of the consequences of a long incarceration in a place so far from home for these two foolish and unworldly girls," he said. "I still hold on to the hope that the courts will recognise their vulnerability and treat them with due leniency."In October, the girls' deputy head teacher, Judy Gemmell, visited them at the unoccupied office in the Narcotics Control Board HQ where they were temporarily incarcerated while she was in the country giving evidence at their trial. The pair had just finished their GCSEs at the Islington Arts and Media school when they travelled to Ghana.Gemmell said yesterday that her evidence - given as a character witness - had portrayed the girls as gullible young women with no criminal intent, and she added that she was saddened by the verdict."They were quite a tight twosome; they were always together," she said. "They were kind pupils who would help others and were always pleasant and polite." Gemmell took them their GCSE exam results during her visit, telling Diya, who had a college place, that she had achieved 11 GCSEs at grade C or above. "They were pleased with their GCSE results," she said, "though I think they must have seemed slightly more irrelevant than they would have in the middle of August."Outside the tatty concrete courthouse, a throng of mainly Ghanaian journalists battled to catch a glimpse of the girls yesterday. The case has sparked widespread interested in Ghana's capital.Vatansever and Diya were arrested under Operation Westbridge, a project set up by the UK and Ghana to tackle the increasing use of the route as a gateway to Britain and Europe. The operation, which started in Accra last November, has picked up 56 alleged drug mules and seized cocaine with a street value of £62m.The authorities, keen to highlight a success in their fight against drug trafficking through the region, have been happy to publicise Vatansever and Diya's case.