A mother was found guilty yesterday of killing her nine-year-old son by spiking his hospital drip with 18 teaspoons of salt.Petrina Stocker, 42, from Romford, Essex, had pleaded not guilty to manslaughter at the Old Bailey. She will be sentenced today. The court heard Stocker's son David was ill for months but doctors were unable to find out the cause because she was fabricating symptoms. The boy, who had been a healthy karate enthusiast, died from salt poisoning in August 2001 at Great Ormond Street Children's hospital, central London, two days after falling into a coma. Nicholas Hilliard, prosecuting, said that when Stocker poured salt into her son's milk drip feed it was the last of a series of destructive acts aimed at fabricating aspects of his illness, including putting blood into urine samples and manufacturing vomit samples. Mr Hilliard said her behaviour was typical of factitious illness by proxy - formerly known as Munchausen syndrome by proxy - in which a person tries to fabricate illness in another. David first fell ill in March 2001 and was admitted to Oldchurch hospital, Romford, with abdominal pain. He spent the next five months being treated both there and at Great Ormond Street. He suffered from a number of symptoms including loss of appetite, lethargy and vomiting, but doctors could not establish what was wrong. Within a month of his illness, his weight went down to four stone and he was confined to a wheelchair. Staff at both hospitals suspected that Stocker, who kept a constant bedside vigil, was interfering with her son's treatment and his death came just days before he was due to be moved to a psychiatric ward where parental access would be limited. The court heard that Stocker threatened to discharge the boy from Oldchurch when it was suggested his bed be moved nearer the nurses' station there. Nurse Andrew D'Souza said: "However much I tried to get his mum to encourage David to eat or drink, she said she would but she would not." Jeevan Rawal, Oldchurch clinical director, told the court: "It was thought this might be fictitious or fabricated illness and it might be wise to keep him near the nurses' station. Mrs Stocker resented that. She said David would not like it. She said he would rather go home." Police concerns were raised when Stocker's husband Keith, a telephone engineer, reported that he suspected David's treatment was being tampered with. He later withdrew the allegation. Staff at Great Ormond Street decided that Stocker should never be left alone with her son after a cloudy substance was found in an intravenous drip. But later that month she managed to enter the ward kitchen and add salt to feeds stored in the fridge. Stocker wept as home videos of David were played to the jury. She said: "I would do nothing to hurt my child. I was there as a concerned mother." She had a history of making false claims about her medical symptoms. In 1983, she poured acid on her face and arms and subsequently claimed the scars were caused by leukemia. Three years later she claimed to have diabetes but it was found that she had added sugar to a urine sample. Acting Detective Chief Inspector Geoff Baker said: "There are no winners in this case. We have a nine-year-old child dead, a mother convicted of manslaughter and a family torn apart."