CCTV pictures have been released of a science teacher confronting pupils moments after he fractured a pupil's skull with a dumbbell.They show young people rushing to the door of a room in which Peter Harvey, 50, (below right) battered the boy about the head with the 3kg weight. The students run away as Harvey emerges with his fists clenched and disappears into another room.The footage freezes briefly before Harvey's appearance and when it resumes a dumbbell can be seen on the floor. The pictures were released by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) the day after Harvey was cleared at Nottingham crown court of attempted murder and grievous bodily harm with intent. The case has fuelled the debate about discipline in schools.The video, which was seen by the jury during the four-day trial, is from a camera outside Harvey's classroom at All Saints Roman Catholic school in Mansfield. The CPS did not release other pictures shot earlier on a camcorder by a girl who had smuggled it into class.The court heard the girl had encouraged classmates to goad Harvey and planned to show the film around the school to humiliate him.One girl called him "bald-headed bastard" and others "psycho". In one exchange a girl told him she thought he was having a mental breakdown as the lesson descended into "uproar". Harvey snapped when he tried to wrestle a Bunsen burner stand from his eventual victim, who told him to "fuck off". The boy, described as a "leading light" when it came to causing trouble, had earlier been sword-fighting with a ruler and playing volleyball with scrunched-up bits of paper. The boy's final act of insolence lit the "blue touch paper", turning Harvey into a man "possessed", the court heard. He told the boy: "I'll teach you to fuck off," before dragging him out of the classroom and into a storeroom across the corridor. There he picked up a dumbbell and hit him twice about the head, shouting: "Die, die, die."The jury accepted Harvey's lawyer's claim that he was in such a state at the class's behaviour that he could not have intended to harm the boy. Harvey admitted grievous bodily harm without intent. He thought he had killed the boy.Harvey, who had previously been off work with mental health problems, will be sentenced next month.The judge, Michael Stokes QC, said the jury's verdict meant "common sense has prevailed" and Harvey would probably receive a community service order. He spent eight months in jail on remand before being bailed this month. The boy suffered a fractured skull and lost some hearing in his right ear. He is currently receiving tuition at home.Main photographs: Nottinghamshire Police/PA