Police community support officers are to be given controversial powers to search suspects for dangerous items as part of the government policing bill published yesterday.The civilian wardens, dubbed "Blunkett's bouncers" and "plastic policemen" by critics, were introduced two years ago to patrol the streets and tackle low level antisocial behaviour. There are more than 4,000 CSOs and 140,000 police officers in England and Wales. The new serious organised crime and police bill will also allow CSOs to deal with beggars, direct traffic, handle some licensing offences and take suspects' photographs on the street. They will be allowed to follow up motoring offences by accessing data on drivers. But it is the new search powers which will prove most contentious. This will allow a CSO to frisk someone for articles which could be used as weapons or to help the suspect escape, for example car keys. But critics warned there was no predicting whether they could be confronted with a knife or some other kind of weapon. The government insists the CSOs will never replace qualified constables; instead they will provide valuable public reassurance. But representatives of rank and file officers fear the "creeping increase" of CSO powers is being used to save money on fully fledged officers and warned that allowing them to search people could prove dangerous for all concerned. Hazel Blears, the policing minister, said the search power would be narrowly defined but insisted it made sense, as CSOs are presently only allowed to detain people for 30 minutes and have to call a police officer to take over. "There's nothing more frustrating than to find something happens and they haven't the power to deal with it," she said. "These powers are specifically designed to help CSOs deal with things they find when they are out patrolling. "At the moment, they have the power to detain someone but not to take off them the very thing that might be causing the risk. We are very keen to avoid this 'mission creep' but we are just letting them do the job they were assigned to do." Ms Blears said CSOs, who receive three weeks' training, would be properly instructed and equipped before being allowed to carry out searches. This could mean they would be issued with protective stab-proof vests, batons and CS sprays, but the minister would not be drawn on this, saying it would be up to the chief constable in each force. But Jan Berry, who chairs the Police Federation for England and Wales which represents rank and file officers, said: "We are strongly against increasing CSO powers."They are meant to be the eyes and ears of police on the ground, but placing them in confrontational situations will be a danger for the public, a danger for them, and will ultimately create more work for police officers. "By giving them more powers we are effectively taking them away from the community they are there to serve and also now begs the question what is the difference between a CSO and a police officer. "There is already great confusion in the public mind about the role of CSOs and this creeping increase of powers will just add to that confusion."