A 17-month-old boy who had been subjected to months of abuse was seen two days before his death by a consultant paediatrician who failed to spot that he had a broken back and eight fractured ribs, a court heard yesterday.The baby, who cannot be named for legal reasons, died on August 3 last year. A post-mortem examination found that he was missing bits of fingernail and toenail as well as the tips of some of his fingers.A tooth was found in his stomach, suggesting he was hit so hard in his face before his death he had swallowed the tooth.The child's mother and her partner, who cannot be named for legal reasons, and Jason Owen, 35, are standing trial for murder. They denied murder when they appeared at the Old Bailey yesterday. The three adults had been living at a house in Haringey, north London, before the baby's death.Sally O'Neill, prosecuting, told the jury that the baby, who was listed on the child protection register by Haringey council in December 2006, was taken to a child development clinic at St Ann's hospital, Haringey, on August 1.By the time of the appointment, said O'Neill, the baby would already have had eight fractured ribs and a broken back, injuries that would have left him in terrible pain and unable to move his legs. However, the locum consultant paediatrician, Sabah Alzayyat, failed to examine the toddler properly because the child was thought "miserable and cranky". O'Neill told the jury that the baby's injuries should have been obvious: "This would have been evidenced at the very least by floppiness and could not fail to have been observed by a competent doctor who had examined him properly."She added: "Exactly what happened during that examination, how thorough it was and what was recorded at the time will no doubt be a matter of evidence for you to consider. "Dr Alzayyat noted a number of bruises to his body, on his face and back, and noted an infected area in front of his left ear and a fungal infection on his head, but decided she could not carry out a full systemic examination as he was miserable and cranky. That may not seem to you or me to be the best reason for a consultant paediatrician to not fully examine a child who is known to be on the child protection register." She said the baby had been subjected to a campaign of "brutal and sadistic" abuse in the months leading up to his death.The jury heard that a 15-year-old, who was staying at the family house, told police that the mother's boyfriend had repeatedly attacked the boy, squeezing his neck and hitting him on the head. "She said he would make him scream by squeezing his finger nails and would pick him up by his throat and then chuck him on his cot. He would shake him, punch him, swing him around by his legs and spin him round on the computer chair until he fell off. He would wrap him up and leave him sweating until he was dehydrated, pick him up by just one arm, throw him on the bed and throw shoes at his head. He would put chocolate on his face to hide the bruises and cream on his head, to hide the injury from social workers." O'Neill added that the girl claimed the mother would "tap" the baby when he was naughty and that his bottom would be "black and blue". A woman who visited the house in April 2007 said she had seen the child sitting in the garden "eating dirt", adding that he looked very quiet and withdrawn and had a large bruise on his forehead."Over the last seven or eight months of his short life he was subjected to a course of assaults of increasing violence," said O'Neill. She added: "The crown's case against these defendants is that either they themselves "inflicted this unlawful force on him or that they participated in a joint enterprise to do so". The baby was found, in an examination after his death, to have a large number of bruises and injuries. His fractured ribs had been caused no more than a week before, the lesions on his scalp and ears were ulcerated and there was a healing tear to the membrane between his lip and gum, she said. Of the baby's broken back, O'Neill said: "That particular injury requires an extremely forceful hyperextension of the spine by, for example, forcing a child's back over your bent knee or over a banister rail. The effect of that particular assault would have been to cause paralysis from the level of injury down." She added: "All three defendants deny any wrongdoing, either claiming they knew nothing of what was going on or that one of their co-defendants was responsible. The death of any child is tragic. The death of a child in these circumstances is likely to fill any reasonable person with revulsion." But she asked the jury to think "dispassionately and objectively" when considering the case. The trial continues.