The needs of dangerous psychiatric patients are being put before the safety of the general public, according to a report to be published today on the murder of a retired banker by a mental health patient.The highly critical report into how a psychiatric patient at a south London hospital escaped and attacked Denis Finnegan as he cycled through Richmond Park will reveal how a catalogue of systemic errors led to his death.Chaired by Robert Robinson, a mental health lawyer, the report is said to be one of the most damning in the past decade. Over 400 pages it details a catalogue of preventable errors at Springfield Hospital which led to Mr Finnegan's murder. It concludes that a special medium secure facility in the hospital, the Shaftesbury Unit, must be closed pending an external audit.A mental health insider said: "This report contains relentless criticism of the systems in place to look after violent patients. It will send shockwaves through the whole of the mental health system and should be adopted nationally as a guide to what to do and not to do with this group of patients."Springfield Hospital, run by South West London and St George's Mental Health NHS Trust, was seen as a centre of excellence. However in the last decade several psychiatric patients under the care of the hospital have committed murders.Mr Finnegan was killed by John Barrett in September 2004. Barrett had previously stabbed three people in the outpatients department of St George's Hospital in 2002. As a result, he became a "restricted patient" which means that the Home Office had ultimate responsibility for monitoring him in the community.He was admitted to the Shaftesbury Unit the day before he murdered Mr Finnegan. He was given an hour's ground leave but absconded. He is now in Broadmoor hospital. Mr Finnegan was stabbed several times in the back and chest before Barrett walked away. As Mr Finnegan bled to death from three stab wounds he asked Barrett: "What have I done?" Later Barrett said: "With all my heart, nobody should deserve that. I am glad to have been caught."At his Old Bailey trial in March last year, Barrett pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. He was jailed for life with a recommendation that he serve at least eight years.The inquiry report calls for the Shaftesbury Unit to be closed for examination by an external team. It says the panel has doubts about the managerial abilities of this part of the forensic service and that this has "serious implications for the safe delivery of patient care". It also finds that many of the regular reports which psychiatrists must submit to the Home Office so that a risk assessment of the patient staying in the community can be carried out were never submitted.The Home Office admitted to The Guardian this year that there was a problem with monitoring violent offenders with mental health problems after release. A spokesman at the time said: "It is an ongoing battle to get the reports."The inquiry report also finds that the delicate balance between the therapeutic needs of patients and the safety of the community had swung too far towards patients, putting people in the community at risk in this case. John Finnegan, brother of Denis Finnegan who has received the report, said: "It's a great relief to me that this report is robust and isn't a whitewash."When people have been negligent it needs to be broadcast far and wide in the NHS. The lack of monitoring of patients like John Barrett is a major issue. I hope that this report will be used nationally to highlight what's gone wrong and to prevent it from happening again."Michael Howlett, of the mental health charity the Zito Trust, said: "My understanding is that the death of Denis Finnegan was very preventable and that serious questions are now being asked of the forensic services at Springfield Hospital which require a national response."Previous Springfield patients who have carried out murders include Joseph Cann, an aggressive patient who was left alone with psychiatric nurse Eshan Chattun in June 2003. He bludgeoned Mr Chattun to death. In February Matthew Carter was kicked and stamped to death by Springfield patient Sean Perry, a schizophrenic who was released from the hospital into the community but relapsed and stopped taking his medication.A Home Office spokesman said that improvements had been made to monitoring systems for restricted patients. "Communication with psychiatrists and social workers has improved in both quality and regularity. Arrangements for chasing up reports have been revised and we are now chasing much earlier and much harder," he said.