It ebbs and flows. Currently it's flowing – the blood on the streets. My local area happens to be Stockwell, in Lambeth, in south London. But the pattern of frightening spike and soothing abeyance will be familiar to anyone in the world who lives in an inner-city area with lots of poverty. The last spike was bad enough. My neighbour's 18-year-old son, Freddy Moody, was among those stabbed to death in that terrible spate, across the road from my front door, in July 2008. He was the 21st young person to be killed in London that year. During the intervening period, the madness and badness had abated somewhat. But it feels particularly nasty here now, again, particularly extreme.The makeshift shrine to Sadiq Adebiyi is slowly decaying just yards down the road from the beautiful wall-mounted mosaic that commemorates Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian electrician who was killed in the brutal efficiency of a chain of police errors in the wake of the failed 21 July bombings in 2005.Adebiyi was murdered on 31 May, at the age of 25, by two men driving by on a motorbike, using a machine gun. Two murder charges have been made. By all local accounts, Adebiyi was a pretty solid citizen. His murder, in this small scrap of city, is the seventh this year – four shootings, two stabbings, one death from head injuries after a vicious and unprovoked assault outside a KFC.The most viscerally shocking of these recent crimes though, was not fatal. In March, five-year-old Thusha Kamaleswaran was seriously injured by teenagers on bikes, who fired their gun indiscriminately into a local shop, because the boys they had been fighting took cover there. The child is making a decent recovery, thank goodness. Three men have been charged with attempted murder.Local anxiety is at such a pitch that on Tuesday evening the police addressed a well-attended meeting at our local community centre. Commander David Zinzan, south-east area, Metropolitan police, faced a respectful but hard-questioning crowd. One person asked whether the police had done enough to regain trust, in the six years after they had held down an innocent man and fired seven bullets into his head. Another asked if the police felt they had apologised enough, after a full-on raid on the house of his friend that had yielded no weapons and never would have. Perhaps most significantly, another asked whether there was any truth in the local intelligence about what happened in the aftermath of Kamaleswaran's injury. Leaflets had been distributed locally warning people: "Don't snitch." The media had reported these as emanating from a gang trying to intimidate people. Locally, it was accepted that they had been distributed by a family who had previously been in the witness protection programme, and felt they had suffered because of a lack of support from the police.You had to feel for the commander as he patiently fielded these polite but zingingly hostile questions. In reference to Jean Charles de Menezes, Zinzan said that it was important for the police to be honest about their mistakes, and at the first possible opportunity. I'd attended a meeting in the same room, the day after the 2005 killing of De Menezes, and listened to then deputy assistant commissioner Brian Paddick saying the same thing. Paddick's call for candour, appropriate as it was, had not been heeded by his superiors. But both Paddick and Zinzan were, I believe, sincere in their own desire for the open admittance and upfront discussion of error.In reference to the failed raid, Zinzan agreed that the police were not good enough at apologising, insisting that in the past they'd been too wary of saying anything that might invite liability. He also pointed out that local tip-offs could sometimes be vexatious. The police occasionally had to go in without collaboration, because if they did not, and a violent act later occurred, their mistake would have been failing to act. It's a fair point.In reference to the sinister leafleting, Zinzan's counsel was very grim. The leafleting had been investigated, as had the allegations about their motivation. It had not, Zinzan said, been a simple situation. Witness protection, he warned, needed absolute commitment from those entering it – it demanded a complete sloughing off of an old life, and a complete embrace of a new one. Many people couldn't handle it. Sometimes it was especially hard to tell children that they could not contact their friends any more. All this could easily have been levered into the script of Martin Scorsese's mafia classic Goodfellas. Except that it was being stated in a room more used to hosting children's judo classes.The great thing was that among the professionals and local politicians in the room, and among the audience, there was profound understanding of the cocktail of problems that conspired to cause such mayhem, and a good deal of wise optimism regarding how to tackle it, often offered from local people who had been active in youth work for many years.But gangs are not the only problem. Violence against women seems brutally concentrated in this tiny neck of the woods too. We even have a serial killer nicknamed after our area – Kenneth Erskine, the "Stockwell strangler", convicted of killing seven women, and suspected of having killed a further four. He is in Broadmoor – the incidence of mental illness is stratospherically high in the borough of Lambeth.Within a few hundred yards of my home, a number of other women have been raped or killed in recent years. O'Nile Huggins was sentenced to an indefinite jail term earlier this month after raping the same young woman twice in the street, the attacks three months apart.Matthew Fagan was jailed for life after murdering Cathy Marlow at her place of work in 2007. Crawford Nakasala was jailed for life after murdering Aleksandra Pronjak, also at her place of work, in 2005. Four men were jailed for life after murdering Yasmin Akhtar, then dumping her corpse in the little local park in 2002, and setting light to it.The good thing is that, contrary to popular myth, the police get these people, and the judicial system puts them away for a long time. Frederick Moody's suspected killer fled the country immediately. But three young men were convicted of violent disorder at the Old Bailey, and that helped his mother, Mary, a bit.It was great that the police came to talk to us, to ask for our help, and to pull no punches about how hard that could be. There's plenty of reason why this community of ours – a wonderful community in many ways – should distrust the police. But the police do put away some seriously dangerous psychopaths, a lot of them, in fact, and the media has to take some of the blame, because they advertise the crimes with such relish, and the convictions, often, not at all.