Tony Blair will begin a cabinet reshuffle today which is likely to show that the home secretary, David Blunkett, has won his battle to stop, or delay plans for a radical new ministry of justice.Plans for the department are said to have been put to one side amid concern over potential constitutional and political controversy and disruption to the recently reorganised Home Office. Sections of Downing Street have been pressing for a ministry of justice to bring together sections of the Home Office with a revamped Lord Chancellor's Department. Serious reorganisation of the role of lord chancellor would require primary legislation. Nonetheless it is expected that Lord Irvine, the lord chancellor, will announce his intention to stand down today. He is expected to be succeeded by the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, or Lord Falconer, the Home Office minister and close confidant of Mr Blair. One of the prime minister's father figures, Lord Irvine has held the post in government and opposition for 10 years. Models of the proposed new ministry have been floated inside Whitehall requiring mergers of different aspects of the Home Office, the Lord Chancellor's Department and the attorney general's office. At present the Home Office is responsible for criminal sentencing policy, but the Lord Chancellor's Department is responsible for the adminis tration of the courts, civil law and the judiciary. There had also been permanent secretary-level resistance about further changes to the machinery of government imposed by the prime minister. In the wake of unexpected changes after the 2001 election, permanent secretaries protested that the consequences in terms of financial planning, personnel and policy work had not been fully considered. In response the new cabinet secretary, Andrew Turnbull, set up a working party whose report, not due until next month, is likely to recommend greater consultation. Mr Blunkett had let it be known he was not going to the wire to keep the Home Office intact. But this does not mean there could not be some rejigging of the Lord Chancellor's Department following Lord Irvine's retirement. One suggestion is for the appointment of judges to be handed to an independent agency overseen by the lord chancellor, as head of the judiciary. It also appears likely that a new department for the nations and regions is to be established, bringing together the posts of the Scottish secretary, Helen Liddell, and the Welsh secretary, Peter Hain. Under one proposal the new department might take responsibility for broad constitutional issues, including electoral law and any draft bill on a European referendum. Mr Blair had hoped the devolution process would have been completed in Northern Ireland, so bringing together all three nations and regions under one roof. Plans for a cabinet-level minister for Europe appear to have been shelved in the face of objection from the foreign secretary, Jack Straw. Mr Straw wants to take back responsibility for negotiation on the new European constitution which was left with Mr Hain. Patricia Hewitt, the pro-euro trade and industry secretary, is now expecting to stay at her department rather than moving to health. This will give continuity to a department that has suffered from a rapid turn-over of cabinet members. It will also put her in pole position to press the pro-euro cause. Geoff Hoon, after four years as defence secretary, is looking for a move and is seen to deserve post-Iraq promotion. The minister most eager to run the defence ministry is John Reid, but he has only just been installed as leader of the house after a rapid tour of four cabinet posts in as many years. Mr Blair will be under pressure to bring fresh faces into the cabinet, but he has suffered more enforced reshuffles than he intended. On grounds of longevity rather than capability, the rural affairs supremo, Margaret Beckett, might stand down. Mr Blair cannot afford to reduce the proportion of women in the cabinet, and will be keen to increase the number of ministers of state knocking on the cabinet's door.