Duwayne Brooks is not asking anyone to feel sorry for him just because he witnessed the brutal murder of his close friend, Stephen Lawrence. What stokes his anger is the way the police and the rest of the criminal justice system treated him, and to his mind, systematically tried to undermine and destroy him. Duwayne, the main eyewitness to the murder, still fears for his life, but says he is more scared of the police than the gang who killed Stephen. Now that Sir William Macpherson's report is out, the debate has started about what precisely institutional racism is. For Duwayne that debate is a side issue. He knows the devastating effects, which drove him to the edge of madness. His first experience of the prejudice running through the Lawrence murder came within seconds of Stephen's stabbing. Having dialled 999 for an ambulance - he did not ask for the police - Duwayne begged a white couple for help. They initially ignored him and later said they thought Duwayne was going to rob them.Stephen Lawrence spent most of his last hours alive with Duwayne, a close friend since the age of 11. They had met briefly at lunchtime and later were at the house of Stephen's uncle to play video games. At 10pm Stephen decided to head home and started his final journey. Duwayne went with him. On the day we met Duwayne wore a crisp white shirt and tie. He was tired after his day's work as an electrical engineer.  He looks slightly younger than his 24 years and has a piercing stare that searches for any sign that you are even thinking of stitching him up. During one long answer attacking the police he noticed that I had stopped writing and said: 'There's no point me talking to you if you aren't going to write down what I say." He exudes a mix of world weariness and childlike, righteous anger at his six-year ordeal. His lawyer gets him a glass of squash, as he begins detailing his nightmare. 'At the scene the police treated me like a liar, like a suspect instead of a victim, because I was black and they couldn't believe that white boys would attack us for nothing. 'They tried on the night (of the murder) at the police station, to get me to say that the attackers didn't call us nigger. They described me as violent, unco-operative, intimidating. They were stereotyping me as a young black male. They didn't care about what I told them. They weren't bothered that Stephen was lying there dying." Duwayne believes his life is in danger from the suspects, against whom he is the main witness. But he fears the police more: 'The suspects and their associates are more of a threat to my family and friends. The people that present the most threat to me is the police. They do things and get away with it. They commit crimes and murder,' he says referring to black deaths in custody. 'The Lawrence case shows what the police do when they want to cover up a crime. They collude together, they cover up for each other, they throw away vital evidence.' Duwayne has needed extensive counselling to get over the debilitating effects of post-traumatic stress disorder: 'The police treatment made it worse. Since they did not see me as a victim I wasn't referred to a specialist. It made me feel very insecure, made me have unbelievable bouts of paranoia because the police did not want to arrest the murderers.' He says police waged a campaign to blacken his name: 'I was repeatedly stopped and searched after the murder. When the police found that I had no criminal record they used other means to try and discredit me.' At one of three identity parades officers accused him of stealing cans of soft drink. He still maintains he correctly identified two suspects, Neil Acourt and Luke Knight. But that identification was undermined, the public inquiry heard, by Detective Sergeant Christopher Crowley. After driving Duwayne home from a line-up, Crowley made a statement claiming Duwayne told him he was unsure of those he had picked out. Duwayne denied it but in any trial the defence could use Crowley's statement to attack Duwayne's credibility. Duwayne was crushed when the judge at the Lawrences' private murder prosecution refused to allow him to testify before the jury, ruling that his evidence was unreliable. Duwayne, suffering from post-traumatic stress, had appeared muddled about important details in front of the judge. At the public inquiry Duwayne discovered that during this trial, he had been guarded by an officer, Detective Constable David Coles, who was alleged at the public inquiry to have a corrupt link with Clifford Norris, the gangster father of one of the suspects. 'I was shocked and frightened. My life would have been at risk if the prosecution had continued.' In one of those ironies the Stephen Lawrence case keeps throwing up, Duwayne Brooks faced a full criminal trial before any of the five murder suspects. He was arrested and charged by the Crown Prosecution Service with violent disorder after a protest march following Stephen's murder. The judge stayed proceedings on the grounds of abuse of process. 'I was distraught. They tried to fix it to convict me,' he says. As well as fear, Duwayne has to wrestle with guilt, partly blaming himself for Stephen's death. Duwayne and Stephen were at Well Hall Road in Eltham, the murder scene, because they had got off a bus. Duwayne had wanted to stay on the no 286, but Stephen wanted to get off and take a bus which would get him home quicker. Stephen won out. They were waiting on Well Hall Road for another bus, when the attackers spotted them.  Duwayne said: 'I had the stronger personality. We wouldn't have changed buses if I had bullied him to stay 10 more minutes on the 286 bus and change in Blackheath instead. If I had made him stay longer on the bus, he would have got home safe.' Sometimes it seems that Doreen Lawrence also partly blames Duwayne for what happened to her son. In her statement Mrs Lawrence told the inquiry: 'He (Stephen) had been quite strict about being home on time, but after the influence of Duwayne, where Duwayne was allowed to come and go as he pleased, it was different.' Duwayne's relationship with the Lawrences is strained, but he refuses to discuss it. But he has testified in court and made statements every time he has been asked to. Six years on he compares the sacking of two Essex police officers for maltreating dogs, to what happened to the officers in the Lawrence case. Duwayne said: 'An officer can kick a dog and be expelled from the force. In the Stephen Lawrence case they perverted the course of justice by throwing evidence away, and nothing's been done. 'They treated us worse than dogs. The establishment recognised a dog's life was more important than Stephen's.'