Police in Glasgow made 21 arrests after trouble flared at an unofficial street party to celebrate the royal wedding.One police officer was taken to hospital with a head injury following the event, which was organised on Facebook.Thousands turned out to the party in Kelvingrove Park, which turned rowdy shortly after the music was switched off, reports said.There were claims police were pelted with bottles and that windows of police vehicles were broken.Strathclyde police said it made 21 arrests for a variety of offences, mostly related to disorderly behaviour and drunkenness.A spokesman for the police said: "Police were aware of this unplanned, unauthorised event and put in place contingencies to ensure an appropriate and proportionate policing response."A statement was issued last night by Glasgow city council urging people to stay away and reminding them of the bylaw which forbids the consumption of alcohol in public places. Despite this, people attended in large numbers and police were deployed to ensure public safety and to try and facilitate a peaceful event."Initially it was a good-natured event. However, as the day progressed, a significant number of persons became more intoxicated resulting in disorder."Chief Superintendent Bernard Higgins said: "It's really disappointing that on the day of the royal wedding we witnessed the scenes we did. At one point my officers came under attack and one was taken to hospital suffering from a head injury. He has been discharged and will make a full recovery."We made a number of arrests at the time and we will now study CCTV footage and make further arrests if appropriate. The level of drunkenness was completely unacceptable and frankly irresponsible."Comments about the trouble were left on Facebook. Tanja Goral wrote: "I seen 6 year old kids there today, this was suppose to be a fun event and I feel sorry for the parents who had their children witness such idiotic acts. Get something good and it's ruined. I can bet that we will never be allowed to do this again."Craig Easdale wrote: "This was a great event, and the behaviour of everyone was good on the whole, up until the police arrived. I feel if the event was shut down more calmly a lot of drama could have been avoided, and the police definitely didn't handle it as well as they could have."Before the event, the Facebook page's creators, JJ Gardner and Robbie Seath, urged partygoers to "take it easy, help us keep the rubbish under control and remember that there will be other folk in the park who aren't quite as Royalist/Party mad as ourselves".They said the council and police were aware of their plans.