Once again we are in the grip of human rights hysteria. Variously blamed for allowing prisoners access to porn and preventing police forces from publishing photographs of suspects, the latest attack on the Human Rights Act relates to the decision not to deport Learco Chindamo, who is serving a life sentence for the murder of head-teacher Philip Lawrence in 1995.Human rights have never been a passport to porn - nor were they an obstacle to the conviction or sentence of Chindamo, who is serving a minimum of 12 years for his brutal attack. But the truth takes a back seat when there are juicy headlines to be made out of human rights "lunacy".Chindamo's present circumstances raise a number of issues. Should "life mean life"? Where should the balance be struck between retribution and reform? And should serious criminals automatically be deported, regardless of their personal circumstances? In this latest decision, the immigration court was looking solely at the issue of deportation. If Chindamo is released next year, and this decision is yet to be made, should he be deported to Italy where he holds citizenship but does not speak the language or should he be allowed to stay in Britain where his family are based?The court appears to have based its decision in part on European Union law, nothing to do with human rights, which says that citizens of one EU state can only be deported to another EU state if they pose a fundamental threat to society. As Chindamo will only be released if not deemed such a threat, then he will clearly not qualify for deportation.Nothing in the Human Rights Act prevents removal of a serious criminal to another country, except when there is a real risk of torture, clearly not relevant with a European neighbour. But judges will have considered Chindamo's right to family life, which is protected under the Human Rights Act. This is not an absolute right that can trump other people's rights whatever the circumstances. It is a right that must be balanced against other people's rights and those of the wider community. So the court will have considered the strength of Chindamo's ties to the UK and the impact on his family members of relocating to Italy as well as the need to ensure public safety which must include the safety of the Lawrence family.It is easy to pour scorn on a court case. Judgments can sometimes sound barmy when they are divorced from the judges' work of weighing up evidence and arguments. And cases are conveniently presented as the last word, when they may well be overturned on appeal. When the Home Office appeals, a higher court may well take the view that with no issues of ill treatment in Italy and its relative proximity to the UK, Chindamo can relocate with relative ease.Whatever the final outcome, we should be wary of criminal cases being used to turn us against the idea of human rights for the law-abiding majority. We all have a right to family life, free from unwarranted interference by the state. Last year, this provided a lifeline for a couple cruelly separated by a local authority when the husband was taken into a care home. The council was prompted by arguments about their family life to think again and find a way for them to be together. Similarly, for a woman whose children were in foster-care following her breakdown, it provided her with the security of continued visits. And for a family who were no longer allowed into a hospital after they questioned their son's ill-treatment, it gave them the ammunition to argue for visiting rights to be restored. These are the everyday ways in which bringing human rights closer to home via our own Human Rights Act has made a difference. They do not grab the headlines. But they do give ordinary people protection from public bodies which, with the best intentions, can trample over us.Frances Lawrence suggests that for taking her husband's right to life his killer should be deprived of his own human rights. Who among us would feel any differently about a man who had killed a loved one? But we utterly fail her family and others who have lost a relative to murder by lazily scape-goating human rights for society's ills. A more fitting legacy to her husband would be to engender a real understanding of what human rights are about and how responsibilities form an integral part of the package.Britain is an enthusiastic ambassador for human rights ideas and laws overseas, as vital safeguards for any society. So let's not write them off as irrelevant before we have looked in our own backyard. We might be surprised by the role they have to play in engendering a renewed sense of decency, responsibility and fundamental respect.· Katie Ghose is director the British Institute of Human Rightsbihr.org.uk