The first police officer to reach Damilola Taylor described yesterday his desperate attempts to perform mouth to mouth resuscitation and how he thought the 10-year-old must have been suffering from multiple stab wounds.PC James Greenhill told the Old Bailey he had searched up and down Damilola's body looking for puncture marks to explain the "quite horrific, very large patches of blood on the ground", but found only the single wound on the back of his left leg."I pushed my way through to get to the boy and knelt down next to him," said PC Greenhill, who was sent to the North Peckham estate, south London, following a 999 call. "Damilola was lying on the top of the flight of stairs with his head on the top step on a small landing. His head was back at an angle and there was a group of workmen from a nearby office standing near him. I put my ear to his mouth to see whether or not he was breathing and looked down the line of his chest to see if it was rising. "I could not hear any breathing or see his chest rising or falling. I gave him mouth to mouth resuscitation, pinching his nose to form a seal between his mouth and mine and tried to fill his lungs with oxygen, but I was unable to do so." PC Greenhill shone a torch into Damilola's mouth to see if there was an obstruction and then tried again, the hearing was told. "It went a little bit more successfully. I managed to get a few breaths into his lungs, but I was not able to resuscitate him." Minutes later, an ambulance crew arrived. One of the team, Deborah Mason, said she immediately called for back up. They were joined by paramedics and a doctor from an air ambulance but there were no signs of life. A statement from a doctor at King's College hospital said Damilola was officially pronounced dead at 5.47pm, exactly an hour after the first call to the emergency services. Four boys have been charged jointly with the murder of Damilola on November 27 2000. They have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers, one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17, plead not guilty. The prosecution alleges that Damilola was "stopped, surrounded and trapped" by the youths as he walked home along Blakes Road, Peckham, and that they stabbed him, possibly "for a laugh", because he struggled to get away. It is claimed the boys put a marble in Damilola's mouth to stop him crying and that it became lodged in his throat. A woman juror wept when the panel was shown a video of the trail of blood left by Damilola as he struggled to find help. The court heard that he had walked 30 yards and climbed three flights of stairs before collapsing from blood loss. The case continues.