The home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday promised a new mobile phone "summit" in an attempt to prevent the continuing surge in street robberies turning into the government's "achilles heel" in the debate on crime in the run-up to the general election.The unveiling by Mr Straw of an "action plan" and "electronic toolkit" for police and community groups to tackle the problem of robberies and street crime, including the boom sector of mobile phone thefts, is designed to intensify the fight against violent crime, particularly in the five cities, London, Manchester, Birmingham, Bristol and Liverpool which account for 75% of street robberies in England and Wales. The home secretary wants to discuss with mobile phone manufacturers ways in which they could adopt a more expensive new "chip" which would incapacitate stolen phones and the use of personal identification numbers for the newly popular pre-paid "pay as you go" phones, which have no registered owner and cannot be cut off the network. Mr Straw's sudden interest yesterday in tackling the problem of street robbery may have as much to do with the publication next week of the annual recorded crime figures as to his determination to tackle the problem. It is expected that overall the figures - the last to be published before the election - will paint a comfortable picture for the Labour government, with continuing falls in the the big volume offences such as burglary and car thefts. But the exception is likely to be violent crime, and especially robberies involving personal property, which the last set of figures published in July showed had increased by 28% to March last year. If next week's figures show a further rise in street robbery it is likely to become one of the major flashpoints in the election. It also threatens to reopen the highly charged controversy over "stop and search" and undermine Downing Street's drive against "yob culture" which Tony Blair has already identified as a major theme of Labour's re-election campaign. Mr Straw first raised the problem of mobile phone thefts last July when he also talked of calling in the manufacturers alongside proposing to clamp down on public drunkeness and other "yob behaviour". Although violent crime accounts for only 13% of all offences, it is the surge in street robbery and the fear of being attacked by a stranger which most worry the public. The action plan to tackle violent crime published by Mr Straw yesterday points out that while last year's British Crime Survey reported a 21% fall in violent crime between 1995 and 1999, there is still a long way to go to reverse the long-term rise over the past 20 years.He argued that some of the long-term rise in violent crime can be regarded, in part, as good news because it represents increased reporting rates to the police by victims of domestic violence and racial attacks. He also stressed that Home Office criminologists claim that most of the long-term rise has been in what is called "acquaintance violence" and that violent attacks by strangers has risen at a much slower rate. The Home Office analysis and "toolkit" to tackle robbery published yesterday suggests that while in London the typical robber and victim is a young teenage boy aged 15 to 16 at school-leaving time, outside the capital the typical robber is an older male student aged about 18 to 20, with the largest number of robberies taking place during the "hours of darkness". More than 80% of victims are male. The Greater Manchester police yesterday offered an alternative explanation of the rise in street robberies, arguing that it is due in part to a "displacement effect" following successful campaigns against burglars and car thieves. The Manchester police think that now more homes are harder to break into because they have window locks and alarms burglars have turned to street robberies. This trend has been helped along by the fact that the rewards from bank and building society cash cards are much greater than simply the cash people carry on them and it is also much easier to get rid of the stolen property. However, Mr Straw said that while there might be some displacement effect, he believed that different street robbery rates in different city neighbourhoods showed that it was possible to tackle the problem. As well as deploying police officers, the "robbery toolkit" advocates using closed-circuit television, improved lighting and other environmental measures to make it far harder for the street mugger to operate. It also gives advice to those who are anxious about walking the streets at night such as walking closer to the kerb and against the oncoming traffic so you can be seen, to the police putting up notices in a high-crime area to ensure that people are aware that there is a danger they might be mugged. The plan to renew the battle against street crime failed to impress the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe: "I am always listening to Jack Straw's announcing new initiatives, whether it is about police numbers or tackling youth crime. The fact is, so far none of them have had any success - indeed the reverse has usually happened." She promised that the Conservatives would employ more police officers and send more people to jail and when challenged to explain how these measures would be paid for said she would cut the number of Home Office press officers.