Frances Inglis has been found guilty of murder and attempted murder – after her second, successful attempt at killing her 22-year-old son with a heroin ­overdose as he lay, brain-damaged, in his hospital bed. I have no quibble with that. In fact, I'm wholeheartedly against a change in the law to make "mercy killing" legal.But Inglis has been sentenced to life imprisonment, and I can't imagine what purpose such a sentence serves. It's true that she has been told she must serve a minimum of nine years, but even that seems steep – and anyway, the handing down of a life sentence, however theoretical, must "mean something". What?There's no way Inglis should be contemplating even the slender possibility of spending the rest of her life in prison. The law looks foolish when it hands down a life sentence, however "symbolic", to a person who killed her child in part because she couldn't bear the thought of him dying slowly, of hunger and thirst, after his life-support was switched off. More emphasis on mercy is needed in this case, surely, and less on killing.There's hope for Inglis though, as three senior judges opted for mercy in a London court on 20 January. The recent conviction of Asian businessman Munir Hussain, after he chased a burglar and beat him with a cricket bat, proved highly controversial. The Conservatives even called for the laws around self-defence to be reviewed. But Hussain's conviction was not controversial at all; pursuing someone and thrashing the living daylights out of him is not "self-defence". It is grievous bodily harm. On 19 January, on these very grounds, Hussain was denied leave to appeal.Yet the following day Hussain walked free from prison all the same, after the judges overturned his sentence and replaced it with a two-year suspended term. Quite right, too. It was in the interests of justice that this man should be convicted for his ghastly crime. But two-and-a-half years in prison? What purpose would it have served? Hussain was only a danger to those members of the public who went out of their way to abuse him and his family. And the rehabilitative powers of the prison service are hardly celebrated anyway. On the contrary.Certainly, Hussain would have been punished by a long sentence, just as he punished his attacker-turned-victim. But punishing anyone is wrong, unless they are likely to learn from the experience. And I would think Hussain has learned already not to punish people, even if they break into his home, brandish knives at his family, and tie them up. By punishing him in turn, the criminal justice system would have revealed its mentality as no more noble than the mentality – Hussain's – they had found wanting.