The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday January 28 2004 In the following article, we reported the opening case for the prosecution in the trial of Joyti De-Laurey, a former Goldman Sachs secretary, who is charged with stealing more than £4m from three of her bosses' personal accounts while working at the investment bank. The report said the bosses failed to notice that money was missing for more than two years. In fact, Mr Scott Mead was first to report funds missing from his account less than five months after the first transfer and three-and-a-half months after the largest transfer. The case is continuing.A highly trusted secretary at one of the City's leading investment banks got away with living the high life on millions of pounds embezzled from her bosses' accounts because they failed to notice the money was missing for more than two years, a court heard yesterday. Joyti De-Laurey allegedly siphoned more than £4m from the accounts and was planning to flee Britain with her husband and mother when she was arrested. Detectives called in by Goldman Sachs discovered a bizarre handwritten letter to God in her office. "Dear God," it said, "Please protect me. I need one more helping of what's mine ... and then I must cut down and cease in time all the plundering." Mrs De-Laurey is accused of forging transfer instructions on the private New York-based accounts of senior Goldman Sachs bankers Jennifer Moses, her husband Ron Beller, and Scott Mead, between December 2000 and May 2002. The money was switched to accounts in Cyprus allegedly set up by Mrs De-Laurey under her maiden name Schahhou. She denies seven counts of cheque forgery and 14 counts of obtaining money by deception. Her husband, Anthony De-Laurey, and mother, Devi Schahhou, deny charges relating to money laundering. None of the three bankers had been aware that millions had been draining from their personal accounts. A jury at Southwark crown court in London was told that it was not until Mr Mead stumbled upon unfamiliar transaction details in April 2002 that questions began to be asked. In the case of Mr Mead, a celebrated deal-broker instrumental in building Vodafone into the biggest telecoms company in the world, a total of £3.3m was siphoned out of a personal account. In January 2002 Mrs De-Laurey had told Ms Moses she was planning to buy a house in Cyprus because she had been recruited to work for the archbishop of Nicosia. "There was no such job," Stuart Trimmer, counsel for the prosecution, told the court. "But by this time she had stolen sufficient money to put into action her final plan to move to Cyprus." Mrs De-Laurey had acquired a £650,000 home called Villa Almas, a Range Rover, a string of bank accounts, and a powerboat. While she was engineering her exit at Goldman Sachs, her husband and mother had been visiting Cyprus in order to set up bank accounts in their own names. Weeks later Mr De-Laurey, a chauffeur, wrote a resignation letter to his bosses, telling them he intended to go to Cyprus "due to a change in family circumstances". As they laid the ground for their escape, the prosecution claimed, Mrs De-Laurey was increasing the scale of her secret transfers, with the largest single sum amounting to £2.25m. In another of her extraordinary written pleas for divine intervention, Mrs De-Laurey wrote: "Dear God ... I'm so scared I just hope and pray that all is well and that my concern is not founded ... I don't want to lose Jen's [Ms Moses] trust over anything. Please protect me". Despite her anxieties, however, there was little effort to curb what Mr Trimmer called her "astonishing" spending sprees. "It included Cartier jewellery, some £300,000-worth, expensive clothes, cars, property in this country, a great deal of travel, a power boat to be delivered to Cyprus, and a villa in Cyprus. In fact, she owned two villas there," Mr Trimmer said. "She also bought property for other family members and she paid off mortgages, in particular of her mother." She had also placed an order for a £175,000 Aston Martin Vanquish, the jury heard.  Conspicuous wealth "Joyti's new wealth was what you might properly describe as conspicuous. And plainly those who knew her - her husband and mother - knew she had no legitimate means of accidentally acquiring wealth on the scale of some £4m." Mrs De-Laurey earned £42,000 a year, including an annual bonus, as a Goldman Sachs secretary. The jury was told how she owed £24,000 and was the subject of a strict creditors' agreement order until she used stolen money to pay off her debts. On one occasion she had asked Ms Moses for a personal loan of £40,000 and, because she was regarded with unquestioning trust, it was given interest free. The loan was repaid using the embezzled cash. The jury heard how Mrs De-Laurey had become a close friend to Ms Moses, telling her how she had suffered from a cancer that, while in remission, had given her long-term health problems. Mr Trimmer said this story would be questioned later in the trial by medical experts. "She was able to escape detection," Mr Trimmer said, "partly because of the vast gulf between her behaviour and trusted status on the one hand and her dishonesty on such an outstanding scale on the other." On several occasions she duped her bosses by asking them to give signed authorisation on legitimate money transfers before allegedly attaching secondary pages with instructions for her own embezzlement transfers. She would forge her boss's initials on these secondary pages. Mrs De-Laurey, who oversaw incoming mail as part of her job, was able to vet money transfer information and withhold relevant pages from her bosses. The trial continues.  Wish list: what the alleged proceeds bought  · Jeanneau Prestige  powerboat  · Chrysler Grand Voyager for Joyti De-Laurey's mother  · Downpayment on an Aston Martin V12 Vanquish  · Saab convertible · Volkswagen Golf  · £650,000 Cyprus property Villa Almas near Pathos, Range Rover included  · £300,000 Cartier jewellery  · Designer clothes  · Travel  · Paying off Ms De-Laurey's mother's mortgage  · Paying £24,000 to creditors  · Paying back a £40,000 interest-free loan from her boss