The murderous medical career of serial killer Harold Shipman was clinically dissected yesterday as a public inquiry was told how he won the hearts of patients but escaped checks by the police, drugs inspectors and the medical profession's own watchdog for 24 years.On the first day of an investigation expected to last two years, about 40 relatives of victims, actual and possible, gathered in Manchester town hall to hear that the inquiry would try to establish how 459 of the former doctor's patients had died. They also heard criticisms of a coroner who had opened and adjourned inquests on 228 of Shipman's patients in proceedings lasting a minute. Shipman is in Frankland prison in Durham, where he has refused to cooperate with investigations into his killings. Caroline Swift QC, counsel to the inquiry, told the chairwoman, Dame Janet Smith, in a speech lasting 2 hours: "From the moment when the inquiry team was first assembled, we were determined that wherever possible worried relatives should receive an answer to the question, 'Did Shipman kill my parent, grandparent, aunt, uncle or friend?"' Ms Swift described how Shipman, who was jailed for life last year after being convicted of killing 15 women patients, had acquired large amounts of pethedine while working in general practice in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, and then of morphine and diamorphine during his long stay in Hyde. She said that in February 1975, less than a year after moving to Todmorden, Shipman's activities had attracted the attention of Home Office inspectors and the Huddersfield drugs squad. They interviewed him in July 1975 after Boots had reported receiving large prescriptions for pethedine from Shipman. He gave ready explanations but it emerged that, contrary to legal requirements, no register had been kept at the surgery of controlled drugs supplied to patients. During the interview, Shipman had been "relaxed and confident" and had given no sign of abusing drugs. The Home Office inspectors were not entirely satisfied with Shipman's replies and decided to keep the case under review and seek a further report in six months. But by that time Shipman had resigned from the practice after being confronted by a partner over his personal use of pethedine. He told detectives he had started taking the drug - up to 700mg a day - in May 1974 when depressed by difficulties with his partners. "He had injected intravenously and bared his arm to show his collapsed veins," said Ms Swift. In a statement, Shipman wrote: "I have no future inten tion to return to general practice or work in a situation where I can obtain supplies of pethedine." In 1976, he admitted eight specimen drug charges at Halifax magistrates court and asked for 74 offences to be taken into consideration: 70,000mg of pethedine could have been involved. Shipman was fined £600. By then he was working for Durham health authority. "However, he was not destined to stay in Durham for long," said Ms Swift. A psychiatrist who examined Shipman said that it "would be to his advantage if allowed to continue in practice and, conversely, would be cat astrophic if he were not allowed to continue in practice". The General Medical Council decided not to hold an inquiry and the home secretary decided to take no action. "Shipman was therefore free to practise wherever and in whatever manner he chose exactly two years after indicating that he had no intention [of doing so]," said Ms Swift. He joined a group practice in Hyde and after 14 years set up a one man practice with methods considered advanced. "We are a flagship practice," Shipman wrote to his local health authority. "The health authority can always compare the quality of this practice with another and ask why [that] practice is under-performing." Ms Swift said police carried out a preliminary investigation in March 1998 after a local doctor contacted John Pollard, the south Manchester coroner, about the number of Shipman's elderly patients who were dying in similar circumstances. In August 1998 suspicions arose over the forged will of Kathleen Grundy who Shipman murdered at her home. He was convicted of 15 murders in January 2000 and struck off the following month. "Thus Shipman's medical career came to an end," said Ms Swift. Richard Lissack QC, counsel for the relatives, said the law required an inquest to be opened and adjourned on any death to be considered by the inquiry. Without referring by name to Mr Pollard, who has recorded 25 unlawful killing verdicts on Shipman's patients, he said: "The coroner decided without consultation on May 18 to resolve the opening and adjourning of no less than 228 cases in private. "No one was notified. No one given the chance to attend. 228 lives, 228 deaths all in a procedure that took just one minute according to the coroner. You can imagine the dismay, the hurt and the anguish." He added that relatives were outraged and said: "It is well that the inquest procedure is now overtaken by the work of [the] inquiry." Mr Lissack said that Shipman had "moved unchecked through families and streets and bit by bit murdered the heart of a community". He alleged that Shipman had committed "organised murder" of two families in Garden Street, Newton, Hyde, between August 30 1996 and April 25 1997. They were Sidney and Kenneth Smith; and Thomas and Elsie Cheetham, married for 50 years.Photo gallery The story in picturesAudio Angelique Crisafis in Hyde. (2mins 03) Harold Shipman is questioned by the police Read the transcriptGovernment audit Download the report Extracts from the reportThe trial Complete case reportsRelated articles 11.01.01: Police investigate deaths of more Shipman victims 08.01.01: Minister admits watchdog is not Shipman-proof 05.01.01: Safeguards were not tough enough, admits department of healthUseful links The Shipman inquiry Greater Manchester police General Medical Council Department of health