People accused of domestic violence will face new court orders forcing them to stay away from their partners, even if they are acquitted by a court, it was confirmed today.The solicitor-general, Harriet Harman, said the new domestic violence, crime and victims bill - published later today - would create a "yellow card" system as one of many measures to protect men and women from abusive partners. The bill, which is the first domestic violence legislation in more than 30 years, will cover gay couples, unmarried heterosexual couples and married couples. The prime minister, Tony Blair, has given his personal backing to the bill, which Ms Harman has said will mean "no more excuses for domestic violence". "The stay away order [will be] issued in the magistrates and crown courts where there is a conviction for domestic violence, but also crucially where there has been an acquittal," said Ms Harman. "Courts will be able, even as they are acquitting the defendant, to ensure the victim's safety by ordering him to 'stay away'." Ms Harman described the order as a "yellow card" to abusive partners. Breach of the order will itself be a criminal offence, punishable by up to five years in prison. In a speech to a domestic violence conference organised by Women's Aid and the Women's National Commission, she added: "This will offer real protection to victims. "We often talk in government about the importance of diverting offenders - particularly young offenders - out of the criminal justice system earlier. "In this case, we want more offenders diverted into the criminal justice system at an early stage... Because then we can ensure that their behaviour is addressed and they receive the appropriate punishment for their crime," she said. The bill will also make common assault an arrestable offence.New multi-agency domestic homicide reviews will be established to learn more about the circumstances behind every domestic killing in a bid to avoid them being repeated. Courts will also get new powers to grant anonymity to domestic violence victims. Ms Harman said she hoped the bill would eventually contain measures to abolish the defence of provocation in homicide cases - which allows a husband to claim he was provoked into killing his wife or vice versa. Mr Blair today described the bill as "a symbol of our determination to rebalance the whole criminal justice system around the needs of the victim". Writing in the Sun newspaper today, the prime minister described domestic violence as "a sickening crime which has hidden in the shadows for far too long", adding that the crime was far more common than people thought and happened to all ages, backgrounds and classes. The chief executive of the Law Society, Janet Paraskeva, today welcomed the bill, with some reservations. "Solicitors have a key role in helping victims of domestic violence and the Law Society will be anxious to ensure a proper balance between the roles played by the civil and criminal justice systems in achieving the aims of this worthwhile bill," she said.However, she added: "We are concerned by the proposal which would allow a criminal court to make a civil order against a person whom it has just acquitted of criminal charges.""We believe that the criminal court should refer the case to the family court for consideration of the issue."Although one in four women and one in six men will experience domestic violence over their lifetimes, less than 35% of actual domestic violence is reported to the police, according to government research.Every year around 120 women and 30 men are killed by a current or former partner.