Maxine Carr will be freed from prison immediately if the Prison Service chief, Martin Narey, approves the decision to electronically tag her, it was confirmed today.She has been put forward for early release by the governor of Holloway prison in north London, where she is serving a three-and-a-half year sentence for conspiring to pervert the course of justice in relation to the Soham murders.Mr Narey, however, is considering whether to use new powers to refuse permission to grant release, on the grounds that it would undermine public confidence in the tagging scheme. A Prison Service spokesman said Mr Narey's decision was expected "sooner rather than later".Carr, 26, is the ex-girlfriend of Ian Huntley, who murdered Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. She has been in jail since August 2002; both Carr and Huntley were convicted seven weeks ago at the Old Bailey. She would stay in prison until mid-May if she were to serve half her sentence, but could be released early under the home detention curfew (HDC) scheme. This would mean Carr would be fitted with an electronic tag and alarms would be triggered if she left her house during the curfew. Ed Willetts, governor of the women's prison at Holloway, north London, has approved Carr's application to join the scheme. She became eligible for release in early January and could walk out of jail immediately if Mr Narey decides not to use his new powers to overrule the decision. A Prison Service spokesman confirmed that Carr's papers were sent a week ago by the governor to Mr Narey, who is head of the Home Office's national offender management scheme.The spokesman said: "She could be out immediately if the decision is made to approve the governor's recommendation." Ministers last month granted Mr Narey the new powers to overrule governors in a direct response to the Carr'S situation. Holly and Jessica disappeared in their home village of Soham, Cambridgeshire, in August 2002. Their bodies were found in a ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, 13 days later. School caretaker Huntley was sentenced to life in December last year. The house where he murdered the girls is expected to be demolished in April, education authority officials said yesterday. Cambridgeshire county council said arrangements were being made to have the house outside Soham village college demolished during the Easter holidays. The nearby storage hangar where Huntley tried to hide the girls' clothes after killing them would be demolished at the same time, said the spokesman.