Legislation to formalise the use of "supergrasses" will make it easier to net gangsters draining billions from the British economy, the head of the new crimebusting agency dubbed the British FBI said yesterday.The plan to allow criminals to testify against former accomplices in return for lighter sentences, or possibly immunity from prosecution, is part of the government policing bill, which will create the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), overhaul police powers, and extend the powers of community support officers.The 5,000-strong Soca team will merge the National Crime Squad, National Criminal Intelligence, parts of customs and immigration, civilian experts and police seconded from forces around the UK. It will start work in mid-2006, tackling drug cartels and other criminal gangs, which make an estimated £40bn a year. Bill Hughes, the head of the National Crime Squad, has been appointed Soca director. The chairman will be the former MI5 chief Sir Stephen Lander. The courts can show leniency towards witnesses who turn Queen's evidence against accomplices. But government and senior law enforcement figures believe formalising this system will yield better results, helping persuade those on the periphery of big gangs to inform on the godfathers, and allowing Soca to "disrupt and intervene much quicker". "It puts the fear back into where it should be, in the organised criminal gangs, they are then at threat from within," he said. Critics say the system is open to abuse, and it was discredited in Northern Ireland in the 80s, when many jailed on unreliable supergrass evidence later had their convictions overturned. But Mr Hughes said there would be a different approach and said Italy and the US used supergrasses highly effectively. The Home Office minister Caroline Flint said putting the Queen's evidence system on a statutory footing would encourage more people to use it, and help police capture the most elusive criminals. "There has always been the option to provide information in return for the reduction of sentence," Ms Flint said. "We hope this system will be more transparent." Anyone giving false evidence would have the original, harsher sentence imposed. Sir Stephen said the task facing Soca should not be underestimated, particularly in regards to drugs. He said a kilo of heroin, of which 40 tonnes is smuggled in every year, generated 200 other crimes. But he said the agency would draw together the intelligence and operational wings of law enforcement in the most effective way. Mr Hughes added that Soca officers would not be "parachuted" FBI-style into the middle of investigations, but would work with police and other agencies. The policing bill will also extend the power of arrest to all offences, a concern to civil liberty campaigners and some legal experts. It introduces offences of incitement to religious hatred and of harassing someone in their home, to halt animal rights extremists who target laboratory staff. After embarrassing royal security breaches, by Fathers 4 Justice campaigners and others, trespassers at certain crown sites could face up to 51 weeks in jail. Police will also be able to ban long-term demonstrations outside parliament, such as the anti-war campaigner Brian Haw's three-year protest.