The number of women killed by their partners or ex-partners is increasing, according to figures obtained for me by my MP. As Brian Moore of the Association of Chief Police Officers says (Two years, three deaths, same failings: victim's daughter attacks Essex police, 11 June), the police should not have to play impossible guessing games as to which men who threaten to kill will do so.It is, of course, unacceptable for anyone even to be subjected to such threats or for any child to witness them. As a family law solicitor I used to regularly obtain county court non-molestation injunction orders, lasting up to 12 months and renewable, for clients wishing to separate safely from abusive partners. Where in her sworn statement my client alleged violence or threats of violence, the judge would attach an order of a power of arrest. This would be served on the local police and the respondent would be served with a copy. He would know that if he breached the injunction, the police must arrest him and return him to the court within 24 hours for imminent trial. If he was found to have breached the order, he would face prison for contempt. Injunctions were rarely breached.The powerful deterrent of the power of arrest was swept away – and injunctions made toothless – in July 2007 when the ill-advised Domestic Violence (Crime and Victims) Act was implemented. This prohibited district judges from attaching these orders to injunctions, meaning solicitors could no longer advise clients that an injunction would properly protect them. Applications for county court injunctions have plummeted and almost half are breached. Legal aid is hard to obtain for contempt of court proceedings, as the victim is expected to rely on the police and CPS to instigate criminal proceedings for breach (now a criminal offence). This is a hugely daunting and problematic prospect. Even if the CPS decides there is enough evidence to prosecute, and that it is in the public interest to do so, the offender is entitled to opt for trial at crown court, with full criminal legal aid. The victim of course loses her solicitor – and her civil legal aid. Repeal of this act is unlikely, as it would be portrayed as government going soft on abusers, but if a simple amendment could be passed allowing county court judges to once more attach powers of arrest to non-molestation injunctions, it would be a significant step out of the present morass.Jan Williams(Solicitor), Knaresborough, North Yorkshire• You quote chief constable Brian Moore of Acpo as saying: "There was no model that could show which of the 600,000 cases would result in murder." But there is! For four years I have been delivering training in just such a model to all front-line practitioners in Devon. It is called Marac (multi-agency risk assessment conference) and has reduced domestic abuse murders in Devon from six in 2004-05 to one in 2009-10.Dinah MearsTrainer for ADVA (Against Domestic Violence and Abuse), Devon