Police are contributing to the "appalling" conviction rate in rape cases because officers too often fail to take alleged victims seriously enough and settle for mediocrity in their inquiries, the senior policeman responsible for raising standards in rape investigations has told the Guardian.The Metropolitan Police's assistant commissioner John Yates said detectives don't apply the same professionalism to rape as they do to other serious crimes. He blamed police for too often greeting complainants with scepticism and inertia, and said officers "must absolutely accept the victim's version of events unless there are very substantial reasons to do otherwise".He added: "If you've just been through the horror of a rape and you've plucked up the courage to see the cops and the body language is sceptical, the voice is sceptical, what is that saying to you?"First impressions count: is this person going to care for me; does the officer believe me?Yates, who leads on rape for the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) and conducted the loans-for-peerages investigation, said: "We've got to get a better understanding of how victims react: don't expect consistency, don't expect victims to report right away, and don't expect victims to scream and shout."Yates is trying to raise the professionalism of rape investigations to the same level as that in murder cases amid a strong concern about low levels of rape convictions that has prompted ministers to pledge to introduce reforms.Proposals from the ministry of justice and the solicitor general, Vera Baird, include giving juries information to dispel rape "myths".Juries will be told that victims are often slow to report the attack to police and may appear surprisingly unemotional while in the witness box. Victims will also be allowed to substitute a videotaped interview with police for their initial evidence in court.However, while these reforms concentrate on the court process, Yates has been urging improvements in investigations and police techniques.He told the Guardian that standards had changed in murder and child protection cases in the light of the Stephen Lawrence and Victoria Climbié cases, but it should not take a tragic case to produce the same result for rape inquiries. "I can't imagine anything more serious than this," he said.The investigation of murder cases had become specialised and officers were specially trained in CCTV, forensic recovery, family liaison and exhibit handling. "But in spite of some excellent advances in some police areas, rape is still seen in some areas as an omnicompetence to which you can turn your hand because you're a detective."Police had made "enormous advances" in investigating rape. "But it's still not good enough", he said. "There are pockets of excellence but in many areas we have been satisfied with mediocrity. Victims absolutely deserve the proper professional caring service which is available in some parts of the country."Only 5.7% of rape cases reported to police lead to a conviction and research shows that attrition - or cases dropping out - happens at every stage from initial complaint to trial. But Yates said the biggest attrition rate was with the initial police investigation.If inertia followed a complaint, "what was always going to be a difficult case can often become an impossible one", he added. There was a "golden hour" after which key evidence would be lost if action was not taken quickly. "Most of the attrition and the best evidential opportunities occur in the first 48 hours, even the first hour.""There doesn't have to be such an appalling conviction rate. We can do something about it," Yates said. But it would take "energy, passion, commitment".A 2006 review of the handling of investigations by the police and Crown Prosecution Service inspectorates found that frontline officers had received "very little training in responding to rape offences" and few officers, including some specialists, were aware of ACPO guidance on recording early complaints from victims.The inspectorates also found that early-evidence kits, for taking urine samples and mouth swabs before a medical examination takes place, were used on just over one-third of the occasions they could have been deployed.He said every force in the country had had two visits from his team. "You've got to drive it down from the top to the bottom. It is a leadership issue. We need to have ambition around it. We need to up the game. We have a window at the moment when people appear to be suddenly 'getting it'."We're looking at every possibility to push the boundaries back. However, let's concentrate and get the basics right. Cases are often lost when the first steps are not done properly, when the victim thinks the police didn't believe her or inadequate attention is given to forensics."He said it was not possible at present in every area to come up to the standard set by the 20 sexual assault referral centres (SARCs) such as St Mary's in Manchester or the Haven in London, which provide a holistic service for rape victims along with forensic excellence.But every area could be encouraged to provide the basic necessities: to do all the medical tests and take all the samples needed, to provide female doctors and to arrange for an examination place where the forensics would be secure.