For an 18-year-old student, beaten until her eye socket shattered in an attempted rape in Ireland, the European arrest warrant helped get justice. Her attacker, Arunas Cervinskas, left Ireland for London, but was returned by the Met three weeks after his arrest warrant was issued and is now serving his sentence in an Irish prison.Yet this is the kind of European co-operation on crime and justice that the government is proposing to ditch just because it has Europe in the title. If David Cameron is serious about standing up to his Eurosceptic backbenchers he should start backing action against cross-border crime.The government is currently reviewing justice and home affairs co-operation in Europe, including cross-border police investigations, criminal record sharing, work on trafficking and online child pornography, as well as deportation arrangements for suspected criminals. Theresa May has said she wants to opt out of cross-European co-operation, and ministers have raised strong objections to the European arrest warrant. Under pressure they hint at trying to opt back in again on some measures, but won't say which, and in doing so are playing a confused game of European hokey-cokey that puts the fight against crime at risk.Crime doesn't stop at the channel, just as criminals don't stay within national borders. There are an estimated 3,600 organised crime groups active across Europe, involved in drugs, human trafficking, online child exploitation and theft. Cross-border crime is likely to keep increasing whether we are in the EU or outside it. This means that the police need a clear framework for legal and effective co-operation across borders – for ministers to ditch it is crazy.Joint investigation teams stopped a human-trafficking ring bringing 33 young Czech women into Britain for prostitution and nine people were convicted. A similar operation with Romanian police stopped a gang trafficking children into the UK, protecting 272 victims. The UK has received more than 500 notifications of British citizens convicted in other EU member states who need to go on the sex offenders register at home.The police say the European arrest warrant is most important of all. A few weeks ago the convicted armed robber Andrew Moran was found hiding in a villa in Alicante and arrested under a European arrest warrant. Yet Ronnie Knight, the East End armed robber who fled to Spain before the days of the European arrest warrant, lived on the Costa del Sol for years, opening an Indian restaurant and a nightclub because there were no effective procedures to persuade the Spanish police to arrest him.There are countless other examples. The teacher who ran off to France with a pupil was arrested and returned within weeks. The man who tried to blow up the tube at Shepherds Bush in 2005 was quickly returned from Italy. Yet it took 10 years of legal wrangling to send a suspected terrorist back to France before the European arrest warrant was brought in.Some aspects of the warrant could be reformed so it isn't used for too many minor crimes. But overall it provides a legal process to stop people fleeing justice.The Association of Chief Police Officers has said that opting out of the European arrest warrant means "higher costs, more offenders evading justice and increased risk to public safety". Children's charities campaigning against trafficking have warned that opting out "will put the criminals in charge". Beatrice Jones, the mother of Moira Jones, who was assaulted, abducted and murdered by another EU national who then fled to Slovakia told us recently that "to read of this backward step is simply awful". Many Tory backbenchers simply want to ditch this co-operation because they oppose all things European.The prime minister's overriding priority should be in keeping the public safe rather than trying to satisfy his own backbenchers.The government seems willing to give in, and risk putting internal party management ahead of fighting crime and protecting victims. For David Cameron and Theresa May to ignore evidence and expert advice would be shameful, helping criminals and betraying victims. The vote we will hold today in parliament seeks to stop the government doing exactly that.