Isn't homophobia hilarious! Like, really funny. I don't know about you, but I wee myself a little whenever I hear a statistic such as one in five lesbian and gay teenagers have attempted suicide at least once. Bet you're moist with mirth at that one. Or how about the tale of Jody Dobrowski, the 24-year-old battered to death in a homophobic attack in 2005? Or the countless other gay men and women victimised for their sexuality in the UK? ROFL yet? It's curious how these grim facts and figures are never mentioned when comedians defend their employment of crass, cruel and crap gay stereotypes, or when the BBC cravenly defends Chris Moyles or, most recently, when Rowan Atkinson voices concern that making homophobia a crime could spell the end for gay TV characters.Apparently, the star of Johnny English is worried that gay characters - such as Horne and Corden's gay war reporter, Tim Goodall, and Al Murray's gay Nazi, for example – could be consigned to history if a "culture of censoriousness" prevails. Leaving aside what a loss for the world of comedy that would be, there seems to be no appreciation of the part that such characters, and the attitudes that spawn, them play in the continuing insidiousness of homophobia and the resultant violence, intimidation and bullying that gay men and women endure.Despite claims to the contrary by those charmers in the right-wing press, homophobia is still seen as an acceptable prejudice. Objecting to Moyles's use of the word "gay" as derogatory, finding Tim Goodall unfunny, is somehow a po-faced example of that old right-wing chestnut: it's political correctness gone mad.Did I mention that Dobrowski was so badly beaten by his attackers that he was identified by his fingerprints? It's all very well having a discussion about comedy in a post-PC world or pondering the theory of camp but there are gay kids, and kids who are perceived to be gay, getting beaten, abused, and bullied, every day. And characters such as Murray's gay Nazi are being used as sticks to beat them with.Such characters might be marginally more acceptable if they weren't among the few representations of gay people on TV, but people who think that you can't flick on the telly without stumbling over what Simon Heffer demands we call a homosexual should consider that, in the discussion of gay characters on TV, Mr Humphries from Are You Being Served? is still being referenced.Are You Being Served? was first broadcast in 1972. Though it may seem as if homophobia is back, the truth is that it never went away. And it still isn't funny.