Dear Peter, At a time when more people from visibly ethnic minorities are needed in the police service, the statement made by Chief Inspector Leroy Logan that "at this time black and Asian people should not join the Met" was unhelpful in our cause to increase the number of Hindu officers. The Metropolitan Police Hindu and Sikh Associations are united together in our stance.Changes will only be made into the racism that affects not only the police service but every single institution if more ethnic minorities are on the inside striving to make a difference and climbing up the ladder, rather than being on the outside looking in without ever having a chance to change anything. The community will also be policed better, as there would be officers sharing the experience of their particular community or lifestyle with their colleagues, giving them a better understanding of different cultures.Mahesh Dear Mahesh, In principle I agree that one should work from the inside as well as the outside. But the case of Ali Dezaei highlighted the disparity of treatment between black and white officers in the disciplinary process, and appeared to provide a prima facie case of disproportionality and institutional racism. Neither the Hindu nor the Muslim Police Association have experienced members being investigated or threatened with investigation, which is what appears to have happened to the BPA [National Black Police Association] executive board. The Metropolitan police cannot take black recruitment for granted and must work to protect the employment rights of black officers. Until that can be guaranteed, it is right that the BPA urge a boycott by members of the African, Caribbean and Asian communities. There are alternative police forces outside the capital. Peter Peter,I admit members of the Hindu Association have not been investigated or threatened with any investigation so far. But the Met cannot afford not to investigate allegations of corruption of police officers, no matter how senior or what race, colour or background they are from. I believe we are now living in a culture where everyone is crying wolf. Racism is being used more and more as a form of getting what people want, and it detracts from the genuine cases of discrimination that really need to be investigated. We also cannot be immune from the fact that women, and disabled, gay and lesbian people also suffer from discrimination - so why do we concentrate on racism? My colleagues from various faiths and backgrounds - including black and Asian staff - are getting fed up with this attitude and that whenever the BPA makes a statement it seems to criticise the Met. My white colleagues are also getting fed up that the term used so heavily now, "institutionally racist", points to them being racist themselves and tarnishes them all with the same brush.I'm not saying there is no racism at all - it's just that as we need criticism to change things, we also need to be positive towards the way the MPS [Metropolitan Police Service] is changing. I feel, as does my counterpart Kashmira Singh Mann, chair of the Sikh Association, that we should have at least been consulted by Leroy Logan before the statement was released. We could have advised the BPA of using other forms of lobbying, which probably would not have had so much media attention, but would have been far more effective.Mahesh Hi Mahesh, Racism has and remains a genuine perception as well as the common experience of the majority of African, Caribbean and Asian people. The examples of false or malicious claims by the few should not be used as a smokescreen by those seeking to oppose good practice under the banner headlines of "political correctness" or "playing the race card".Other groups do suffer discrimination but the most blatant and obvious has been the differential treatment of Britain's ethnic minorities, highlighted in the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, without which it is doubtful any minority police organisations would have been tolerated. Institutional bias does not mean that the majority of individuals are discriminators but a good proportion certainly have failed to eradicate unfairness. That fact has been recognised by the Crown Prosecution Service, the Probation Service and many other parts of the criminal justice system. The anger of white officers has historically not been so exercised with regard to the endemic racism of fellow colleagues, or the disproportionality seen, for example, in the figures which show African-Caribbean men six times and Asian men three times more likely to be stopped and searched than their white counterparts. The concerns about the case of Ali Dezaei emanate from the apparent disproportionate amount of surveillance as well as entrapment attempted. The fundamental question is whether these supposed complaints were genuine or were they encouraged, or at least facilitated, by a cadre of officers determined to undermine the officer. The MPS selectively briefed members of the Independent Advisory Group and the Metropolitan Police Authority with a less than full picture of the investigation. My briefing when it eventually came was characterised by personal comments, a lack of objectivity, an almost uniform absence of admissible evidence, an abundance of hearsay, and evidence of lifestyle which was of no relevance to the facts in issue. The absence of any cogent evidence of misfeasance or wrongdoing raised more than a question mark as to the motivation of these complaints. The material before me was more in keeping with a personal vendetta likely motivated by race. Only when the MPS is able to respect and value diversity and self-criticism can any real progress be made. Simply keeping silent and hoping the problem will go away is not an option. Peter Peter,Recruits are lining up to join at present. There is still a perception that all police are racist, but when people speak to officers like myself, they get a different point of view. We put into their mind the benefits of joining the MPS; we point out the good promotion prospects, good rates of pay and the fact they are doing something for the community. There is a fair system for promotion no matter what background you are from. Of 25 visible ethnic minorities who applied for the third part of the sergeant's application, 23 passed. Of 252 applicants for superintendent positions, three were from visibly ethnic minorities and they all passed. People out there will make their own choice. They should not be told what to do.Thank you, Mahesh Mahesh,The Met Police Authority and the various black and minority staff associations have worked hard to increase recruitment amongst all minority groups. The Met have undoubtedly made much progress since 1998 to encourage black recruitment. Over 40% of Community Support Officer recruits are from minority communities. There are, however, fundamental questions for prospective recruits into the police: Will I be respected and treated by my white colleagues as an equal? If I wish to be promoted, will I be supported and encouraged by my white colleagues, and have equal access to specialist squads such as special branch? And will the culture, practices and institutions that I become part of have the integrity, honesty and willingness to embrace my diversity and value my contribution; or will I be regarded as a second-class officer not to be entrusted with positions of authority? The rate of recruitment of three superintendent applicants out of 252 is a pitiful figure when the minority population of London is currently at 30% and rising. I support the current BPA stance as a mechanism to demonstrate to the MPS that black community support cannot be taken for granted. Such support is conditional on good faith and equal treatment according to the spirit and letter of the law. Nothing worthwhile has ever been gained without struggle.Peter Herbert Peter,You have just contradicted your argument. You said that the three superintendent promotions are pitiful. I think it goes to show that black and Asians can make a difference. Now we need more recruits from these backgrounds to become high-ranking officers and reflect the community.Mahesh To MaheshNo, your argument was that those figures were an indication of progress. I do not agree. Even the welcome appointment of Mike Fuller as Britain's first Black Chief Constable does not mean that the BPA is wrong.Peter Peter,Some personal experience this week shows that this "cry wolf syndrome" is getting worse. On patrol with a black WPC in Harrow, she saw a motorist with no seatbelt on. The man, who it transpired later was from Afghanistan, was told politely why he was stopped and that he was going to get a ticket. The first thing he said, once he knew he was not going to get away with just a warning, was: "You're only giving me ticket because you're racist." This goes to show that people are willing to use the race card for anything.Mahesh Nandha To MaheshAnecdotal evidence of people making false accusations must not detract from the problems faced by black and minority officers unless it is being suggested that those complaints are simply manufactured. When a woman makes a complaint of sexism the white community does not then accuse all women of playing the "gender card". The disparity is a symptom of institutional racism. It is unacceptable for any institution to discipline black officers five times more often than their white counterparts and to treat any minority group less fairly than another. It is only by being alive to the real issues and challenging the status quo that real change can be obtained by any "legal means necessary".Yours in the struggle, Peter Herbert · Mahesh Nandha is chair of the Metropolitan Police Hindu Association· Peter Herbert is a part-time judge, member of the Metropolitan Police Authority and chair of the Society of Black Lawyers