Let us picture the scene in the Panorama offices as the makers of this week's programme on the crimes and detection of Harold Shipman wrestle with the problem of how to fill our screens. It is 11pm, at a hastily convened production meeting. The room is dim, the only light spills from an Anglepoise bent over a disorderly desk (the names Shipman 1, 2, 3 etc can just be made out on the spines of a tottering stack of videotapes).The producer - seen only in profile, but distinctly stubbled and exhausted - exhales a cloud of smoke, clutches his head in his hands, grinds out yet another cigarette in the ash tray. The tension is palpable - the more so as a series of new faces come jerkily into (blurred, three-quarter profile) view, revealing the rest of the production team in attitudes of extravagant, almost biblical, despair. Then one bright boy has an idea. He jumps to his feet, his hand reaches for the Equity handbook...On the other hand, it may not have been like that at all. That was just a reconstruction, as was a good deal of Monday's Panorama. Like many murderers, Shipman had omitted to leave a broadcast-quality video record of his crimes. How then to represent their enormity? It might be thought, on the very day Shipman was sentenced, when viewers were still taking in the scale of his slaughter, that the mere record of Shipman's crimes, the dreadful delay in his discovery and the words of his victims' families might speak for themselves. But, for the makers of Panorama, the unveiling of Britain's worst ever serial killer was evidently not dramatic enough. Following the current vogue for reconstructions over other less vibrant forms of moving wallpaper, they chose to hire a lookalike, switch to black and white, and turn up the menace. Presumably they feel their reconstruction was most tastefully done, with its odd camera angles and blurry bits, its discreet visual shorthand - the sinister briefcase, meaningful desert boots, remorselessly empty phials. They dutifully showed their work to relatives, and checked its conformity with the advice on reconstructions in the BBC's producers guidelines - which appear, rather wittily, in a chapter headed Accuracy. The guidelines are in no doubt that reconstruction can be a Good Thing, as "a great help in explaining an issue". However, the guidebook cautions, "it must always be done truthfully with an awareness of what is reliably known. Nothing significant which is not known should be invented without acknowledgement." Arguably, the producers complied. Assuming their favoured props were identical to Shipman's real car, briefcase and desert boots, there was no deliberate falsehood. Even so, the Panorama reconstruction was an invention. Only Shipman and his victims know what his demeanour was in the minutes before their deaths. The Panorama recon struction, or fiction, may well have conformed with guidelines but it was nonetheless pointless, cheap, a technique which, each time it appeared, momentarily reduced an otherwise impressive investigation to the level of Michael Winner's True Crimes. Why do reputable documentary makers do it? Partly, suggests one programme maker, because so many news and current affairs producers really want to be drama directors and are trying to get noticed; partly because of "the fear of the talking head" and a concomitant yearning for non-stop action sequences. Which means, rather oddly, that though it's permissible to have an entirely static drama series called Talking Heads, current affairs programmes feel a compulsion to jettison real talking heads for dramatic effect. "It was done to move the story on, to make it more understandable, to make the story accessible", says a BBC spokesman of the Shipman reconstructions. And he points out that each reconstruction was fully flagged up - for the benefit of any viewers who might have thought Panorama had had its cameras trained on Dr Shipman all along. This, of course, is the key difference between virtuous reconstructers and less scrupulous television journalists - such as the makers of Carlton's The Connection, who were fined in 1998 for faking a sequence about a drugs "mule". If The Connection had only been honest about its inability to tell the story without stand-ins and pretence, there might have been no trouble. For journalists struggling to make successful current affairs programmes without recourse to drama, Panorama's reconstructions and The Connection's fakes are just different degrees of cop-out, one approved, one unacceptable. Carlton was fined because The Connection "deceived the public". Acknowledged reconstructions do not deceive in the same way, but they short-change us, deal in a currency inferior to the truth. But then, television is all-powerful: it makes up its own rules. Nobody now dares to tell it that it can't always have what it wants. On the one hand, this means that if it doesn't have the pictures, it just won't do the programme (so that deceased or otherwise uncooperative artists are a dead loss to television). On the other, it believes simulation is, if anything, superior to reality. "Reconstruction" is not the word, suggesting as it does the painstaking restoration of a damaged item. Try "hopeful guesstimate" next time. Or maybe just "fib". The historian Daniel Boorstin sounded extreme in the 60s, when he outlined the consequences of the public's immoderate expectations of the news: the arrival of the "pseudo event". "Demanding more than the world can give us," he wrote in The Image, "we require that something be fabricated to make up for the world's deficiency." Nowadays, it is not enough to find that a doctor may have murdered over 100 patients. Unless reporters can "move the story on", inviting us to watch the doctor on his calls, our concentration will waver, we'll reach for the remote - and be back watching something that never happened at all. Why Heath needs to lighten up Tiresome as ever, the young members of the Oxford Union have decided that their president, Lucy Aitkens, is bringing their debating chamber into disrepute. Ted Heath, for whom union presidency was a high point of his life, has joined the chorus of disapproval, commenting that the current debates, featuring footballers, fashion designers and musicians, illustrate "the lack of esteem in which the public hold politicians". It seems a little unfair, for in his autobiography, The Course of My Life, Heath fondly remembers how he began "to feature regularly in the Union, injecting a little humour into speeches which, I hope, generally bore the Balliol hallmarks..." In 1938, for instance, he proposed the motion "That this House deplores the decline of frivolity". "I am still quite proud of the ditty I composed for the occasion," he writes. "The flaw in our present-day polity/Is its lack of a light-hearted quality/So the watchword today/I think I may say/Should be Liberty, Fraternity, Frivolity". Should the author of this ditty now be worrying about Aitkens and her celebrities - particularly as guests invited by her predecessors include Diego Maradona, OJ Simpson, Helen Gurley Brown, Gennifer Flowers and Kermit? If her detractors think Aitken's use of the office for self-promotion is inappropriate, it is they, not she, who misunderstand the ancient traditions of the place. Back to Heath, after he was elected president. "As a consequence of this victory," he notes, with satisfaction, "I found myself featured in the national press for the first time... the Sunday Express ran a feature Jobbing Builder's Son is an Oxford Star." He promptly invited George Bernard Shaw, Churchill, Charles Laughton, Stephen Spender and Lady Astor to come and speak. Few subsequent presidents can have rivalled his record in self-promotion, but it is nice to see Aitkens is having a try.