Just before Christmas, a pair of thieves shinned up a ladder at Amsterdam's Van Gogh Museum, paying no attention to CCTV cameras, alarms and motion censors, and made off with two multimillion-pound works of the master.Shortly after, Sir Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate, appeared on our television screens with another art felony sensation. After prolonged negotiations with shadowy figures of Serbian connection, the Tate had recovered two Turners lifted when on loan to a Frankfurt art gallery eight years ago. This transaction cost them £3.5m. Serota would not reveal who was getting the money. Meanwhile, Irish police came across five old masters, including two by Rubens, hidden in the attic of a Dublin council house, having been stolen last September from Russborough House, County Wicklow. These are snapshots of a fairly ordinary month in the feverish business of art and antiques larceny. It is an area of crime that costs insurers £500m a year. The database Invaluable, a London private company, lists more than 100,000 stolen art and antique works. Among them, I discovered 26 Renoirs; eight Warhols, including his enhancement of a 1920s Rupture Easer (hernia belt), unstrapped in transit from Heathrow to New York last year (reward: $75,000; original cost: $3.50); 180 George III walnut clocks; Goyas, Gainsboroughs and Rubens. Unfortunately this activity is not matched by stories of thieves being collared, receivers incarcerated and "mad collectors" being sent up the river. Profits are high, punishment all too easily evaded. A recent survey by Copat (Council for the Prevention of Art Theft), covering a five-year period of thefts from country houses, attempted to establish what percentage of property, in terms of bulk and value, had been retrieved. The answer: 8% of bulk and 3% of value. This is a business, then, in which thieves are operating with a 97% level of success. Even insider trading could scarcely match this.It is no wonder that the favourite reading of larrikins awaiting release from prison is Miller's Antiques Price Guide and the Antiques Roadshow their favourite TV programme. "They come out," says Alexandra Smith, operations manager of Art Loss Register,"and say, 'Right! It used to be electrical goods [which depreciate quickly], now it's going to be something smarter.' " The Loss Register has its own database of 126,000 stolen items, providing a service for auction rooms, dealers and collectors. The question is: what is the law doing about this? Or what can it do? The 43 police forces of England and Wales (Scotland deals with its own problems) are thwarted by regulations that hinder untrammelled access to each other's territories. Where access can be granted to pursue thieves, the tripwire of budgetary inhibitions comes into play. To put it plainly, police forces are not keen to waste their budgets on crimes committed outside their own patch. But since art theft is by its nature multi-territorial - from site of robbery, to residence of thief, to home of receiver - an unimpeded gallop is precisely what the police need. Although there is now a national crime squad, it is deployed on such issues as drugs and terrorism. Crucially, conventional forces cannot readily talk to each other because they have incompatible databases. If a regional copper collars someone with what he strongly suspects to be stolen art, he has no easy way of establishing if the item has been stolen and from where. Releasing the suspect can often be the only option. The law declares that, six years after a transaction undertaken "in good faith", the possessor of even a stolen object obtains full legal ownership - after only three years in France. It is not that difficult to construct a "good faith" defence. Indeed, the pressure is on police to return the object to the new owner and in good condition or they can be sued. The original owners of stolen property have found themselves in the bizarre position of having to sue the new "legal owner" for restitution of it. In this climate, as in the wild west of the James and Younger brothers, the modern art and antiques world also has its notorious families. In England this is personified by one family - the "G" family. G as in, "Oh God, not the Gs again!" The Gs number more than 40, originating, it is said, in Ireland, but accumulating cousins and husbands here over the years. For more than 20 years they have been plundering the country on a line from Cheltenham down the M4 to Kent. It baffles belief that a family, well known to the police, can have their way with a slice of England for so long, suffering, it is said, only the minor inconvenience of occasional short jail terms. "Have you heard of the G family?" I ask Alexandra Smith. "Certainly have," she says. "They drive around country estates, reverse through the french windows and load up their vans. When one gets caught, a son or a cousin or a nephew pops up and says, 'Don't worry, I'll fill in for you.' " Next I try Mark Dalrymple, fellow of the Chartered Institute of Loss Adjusters. "They are not the only group but they are the most prolific," he confirms. "They are not worried by alarm systems. They know that, no matter how sophisticated the system, the police have to travel from wherever they are to where the break-in has taken place. That could be 30 minutes away." But who will do business with them? Jim Hill, formerly with Thames Valley police, now police and Interpol liaison officer for Invaluable, knows who: "There are too many 'respectable' people, who are willing to purchase stolen antiques, people you wouldn't think would get involved." There were some astonishing loopholes for thievery, of which the Bermondsey Market Ouvert was the most notorious. By ancient royal decree, anyone who bought an article in Bermondsey market between the hours of sunrise and sunset immediately obtained legal title to the item, whatever its provenance. Fences caught with stolen property endlessly played the Bermondsey card. After protracted lobbying by Copat, of which Dalrymple was a founder member, this law was finally repealed. But not until 1995. There is the myth that thieves can make a killing from insurance rewards. But it would be fatal for insurers to pay rewards lightly; this would simply create a lucrative grab-and-return market for thieves. And where rewards are offered, the informant must establish that he did not have any involvement in the theft. In popular imagination, the chief recipient of stolen art is the mad collector, who gloats over his necessarily private hoard of illicit treasures. They do exist, but in nowhere near sufficient numbers to sustain the current level of thievery. Alexandra Smith came in direct contact with one when her company was called in as expert witnesses in a case in which rare books were disappearing from libraries and London gentlemen's clubs. "About two years ago, hundreds of beautiful books, not even allowed to be removed from the shelves, started to disappear," she says. "The man had over the years managed to fall in with seven separate gangs of thieves. They thought it a great lark to go off and steal things for him. We went on about three or four police raids to help identify items. This man had a flat in St John's Wood, a rented room in Crouch End and a garage in Swiss Cottage. When I was taken into the flat, you could hardly move for clutter. The books were piled six or seven feet high. We identified about 70 or 80 books stolen from one of the gentlemen's clubs. We rang up and said, 'Have you had any thefts recently, or in the past?' 'No, no,' they said. 'Nothing from the library.' 'Well,' I said, 'unless you have sold off half your library, I think we have about 60 of your books here.' " It turned out that a librarian had been bribed and, once the books were removed, he also removed their index cards. So at stocktakings, nothing was recorded as missing. "This man, Richard Lucas," says Smith, "kept them wrapped up in watertight covers. He didn't even have to look at them. He just stored them away. He'd been a big name at Lloyd's. He did not want to sell them, did not want to make money. He got a suspended sentence. He was borderline not all there." The most spectacular example of an obsessive collector must be Stephane Breitwieser, a 31-year-old French waiter. His haul of old masters totalled around £1bn. He was arrested in Switzerland for the modest larceny of a bugle from a local museum. It was then discovered that, for seven years, Breitwieser had travelled Europe on his holidays, nicking what he fancied of 16th- and 17th-century art. He stole from more than 50 museums works by, among others, Pieter Bruegel the younger and Watteau. None of this was done for profit. Breitwieser simply stashed the stuff for his personal gratification in his Strasbourg home. The real damage was done by his mother. When she heard of her son's arrest, she frantically began to cut up the paintings in his home, then threw them out with the household rubbish or dumped them in a canal.So, where is the profit for criminals in the theft of fine art and antiques? How do they unload, say, a globally famous Renoir? Dalrymple explains: "A criminal will approach a contact. 'I need a kilo of coke quickly at a good price,' he says. 'I haven't got cash, but I have a painting supposedly worth a couple of million. I can swap it or offer you a share in it until I get rid of it in a couple of years at a very serious price.' So the work becomes a tradeable commodity." Charley Hill, former detective chief inspector in the Yard's arts and antiques squad, and now a security adviser to the Historic Houses Association, was the man who in August 2001 brought a seven-year hunt for a £5m Titian to a successful conclusion when it was "discovered", undamaged, in a plastic carrier bag in London. The painting - Rest On The Flight To Egypt - had been stolen from Lord Bath's estate at Longleat, Wiltshire. No one would admit a ransom might have been paid. But Hill has a reputation for infiltrating gangs and getting the goods with phoney offers of a reward. It was he, acting undercover with Dick Ellis of the Yard's art theft squad, who recovered Edvard Munch's The Scream three months after it was stolen from Oslo's National Museum in 1994. Posing as a Getty representative, Hill persuaded the thieves he was ready to pay their £300,000 ransom. (The painting had an estimated market value of around £35m.) This affair, incidentally, exploded the popular theory that this unsaleable painting had been stolen to order. "The three thieves," says Hill, "were a small-time art thief, a professional footballer and a middleman - the person I dealt with." Hill's triumph with The Scream was in the days when the Yard was willing to spend resources on crimes committed outside Britain. Today's detectives are more hamstrung. To come to grips with the problem, Scotland Yard recently hosted an international week-long arts and antiques crime course at which loss adjusters, insurers, museum security experts and police from across Europe met to pool their experiences and security techniques. The Guardian was the only representative of the unrelished (by police) media to attend the course. Holland's national crime intelligence and Finland's criminal police unit were there; also a brace of Swedes; the National Trust doubly represented, Interpol there, too, and a lone spook from the Ministry of Defence. There was a duo from Sotheby's and a trio from the Chubb Insurance Company of Europe. The cops - the home side - were there in force, from Devon and Cornwall, Hampshire, Hertfordshire, Northamptonshire, Sussex, Thames Valley and the Met itself to the power of seven, plus a troop from the national crime squad. And then the bashful heroes of the event, Kent police, the object of envious curiosity from the 42 other police regions. Kent actually succeeded, two years ago, in getting through parliament their own act, the Kent Council Act 2001, which tightens the noose on dubious dealers and undisciplined auctions rooms that are clearing houses for thieves and receivers. Tape recorders were not allowed; cameras out of bounds. However, there was a kind of loose liberality regarding the appropriateness of reporting broadly what was said - so long as one did not make ungentlemanly disclosures about the few devices anti-art theft officers have at their disposal. It soon became apparent that this was a historic occasion. A common belief at the Yard - that picture-napping and running after dainty objets d'art was frivolous work compared with tackling terrorists and drug barons - has been overtaken by the realisation that drug dealers and terrorists now see the art and antiques market as benevolent territory for money laundering; and the Yard was prepared to discuss the problem openly. The other historic aspect was that, for the first time, Metropolitan plods (formerly known as Peelers) and their regional colleagues were allowed to dine at the Peelers' restaurant. This is the Yard's equivalent of high table, open only to decorated hats. The rozzers' initial diffidence quickly dissipated. This liberally lubricated reunion took place on our first evening rather than on the last - good social psychology that. So here, and later at the Feathers around the corner, we learned friendly indiscretion which served us well throughout the week. This may sound traitorous to fellow journalists, but it is nice to be liked (if only temporarily) by a bunch of the filth. (One of them, an Olympic wrestler from Charing Cross, might come in useful some dark night). They definitely do not think the press is on their side. Nor do they think the lawyers are their friends. The one lawyer who gave a talk, Karen Sanig of Mishcon de Reya (on the law of title and restitution), gave a plucky performance, like the boy on the burning deck, tossing overboard disarming tales about being obliged, at times, to be in an adversarial role. We got down to the nuts and bolts. The British Museum gave lessons on security; the Essay Office clued us in on how to detect forged hallmarks; we learned the revealing nature of antique chair bottoms; about the illicit trade in cultural property (the case of the Elgin Marbles diplomatically out of bounds); the treacherous nature of confiscation legislation, and the dodgy world of "rewards". There was also an expedition to Sotheby's where we learned about its procedures in detecting fakes and fraud. Other people's fraud that is, not its own, now cleanly dealt with. (Its former chairman, they admitted, in an appropriately old-fashioned phrase, was "languishing in jail". But - in that less lovely modern terminology - they have "put all that behind us".) These insights were fine, but what has to be done? Malcolm Kenwood, a former Yard antiques squad officer who organised the course, says that the bottom line would be the establishment of a national art theft database - which, by the end of the course, was the unanimous conclusion. "Butler [former head of the Yard's art theft squad] and I introduced a system at Scotland Yard," Dick Ellis, now managing director of Trace magazine, told us. "It was called ACIS, Article Classic Identification System, and other forces were able to buy into it and link up. The theory was good, the system was good and it is now in use at the Yard. Unfortunately we only ever got about six other forces, including Thames Valley, to participate. Six out of 43 in the UK - before you tackle Scotland!" A proposal to set up a national database jointly with Invaluable and the Art Loss Register, submitted to the Home Office two years ago, is still "buried under paper", Ellis said. Charley Hill identifies a more deep-rooted cause of the collapse of art crime detection. "It was the completely bogus policy of 'multicompetence' introduced by Sir Kenneth Newman in the early 1990s," he claims. "So odds and sods from traffic control were considered capable of handling fine art thefts. Talk about lack of resources is a euphemism for lack of interest, lack of application." The idea of multiskilling, a notion fostered by the presumed ability of technology to put specialist skills within the reach of untrained workers, has lost its bloom - or should have - since the early romance with new technology faded. In its first flush, three specialist units were closed and experts in the field, such as Hill, Ellis and Kenwood, moved to the private sector. "This policy," Hill says, "was carried on dumbly by subsequent commissioners. As a consequence of that nonsensical idea, we have the demoralised Met we have today. It is very sad because there are some really good cops around." A sample of the haul stolen over a year· Aristide Maillol bronze female figure, stolen from a London gallery · Antique Persian Tabriz (carpet), stolen from a London gallery · 20 antique tea caddies, stolen from a private residence, Oxfordshire · Garden statuary - a pair of flying bulls and a brass sundial - stolen from a private residence near Sittingbourne · Three-strand pearl seed choker with diamond clasp and diamond hoop earrings, stolen from a London residence · 18 Armani and Boss watches, stolen from a London dealer · Four 18th-century fireplaces, stolen from a London home · 19th-century rosewood-veneered music box in the form of a miniature grand piano, and a flint-locked pistol, stolen from a residence in Kent · 11 items of silver: snuffboxes, George III oval sauce tureens, late Victorian twin-handle cups, a pair of German figures of medieval knights, stolen from a residence in Gloucestershire · Louis XV writing table, stolen from an Oxfordshire home · Book of Picasso etchings, stolen in transit between Hamburg and London · 17th-century ebonised bracket clock, pair of George III semi-elliptical card tables with tulip-wood cross banding, set of four yellow cats with green ties around their necks, stolen from a Berkshire residence · Victorian sampler, embroidered by 11-year-old Deborah Pinder, bearing the words: 'You next to God dear parents I address Myself to you in humble thankfulnesss for all the tender care on me bestowed, the gift of learnig onto me alowed go on dear Parents let me still pursue, the golden arts the vulgar never new' - stolen from an East Sussex residence last Christmas (a favourite season for thieves when there are plenty of presents around)