Three days after the shattered body of Billie-Jo Jenkins was found in a pool of blood on the patio at her home, her foster father faced the media to appeal for help in finding her killer."We don't understand why my daughter has been murdered or what the motive is," said the deputy headteacher.As Mr Jenkins attempts to rebuild his life after spending six years in prison for the murder, that gulf in understanding is greater than ever.With the jury in Mr Jenkins' retrial failing to reach a verdict today, Billie-Jo's family were left in confusion. Billie-Jo's aunt, Maggie Costener, shouted from the public gallery: "It's not over yet. It's not over yet, Jenkins."There are no new lines of inquiry in the murder investigation and police have already eliminated the only other suspect, a 52-year-old mentally ill man who has an alibi for the time of the killing.For Mr Jenkins, the last nine years have seen him lose his family, his reputation and his teaching career.Branded a wife beater, he faces the future in the knowledge that his relationship with his four natural daughters, who now live in Tasmania, Australia, has been irrevocably damaged. The girls, who live with their mother, Lois, have seen their father just six times in the last eight years, always under the watchful eyes of social workers and police officers. Mr Jenkins has described the time away from his daughters as "impossibly difficult to bear". His experiences in prison, where he was condemned as a child killer, were "traumatic", he said, all the more so because privileges were withheld as a result of his refusal to acknowledge his guilt.His main supporters throughout the ordeal have been his parents, David and Megan, his aunts and uncles and the Rector of Aberystwyth, Stuart Bell, all of whom have shown an unflinching belief in his innocence. "We have been absolutely resolute, completely convinced of his innocence," said Mr Bell. "I hope now that Sion is able to recover and live a very valuable and positive life."Mr Jenkins will be celebrating tonight with his second wife, Christina Ferneyhough, 55, a millionaire divorcee who married him a year ago after writing to him in prison. But their happiness at the end of the ordeal was marred by the release of an account by his first wife, Lois Jenkins, to the court of appeal in 2004, in which she alleged she and her children suffered years of domestic violence at his hands.The unchallenged testimony has been withheld from all three of the juries who have tried Mr Jenkins over the years, despite changes in the law in 2003 to allow evidence of a defendant's character to be admitted. Mr Jenkins has never had the allegations formally put to him.Lois Jenkins said she was so scared of her husband's violence that after the murder she told a friend: "Why is it her, when it was always going to be me?"She alleges that her future husband started to hit her three weeks before they exchanged vows in December 1982 at a Baptist church in Dorset.The couple had met at a charity event in London where the future Mrs Jenkins, a committed Christian, was a social worker with Tower Hamlets council.In her account, which can be published for the first time, the former Mrs Jenkins said her husband had a quick temper."I first became aware of Sion's temper about three weeks before our marriage," she told police. "He lost his temper and slapped me around my face. A few weeks after the marriage he had a violent outburst and slapped me again. I was surprised at how volatile he was and felt frightened. When he lost his temper he never shouted, he would just lose it, snap and in a few moments he would be back to normal."The violence grew worse over the years. "When we lived in East Ham, Sion hit me one night and pulled my hair which was long then," said Mrs Jenkins. "It was the first time I was really frightened of him. I told him I was not going to put up with it any more."For the first time he admitted he had a temper, previously he had always blanked it out and refused to admit that he had hit me."She described the reality of life in a household that outwardly appeared to be a happy middle class home, but was anything but. Often, she said, her husband was violent to their four daughters."Sion would use a stick or slipper. If I challenged Sion's discipline ... he would lose his temper and sometimes he threatened me."But she told Newham social services in east London nothing of his past when they came to place Billie-Jo Jenkins with the family in 1992, after they answered an adoption advertisement.Sion Jenkins and his wife seemed ideal foster parents for the nine-year-old girl, whose mother, Deborah Jenkins, was a heavy drinker with a criminal record and whose father was in and out of prison.In 1993 the family moved to Hastings when Mr Jenkins was made deputy head of the William Parker School for Boys. But the whole edifice of the family's new life by the sea was built on Jenkins' lies.He had obtained the job at William Parker school on a false CV in which 85% of his qualifications were faked, including one that he attended Gordonstoun School. Much has been made of this over the last nine years, but Mr Jenkins dismissed the altering of his CV during the trial, saying it had become "an albatross" around his neck.Two years after moving to Hastings his wife alleged he carried out his most severe attack, which left her with a perforated eardrum."He hit me around the face hard and my head was spinning with the force of it," she said. "I went upstairs and hid in the loft crying. Later I went downstairs and it was as if Sion had forgotten he had hit me."In statements never read to the court, Annie Jenkins, then 12, said her father had once punched her so hard in the stomach she had to lie down to recover.When asked about the beatings by police, she said: "But doesn't every family have a naughty stick?"The jury at his retrial heard for the first time from two of Billie-Jo's best friends, who suggested Mr Jenkins had been violent towards the teenager in the past.Holly Prior, then aged 13, told police Billie-Jo had confided in her and asked her not to tell anyone. "She had scratches on her neck and bruises on her face and we asked how she had got them. She said Sion was smacking Buster, her dog" and when she objected he "pinned her against the wall and scratched her face".Mr Jenkins denied these assaults, and has not formally responded to the allegations from his first wife.What is clear is that the allegations of domestic violence contributed to his arrest for murder a few weeks after Billie-Jo's death.Apparently convinced of his guilt, Mrs Jenkins walked into Hastings police station three weeks after the murder and poured out her story. A week later her husband was charged.