Maxine Carr's mother may go to jail after being convicted yesterday of violently threatening a witness in the Soham murder trial.Shirley Capp was found guilty of intimidating her next-door neighbour, after the woman gave a statement to police investigating the disappearances of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Mrs Capp, 61, told Marion Westerman she "was going to be dead" and warned her to "watch your back". Ms Westerman said she was reluctant to give testimony because she feared for her life. A jury of six men and six women at Sheffield crown court took four hours to convict Capp by a majority of 10-2. Judge John Reddihough delayed sentencing for reports, but told her he would consider "all the options", including a custodial sentence. Outside the court, a spokeswoman for Humberside police said: "Witness intimidation is a very serious offence and the judge has made that clear. People who commit such offences seek to undermine the work of the police and courts. "It's our hope that the people involved in this case can now move on and put recent difficult times behind them." The verdict will be a blow to Ms Carr, who was released from prison last month after serving a sentence for conspiring to pervert the course of justice by giving her former boyfriend, Ian Huntley, a false alibi. Ms Carr, who is living at a secret address under a new identity, remains close to her mother. The jury heard that Ms Westerman told detectives how she had seen Ms Carr with Huntley outside her mother's house in Grimsby two days after Holly and Jessica went missing in August 2002. Ms Westerman, a mother-of-three, described how Ms Carr - who changed her name from Capp after her father, Alfred, walked out on the family - had sobbed as she looked into the boot of Huntley's Ford Fiesta. The detail was considered important by the prosecution in the Soham case as it may have suggested that she knew by then that Huntley had been involved in the murder. Huntley was later to admit moving the girls' bodies in his car from his house in Soham, Cambridgeshire, to the remote ditch where they were found. Ms Carr, who was with her mother in Grimsby at the time of the double murder, has always insisted that she did not know her former boyfriend had killed the girls. By clearing her of the more serious charge of assisting an offender, the Soham trial jury accepted this. Her mother believed Ms Carr, who worked as a teaching assistant at Holly and Jessica's school, would not have been held on remand in Holloway prison as she awaited trial had Ms Westerman not given the statement about what she saw to police. Ms Westerman told the jury at Sheffield that Capp turned on her when she visited her to "smooth the waters" following a minor row. She said she was told it was all her fault Ms Carr was in prison. Ms Westerman added: "She said I was a liar. She also said in my statement I said that the bodies were in the boot of the car, but I didn't." The neighbour said she left the house "scared and frightened" with Capp still shouting abuse at her, and that the threats made her reluctant to give evidence at the Soham trial. Asked why, she told the jury: "Because I wanted to live." During questioning, Capp insisted repeatedly: "I did not threaten Marion Westerman."