The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday October 28 2005 In the report below on the low conviction rate in rape cases, we quoted Professor Jennifer Temkin as saying that a new law restricting defence lawyers' questioning of rape complainants on their sexual history was being "completely ignored". Professor Temkin has asked us to point out that the text from which she spoke says: "The new law on sexual history and the procedural requirements accompanying it were being frequently ignored."The Crown Prosecution Service may press for the right to use expert witnesses such as psychologists to testify about rape victims' behaviour, in an attempt to debunk jurors' prejudices and boost the low conviction rate.The director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, said that the CPS was researching a possible role for such experts, whose evidence is admissible in the US, Canada and Australia.Only 5.6% of women who report a rape see their assailant convicted. For cases that get as far as prosecution, the conviction rate dropped from 28% in 1998, to 21% in 2002, the lowest of any European country except Ireland.Mr Macdonald told barristers and judges at the bar's annual conference on Saturday that there was "a very low level of public confidence" in the way the criminal justice system dealt with rape cases.He said there were special difficulties in prosecuting rape, where often the only issue was whether the alleged victim had consented, and the evidence often came down to one person's word against another's. But there were also social myths and assumptions surrounding rape which could affect jurors' verdicts. Questions arising over victims often included: "Why did you go back to his flat? Why did you drink so much? Why did you wear such a short skirt?"The DPP told a workshop set up to explore the reasons for the low conviction rate: "One of the possibilities we are looking at is expert evidence challenging such myths. It's not admissible here at the moment but common in other jurisdictions such as the US. We are conducting a piece of legal research to find a means by which we could introduce that material into English criminal courts. There is expert evidence that can contextualise some forms of behaviour in some forms of cases."For example, people outside the legal profession often found it hard to believe that a rape victim would not have suffered physical injury, he said. And, equally, they might find it difficult to understand why a battered wife would return to her partner.Judge James Tabor, the resident judge at Gloucester crown court, told the workshop that he had tried 24 rape cases in the past 2½ years. Four women had attempted to pervert the course of justice by false allegations, all of them pleading guilty. Three of the false complaints, he said, had been made by "young women who were inadequate and seeking attention", while the fourth had been made maliciously. Such cases got front-page coverage and juries tended to remember them, he added.The judge said reforms allowing sex-crime victims to give evidence by videolink had "diluted" the impact on juries. "Juries are left thinking they are watching another episode of Coronation Street. There's nothing more effective than for a victim to say to a jury, 'look at me, this is what happened'. I strongly believe that video evidence is too easily embarked upon and too readily used."If you lose the immediacy and engagement with the witness you are playing into the defence's hands. There are cases where the detachment provided by video has diluted the effectiveness of the evidence."The judge said he was concerned that too many cases were being prosecuted where juries were likely to acquit. These were cases where juries listened to "what he said, what she said". There was no corroboration, and "probably a considerable amount of drink on both sides". If those cases were prosecuted, the alleged victim was condemned, not only to having to give evidence but to being told she was not believed, he added.Jennifer Temkin, a law professor at Sussex University, said judges and barristers whom she interviewed for as yet unpublished research commissioned by the Home Office had told her that some prosecutors were inexperienced or incompetent. Prof Temkin said her recent study on the operation of a new law severely restricting cross-examination of rape complainants on their past sexual conduct, showed that the law was being "completely ignored".But the greatest, most difficult challenge lay in attitudes, she said. "Juries can impose their own morality on cases. There are still abiding views about proper female behaviour. There is a reluctance to accept gender equality in the sexual sphere." Defence barristers tended to invoke such prejudices, she said.