A man accused of shooting dead a police officer at close range claimed yesterday that a mystery friend killed him and injured two of his colleagues.David Bieber, an American, who was giving testimony at Newcastle crown court, said he had been in a telephone box when the police pulled up on Boxing Day last year. He saw the officers approach his friend who was in a stolen BMW.The crown says Mr Bieber was led into the police car for questioning but shot the officers as they handcuffed him.Mr Bieber said he was worried, as his friend had a gun on him. Earlier the friend told Mr Bieber that a man had "disrespected him", but he urged him not to do anything.Mr Bieber told the court he shared the stolen BMW with the man, who had a "very similar" accent. He said his friend's fingerprints were not on the Racing Post found in the BMW as he had put liquid latex on his hands because the man was "a bit dodgy" and "involved in criminal activity".Mr Bieber said he realised something had happened when he heard several shots.The court had heard that PC Ian Broadhurst, 34, died after pleading for his life. His colleague Neil Roper, 46, was injured and a third officer, James Banks, escaped injury when his police radio was hit. Mr Bieber denies murdering PC Broadhurst and attempting to kill his colleagues.After the shooting, Mr Bieber, who had been working as a doorman in Yorkshire clubs, said his friend drove up in a newly stolen green Rover and ordered him to get in. After getting in he said to his friend: "Please don't tell me you have shot anyone."The 9mm semi-automatic gun fell to the floor and Mr Bieber made it safe. He reloaded the gun "because I was not thinking straight" and admitted it was a poor decision.Mr Bieber's DNA was found on the trigger and on a chocolate wrapper in the police car.The gun was found five days later hidden beneath a mattress in a hotel in Gateshead where Mr Bieber was arrested, Newcastle crown court heard.Mr Bieber repeatedly refused to name his friend when crossexamined by Robert Smith, prosecuting counsel, saying he was concerned about reprisals against his family and because of "everything [the man] has done for me". He refused to elaborate but said he was upset that his friend had "disrupted my peaceful and tranquil life".After the shooting Mr Bieber went to his Leeds flat and took £4,500, a cosh, his passport and some clothes. He arranged to meet his friend in Glasgow later but the plans were changing minute by minute, he said.He had no intention of travelling from Sheffield to Paris by coach on January 2, despite buying tickets. He said: "I did not want to have to answer any questions about what my friend had done. I did prefer to lay low for a while. You can twist it anyway you want to, but that is all there is to it."He said his friend was possibly half-Italian, from Florida and suntanned. On the day of the shooting he was wearing a shiny leather jacket, dark trousers and brown shoes.Asked by Mr Smith: "Do you approve of what you've done?" Mr Bieber replied: "I think it is horrendous. He has injured a police officer and murdered another one.""But he has done more than that," added Mr Smith. "He has left you carrying responsibility for this situation."Mr Bieber replied: "This is not intentional."He claimed he was confused when arrested by police. He said he thought he would be questioned about the other man and perhaps they were looking for both of them.Mr Smith said: "What I suggest Mr Bieber is you knew definitely that you were going to be accused of the murder of PC Broadhurst. Didn't you?""No, the exact opposite," he replied. He claimed the news that he was the suspect had not sunk in for several weeks.Mr Smith said it was 10 months after the shooting that Mr Bieber first mentioned Mr X. He suggested he had carefully constructed his story to make it fit around events.Mr Bieber replied: "I would suggest to you that you are being ridiculous. If I wanted to make up a perfect story... I don't want to argue with you, I know you are the best prosecutor in the country and you are a genius." Mr Smith suggested his story was totally untrue. Mr Bieber replied: "You are entitled to your opinion. I have told the truth about everything with the exception of revealing his identity. I wasn't there, I didn't do it."The trial continues.