A gang of youths has been convicted of killing a "kind and innocent" young man with the mental age of nine in a knifepoint mugging that was caught on CCTV.Dean Mayley was stabbed in the heart by 17-year-old Jamal Jones for refusing to hand over his mobile phone to a group of robbers who stopped him as he walked home in Greenford, west London, on the afternoon of 7 February.The 24-year-old man had learning difficulties owing to microcephaly, a brain disorder, and probably did not fully understand what the teenagers wanted, jurors were told.Jones was found guilty of murder. His three accomplices were found guilty of manslaughter.Mayley's mother, Donna, sat through weeks of harrowing evidence at the Old Bailey in London and was visibly shocked and tearful after watching footage of the moment her son was fatally injured.The CCTV showed three hooded figures approach Mayley and confront him before one of them lashed out with a blade. The victim then staggered and collapsed in the road as members of the public rushed to help. He died in hospital.The prosecution said that, while only Jones, from Acton, west London, wielded the knife, all four played a part in the attempted robbery and killing. Miguel Leiba, also 17, from Hanwell, and Ryan Beresford, 19, blocked the victim's path, and Michael Mensah, 18, drove them to and from the scene, the prosecution said.Beresford, of Acton, and Mensah, of Greenford, along with Leiba denied murder, but were convicted of manslaughter. All three were also found guilty of attempted robbery. Mensah was also found guilty of a robbery on 28 January.Donna Mayley wept as the verdicts were delivered after about four hours and the defendants wailed in the dock.In his defence, Jones admitted he had tried to rob Mayley but denied he had meant to harm him.Simon Denison QC, for the prosecution, said all four youths lied about what happened on the day of the murder. He said: "These four were a team of knifepoint robbers driving up and down the Ruislip Road looking for a victim or victims. That is why Dean Mayley was targeted, not just by Jamal Jones but by all of them."The court heard that a search of Jones's bedroom uncovered a kitchen knife under his mattress and a meat cleaver on top of his wardrobe.Mensah wrote a menacing letter to Jones in a bid to persuade him not to implicate him in the murder while they were awaiting trial.The jury was also told about Mensah's previous convictions for possession of knives. On 21 September last year, police discovered a five-inch jagged blade in his trainer and a samurai sword in the boot of his Fiat Punto. Then, on 12 January, Mensah was stopped in his car again and police found a lock knife underneath the driver's seat.Only days before the attack on Mayley, Mensah was involved in the mugging of a 15-year-old boy in the same area, the court heard. In the earlier incident, Mensah was alleged to have driven unidentified robbers to the scene in his car.Lifting an order banning the naming of Jones and Leiba, judge Martyn Zeidman QC said: "The more people who realise the horror of knife crime, the better."Adjourning sentencing until 2 October, he said the defendants would be in custody for a "very, very, long time". He ordered reports on all of them so he could assess their risk to the public.