Tory strategyLonger jail termsGiving magistrates the power to impose a 12-month maximum prison sentence. When this was put on the statute books, as section 154 of the 2003 Criminal Justice Act, Professor Lee Bridges of Warwick University warned that if it was introduced in isolation it would lead to 30,000 people a year being given longer prison sentences.The measure was supposed to be part of a "custody plus" package which would see most short prison sentences turned into community punishments with a taste of prison. "Custody plus" has never been implemented because of lack of probation capacity.In addition, in August 2006 the home secretary, John Reid, decided not to implement the extended sentencing powers for magistrates because of prison overcrowding. The Commons home affairs select committee had said in 2003 that the extended sentencing powers should not be introduced until after "custody plus" had been put in place. No date has yet been set for that to happen.Penal reform experts say that the benefits of diverting some offenders from crown court trials to magistrates courts would be more than outweighed by increasing the pressure on an already overstretched prison system. Sentences of 12 months or less are now widely regarded as too short for successful rehabilitation, but long enough for the offenders to lose their jobs and homes.Driving banBanning young offenders from driving is another measure that is already on the statute books. The power was contained in 2000 legislation, but was not enacted until 2004. The guidance to magistrates from the Judicial Studies Board in 2005 suggested it was best used where there was a link between the offending behaviour and the use of a vehicle, such as kerb crawling, illegal off-road driving or "road rage" incidents. The Conservatives say that this link should be broken.Paul Cavadino of Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said that extending the use of driving bans would make it harder for offenders to get jobs when they became 17 or 18. "Many jobs involve driving and many people, especially in rural counties, rely on driving to get to work. As unemployed offenders are twice as likely to reoffend as those with jobs, this is a recipe for increasing youth crime, not reducing it. Driving bans should be limited to driving-related offences."Ditch Rights ActRepeal the Human Rights Act: David Cameron is using the case of Learco Chindamo to justify his renewed call for this legislation to be repealed, despite the judges making clear it was not the crucial issue in the case.No early releaseScrap the prison early release scheme that lets non-dangerous prisoners out 18 days early. This was promised in June. If this is scrapped the Conservatives would have to say how they would provide the extra 1,700 prison places which would have been freed up by the scheme to cope with new arrivals.End to targetsGeneral bonfire of police targets. Mr Cameron claims officers spend more time on paperwork than on patrol and have to fill in a form a foot long every time they stop someone. Both Tory and Labour home secretaries over the past 20 years have promised to cut police paperwork, but the pledge has never been delivered as successive governments want to be able to monitor the impact of their policies.