Raising the age restrictions for purchasing knifes will be one of the first acts of a third-term Labour government, Charles Clarke promised today, as Labour launched its mini-manifesto on crime.Accompanied by Mr Blair - who pledged a "step change in the fight against crime and disorder" if Labour are re-elected - the home secretary outlined a series of measures he promised would be in one of the first acts passed after the election.He also promised further increases in community support officers to provide "neighbourhood policing" for every community. An expansion in drug treatment and testing, a system today criticised by a committee of MPs, was also promised. Binge drinking would be tackled with a "three strikes" policy barring repeat troublemakers from town centres. And Mr Clarke promised to continue the battle against anti-social behaviour. "It is a very substantial programme. The choice is clear," the home secretary said. Mr Blair said that when Labour came to power in 1997 the criminal justice system was "failing". "Police numbers were falling, recorded crime was still double what it had been in the late 1970s, detentions and convictions were going down," he said. "In fact, in the two years before we came to office, when Mr Howard was home secretary, police numbers fell by one officer every working day. "Under this government, police numbers have increased by six officers every working day." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, was unimpressed. "Gun crime has doubled under Labour and the misuse of imitation firearms is a growing menace," he said. "Action on replica weapons and knives is long overdue, but age is not the only issue. Steps must be taken to regulate sales over the internet, where the age of the buyer is difficult to determine. It is surely time to look at raising the maximum sentence for carrying a knife in public. "It is hard to see why the public should trust Labour to tackle gun crime, given its record. "Not only have offences rocketed, but the government has failed to set up a national register of licensed firearms, as it promised to do in 1997." The Tories are going into the election promising 40,000 extra police over the lifetime of a parliament and a tenfold rise in drug rehab places.