Eight players from Premiership club Leicester City were being questioned last night in a Spanish court after allegedly being involved in a group sexual assault on three women at the exclusive La Manga resort in south-east Spain.The players had spent the night in police cells after being arrested for their alleged role in a drunken raid on a room in the Hyatt hotel in which the women said they were attacked. Spanish television pictures showed several players being led into a police van. Among them was the club captain Matt Elliott, the defender Frank Sinclair and reserve team goalkeeper Danny Coyne. The players have protested their innocence. The allegations against them were categorised by police yesterday as "sexual assault" which, under Spanish law, covers assaults that may, or may not, include rape. The three women reported the alleged assault to police at Alicante airport, from where they had been planning to travel on to Germany, a police spokesman in the nearby city of Murcia said yesterday. "They said that the arrested men had forced their way into a hotel room that they occupied and that they had been sexually assaulted by some of them," police said in a statement. It added: "The complainants handed in a bracelet, wrenched from one of the attackers, as well as some blood-stained underwear." A hospital report confirmed that the women had injuries on various parts of their bodies. The women had, separately, been asked to identify the men who allegedly forced their way into the room and had also been able to pick out the ones who allegedly attacked them, according to police. Police said they had arrested four of the men on suspicion of both sexual assault and breaking and entering. Another was arrested on suspicion of ordinary assault and breaking and entering while three others - among them Elliott and Coyne - were suspected of both breaking and entering and failing to help a person in danger. A ninth player, the German defender Steffen Freund, was released and, accompanied by the team manager Micky Adams, was driven away from the court in the nearby town of Cartagena yesterday. It was not clear whether he will face a single chargeof failing to help someone in danger. "A report from the security guard at the hotel where the events took place stated that the players had shown signs of being drunk that night, resulting in arguments between them and other clients," a police spokesman said. Sources at the hotel said yesterday that the incident appeared to have happened on Sunday night. The women, who were African-born according to Spanish TV channel Telecinco, reportedly filed the complaint on Tuesday. The Leicester club were on a mid-season break - with warm weather training - at the La Manga complex. The rest of the players flew home on Wednesday. The club's next match is due on March 13 against Birmingham. It said in a statement: "The club is co-operating fully with the authorities in their investigations but, as these investigations are still ongoing, is not in a position to make any further comment at this stage." The team's chief executive Tim Davies has flown to Spain.