Evidence given to police before she died by one of five sex workers found murdered over a 10-day period in December 2006 was read out in court today.Jurors at the murder trial of Steve Wright, a forklift driver, heard a statement Paula Clennell, 24, gave to police on November 13, a month before her naked body was found.Clennell was helping police investigating the disappearance of Tania Nicol, 19, the first of the five women to go missing.Wright, 49, of Ipswich, Suffolk, denies murdering Clennell, Nicol, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24 and Annette Nicholls, 29.Clennell had told police she regularly stood 100 metres from her fellow sex worker waiting to pick up clients in Ipswich's redlight district. She said she saw Nicol climb into a silver estate car at around 1am on October 31 2006, hours after Nicol's mother had reported her missing."She looked over to me," Clennell said in her statement. She said she thought the car was an Audi or Mercedes and the driver a white man in his mid-40s with "nice eyes". "I didn't see Tania any more. That is the last time I saw her," she said. Clennell gave a second statement to police four days later in which she described herself as a "working girl" and said she had known Nicol for a year. "I only know Tania through work," she told police. "Occasionally we have a cigarette and a chat, but that's about it. "I can describe her as nice, harmless. On the occasions I have spoken to her she seems happy enough. "She didn't speak to me about anyone bothering her." Nicol was found in a stream at Copdock on December 8. Clennell disappeared on December 10 and her body was found near woodland at Levington on December 12. Earlier the court had heard that police had stopped Wright in Ipswich's redlight area at around the time the women vanished. PC Alisa Newman said she pulled Wright over at 1.50am on December 1 2006 in Civic Drive, Ipswich. She said she became suspicious of Wright's vehicle because it was "slow driving" through an area where prostitutes worked. Newman said she told Wright he had driven through a red light area. "In response, he said he wasn't aware it was the red light area and that he had not lived in the area long," she said. Jurors also heard from PC Kerry Rumbellow, who spoke to Wright on November 20 2006, 21 days after the disappearance of Nicol. She said Wright's vehicle was stopped at 10pm in Handford Road as part of so-called "anniversary" checks, three weeks after she vanished. She spoke to Wright about Nicol's disappearance and asked if he had seen her around the time she vanished. He replied: "No." He also said he had no "useful information" about her disappearance or the red light area. Wright's partner, Pam Wright, was in the car with him at the time he was stopped, the court heard.