A parish councillor fascinated by the occult was drugged, mutilated and murdered by his scheming partner when she found out he was planning to leave her, a court heard yesterday.Peter Solheim, who was interested in witchcraft and paganism, was killed by his partner, Margaret James, and her accomplices and his body was dumped off the Cornish coast, Truro crown court was told.Fishermen found his mutilated body in the sea five miles off Black Head on the Lizard peninsula in south Cornwall. A postmortem examination revealed he had drowned but had also suffered a head wound and cuts to his limbs.Sarah Munro, prosecuting, said: "Peter Solheim suffered the most gruesome death. Having been sedated, his head and the joints of several of his limbs were attacked. When he was dead or on the brink of death, his mutilated body was dumped off the Cornish coast. This was a killing which was planned and executed with care and precision."Ms Munro said Ms James acted out of a "combination of emotions: hatred, jealousy, revenge and the desire to get her hands on his money". She had been frightened that if he left her for another woman she would lose his money.Mr Solheim, a wealthy man who made money by selling antiques, firearms and pornography, and Ms James had been together for eight years after meeting through a lonely hearts column. They shared interests in "magic, paganism, sunsets and beaches".But their relationship was fraught. They spied on one another and both referred to their partner as "it".During their time together Mr Solheim, a member of Budock parish council, maintained a relationship with Jean Knowles, a woman he had been seeing for more than 20 years, the jury heard.Ms Munro said the relationship between Ms James, 57, and Mr Solheim, 56, deteriorated and he decided to make a future with Mrs Knowles. Ms James knew all about the relationship, it was claimed."Her plans for the future were threatened and she was at risk of losing access to Peter's money," said Ms Munro. "She decided he must die."Ms Munro said the plot to kill Mr Solheim had been hatched three years before his death. Ms James asked a friend if he knew anyone who could help and built up a library of books on potions and poisons.After the murder Ms James told friends Mr Solheim had gone on a fishing holiday to France and Spain and used his mobile phone to text people to make it appear he was still alive.But Mr Solheim's small white dinghy was found adrift near Falmouth with its key in the ignition in June 2004. Against the odds, fishermen on a vessel called Clairvoyant came upon his body the following day.After his death police found that Mr Solheim's safe had been taken from his home and discovered £24,000 cash at Ms James's mother's house. Officers also found £900 stuffed under Ms James's mattress with a note which read "What go around, come around".Ms Munro told the jury: "Perhaps a reference to her search for revenge. Don't be fooled by this diminutive woman. In truth she has a heart of stone."Ms James, of Porthoustock, near St Keverne, Cornwall, denies murder and conspiracy to murder with other persons unknown. The trial continues.