Three teenagers were today convicted of the murder of a father-of-three who was kicked to death outside his house in Cheshire.Garry Newlove, from Warrington, went out to confront a group of drunken teenagers who were vandalising his wife's car and a neighbour's digger on August 10 last year. The court heard they responded by attacking the 47-year-old salesman and kicking his head "like a football". Newlove, who was married to 44-year-old Helen, died in Warrington hospital two days later. His death came only days before he had been due to go on holiday with his wife and daughters. After 10 days of deliberation, the jury found 19-year-old Adam Swellings, from Crewe, and a 16-year-old and a 17-year-old guilty of his murder. The two juveniles - who could not previously be identified - were today named as Jordan Cunliffe and Stephen Sorton. A 17-year-old and a 15-year-old were acquitted. Swellings, who told police he threw the first punch, had admitted manslaughter, but the prosecution rejected his plea. All the defendants had denied murder. The jury deliberated for a total of 55 hours and 25 minutes. There were gasps from the public gallery as the verdicts were read out. Swellings - known as "Swellhead" - was found guilty of murder by a majority of 10 to two. He hung his head and began to cry as the verdict was announced. The 17-year-old cleared today also wept in the dock. Helen Newlove looked at the floor as the verdicts were read out. She broke down in tears after the jury had been sent out by the judge, Justice Andrew Smith. At a press conference after the verdict, she said her husband's murder was a "needless and senseless act".She added that the influence of alcohol needed to be addressed, although she emphasised that it was not an excuse for the culprits' behaviour.Newlove told the press conference her three daughters still suffered flashbacks to the attack, and that she was "completely broken-hearted".She described her husband, who had fought back from stomach cancer, as a "caring, loving, funny" family man. "The light has gone out of our lives. It's like a piece of our jigsaw has been lost forever," she said.The Cheshire assistant chief constable, Garry Shewman, said he believed society was treating Newlove's murder as "a tipping point where we have all got to take action against antisocial behaviour". "We have got to send a very strong message that the availability of cheap, strong alcohol is not acceptable," he added.