In Alan Bennett's fine television play about Kafka, The Insurance Man, the head of an industrial accident claims tribunal is piqued to speech after a morning of hearing the stories of claimants. "Has it ever occurred to you," he asks his colleagues, "that everyone coming before this panel has, prior to the accident, been of a sunny and equable disposition?" He furiously concludes that the litigants are simply miserable, seeking compensation for the fact that it's a "wicked world".A number of contemporary judges may now or in the near future be echoing that speech in their heads as litigants bring their misery to court and are turned away. The Football League clubs discovered on Thursday that the owners of the collapsed ITV Digital do not legally owe them the money which might seem due to them morally. A week before, the sister of the late singer Alma Cogan was turned away by the courts when she tried to bring action over a radio drama which she claimed defamed her celebrity sibling. In France, the parents of the driver at the wheel when Princess Diana crashed are beginning legal action to "clear his name".Although these cases are very different, you feel in all of them, like Bennett's tribunal chairman, that the courts are being used more as a psychiatrist's sofa than a judge's bench. The legal system is the proper remedy in many cases: the Whitakers from Bicester, seeking to create a test-tube baby to provide blood cells for transfer to their sick son, seem almost certain to end up there and, if so, they would be in the right place. In the other matters, though, the courts can say little more than "there, there" because the cases were inherently flawed. All demonstrate the distance between common lore and common law. A jury consisting of almost any dozen football fans selected at random would conclude that Carlton and Granada, as the corporate sugar-daddies behind the delinquent ITV Digital, ought to pay out at least something to ease the financial difficulties of the football clubs whose business plans were built on television money. However, as Mr Justice Langley pointed out, the Football League had failed to secure contractual guarantees in the event of such a collapse. In effect, the Football League had about as much hope in court as a householder who agrees to sewers being built on their land and then doesn't like the smell. There's even a bleak poetic justice because football has become a business in which contracts mean nothing: managers are sacked and players transferred in weekly contradiction of what's written down. As for the Alma Cogan case, the late singer's sister was upset that a Radio 4 biographical drama included details and emphases which differed from her memories. This is inevitable because author's ink and sibling's blood will almost always write a character differently. But, when seeking leave to bring a court case, Cogan's protective relative discovered the cruel truth which is the basis of much British journalism: the dead can not be libelled. The alternative legal route - that the drama damaged the value of the Cogan estate - was also blocked. In fact, a biographical drama, whatever the sister thought of it, is likely to increase sales of Cogan records and therefore enhance the estate. To the thwarted litigant, these laws will seem unfair, but they can be seen objectively as sensible. If those in graves could be defamed, and defended by their relatives, the work of historians and biographers would almost cease. The statute books are saying that they must place public interest over family sensitivity. Sad relatives make bad law, as the parents of Princess Diana's fatal chauffeur will almost certainly discover as they seek to prove that the blood sample showing intoxication was not their son's. The sight of these various forlorn litigants - seeking to use the legal system to redress injustices which are essentially psychological - is also relevant to the growing trend in Britain to bring civil actions against those who have been cleared in criminal cases. There's a parallel here with the medical system. Doctors and surgeons sometimes eventually have to tell the patient there's nothing more to be done. The law must sometimes make the same hard call. While frustration at perceived injustice is understandable, pursuit of the same grievance in a trial with lower standards of proof undermines the legal system, which is designed as a majestic gamble on the diligence of lawyers, judges and jurors. When the gamble fails, the solution is to check the rules at the main casino, not try a smaller one down the road. It may not seem fair that Carlton and Granada walk away smiling over the corpses of football clubs or that a dramatist presents a picture of your sister unrecognisable to you, or that history brands your son as a drunk who killed a princess. But, in all these cases, psychiatrists may finally be more use to you than lawyers. The ancient comparison of the law with an ass is usually seen to impute silliness but it might equally refer to the mulish qualities of the courts. You can't just drag them the way you want to go. comment@theguardian.com