Schools are only just out and already we have another youth murder on our hands. Sadly there will be more senseless killings of young people on our streets this summer and not even the bad weather will deter this reality.Across London there are proposed targeted responses to the inevitable summer boredom of some of our young people, with teams of police patrolling vulnerable estates and neighbourhoods in designated "hot-spot" areas. Unfortunately, however, this will be perceived as nothing more than a knee-jerk response.Some children from estates in the heart of our urban communities are sleeping in bulletproof vests. Some mothers are doing all they can to take their children out of such environments, whether by coercion or force, and sending them abroad to extended families with no means of return, in order to save their lives.With the government announcing a new 10-year youth strategy, it is clear that there are plans being developed to restore the pride we once had in youth work and to build a thriving voluntary and statutory youth service that is highly valued, skilled, offers great variety and is well-resourced. This will allow us to rebalance the "unrelentingly negative view" held of young people in recent times.Beverley Hughes, the minister for children and young people, announced the building of more youth clubs and open spaces for young people through the use of unclaimed bank assets. Ideas for out-of-school activities and provision of extended schools are beginning to take shape, but none of this will be enough to save our young people from the scourge of knife and gun violence this summer.My favourite style of youth work is what I term "issue-based detached youth work", which essentially means working with young people from where they are at. It recognises that young people vote with their feet and thus the worker and/or team requires the necessary street credibility, skill and trust to engage with those young people. Although the police work all hours, which is a necessary requirement today for working with young people, they are unlikely to be able to provide such a service and style of youth work delivery.Making youth club attendance a compulsory activity as advocated today by the Institute for Public Policy Research, is unlikely to secure the hearts and minds of our young people, let alone the most challenging among them.Young people need the skills of a worker, usually an adult, to enable them to develop the necessary social, cognitive and emotional prerequisites so that they can make informed choices that ultimately lead to positive outcomes, to their betterment and not to their detriment. These skills, I would argue, are often found in a detached youth worker who walks the streets, estates and neighbourhoods and operates on the front line without the constraints of set opening and closing times. Detached youth workers engage young people in activities, development and empowerment that they would otherwise not have considered. Young people are given an instant, alternative, relevant role model, which usually has some significant long-term impact.It is one of the most effective interventions the government could support to tackle the immediate problems of knives and guns. More long-term solutions are obviously to be found in child development, education, housing, employment and schools.We have to wake up to the reality that victims and perpetrators of knife and gun violence are getting younger and younger, a growing minority of our children are operating like disorganised, glorified "urban soldiers" without fear or rationale. Huge numbers of our young people are growing up surrounded by a culture of violence, weapons and fear, which defines the places they go, the routes they take, how they socialise, where they shop, what time they go home and how late they stay out.This is a huge challenge, but we can still save some lives this summer. Immediate action is required based on creativity, innovation, dynamism and risk, and I hope a more holistic summer action plan is announced soon.