Three police officers walked free from court yesterday after a judge ordered a jury to clear them of the manslaughter of a heroin addict who was dropped off at their force's boundary to find her own way home on a cold January night.Michelle Wood, 25, was found frozen to death in a muddy field in February 2003, a month after being discharged from a police station where she had been questioned about an alleged shoplifting spree in a small country town. The case at Hull crown court collapsed after a week, when Mrs Justice Dobbs ruled that the prosecution had failed to prove that a sergeant and two constables in Lincolnshire police had breached their duty of care in releasing Wood, a mother of three, five miles from her home after dark. The judge accepted the defence's arguments that Sergeant Andrew Hickinbottom and PCs Andrew Wood and Ian Clark, who between them have 56 years of service, acted in good faith when they organised Wood's release. They had also been unaware that she had been illegally taking prescription-only drugs and had access to others, which were likely to have contributed to her death. The three officers face disciplinary proceedings within Lincolnshire police and the judge made it clear that the force's arrangements for discharging prisoners appeared to be flawed. She said the police's failure to detect Ms Wood's use of illicit medicine was also alarming. "This is a matter of concern that no doubt others will take up after this case," she said. The trial heard that Ms Wood was clearly confused after her arrest in Louth, Lincolnshire, where the "shoplifting expedition" was allegedly planned. She behaved oddly and told one officer that she had flown to the town from Grimsby in an aircraft. She was taken to the force boundary by the two constables on the orders of Sgt Hickinbottom, after being released from Skegness police station without charge. Peter Carter QC, for Sgt Hickinbottom, said the sergeant had given careful consideration to dropping her off somewhere with light and shelter. There was a garage and a callbox near the spot, but she appeared to have wandered in a state of confusion into the field. Her body was found a month later within sight of the A16 where she had been left. Wood's mother Joan Call, 48, said outside the court: "We are saddened that despite this we still do not know why Michelle had to die."