The murder of Ayeeshia Jane Smith has led to calls for an independent investigation into the involvement of Derbyshire social services in the life of the severely abused toddler, after it emerged she had been known to authorities since birth.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kathryn Smith. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PAAyeeshia’s mother, Kathryn, 23, was convicted on Friday of stamping her daughter to death at their home in Burton upon Trent, Staffordshire, in May 2014. Her former partner Matthew Rigby, 22, was found guilty of causing or allowing the toddler’s death.With echoes of the Victoria Climbie and Peter Connelly (Baby P) cases, Derbyshire social services discussed taking 21-month-old Ayeeshia into care after her stepfather threatened to burn down the family flat just three weeks before she was murdered. But it was decided Ayeeshia, also known as AJ, would stay with her mother while authorities investigated. Ayeeshia was taken into foster care from June to October 2013, and then returned to her mother, who was in a relationship with a different man at that time. The girl was repeatedly taken to hospital with injuries that could have been linked to abuse, experts told the trial.A serious case review has been launched by the Derbyshire safeguarding children board to look at health and social services’ involvement prior to the child’s death and examine new information which emerged during the trial.But the Conservative MP for Burton, Andrew Griffiths, said this was unsatisfactory.“We have had investigations – the Victoria Climbie case, Baby P case; we have investigations and lessons are supposedly learnt, and the same things seem to happen again,” he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.“There is a review by the Derbyshire children’s safeguarding board. I’m afraid as the local MP I’m not particularly satisfied about that. I think there is a real need to have an open investigation into what went on in the death of Ayeeshia Smith and to have a great deal more clarity so we can look at … the volume and the pressure on social services across the country.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrew Griffiths. Photograph: Fabio De PaolaGriffiths said the problem was not one of resources. “When a social worker sees a child and knows there’s bruising on her legs and fingertip marks on her neck, there are smells of cannabis when they go to the property, and the doors have been kicked in and mirrors smashed, that’s not a resource issue, that’s a judgment issue.“There appears to be a real failure of judgment and clarity on behalf of Derbyshire social services and that’s what we need to focus on and not get distracted. We need to work out why this child was not saved and why her life was lost needlessly and pointlessly.”Throughout the six-week trial, Smith denied having anything to do with her daughter’s death. She was also convicted of cruelty to a child at the end of what the lead police investigator described as a “harrowing, horrible and heartbreaking” case.Ayeeshia suffered a fatal collapse at home just over three weeks after Derbyshire social services discussed taking her into care because of concerns that Smith was a victim of domestic abuse.According to pathologists, the toddler died from a fatal heart laceration, most likely caused by a foot stamp. It is the sort of injury usually only seen in crash victims.It emerged that Ayeeshia had what one medical expert described as a concerning pattern of injuries, including a historical brain bleed that had gone undiagnosed.Twice after the couple began dating, the girl was taken to hospital, once after what a consultant paediatrician described to the jury as “an apparent life-threatening incident” on 3 February 2014.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matthew Rigby. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PASmith had been out shopping and Rigby said he had been about to take a shower when he claimed to have heard a noise and found Ayeeshia lying in her cot turning blue. She was diagnosed at hospital with a febrile fit linked to a high temperature and was later allowed home. A consultant paediatrician told the jury there seemed little basis for such a conclusion.There had been reports of domestic incidents earlier in the year between Smith and Rigby, who had two previous convictions for assault. A child protection medical evaluation was carried out on Ayeeshia after cuts to her chin and lip and a bald patch appeared on her head. No further concerns were raised, however, and the child went home with her mother.In the early hours of 4 April 2014, Smith called 999 after a heated row with Rigby, claiming he had threatened to burn down the flat. Care workers discussed Ayeeshia’s case after the call came to light but decided to provide domestic abuse support to Smith and to continue to monitor the situation.Smith and Rigby, both from Nottingham, will be sentenced on Monday. Their relationship continued after the death and Smith was seen giving a locket containing her daughter’s ashes to Rigby while at court.