A prison that recorded 10 apparently self-inflicted deaths in three years has failed to implement safety measures recommended by inspectors, according to a report published today.Woodhill jail in Milton Keynes, which houses some of the country's most dangerous prisoners, was also failing to meet the needs of young offenders in its care.Woodhill, opened in 1992, was the last prison to be built by public money. It serves local courts, but is also part of the high security prisons system and has units for vulnerable prisoners, high-risk juveniles and dangerous prisoners, who are held in a close supervision centre.Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, says seven out of 10 inmates had reported being victimised in the month leading up to her visit.She says Woodhill is not providing a safe and positive environment for inmates and adds that children who had committed serious offences were held in "entirely unsuitable" conditions. She describes her report as "depressing" and recommends that the six children under 18 currently held in Woodhill should be moved to a dedicated unit within the juvenile system.Six juveniles (aged 16-18) were being supervised by "enthusiastic and committed staff" but they had not been trained or vetted to work with children who had considerable risks and needs. The unit in which they were housed had been developed to meet the needs of adults and did not take into account the protection and welfare issues of children.The report says that the focus on security for the high risk prisoners is undermining the needs of the majority.Inspectors found that, of the 10 prisoners who had died in the three year period, nine had died during their first month at Woodhill - including five in their first week. They added that none of their earlier recommendations for improving early days in custody had been implemented. Reception procedures were poor and inmates at risk from self-harm were "poorly supported".Two thirds of prisoners not in special units were unemployed, only 70% of the education places were filled and prisoners on remand were unable to get legal advice on bail. Prisoners were not sure of getting daily association and the needs of short-term inmates were not identified.Ms Owers said that Woodhill was beset with underlying problems due to its complexity and the current pressures on all local jails. The prison also had a legacy of staff shortages and changes of governor. "But that does not excuse complacency, or the failure to put into place the basics of safety that are now commonplace in even more pressurised prisons."Yesterday staff invited reporters into the jail. "Woodhill has been behind the game," said Luke Serjeant, the new governor. "There is a lot of catching up to do. But I'm here for the long term and have been impressed by the determination of staff and managers to put things right."The director of the Prison Reform Trust, Juliet Lyon, said: "It is shocking that a prison with so many deaths in the first weeks in custody had failed to implement vital recommendations from the last report."