Police have launched a manhunt after two men were sprung from a prison van in Greater Manchester while being transported to court.Three men wearing balaclavas, one of whom is believed to have had a sawn-off shotgun, attacked the van shortly after 9am on Tuesday in Salford, about half a mile from Manchester crown court and Strangeways prison.Two of the three prisoners in the van escaped. They were Ryan MacDonald, 20, who was due to be sentenced for conspiracy to commit robbery, and Stevie McMullen, 31, who was on trial for conspiracy to kidnap, conspiracy to rob, conspiracy to commit arson and conspiracy to possess firearms.Police released images of the pair, and Ch Supt Kevin Mulligan said McMullen in particular posed a danger if approached. "I am concerned about them being on the loose," he said. "They are responsible for some serious offences. I don't think they present a risk unless they're approached."Mulligan said a man and a woman had been arrested on the Ordsall estate, where the car the attackers were driving was abandoned, on suspicion of being involved in the escape. But he said neither of the escaped prisoners was in custody.  Ryan MacDonald, left, and Stevie McMullen. Photograph: PAThe third prisoner in the van was taken to the court as scheduled. He has been questioned in relation to the escape.The van, operated by the prisoner escort firm GEOAmey, was taking the men to Manchester crown court from the privately-run Altcourse prison near Liverpool. The vehicle's windows were smashed during the attack. No one was injured.Mulligan said the attackers arrived in a Saab car and after freeing the two prisoners all five men got into the car. After the vehicle was abandoned, three men ran into the Ordsall estate and the other two escaped on a motorbike, which was found abandoned on Thurlough Street..Police said two men were freed from the vehicle NEWand they have deployed large numbers of officers to the area in a bid to recapture the prisoners.A witness told the BBC he saw three masked men in a dark green Saab drive across the carriageway into the side of the prison van. in the opposite carriageway. "I called the police and then I could just hear the smashing, the screams, everything that was happening," he said. "I looked back because I could hear some more shouts and there were some men running towards me so I sprinted as fast as I could into the estate. I was pretty scared to be honest."In 2011 two Liverpool gangsters were freed in a similar attack on a prison van off the same stretch of road. Tony Downes and Kirk Bradley escaped in an ambush as they were being taken from Strangeways to Liverpool crown court. They were later caught in the Netherlands and returned to the UK after being sentenced in their absence to minimum jail terms of 22 years.