Shamefully, ministers are seriously considering making another ignominious lurch to the right on crime control and welfare reform. They have been debating - even before lawlessness among children was pushed to the top of the political agenda by last week's collapse of the Damilola Taylor trial - whether child benefit should be withdrawn from the parents of children who persistently commit crimes or play truant. The liberal left will need to move quickly to coordinate their opposition. The Tories signalled yesterday that they are not opposed to the principle behind the plan. Like many moves prompted by gut instinct, the proposal has a superficial populist attraction. But the gut was not designed to produce thoughtful responses. What is proposed is unnecessary, unworkable and wrong. It is unnecessary because it ignores powers, which already exist, for courts to impose fines on parents for failing to ensure their children go to school or order them to attend classes to improve their parenting skills. It is unworkable because there are no simplistic solutions for such complex issues as juvenile crime. According to yesterday's leaks, parents who had made a genuine effort to get their children to school would be excused. But who would make this judgment: the already over-burdened courts or, even worse when so much would rest on value judgments, social security or education officials? Would there be different deductions for truancy compared to law-breaking? Whitehall must be aghast at the administrative nightmare proposed. It is wrong for a host of other reasons. Some benefits are linked to behaviour. Unemployment, disability and maternity benefits all have conditions applied. But child benefit from its beginning has always been universal and unconditional. It is not restricted to good children. It is paid to the parents of all 13 million children in the country. It is there to support parents, not make children behave better. Ministers - and David Willetts, the Tory work and pensions spokesman - fail to understand how fundamental a change they are proposing. If child benefit can be adjusted to correct persistent truants, there would seem to be no reason why it should not be adjusted for other reasons too. Why not apply deductions to parents whose children are found drunk? Surely the prime minister has learned by now how difficult it can be for parents to control teenagers. There are further objections. If benefits are to be withdrawn from struggling families, the incentives for children to commit further crimes will be increased by their lack of cash. Equally important, deducting benefits of tearaway teenagers is far too late to achieve change. Unruly teenagers are a symptom, not a cause. Unruly behaviour is not something that can be easily switched off. It requires investment at a much earlier age. Ironically, the government has been investing in just such programmes. Parenting programmes are beginning to mushroom under three different umbrellas - Sure Start, youth offending teams and Home Office-supported voluntary groups. About one third of all families with children under five in deprived areas will have a chance of a Sure Start place. There is positive feedback on court-ordered parenting skill courses, with parents not under an order queuing to join in too. And last week, Labour revealed it was investing a further £66m in anti-truancy drives and special schemes for unruly pupils. Ministers should hold their nerve: their positive programmes offer much more hope than their latest punitive populist plan.