It was the day the immigration debate came to the cosmetics section of Harvey Nichols. In 2005 Michael Pech from Slovakia walked into the store and shot dead his former girlfriend before turning the gun on himself. In the media, the fact that Pech was Slovakian appeared almost as important in this crime as his unrequited obsession with Clare Bernal.After other murders involving foreign nationals, a steady stream of police chiefs have said that their forces cannot cope with the increased pressure immigration has placed on them.The most recent addition to the chorus was the Kent chief constable, Mike Fuller, Britain's highest ranking black policeman. He told government ministers in a letter that was leaked that "migration surges" had contributed to an increase of more than one-third of violent crime over five years to 7,800 incidents in 2007. The first to raise the issue was Julie Spence, chief constable of Cambridgeshire, in September last year. Many immigrants thought it was acceptable to carry knives in their home countries and carried on doing so here, with implications for knife crime, Spence said. Immigrants were also prone to perpetuate feuds. "We recently had a murder that was Lithuanian on Lithuanian and it could have happened in Lithuania," Spence said, "but it didn't." Her police officers, she said, were having to solve murders involving foreign nationals and 100 different languages. Languages in which, unsurprisingly, they rarely had any proficiency. This was costing the force £800,000 in translators.Newspapers extracted information that strengthened the chief constable's case. "A foreigner is arrested every four minutes in England," said the Express. Of 79,308 foreign nationals arrested in 2006, Polish migrants "account for most of the arrests". Only 18 forces provided them with a nationality breakdown and across those 18, a total of 7,300 Poles were detained. Lithuanians and Latvians also appeared in the top 10 across the 18 forces. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, seemed to agree there was a problem. In the letter she sent to police chiefs acknowledging their concern she said 2,310 crimes had been committed in the UK by Poles in the first half of 2007. But today's police study has concluded that the surge in immigrants from eastern Europe has not fuelled a rise in crime. It would appear that the rate of offending in Polish, Romanian and Bulgarian communities is in line with the general population. "What type of crimes were these eastern European immigrants committing?" asks Keith Best, of the Immigration Advisory Service. "If they don't understand the rules of the country then they are likely to fall foul of them and that's why there may well be a peak in crimes committed by recent arrivals. If you're used to fishing freely in Lithuania — carrying off a swan from a lake — then you might not know that it's wrong here." But he does give top marks to Cambridgeshire police, which is the only force to have produced a book — one of the causes of its high translation costs — in many languages that explains British laws to immigrants. And there might be a darker hue to the police chiefs' arguments. The Labour MP Gwyn Prosser, who sits on the home affairs select committee, agreed that his constituency had suffered between 1999 and 2001 when too many migrants had "had an effect on policing and resources".But he still questioned the timing. Prosser's Dover constituency is in Fuller's constabulary. "Fuller briefed MPs at the time that the police settlement was up. He did play pretty heavy on the impact of migrants. It's at that time of year all chief constables make their pitch for more money." Best echoed this point: "Not to rubbish Julie Spence but it is insensitive to use migration to build your case to get more money."Spence defended her comments this morning, reminding people she had only ever said she thought immigrants had given police "significant challenges" rather than caused a "crime wave". The report does agree with her comments that certain migrants may be more likely to commit certain types of offences, such as drink-driving among Poles. Spence reported drink-drive figures showed a 17-fold rise among arrests of foreign nationals.