Postwar public art in England is “disappearing before our eyes”, whether through wilful destruction, accidental loss, theft or sale, a heritage body has said.Historic England is launching a campaign to raise awareness of how much art is being lost, whether metal sculptures being stolen and sold for scrap or architectural friezes being deliberately ripped down by developers.While many works have been destroyed, HE hopes some could still be out there and is issuing a public call for information.The organisation’s chief executive, Duncan Wilson, said there was a whole category of art that had been unjustly ignored over the years. He said: “We may have lost more than we know and we feel now is the time to do something about it.“A lot of these pieces were commissioned against a background of optimism, good intentions, civic values and a lot of them were of very fine quality. Unfortunately, you lose things you don’t understand or treasure and perhaps, because nobody was standing up for this kind of art, the result is some of it has been lost. This is a call to arms for all of the public to get involved.”Historic England has listed nearly 40 works that have been lost, destroyed, stolen or sold. The best and worst of public art in cities – readers' pictures They include famous cases such as the theft 10 years ago of Henry Moore’s two-tonne Reclining Figure from the 72-acre Henry Moore Foundation estate in Hertfordshire. The most likely reason for the theft of a work estimated at £3m was that it was melted down for scrap for about £1,500.Other examples include:A Bernard Meadows bronze abstract sculpture of a cockerel commissioned in 1959 for a fountain in the grounds of Crown Woods school in Eltham, south London. It was sold at auction in 2004 for £18,800.The Watchers by Lynn Chadwick, 1960, in the grounds of the University of Roehampton, south-west London. One of three figures that make up the piece was stolen in 2006, with police estimating it would take at least eight people to carry. Its whereabouts are unknown.Trewin Copplestone’s four 2 metre-high fibreglass bulls were placed on the side of Birmingham’s Bull Ring shopping centre in 1963. When the centre was rebuilt, the bulls disappeared.The Cambridge piece by Barry Flanagan, an abstract sculpture installed on Laundress Green in Cambridge in 1972. It was badly received, got a drubbing in the local press and was heavily vandalised by the public, including students. After several attacks it was vandalised beyond repair.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Artist Barry Flanagan at home in Dublin. Photograph: Eamonn McCabe for the GuardianWilson said the new research may only be the tip of the iceberg. “Part of England’s national collection of public artworks is disappearing before our eyes,” he said.“We’re making efforts to protect the best examples of postwar public art that still exist, and make sure that it continues to enhance the public realm. But we also want to raise awareness of just how vulnerable these works can be and we want the public to help us track down lost pieces.”The artist William Mitchell has four works on the list, including one which became popularly known in Basildon as the Pineapple. This was a sculptural fountain commissioned for Ford Motor Company’s premises Trafford House in 1977. It was last seen in 2011 when it was moved into storage as the building was converted into flats. It was reported missing in 2012.Named and shamed: the six worst works of British public art | Jonathan Jones The other works are an imposing sand-blasted concrete sculpture he made for Churchill Square shopping centre in Brighton; and two works from 1964 – a sculpted concrete sun terrace for Swiss Cottage swimming baths in London; and a sculptural relief for the Northern Polytechnic in Islington, London.Mitchell admits he was sanguine about their loss. “As far as I’m concerned if they don’t want it then they don’t have it,” he said. “Some of the things have been taken away because the land in London is so expensive; every bit of land has to have a block of flats.“Of course the public wants the art but it doesn’t matter what the public want, it is ‘what’s the profit?’ It is all to do with money, nothing else.”As well as the campaign HE will stage a related exhibition telling the stories behind the lost art at Somerset House in London from 3 February to 10 April. 