Police are so concerned about the safety of Maxine Carr that they have advised her to wear a bulletproof vest, the high court was told yesterday.During a hearing at which tabloid newspapers unsuccessfully challenged an order banning the media from revealing details of her new identity, it emerged she had received "real and immediate" threats to her life. One person wrote to Ms Carr, who was released from prison yesterday after completing a jail term for lying on behalf of the Soham murderer Ian Huntley, saying she would be shot, while another warned that she would be "dead in six days". The Home Office announced Ms Carr's release at lunchtime yesterday. She was moved from Foston Hall prison in Derbyshire on Wednesday and was held at a secret address until her release. Police have undertaken a risk assessment and told her that she ought to wear protective clothing. On Thursday, hours before Ms Carr was due to be freed, an injunction was served banning newspapers, broadcasters and internet sites from revealing her new name and address or publishing new photos of her. The Sun and the News of the World, together with the Mirror Group, argued in court that the injunction was too broad, claiming particularly that a ban on "soliciting" information meant that they would not be allowed to "monitor" Ms Carr. They also claimed that moves to protect her new identity were useless as she was so instantly recognisable. Before Mr Justice Eady, lawyers for Ms Carr, 27, and the Home Office insisted that the stringent order was needed if "disaster" were to be avoided. Edward Fitzgerald QC, who represented Huntley's former girlfriend, said: "These threats are being taken seriously and investigated by the police." Mr Fitzgerald successfully won orders protecting Mary Bell, who murdered two boys while a schoolgirl, and the schoolboy killers of James Bulger. He said the threat against Ms Carr was greater than that faced by Ms Bell and on a par with that faced by the Bulger killers, Robert Thompson and Jon Venables. He also referred to the theft of documents from a Home Office official's car this week, saying it was not certain that details had not fallen into the wrong hands. Mr Fitzgerald also claimed that protection was needed if she were to be rehabilitated. Matthew Nicklin, for Newsgroup Newspapers and the Mirror Group, said the papers did not contest the continuation of an order banning publication of Ms Carr's new identity and whereabouts. But he said the press should have the right to "monitor" Ms Carr in case in later life she did something of legitimate public interest - for example getting a job at a school. He said there was "a strong and proper public interest in knowing the identity of criminals" and suggested that if the order stood it could "open the floodgates" to other offenders seeking the court's protection. Mr Nicklin said unless Ms Carr had "substantial plastic surgery" it was "almost inevitable" she would be recognised. He suggested changing her name would be as pointless as Naomi Campbell calling herself Jane Smith. He also pointed out that the order would not stop foreign journalists or individuals, who would could then sell details of Ms Carr's life to the press attempting to track her down. Mr Justice Eady ruled that the interim injunction should stand, though a further hearing at which it can be challenged will be held next month. The judge said: "There is clear evidence of danger to the life and physical wellbeing of the claimant."