The Home Secretary's proposed amendments to the Criminal Justice Bill (which, in its 280 clauses and 29 schedules, has already passed through all stages of the House of Commons and goes to the Lords this week) will, to put it mildly, justifiably irritate the judiciary.Traditionally, if not constitutionally, it is the courts of law that impose penal sanctions, because they alone can do justice (and be seen to do justice) weighing the public's right to protection against dangerous offenders and the individual offender's interest in his or her postponed liberty. Until recently, Parliament simply fixed the maximum penalty. The exception was the penalty for murder for which life imprisonment was the sole penalty. The departure from that tradition in 1997 by the outgoing Conservative administration (endorsed by Mr Blunkett's predecessor) in prescribing other mandatory life sentences was socially unhealthy, politically unwise and unnecessary for any penal purpose.Courts should always have available the whole range of penalties up to life imprisonment. One yearned for the Home Secretary to declare, not merely deep concern about heinous murderers, but some utterance on the quality of mercy. Is it right that a woman who deliberately kills a violent husband or partner should be subjected to a starting point of 15 years in prison before her release can be considered? Most murders are not the result of violence by a stranger on an unsuspecting victim, but occur within the domestic scene. The proposed three-tier classification of murders - 'whole life' for the most wicked homicides, 30 years for very serious killings and 15 years for another category of serious cases - runs counter to the widely held view that it is impossible to classify murders. That was tried in the Homicide Act 1957 which sought to distinguish between capital and non-capital murders - a disaster which prompted many to espouse the abolition of the death penalty in 1965, since when every sensible politician and administrator has imbibed the views of the Royal Commission on Capital Punishment in 1953 that to categorise murders is to search for the chimera. If the Home Secretary's proposals get to the statute book, there will be endless arguments about which category any particular case falls into. A few years ago, Lord Mustill stated in a murder case, which was being decided judicially in the House of Lords, that the time was ripe for radical reform of the law. He said: 'The law of homicide is permeated by anomaly, fiction, misnomer and obsolete reasoning.' Three months later, in yet another judgment in that final court of appeal, Lord Mustill repeated his sentiment, joined by Lord Steyn. Both Law Lords pleaded for 'a new law of homicide, or a new law of punishment for homicide, or preferably both'. Politicians have ignored that plea. Few people in the administration of criminal justice would dissent from the proposition that, as in Scotland, there should be an offence of culpable homicide encompassing also death by dangerous driving, which absurdly carries a maximum penalty of only 10 years. And culpable homicide amounting to murder should be reserved for cases of intention to kill. It is a common misapprehension that a person can be convicted of murder only if he intends to kill. In fact, only a minority convicted of that offence have had that intent. It is sufficient for the prosecution to prove an intent to cause serious injury. If death ensues, however unexpected, however sincerely unintended, the offence of murder is made out. The Home Secretary's latest claim - that courts' fixed tariffs under the recent guidelines of the Lord Chief Justice are not long enough - is unwarranted. It obscures the fact that a dangerous killer will remain in custody under a life sentence so long as he or she represents a risk of repeated violence. There is no evidence that trial judges who pass variable sentences in cases of manslaughter (often barely distinguishable from murder) and in other crimes carrying a discretionary life sentence impose inappropriate sentences. Upon the dangerous or the most wicked killers, the courts would almost certainly pass sentence of life imprisonment, with recommendations for long periods of incarceration. For the wide range of criminal responsibility and the variable factors in the less serious murders, the existence of determinate prison sentences, or even non-custodial penalties, will invariably meet the demands of adequate punishment and protection for the public. The argument against making life imprisonment the maximum penalty for murder without any fixed starting point for the types of murder is that it statutorily equates the most serious offence in the criminal calendar with all those other serious crimes which carry a discretionary life sentence. But the legislation could distinguish murder from other crimes in one important respect. Every sentence on a convicted murderer should confer on the Crown an unqualified right of appeal. This would go further than the Crown's present right to apply to the Attorney-General for leave to appeal against an unduly lenient sentence passed for any indictable offence. The effect would be for sentencing policy and practice in cases of convicted murders to lie with the Court of Appeal. The light or lenient sentence by the trial judge could be readily corrected and the fears of Home Secretaries about appropriate control over sentences for murder would be allayed. There's an urgent need to restore harmony between Whitehall and the Strand. Parliament can do it. · The Observer Crime and Justice debate www.observer.co.uk/crimedebate