Michael Howard today pledged he would abolish Labour's early prisoner release scheme and take Britain's jail capacity to six figures for the first time.In another sign of pre-election campaigning, the Conservative leader made his speech, in which he denounced sentencing as a "lie and a charade", in the constituency of the Labour election strategist, Alan Milburn.He said: "Sentencing today is a charade - in fact, it's worse than that. It's a lie."A Conservative government will introduce the principle of honesty in sentencing. Judges will sentence offenders to a minimum and maximum number of years in prison. The minimum will be served in full. Prisoners who behave well and are no longer a danger to the public will be released at the end of their minimum sentence."The Liberal Democrats immediately attacked the idea of twin-pronged sentences as likely to create more prisoners. The party's Home Affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said: "Howard's words may sound tough, but he is conning the public by suggesting that prison works. With over half of prisoners reoffending, creating even more prisoners will just create more criminals."The real tough policy is to tackle the causes of reoffending rather than pandering to a rightwing agenda."Mr Howard, who coined the phrase "prison works" as home secretary in the 1990s, when he claimed to have reduced crime by 18%, committed a future Tory administration to creating an extra 20,000 prison places, taking Britain's total potential prison population to 100,000 for the first time.He said: "Of course, no one likes having to build more prisons. But the first duty of government is to protect the public. The cost to society of failing to take action is far greater than the actual cost of building prisons. That is why a Conservative government will invest in more prison places - 20,000 more prison places."Under the current system, prisoners sentenced to fewer than four years are automatically released after serving half of their sentence. Prisoners sentenced to more than four years are commonly released after serving two-thirds of their sentence and sometimes earlier. Under the Tory plans, judges would sentence offenders to a minimum and maximum number of years in prison, the difference between the two terms being in the region of 20%.Mr Howard said Mr Blair had admitted that more than 3,500 crimes, including 500 violent crimes, had been committed by prisoners on early release - although the PM had dismissed the figure as representing "only 2% [of criminals on early release] reoffending"."Precious little comfort if you are one of [their] victims" Mr Howard said.Abolishing the early release scheme was one of William Hague's key policies in the 2001 election campaign, which included a TV ad showing prisoners leaving the jail gates to go on to commit rapes and other violent crimes. The National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders criticised the plan. Its chief executive, Paul Cavadino, said: "The proposals are based on the misconception that you are not serving a sentence unless you are behind bars. It ignores the fact that when offenders are released they are under supervision and restrictions, and that is also part of the sentence. "The money that the Conservatives are proposing to spend would be better spent on measures to prevent crime, support victims and develop constructive alternatives to prison."A Labour party spokesman said: "Labour believes in prison being for the most serious, dangerous and persistent offenders. "To have any credibility in this area the Tories must explain how they would pay for their prison places policy, which they themselves cost at over £700m."A Labour backbencher, George Foulkes, noting that Jeffrey Archer was apparently on the point of being readmitted to the Tory party, pointed out, that under Mr Howard's plans, the disgraced peer would still be in jail.