It was a tip-off to Scotland Yard’s art and antiques unit that a stuffed gorilla’s head was wending its way to the UK that sparked the hugely complex investigation into the theft of scores of priceless artefacts stolen from churches across England and Wales.Police have now gone public on the operation, revealing to the Guardian that they have so far recovered dozens of objects that had been taken from holy buildings.Detectives have executed warrants on addresses in London, Kent and Wales and found objects including statues, stained glass, stonework, friezes, brasses and bibles, seemingly systematically stripped from churches over the last decade. A major incident has been declared and detectives are hunting for the person or gang behind the thefts, searching for more stolen objects – including a cup that Christ is reputed to have drunk from at the Last Supper – and trying to puzzle out where many of the items it has already recovered belong. Det Insp Martyn Barnes of West Mercia police, which is heading what has been codenamed Operation Icarus, said it was a painstaking and sometimes difficult inquiry. “But it’s an interesting one. I never thought I’d be spending so much time learning about church artefacts. Some of the items that have been taken are described as priceless because they are unique. Some of them may fetch tens of thousands pounds on the black market; others go for £50, £60.”Operation Icarus began two years ago when Customs and Excise tipped off the Metropolitan police that a south London man was planning to import a gorilla’s head. As a protected species, the movement of gorilla parts is tightly controlled. Detectives knocked on his door, talked to him about the gorilla and asked him if he had anything else they ought to know about. He showed them two 15th-century oak church panels and an interesting heart stone, which would once have marked the spot where a holy person’s organ was interred. Intrigued, the Scotland Yard detectives dug deeper and discovered the oak panels were part of the Torbryan screen, stolen from a Devon church earlier in 2013 and considered of national importance because they were one of the few such artefacts to have escaped the destruction of the Reformation.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The 15-century oak panels were stolen in 2013 from the Holy Trinity Church in Torbryan, Newton Abbot, Devon . Photograph: Diana Neale/Late in the Day Imag/PALess grand but also hugely important, the stone turned out to be from Dore Abbey in Herefordshire and marked where the heart of the 13th-century bishop of Hereford, John de Breton, was interred. It was taken in 2012.At this point, West Mercia police, which covers Herefordshire, took over and launched Operation Icarus (codenames are randomly computer-generated but this one seems to fit particularly well). A team of detectives began talking to the south London collector, other dealers and scouring the internet. They realised that for at least six years, and more likely for a decade, a person – or persons – had been targeting remote, often unlocked, churches and stripping them of precious artefacts. So far police have recovered 60 pieces. Churches that have been reunited with missing objects include St Cuthbert’s in Holme Lacy, Herefordshire, which was mourning the loss of its misericords – mercy seats – and St David’s in nearby Much Dewchurch, which lost Saxon stonework in the shape of a nun’s head. Churches in Suffolk, south Wales and Gloucestershire have also had items returned. It is easy to see how some of the items could have been spirited away but the theft of one artefact recovered by the Icarus team – a knight’s head weighing a couple of hundred kilos that was chiselled from St Michael’s Church in Castle Frome, Herefordshire, shows that planning and organisation has gone into the thefts. So who is behind the thefts? The London man with a penchant for gorilla heads has been treated as a victim rather than a suspect. Others who have been found with stolen items have argued they bought them in good faith – when churches are closed they are often stripped legitimately and items sold on. However, it is understood a middle-aged man from mid-Wales has been questioned in connection with the Icarus discoveries. He has not been charged with any offences. A precious artefact that remains out of the reach of the Icarus team is the Nanteous Cup, which some claim is the Holy Grail – the cup from which Christ drank at the Last Supper. It was stolen from a house in the village of Weston-under-Penyard on the Herefordshire/Gloucestershire border in 2014 having been lent to an ailing woman because of its supposed healing powers.The hope is that the Icarus team will eventually trace the cup, which legend has it was brought to Britain by Joseph of Arimathea after the death of Christ and then taken to Wales during the reign of Henry Vlll.One surprising difficulty is returning the recovered items. Not all churches have reported that artefacts have gone missing; often they don’t even know they have gone. “For example, we had a piece of stone cross that had been taken from a church in Suffolk,” said Barnes. “They didn’t know it had been stolen.”Operation Icarus is planning to make a television appeal for help next month and has sought help from the Churches Conservation Trust (CCT), which cares for 347 historic churches, in identifying the objects it is still holding. Crispin Truman, chief executive of the CCT, said the theft of historic objects from churches deprived the whole nation of its heritage. He said: “It’s shocking that these people think its acceptable to deprive the community of what is rightfully theirs for their own private profit or pleasure.”Truman said he believed the way forward was not for churches to be locked up but to be even more open. “If a church looks used and cared for and loved it’s more likely to put these thieves off. The knee jerk reaction may be to lock the doors. We think it’s better to have more lawful eyes and ears in churches.”