The need to eliminate racism goes well beyond the police service with sweeping policy changes needed in education, housing and across the public sector, says the report. 'Colour-blind policing must be outlawed,' it concludes, adding that without change the very idea of policing by consent will be the victim. Sir William Macpherson says he expects the opportunity for 'radical thinking and root and branch action' to be seized. 'Nothing less will satisfy us and all those who so passionately spoke to us during our hearings. The gap between the police services and local communities may seem to be great, but early steps welcomed and encouraged by both sides will surely lead to confidence and co-operation. This may then be the start of the beginning of change.' In part two of his inquiry report the former High Court judge says that from their meetings around the country and the thousands of suggestions that reached the inquiry team it soon became apparent that a narrow interpretation of their task would be pointless and counter-productive. 'Wherever we went we were met with inescapable evidence which highlighted the lack of trust which exists between the police and the minority ethnic communities. 'At every location there was a striking difference between the positive descriptions of policy initiatives by senior police officers, and the negative expressions of the minority communities, who clearly felt themselves to be discriminated against by the police and others. We were left in no doubt that the contrast between these views and expressions reflected a central problem which needs to be addressed.' Sir William says the atmosphere which surrounds the investigation of racist crime was best summed up by David Muir, representing senior black church leaders, who said 'the experience of black people over the last 30 years has been that we have been over-policed and to a large extent under-protected'. It was a theme which was heard wherever the inquiry team went and was also echoed by the simple but eloquent and clearly heartfelt plea: 'Please treat us with respect'.  The inquiry report says the message they got was uncompromising: the onus to create the new atmosphere of mutual trust and confidence clearly and firmly lies with the police. That means the police service must examine every aspect of their policies and assess whether their practices create or sustain patterns of discrimination. The provision of policing must be professional with every individual treated with respect: 'Colour-blind' policing must be outlawed. The police must deliver a service which recognises the different experiences, perceptions and needs of a diverse society.' But the inquiry also warns some of those who are most vociferous in their condemnation of police officers to guard against their own racism. 'There is readiness without justification to assume and to say that because police officers are white they must be acting to the disadvantage of minority ethnic communities. Racist prejudice and stereotyping can work and be evident both ways. In the search for justice, and in the quest for better relationship between the police services and minority ethnic communities this must be firmly borne in mind. Racism either way must be treated with zero tolerance,' says the report. It adds that blanket condemnation of the police is both unfair and unproductive: 'Every day police officers all over this country show courage and dedication in what are often dangerous and challenging circumstances. We saw and heard senior and junior police officers at all our meetings who plainly wish to correct the imbalance which is apparent. Chief officers who appeared before us acknowledge that action is necessary. Too many of those who decry the police services allow themselves to go beyond fair criticism. We simply say that there must be full co-operation on all sides to combat racism. Surely there must be optimism and hope that this will be achieved,' says the report. The inquiry says 'there is a striking and inescapable need to demonstrate fairness not just by the police but right across the criminal justice system in order to generate trust and confidence amongst minority ethnic communities who see themselves being discriminated against by the system. Just as justice needs to be seen to be done so fairness must be seen to be demonstrated in order to generate trust. Making the generating of that trust a ministerial priority is the obvious route to ensure that happens in every police force.' The report says this lack of confidence threatens the policing by consent in all areas of their work, not simply in the policing of racist incidents and crimes.  Race Relations Act The inquiry found no justification for the continued exemption of the police service from the full provisions of the Race Relations Act. 'Chief officers should be vicariously liable for the actions of their officers. Similarly we consider it an important matter of principle that the police services should be open to the full provisions of a Freedom of Information Act. We see no logical grounds for a class exemption for the police in any area.' Stop and search The report says the most universal complaint was about the use of police stop and search powers: 'Nobody in the minority ethnic communities believes that the complex arguments which are sometimes used to explain the figures as to stop and search are valid,' says the report, adding that the experience is compounded by being stopped and searched under traffic legislation, drugs legisation and so-called 'voluntary stops'. The inquiry says that the issue was not within its terms of reference but its conclusion is that the 'perception that discrimination is a major element of the stop and search problem is correct'. 'There is no doubt that the formal statistics are the tip of the iceberg. If all the other stops under additional legislation were recorded it is clearly felt that discrimination would be even more evident. It is pointless for the police service to try to justify the disparity in these figures purely or mainly in terms of the other factors which are identified. The majority of police officers who testified before us accepted that an element of the disparity was the result of discrimination. This must be the focus of their efforts for the future. Attempts to justify the disparities through the identification of other factors, whilst not being seen vigorously to address the discrimination which is evident, simply exacerbates the climate of distrust.' The report concludes: 'It is essential to obtain a true picture of the interactions between the police and minority ethnic communities in this context. All 'stops' need to be recorded, and related self-defined 'ethnic data' compiled. We have considered whether such a requirement would create too great a bureaucracy for operational officers, and we are persuaded that this is not the case . . . we have also specifically considered whether police powers to 'stop and search' should be removed or further limited. We specifically reject this option. We fully accept the need for such powers to continue, and their genuine usefulness in the prevention and detection of crime.' Racist incidents  The report says the police and other agencies do not or would not realise the impact of less serious, non-crime incidents upon the minority ethnic communities. The collective experience was of fine policies adopted by senior offices, and indifference on the ground amongst junior officers. 'The actions or inactions of officers in relation to racist incidents were clearly a most potent factor in damaging public confidence in the police service.' Housing and education Too often housing departments were seen to be too slow and bureaucratic in response to racist tenants. The inquiry found disturbing evidence of widespread racist attitudes amongst very young children and that although schools had anti-racist policies they were rarely implemented. Schools were not inclined to 'advertise' or make public racist problems. The inquiry says the national curriculum failed to reflect adequately the needs of a diverse and multi-cultural and multi-ethnic society and the number of exclusions from schools were disproportionate to the ethnic mix of the pupils. Racist incident definition  The current definition in use by the police talks of a racial incident being any incident that involves an element of racial motivation to the officer or an allegation of racial motivation made by any other person. It is poorly understood by many officers. The inquiry says the use of the words 'racial' or 'racially motivated' is inaccurate and confusing because all belong to one human race regardless of colour and the word 'racist' should be used in their stead. 'A racist incident is any incident which is perceived to be racist by the victim or any other person,' it suggests. Such a clear and uncompromising definition is needed to ensure it provides no shelter for those who are unwilling to accept that racism is involved. Multi-agency partnership There is plainly a need for much more co-operation between the police, local government, housing and education officers, probation officers and many others to combat racism and to exchange intelligence such as on racist tenants or racist incidents in schools. The new Crime and Disorder Act provides a fresh opportunity for genuine co-operation in developing anti-racist strategies. Complaints system The inquiry was universally told there was little confidence amongst minority ethnic communities in the present system with the majority view that the whole system needs to be independent with particular unease over the regular investigation of one police force by another. 'The importance of public disquiet must not be underestimated,' says the report reprinting Lord Scarman's original recommendation that 'unless and until there is a system for judging complaints which commands the support of the public, there will be no way in which the atmosphere of distrust and suspicion between the police and the community can be dispelled'. Deaths in custody There seemed little if anything in the reports of internal police investigations into deaths in custody which could not or should not be made available to those who complain to the Police Complaints Authority about such cases. Making them public would be a helpful short-term step in building public confidence in the complaints system.  Metropolitan Police  The inquiry found there was a greater degree of distrust between the police and the minority ethnic communities in London than elsewhere and there was different standards of training in the capital and elsewhere. The inquiry says that it is time to end the attitude within the the Metropolitan Police of considering itself apart from most other police forces, and bring it into line with the national pattern of accountability. The report says openness and accountability require that all Met chief officers should be appointed by the new Greater London Police Authority and be fully accountable to it.