Metropolitan Police claims last week, that soaring street robbery could be blamed on the need for increased security patrols since September 11, do not stand scrutiny.Although offences more than doubled in the year to December 2001, the figures are consistent with a long-established increase in this type of crime.In the first six months of 2001, street robberies in the capital rose by over 20%, to some 5,500 offences in July. The average monthly figure of 6,400 after the US attacks shows therefore a similar rate of increase.Claims that robbery has been fuelled by mobile phone ownership are more justified, with more than 28% of offences now involving a mobile phone. This, however, does not in itself explain why robberies are increasing.According to the Home Office, street robberies have increased nationally by 13% over the last two years. Had robberies where only phones were stolen been excluded, the figure would have been 8%. The increase in street robbery cannot, therefore, be blamed entirely on mobile phones.Even were this to be the case, it would not excuse the apparent inability of the criminal justice system to combat such offending.Another oft-heard "explanation" is that much of street crime is "kids robbing kids", and, by implication, somehow of less consequence. In a society where violent crime is normally regarded as more serious when against children, this apparent reversal of logic in the case of street robbery seems bizarre.Nor should it be forgotten that a number of people each year actually die in such incidents - a figure likely to rise with an increased use of firearms, such as the shooting of a female victim in London on New Year's Day.Asking what is to be done about street robbery is, of course, easier than providing useful answers.As with all issues, the extent and nature of the problem need first to be ascertained. In this, the Home Office has taken an important step with the publication today of a report entitled "Mobile Phone Theft".It makes grim reading, but contains no surprises for those involved in combating street robbery. Police officers often ask why those researching crime so rarely seem to consult officers or the offenders themselves, rather than academic theorists. This paper makes no such mistake.Street robbery, as with other crime, can only be tackled successfully with a multi-level approach, not all of which is within the power of the police to deliver.Thus, for many years it has been known that one of the main problems in tackling phone theft has been the ease with which a stolen handset can be re-used. In theory, each set has a unique electronic identification - the IMEI number. A service provider can block a handset from being used, once notified of its theft. The IMEI number does not have to be known by the loser, as it can be obtained from the victim's ordinary mobile number. Once blocked, a mobile phone cannot function, regardless of the SIM card used.Unfortunately, it is a simple matter to alter the electronic identity of a phone. Service providers also state that manufacturers may give more than one phone the same IMEI number - meaning that to block a stolen phone could inconvenience several customers.These are issues that only the industry can resolve, but Vodafone point out that even the facilities it offers to track stolen mobiles are under-used by police.Nevertheless, the suspicion remains that, as was once feared the case with car stereos, manufacturers are reluctant to lose the repeat purchases that enhanced security would clearly curtail.It is often suggested that thefts of mobiles occur because the victim has what the thief does not. Experience suggests otherwise. Much phone theft is a highly organised business, with the robbers giving the sets to handlers who, after any necessary modifications, sell them on wholesale, often for export.Targeting such handlers is hard work and resource intensive, with convictions difficult to secure. But a successful operation to remove a prominent handler, while not producing numerous clear-ups, will often have a marked effect in reducing crime.Of course, removing a handler is not the same as convicting him. Courts have a vital role to play in ensuring that handling stolen goods carries more risk of a greater sentence than pure theft, as sentencing guidelines suggest.The courts also have a role in passing sentences against robbers to protect the community at large.The Home Office paper faces up to the thorny question of who is committing street robberies, and why. It identifies that, in most areas, young black males are overwhelmingly responsible.Without acknowledging this - so difficult for the police - very little progress can be made in tackling street crime and its causes. In London, 71% of those charged with such offences are black, although only 8% of London's population is black.It is not enough to say that poverty alone is a reason for such criminality. The boys who steal do not, generally, have any more materially difficult lives than those on the same estates who do not. Experience suggests, however, that many are excluded from school, and even more are missing a positive male role model.In resolving street robbery, there are factors at work beyond the ability of the police alone to control. The issue is complex, and separate from that of mobile phones. It involves uncomfortable truths of victimised society in terms of both victim and perpetrator.Regardless of those complexities, the inexorable rise of street robbery marks the apparent inability of society and, in particular, the criminal justice system, to adequately deal with juvenile violent crime. This, rather than the technical properties of phones, is the key issue to be addressed.· Charles Shoebridge was a serving Metropolitan police officer from 1988 to 2000