A police officer half an hour from the end of his shift was shot dead at point blank range by an enraged gamekeeper who was holding his partner and a friend at gunpoint after an early morning row.The officer collapsed, covered in blood, moments before his killer, Peter Medlicott, turned the gun on himself in a quiet street near the centre of Shrewsbury, Shropshire, yesterday morning. The officer was named as PC Richard Gray, in his 40s and married with no children.He was one of a police team, some armed, called by neighbours to New Park Road, where shouting and threats had been heard in the top floor maisonette shared by Mr Medlicott, 33, and his partner, Mildred Day. Residents said there had been frequent rows since he moved in three months ago.He was reported to have a hunting rifle for his gamekeeping, although friends at the Canal Tavern opposite the flats said he was "usually placid", and very careful - even with his air rifle, which he kept locked in his 4x4. "I can't imagine what flipped him over. I met him only two nights ago and he seemed fine," said Richard Duggan, a trainee electrician and drinking companion of Mr Medlicott's for 15 years. "I was off to work early this morning and everything was quiet, then suddenly there were police with guns everywhere.""Then I saw a copper being stretchered into an ambulance. For a police officer to be shot like that is just terrible."The flat's nearest neighbour, Peter Walker, said he and his wife, Karen, had been woken by quarrels since Mr Medlicott arrived, after living with his parents in their 1960s terrace half a mile away, which was also under police guard yesterday.Mrs Walker, 49, said she had heard what sounded like a shot followed by confused shouts of "he's got a gun". She said: "I looked out of the window and you could see two officers pulling the policeman who had been shot along the road. He was bleeding badly. Then we heard another shot a couple of minutes later."Mr Walker said: "I heard it was a domestic argument that went wrong, and the first police officer on the scene didn't realise the guy had a gun. Some people have said it was a hostage situation, the argument had got that bad."When I saw the policeman dragging an officer from a hedge, his whole upper body was covered in blood. The second shot was muffled, and I think that is when the gunman turned the gun on himself."Paul West, chief constable of West Mercia police, called a media briefing in Shrewsbury last night and praised the courage of the officer, who had yet to be officially named. The officer's neighbours at Bayston Hill, in Shropshire, said he was "quiet and friendly". One woman, who asked not to be named, said: "He loved to spend his time washing his car or doing the garden. He even planted daffodils on the grass verge across the road; that's the kind of man he was.It is understood no police weapons were fired during the incident, which automatically becomes the subject of an inquiry by the Independent Police Complaints Commission because of the deaths. An IPCC investigator was at the scene yesterday.Detectives are waiting to talk to Ms Day and a friend of the couple, known to neighbours only as Robin, who was in the flat at the time of the incident.Mrs Walker said that the pair, both in their 30s, were escorted from the flat arm in arm by police after the shootings: "They were both in such a state. They were crying and shaking. The police were helping them because they could barely walk."Sergeant Andy White, chairman of West Mercia police federation, said the force's 2,500 officers were shocked. "But I would reiterate that what we have seen today is a very rare event in West Mercia," he said.Officer's courage - Two awards in 12 monthsThree months ago Richard Gray was commended for his courage and professionalism in apprehending a violent man armed with a semi-automatic pistol.This award came after a certificate of commendation from West Mercia's chief constable, its highest form of recognition, last year.PC Gray and PC John Morris, both members of the armed response team, were praised for their "determined and professional approach in arresting a violent man who ... used extreme violence in an effort to escape".They were on duty in the early hours of April 22 last year when West Mercia police received a tip-off about a man known to them.Shortly after 3am they spotted him in his car and stopped it for a search. He became "aggressive and began to throw items from the glove compartment into the road," according to West Mercia police.The officers saw him put an object into his jacket pocket. Asked to step out of the vehicle, the item, "a black self-loading semi-automatic pistol", fell to the ground.The suspect picked it up "marksman" style and pulled the trigger several times, before both officers wrestled him to the ground and eventually overcame him with CS spray. Inspector Alan Piggott, head of the armed response team, said the gun was found to be deactivated only on detailed examination, almost impossible in the tense moments of arrest. The offender was jailed for two years after admitting possession of an imitation firearm with intent.In September last year PC Gray was one of four officers commended for rescuing two women from the Severn at Shrewsbury; one was being swept away in the fast-flowing river. Despite considerable risk to themselves, the officers successfully brought her to safety.Thair Shaikh