It was a breaking story on the evening news. The Super Mario Brothers Bandit – so-called because the bushy fake moustache and cap he wore to rob banks resembled the Nintendo character – had been arrested. “Game over,” said the newsreader. And from her seat on the sofa, 13-year-old Molly Brodak saw her father’s sad-looking face float into view in the corner of the screen.Few people ever think about a criminal as some child’s dad. The default is simple: bank robber equals bad person. But the truth is more complex, says Molly, now 36, and it was one of those times when a kid knew the truth better than the adults around her. “My dad wasn’t all bad. He loved us; he cared for us. He wasn’t just a bad person.”At 13, Molly had to accept that the person she most looked up to was, in the eyes of the world, a wicked and dangerous character who had to be locked away from other people. Like most children whose parents end up in jail, Molly had been economically, socially and emotionally deprived well before her father, Joe, was finally caught for a series of bank raids, in which he would simply saunter into a bank, pass the teller a note saying, “I have a gun”, and demand cash.At school, other kids gave her strange looks: they knew, and she knew they knew. When Joe Brodak was sentenced to 10 years in prison, Molly’s future seemed clear. The odds were stacked against her: the chances were that she would fail in education, and might even end up in trouble with the law herself. Law-breaking, like so much else, often repeats from generation to generation.But that’s not what happened. Instead, Molly withdrew. “I didn’t have big bunches of friends or do lots of sports. I spent a lot of time in the library. I buried myself in my books.”She did well at school. In fact, she shone. When she got a college place, it seemed she had avoided the pitfalls of being a criminal’s child, and a successful future was assured. But Molly began to shoplift. She was a hard-up student, her dad was in prison and her mum didn’t have much money. She was good at shoplifting and it meant, just as it had for Joe, that she was able to cope with tough financial times. We learn behaviour from our parents: if this is how her dad got out of monetary holes, this was how Molly did it, too. But when she had been shoplifting for a while, the thought hit her: there would come a day when she would be caught, just as her father had been.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Molly Brodak is a poet and professor of English at Kennesaw University in Georgia“I knew it would be only a matter of time until I made a mistake or got sloppy with my methods and found myself with a criminal record,” she says in her memoir, which is published this week. “I resolved to quit while I was ahead.” Looking back, she can see exactly why it all happened. “It was a way of acting through – then resolving – the pattern of theft that destroyed my family.”Today, Molly is a poet and professor of English at Kennesaw University in the US state of Georgia. Her memoir is stark and moving: she hones in on dark moments in her childhood, such as when her dad told her and her sister that he was divorcing their mum (for a second time) because she had cheated on him. Did they know what that meant, he asked? “He spoke slowly and loudly, as if he wanted to hurt us with the words: ‘It means she let another man stick his penis inside of her.’ I slumped as if cowering, went hot with tears. I felt sick from these people, how they acted and talked, the things they wanted, their stupid bitterness and coarse desires, how we had to be carried around recklessly by them.”Molly’s memoir is a missive from a childhood in crisis. She grew up in Michigan, in a series of cheap apartments. “My memories are of dirty carpets and dingy stairwells,” she says. “We were a working-class family, and Dad was a gambler, so sometimes there was money, and sometimes we were hungry.”Her mum was viewed as a homebreaker because her dad had been married when they met and she became pregnant with Molly’s older sister; her dad denied he was married time and again, until Molly’s mum discovered the truth. The family set-up, Molly says, was built on deceit: her dad was secretive, mysterious, slippery, impossible to pin down. “He never told the truth and he made you feel like you were crazy when you asked him what was going on. Then there was his money. One day his car would be repossessed, another day he’d come home with a gold watch. One day he had no money to pay the bills, another day he was Mr Big.”The day Molly and her mum found out that he had been arrested for robbing a bank, she realised something – and she could tell from her mum’s face that she realised it too. Despite the shock, despite the shame, despite the horror of what had happened, there was another emotion: relief. “It was relief that, finally, he had been pinned down,” she says. “This was something concrete. He was a bank robber.”Our family’s criminal past Joe Brodak served seven years of his 10-year sentence. He got out, went straight for a while, then robbed another bank at gunpoint and is currently 12 years into his sentence for that. Although the rest of the family are not in touch with him, Molly is. When a family member is in prison, she says, it is easy to have nothing to do with them. She doesn’t blame her mother and sister for taking the path they have chosen, but feels that, for her, the only way was to find out everything she could about her father.For the memoir, she delved into Joe’s deprivations and difficulties (he was born in Poland in a camp for those who had survived the concentration camps, and served in Vietnam), she examined her parents’ early relationship, and she thought about his reasons for embarking on a life of crime (just as for her, it was an easy way to make money). As far as their future relationship is concerned, she rules nothing out, and nothing in.Meanwhile, Joe has told Molly that he is proud of all she has achieved, and how she did it against the odds. “I’m always hesitant to believe anything he says,” is Molly’s verdict on that. But it is clear that this is one thing she really hopes is true.• Bandit: A Daughter’s Memoir by Molly Brodak is published by Icon Books, £14.99. To order a copy for £12.29, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call the Guardian Bookshop on 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p on orders of more than £10, online only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99