Eastwood Park women's prison in Hampshire is "an establishment in crisis" says a report by the chief inspector of prisons published yesterday.The prison inspectorate found that the 300 inmate jail was failing to provide basic standards of safety and healthcare, and was "unable to provide a safe, decent and constructive environment" for its population, which includes 60 girls aged between 15 and 17. The health care unit was overwhelmed, with the level of psychiatric illness "beyond the expertise and number" of nursing staff. The report also describes facilities for visitors at the jail as "humiliating and degrading" - there were no toilets for visitors and inspectors found excrement and dirty nappies in a hedgerow. The unannounced inspection in October last year found that 76 of the 112 recommendations made by inspectors after their previous visit two years ago had not been carried out. Ann Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, said: "This is a very troubling report of an establishment in crisis and, at the time of inspection, unable to provide a safe, decent and constructive environment for many of the women and girls within it. "It is a picture of an establishment whose management had been overwhelmed by the real difficulties it faced, to the extent that it was unable to provide coherent leadership, strategy or regime. It had resorted to reactive crisis management creating unacceptable deficits in safety, decency and constructive activity for prisoners, and impossible working conditions for staff." While there were some excellent staff at the jail, they were struggling to provide a baseline of decent treatment for the many damaged and vulnerable inmates. Ms Owers also criticises the prison service for failing to identify and act on the problems at the jail sooner.  "The crisis situation should have been identified much earlier, not only by managers in the prison but by those they report to at area and headquarters level," she said. Martin Narey, the director general of the prison service, acknowledged the report's criticisms. "Although the chief inspector criticises the prison service for its 'culture of coping' with such problems, the reality is that we must cope." "Eastwood Park was inspected at a particularly difficult time when staff shortages were at their worst. These have been significantly eased recently with the arrival of newly recruited officers." He said the regime at the jail was improving as a result. Prison reform groups said the courts were at fault for jailing too many vulnerable women and girls. Paul Cavadino, chief executive of Nacro, said: "The female prison population has rocketed from 1,300 at the end of 1992 to over 4,300 now. This is placing an intolerable burden on women's prisons." Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said it was a "shaming coincidence" that the report came in the same week as the launch of a new £5 note featuring a portrait of Elizabeth Fry, the Victorian penal reformer. "Elizabeth Fry revealed conditions in Newgate jail which shocked Victorian England. More than 150 years later Anne Owers exposes the shameful state of Eastwood Park. We imprison the same number - over 4,000 -women and girls for the same reasons: poverty, debt, homelessness, mental illness and the effects of drink and drugs. It was wrong then and it is wrong now."