n 1994, the charity Barnardo's set up the UK's first child sexual exploitation programme in Bradford. There are now 21 centres nationally, dedicated to turning around the lives of thousands of sexually exploited young people. All this began as a pilot project, developed into Streets and Lanes working with child prostitutes, and is now known as Turnaround.During the 1990s Bradford saw hundreds of young girls, some as young as 11, pimped out by older men who kept them in squalid bedsits. The average age of under-18 'working girls' (and boys) was just 14. Barnardo's demanded a change in the law to ensure that men who engaged in unlawful sex with children were charged and punished with the most serious of sexual offences instead of the minor offence of kerb crawling.Around the Thornton Road area of the city, local companies and residents complained when 'business' was affecting commerce. In 1999,The landlady of the Black Swan pub told the local Telegraph & Argus that she lost 40% of her trade over three years when the area became known as a red light district. Barnardo's could not be sure of how many under-age girls were coerced into the sex industry because the majority of trade took place behind closed doors. Child prostitution still has close links to the drug trade, a form of diversification and 'business' expansion.Barnardo's campaigned to change the public perception of these young girls and for courts to take the trend in child prostitution seriously. Over time, the 'teenage vice girls' portrayal by much of the media in the 90s has been replaced by moral outrage at the calculating, predatory nature of sex gangs who 'groom' teenagers for sex. Kay Kelly, who has worked for the Bradford project for 12 years, looks back to her first years with Streets and Lanes: The reality wasn't recognised. These young people weren't seen as victims. They were very much seen as perpetrators themselves and treated as adult prostitutes.Of course they weren't because they were all under the legal age for consent. With reference to Rochdale, she says: It's good to see some convictions and that people are taking it more seriously, But the race argument detracts from the issue.Kelly has learned to look at each case individually:They're all so different. You can have that older male or female abusing one young person - that happens, but you can also get one male linked to lots of different young people or things run by a gang. I think that we are only seeing the tip of the iceberg. There's lots more going on out there that we don't know about, but we're definitely going in the right direction. People are starting to see the young people as victims but we've still got lots to learn and it changes all the time.She lists warning signs which everyone can be aware of: If young people are going missing from home regularly, if they return home late, if they start missing school - sometimes they're exploited during the day when they are supposed to be in school.If they are starting to use drugs and alcohol, if they have lots of money and no explanation as to where that money has come from. Sometimes they are given gifts. Lots of secretive use of the internet, on the 'phone all night talking. Sometimes parents have got hold of 'phones and found there are quite explicit texts. People can find out about the indicators are if they log on to the Barnardo's website here.She adds of another indicator:The rate of self harm is quite high and there are different levels of it, from superficial cutting to serious overdoses. Young people may be taken into care because the grooming process can completely break down the relationship between the parent and the child. Equally there are young people who are in care for other reasons and that makes them vulnerable too.For Kelly,the main message is this:Every young person is vulnerable. We can't stereotype – we've seen that each case is so different for young people and perpetrators . We don't want to fall into the trap that people think: 'This is what it looks like when a young person is being sexually exploited', because we might miss something. It's about being aware of the indicators and knowing where to go for some help and support. Barnardo's would much rather be contacted and someone be wrong than not do anything and for that young person to get really involved in it.Grooming often starts online, Kelly says: The number just gets passed around or the BBM pin. Sometimes they are contacted on Facebook – then that gets passed around to other people and they just get bombarded with messages. For an unsuspecting young person, it's extraordinarily powerful.There are instances where child pornography has been used as part of the grooming process. It does'nt happen all the time. Quite often you have SMART phones and it's 'Send me a picture of you in your underwear'. Next thing, that photo has been passed around to everybody, everybody is aware of it and once a photo is out there, it's out there. You don't have any control over it. The fear that parents or friends will find out can be enough to silence a child.Every day, Kay Kelly heads out into the streets or sits in her office as girl after girl, boy after boy describes their abuse. When high profile cases finally hit the headlines for a few weeks, she is still there listening, supporting and advising the children that have either escaped or been discarded. Children turn up with cigarette marks, burns, bite marks,threatened with knifes; torture which makes 'grooming' seem a completely inadequate word. She says:The perpetrators are so different, some will continue to use the children for as long as they possibly can. With others, as soon as the young person becomes known to various agencies, they become too much of a risk and they move on.Barnardo's battle goes on, and is making progress. Kelly says: We have many success stories . We've worked with lots of young people who have gone onto exit programmes and made a recovery from exploitation who keep in touch and they are leading happy, fulfilling lives. It's possible to recover if they get the right support – we've seen it, and that's the best bit. There's light at the end of that tunnel.Advice and Support in the NorthThe Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre offer advice and guidance to children and parents here. Crimes of child sex exploitation can be reported here where there is also advice for professionals who are worried about a young person. In Bradford and across the North, Barnardo's offer advice, support and counselling - details here. In Leeds, Genesis offers support - details here.Anne Czernik is a freelance photojournalist specialising in activism in the north of England. In her second piece here, she talks to young people out at night in a small North Yorkshire town, and unaware of the risks they run.