Yesterday's five-year crime control plan contains some serious social reforms ruined by being wrapped in rotten rhetoric. The language was all the more unforgivable given the constructive noises being made by the two main opposition parties - emphasising the need for better education programmes for young offenders and more support for parents under stress - before it was launched. The worst offender yesterday was Tony Blair with his naked pitch for headlines and support of the right with his ludicrous claim that the programme "marks the end of the 1960s liberal, social consensus on law and order".Where has he been? There are two responses to this assertion. First a reminder that the liberal consensus ended over a decade ago when a succession of oppressive hardline laws introduced by Michael Howard were not only endorsed by Labour, but even implemented and extended by them after 1997. A UK prison population that had taken four decades to increase by 11,000 between 1951 and 1991 climbed by 25,000 in the last decade. Despite the largest and most sustained fall in crime for over a century - a one-third reduction in burglary and car crime - we are still sending proportionately more people to prison than the most repressive foreign regimes: Burma, Saudi Arabia and China. Second, as Roy Jenkins, former Labour home secretary responded when Margaret Thatcher tried the same tack, if the reforms of the 1960s were so bad (liberalising censorship, gay relations, divorce, abortion and abolishing hanging) why hasn't the government reversed them? Mr Blair conceded there were gains in the 1960s but failed to recognise Mrs Thatcher's egocentric universe - with its focus on individuals - was a major driver in eroding civic society that he rightly regrets. At the heart of yesterday's package is a welcome new system of community policing. Every generation has to rediscover for itself what earlier generations discerned. Community policing, pioneered here in the 1980s before being sidelined and exported to Chicago, is now being re-imported. The precise form is being spelled out later, but the right lesson has been drawn: not even doubling the number of police officers would be sufficient for policing a society of 60 million people. Policing requires the help of the community. In return the Home Office is promising a new way of policing with locally based neighbourhood teams meeting the priorities of residents and answerable to them. There have already been successful public reassurance policing pilots here on the Chicago model, much of the work concerned with low level crime and public nuisance - noise, incivility, rowdy behaviour. The more devolved the police become the better, but before being endorsed the police will have to demonstrate they have the managerial capacity; ministers recognise there will be a rise in recorded crime (by dealing with the host of incivilities currently ignored); and local councils must be fully involved. Better still is the commitment to press ahead belatedly with the alternatives to prison set out by the Halliday report just before the 2001 election. The aim is a big expansion of community programmes. The number of youth inclusion programmes is to be doubled to 140; electronic tagging doubled to 18,000; and by 2008 a promise of 200,000 drug treatment places. Add in the prevention that pre-school programmes, 2,500 children's centres and family support projects provide and this is progress. What was missing in an era when there is a consensus that short-term prison sentences cannot correct the mental, emotional and educational shortcomings of most offenders, was a boldness of vision. Why, when Tory home secretary Douglas Hurd cut prison numbers when crime was rising, can't Tony Blair when crime is falling?