The American flatmate of student Meredith Kercher broke down as she was questioned by detectives, police said yesterday, amid reports she had heard the 21-year-old screaming shortly before she was murdered.In a police interview apparently leaked to media, Amanda Knox, one of three people held by police on suspicion of killing Ms Kercher, said that she covered her ears when she heard the British foreign language student screaming in her bedroom in Perugia shortly after a second suspect, Diya Lumumba, had entered the room.Police were yesterday examining a flick knife with an 8.5cm blade "compatible" with the wound to Ms Kercher's throat, and in the possession of Raffaele Sollecito - Ms Knox's Italian boyfriend - according to the news agency Ansa.Documents to be submitted today to the judge considering the suspects' formal arrest were also reported, and appeared to play down the involvement of Sollecito. Amanda Knox, stated the document, "has shown an unscrupulous tendency to lie repeatedly to investigators, involving the young Sollecito in such a serious affair".Ms Knox, 20, Mr Sollecito 24, and 37-year-old Mr Lumumba, the manager of a bar in Perugia, are now in custody. The three have been held since Tuesday on suspicion of murder and sexual assault."Ms Knox crumbled under questioning," the Perugia police chief, Arturo De Felice, said yesterday. Ms Kercher had been found dead, stabbed in the neck, on Friday November 2 at her student accommodation, and Ms Knox originally claimed she was out the previous night. "The three are now in jail with a chance to reflect on the inconsistencies in their accounts."A judge is expected to visit them today at the Perugia jail where they are held in isolation. A prison psychologist has visited the three, who were not allowed to see lawyers or family yesterday. A neighbour of Mr Lumumba heard him shout "I haven't done anything" as he went into custody, the Corriere dell'Umbria reported.Luciano Ghirga, appointed Ms Knox's lawyer on Wednesday, said her mother, Edda Mellas, had arrived from Seattle. "She is convinced her daughter is innocent," he said. Mr Sollecito's lawyer, Tiziano Tedeschi, said his client was at his home in Perugia on Thursday night. "We believe he was online that night. We are sure of Raffaele's innocence." Both lawyers said they were "outraged" Ms Knox's statement was leaked to the Corriere della Sera. Mr Tedeschi said Mr Sollecito had been "lynched by the media".Mr Sollecito at first backed the American student's claim they had been together on Thursday night, but later told the police he had been alone at home without her in the evening before she joined him at 1am.Ms Knox studied with Ms Kercher at Perugia's University for Foreigners. Her MySpace site also refers to her working at the bar run by Mr Lumumba.She allegedly said in her statement she met Mr Lumumba on November 1 and went to her house with him; she then spent the night at Mr Sollecito's house and returned next morning to find the house door open and blood in the bathroom.Police say they now consider the case closed.