A leading thinktank has found that 12% of adults are so lacking in faith in the UK's criminal justice system they would not report a murder.The Institute of Public Policy Research says the failures of the system are seriously undermining it. Witnesses are vital in the detection of crimes, the successful prosecution of offenders, and the securing of justice for the innocent. But the IPPR found that the public's cooperation was being "taken for granted" and responsibility for witnesses was fragmented. The IPPR's report, Reluctant Witness, says that almost six in 10 of the 1,000 people polled said they would not report screaming from their neighbours, and 70% would not contact police over a street brawl. One in four witnesses was unhappy with courts, and 40% said they would be unwilling to act as a witness again. A senior police officer noted that witnesses were "just the cannon fodder of the criminal justice system. Sarah Spencer, co-author of the report, said she was astonished that the research found 12% would not report a murder and 15% would not report an assault. "There has been so much hype about how much people are worried about crime, but people are not bothered about reporting it. "The failure of witnesses to come forward is evidence of an alarming disengagement from the criminal justice system that government must address if we are to tackle crime effectively. Witnesses' contribution is vital, yet clearly can no longer be taken for granted." The report found the public was deterred by fear of retribution, anxiety about their treatment, and lack of confidence in the outcome. Ms Spencer said witnesses should have access to a seamless service of information, advice, and reassurance. She said some people were encouraged to give a statement - on the grounds that it would be unlikely they would have to give evidence in court - but then received a summons. Four in 10 witnesses had to attend court for two or more days, and 17% had to wait for more than four hours before being called. The attitudes towards crime were also revealing. "If it was a major crime I might report it," said one respondent. "Shoplifting and drugs you just wouldn't bother." Another said: "If it was a fight where you know one is not trying to get away from the other, I think I wouldn't get involved." In a foreword, the BBC Crimewatch presenter, Nick Ross, said: "As this report explains, the criminal justice system handles witnesses with such insouciance that many are deterred from coming forward. Unless we move towards a more transparent courtesy to witnesses, justice will alway be enfeebled, and may progressively erode to the point of crisis." The report suggests reform could lie in training for judges and magistrates that would reinforce their right to intervene over oppressive questioning of witnesses. And witnesses could be reimbursed for actual loss of income and expenses. After the trial, they should receive a court letter thanking them and telling them about the outcome. An ombudsman for victims should also be set up, says the report. This body would review the service provided to all witnesses and make recommendations for reforms. A witnesses' charter should be drawn up to set out standards of service people might expect, with a national hotline and website to encourage people to report crimes.