As academics, writers and health practitioners we have long argued that the trafficking figures quoted in government reports were debatable and were ramped up by vested interests (Sex, lies and trafficking, 20 October). The people and organisations in Nick Davies's article have often refused to allow their work to be subject to usual forms of academic, political, or media scrutiny. Further questions follow. Why did the government continue funding reports after we pointed out their intellectual and methodological shortcomings? Why have organisations resorted to threats of legal action over articles which questioned the credibility of the trafficking figures in the past? Why did it take two freedom of information requests and a whole year for the Home Office to send us its internal trafficking report?We have argued that the figures are based on questionable methods and that most are unreliable. While Home Office reports use an apologetic tone and many caveats to excuse the "poor" data and high margins of error, ministers, MPs and prohibitionists seized on the figures as indicative of a serious problem. The confusion and misinformation leads to the diverting of resources from other victims, increasing police power to invade ordinary workers' lives, and the further stigmatising of sex workers. The intensive surveillance and repeated raids justified by the exaggerated claims directly threaten the safety of sex workers by forcing them to be more clandestine. They also make it difficult for non-coerced sex workers, and indeed their clients, to collaborate in the exposure of traffickers for fear of arrest and possible deportation. The policing and crime bill's clause on premises closure orders is particularly insidious. These allow gross intrusion into ordinary women's lives and power to turn homeowners out of their homes on mere suspicion that sex work may take place in the future, in conjunction with the seizure of sex workers' hard-earned money. Clauses 13-20 of the bill are based on reports by the same organisations Davies writes about. All have been complicit in ramping up trafficking and sex-work scare stories. These clauses should not stand.Belinda Brooks-Gordon Reader in psychology and social policy, Birkbeck, University of LondonHelen Ward Professor of public health, Imperial College, Rosie Campbell Senior researcher, University of LoughboroughNick Mai Senior research officer, London Metropolitan UniversityJane Scoular Reader in law, University of StrathclydeHelen Self Independent historianAnthony Grayling Professor of philosophy, Birkbeck, University of London Petra M Boynton Lecturer in international health services research, UCLMichael Goodyear Asst professor of Medicine, Dalhousie University, CanadaMarina Della Giusta Senior lecturer, University of ReadingJohn Davies Former visiting research fellow, Sussex Centre for Migration Research Katie Hickman AuthorGraham Scambler Professor of medical sociology, UCL Nicola Smith Senior lecturer of political science, University of BirminghamRuth Morgan Thomas European board member, Global Network of Sex Work ProjectsChris Ashford Principal lecturer in law, University of SunderlandMichele Farley Service manager, SHOC (Sexual Health on Call) Jane Pitcher Postgraduate researcher, University of LoughboroughKate Hardy Doctoral researcherHilary Kinnell Author and past Chair, UK Network of Sex Work Projects Mark Cowling Professor of criminology, University of Teeside Coleen Moore Principal lecturer in criminology, Anglia Ruskin University[• The letter above was amended on 23 October 2009. The original listed John Davies as visiting research fellow, Sussex Centre for Migration Research. This has been corrected.]• Nick Davies is correct to point out that the data on trafficking is unreliable and inconclusive. However, he is in danger of creating an alternative ideology. The central issues are coercion, exploitation and the definition of "trafficking". Academics are aware that trafficking involving overt forms of coercion is much less widespread than once believed and that most of the women trafficked are involved in some form of debt bondage. Others are victims of deception and find that they have to work in the sex trade for longer than anticipated, or under conditions that they did not expect.However, the main point of this debate is the protection of vulnerable women. Most of the women I have interviewed over the past 20 years, in this country and abroad – trafficked and non-trafficked – have experienced different levels of coercion, exploitation, violence, deception, and other forms of persuasion from pimps, partners, punters and brothel owners. Thus, rather than make spurious claims that the current policies will "encourage working women to have sex without condoms", a responsible position would be to contribute to the debate about limiting coercion, outlawing deception, and removing exploitation. The bill going through parliament is an attempt to do just that.Professor Roger MatthewsLondon South Bank University• The figures Nick Davies reports throw into sharp relief the Home Office's shameful refusal to make policy on the sex industry based on evidence. Since the inception of the current bill, frontline projects, academics and sex workers have been decrying the harmful impact and increased dangers that will result from further criminalisation, particularly brothel closure orders, which effectively remove the protection of the law from the indoor sex industry. Our voices have consistently been ignored. The Lords has a final chance to make policy that does not do harm by throwing out these dangerous provisions.Catherine StephensInternational Union of Sex Workers• Nick Davies suggests trafficking is a myth because there are few convictions. There aren't many convictions for rape, or child sexual abuse, but we don't pretend they don't exist. The response to his suggestions is to improve policing and tackle wider social issues of poverty, unemployment, the inequality of women and the presumed "natural" demand of men for a ceaseless supply of women and children in prostitution. There is the hope that if this bill deters a significant proportion of "customers", then the shameful blot on our humanity that is prostitution will become a thing of the past.Finn MackayFeminist Coalition Against Prostitution• Not all feminists support the policing and crime bill. We have been campaigning alongside sex workers against workers being driven into clandestine situations where they face more dangerous and exploitative conditions. The government's trafficking policy, putatively concerned with women's rights, is really about migration. It serves not only to victimise migrant women, but also to criminalise migrant men. Moral panic over trafficking has created a smokescreen behind which the state has intensified its policing of all migrant workers, particularly women. Increasing police powers to raid workplaces and enforce inhumane migration controls can hardly be in the interests of any woman.Mary Partington & Gwyneth LonerganFeminist Fightback