Damilola Taylor's brother paid moving tribute to the murdered boy today at a memorial service in the church the family attended.More than 1,000 people, including the Home Office minister Paul Boateng and the local MP Harriet Harman, were at the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries to pay their respects to the 10-year-old who bled to death in a Peckham stairwell 10 days ago.Tunde, Damilola's 21-year-old brother, apologised to his little brother for not having been there to protect him. "Please forgive me for not being there for you. I am deeply sorry for not being there for you," he said.Loud sobs came from the mourners as Tunde delivered his emotional tribute. His father went to his side to support him as he took deep breaths to overcome his emotion.Tunde said Damilola had brought great joy and happiness to the Taylor family. "He was a God-fearing, friendly, intelligent, loveable boy that any expectant mother would always like to have. He is part of my life that can never be erased." Addressing Damilola, he continued: " My life can never be the same without you. I always wanted a brother, to share things with each other and obviously someone I could properly call my brother." In Nigerian culture a younger person must address all older men as either uncle or brother. Tunde continued: "Damilola only spent 10 years of his life but there was never any time when he was sick. He was a healthy, strong boy. Mostly he enjoyed playing football. Damilola, I can go on and on if I have to talk about you." He expressed his thanks to the police and to everybody who had supported his family. Mr Boateng paid tribute to Damilola as a "bright rising star". "Respect and love were at the heart of Damilola's life," he said. "Respect for his parents, respect for his big brother, respect for his teachers and respect for authority." He urged people with information about the killing to come forward. "Speak, speak, tell the police what you saw." Mr Boateng also indicated that there should be more police officers, saying that we need "new faces on the beat". "We know that, we respect that and we are determined that you will have that. But you know that it counts for nothing without love and respect. Love for one another whatever colour we are, whether we are African or Caribbean - yes, that too." Fighting back tears, he said that these were the values Mr Taylor and his family had taught Damilola. "I hope and pray you can teach us too." He added: "God bless Damilola, God keep his family and God help us find again those values of respect and love." The Rev Joel Edwards, general director of the million-strong Evangelical Alliance of which the church is a part, told the congregation that Damilola's death was an "absolute catastrophe". "All of us must do all we can for the rhetoric and the publicity to ensure that we work together for a better community." He said the police, politicians and the churches could not solve the problems of crime and community alone. But he said the greatest "desecration" of Damilola's memory would be to let the publicity and political reaction obscure the pain of his death. Damilola's father Richard, 55, put his arm round the boy's mother, Gloria, 49, as they arrived with Tunde at the church in Old Kent Road. It is the church Damilola had attended three times a week with his family since they arrived in Britain from Nigeria four months ago. Today's service replaces what should have been a celebration of the boy's 11th birthday. His father said Damilola had planned to mark the day by taking treats to school and sharing them with his friends. The service was conducted by Pastor Olukayode Owolabi, who knew Damilola personally as the schoolboy used to attend Sunday school at the Pentecostal church. Two Bible readings were taken from the Old Testament Book of Genesis, recounting the story of Joseph, who was bullied, thrown down a pit by his brothers and cast out of society, but who later recovered and prospered. Hymns sung at the service were Rock of Ages, Abide with Me and Blessed Assurance, with three more special songs being sung by children of the church's choir. Earlier a small group of Damilola's Sunday school friends sang a moving tribute to him entitled Thank You Lord. One said it had been a "privilege" to know Damilola. Damilola's father wept as a short piece of saxophone music was played. The Metropolitan Police were represented at the service at a very high level by Commander Joe Kay. The borough commander, Acting Chief Superintendent Rod Jarman, could not attend because he was deeply involved in the murder investigation. Organisers of the memorial service, which was put together in less than 48 hours, today received apologies for absence from the Prince of Wales, the mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, and the home secretary, Jack Straw.  Related storyPolice in Damilola inquiry seek gang of youthsRelated special report Policing crimeIn pictures Damilola Taylor's last journey Useful linksMetropolitan policeLondon borough of SouthwarkLocal media: South London online