Police and the Home Office yesterday hailed a small victory in the battle to eliminate football hooliganism with the announcement of a 10% decline in arrests for football-related disorder in England and Wales during the 2003-04 season.Arrests at league, cup and internationals matches involving teams from England and Wales were down from 4,413 in 2002-03 to 3,982 last year. With more than 36m supporters attending games the figures show an arrest rate of 0.01%, or 1.6 arrests per match. The majority of matches last season were trouble-free, with 50% of Premiership, 72% of first division, 82% of second division and 89% of third division matches passing off with one arrest or less. A quarter of all games took place without a police presence. Most trouble now occurs away from matches, with 87% of the arrests for violent disorder and 57% of total arrests occurring outside grounds. The reduction in arrests coincides with a 45% increase in the number of banning orders issued to known or suspected hooligans, a rise seen as central to the reduction in disorder at and around matches. There are 2,596 people subject to banning orders, which prevent them from attending English or Welsh league grounds and from travelling to games outside the UK, either to follow national teams or club sides. Last August there were just 1,794. The increase in banning orders has been welcomed by police, who in the past felt magistrates courts were reluctant to use the full powers of the Football Disorder Act and exclude individuals who came before them on football-related charges. The figures also reflect the increase in intelligence-led anti-hooligan operations in the past 12 months, funded by a £5m investment from the Home Office. Many forces have also made efforts to improve communications with supporters groups at local level, encouraging self-policing and establishing relationships with law-abiding fans that have helped them operate more effectively. The figures bear out the anecdotal evidence of a largely peaceful English presence at Euro 2004 in Portugal. There were only 76 England fans arrested in 2003-04, a reduction from 261 the previous season. Given that England took part in a major tournament, this is the most striking aspect. David Swift, deputy chief constable of Staffordshire police, who as the Association of Chief Police Officers spokesman on footballing issues led the successful Euro 2004 operation, said effective policing was behind the decrease in arrests. "Whilst I am pleased with the statistics we should not assume violence and disorder has gone away," he said. "There has not been a massive reformation of trouble makers, rather rigorous controls and investigations by the police are having a positive effect. "The last 12 months has seen a concerted effort by the police service to control behaviour at and around football games and to ban the maximum number of hooligans from attending future events. More than 1,200 new bans with most matches now trouble free, shows the tactics are working and they will be continued throughout this season." Caroline Flint, the Home Office minister responsible for anti-hooligan operations, welcomed the findings: "These statistics paint a very encouraging picture ... It is also pleasing to see a fall in the number of arrests at England internationals reflecting the exemplary behaviour of the vast majority of fans in the run up to and during Euro 2004. "However, the statistics reflect a lingering, if small, domestic disorder problem and we are not complacent. We will continue to ensure maximum use of the banning order legislation by providing ring-fenced funding to the police to proactively target known hooligans and maintain close international cooperation when England play away."