Court officials met today to decide whether to investigate allegations that jurors at the trial of Tony Martin, the farmer convicted of murdering a burglar last week, were "nobbled" or intimidated into bringing in a guilty verdict. They decided to take no action.The accusation was made by a woman caller to a local radio station, who claimed to have been on the jury.If the allegations had any substance, they could have been one of the grounds cited by Martin's lawyers in his forthcoming appeal against conviction. Nobbling could have prevented a fair trial if it influenced the outcome by persuading jurors to return a verdict they thought was unjustified.Jury intimidation is not a new development. Its origins go back centuries, when it was known as the offence of "embracery." It was a rash of attempts to intimidate jurors which led to the introduction of the majority verdict in the Criminal Justice Act 1967. This allows a conviction if 10 out of 11 or12 jurors (or nine out of 10) agree.In most nobbling cases, family or associates of the defendant try to intimidate jurors into finding him not guilty. The nobbling alleged in the Martin case - attempts by those on the victim's side to try to influence the jury to convict him - is more unusual.In the early 1980s at the Old Bailey there was an outbreak of jury nobbling and several trials, including one which had lasted for seven months, had to be stopped because of attempts to bribe or intimidate jurors.. As a result, juries were made to sit at the back of the court, out of view of the public gallery and brown paper was pasted over the doors of some courts to stop people looking in. Jurors were warned to eat only in their canteen and to stay away from nearby pubs and cafes.In 1983 eight people convicted of trying to bribe jurors received jail terms between eighteen months and seven years. The judge who sentenced them said: "Let those who try to nobble jurors beware."The Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 also brought in a specific offence of intimidating or causing or threatening to cause harm to a juror or witness, punishable by up to five years in prison.