For a man who believed passionately in justice and had devoted his career to it, it is a sad irony that the criminal justice system failed Andrew Chubb so spectacularly. Nearly two weeks ago, at a second inquest, that was partly put right, but it will never be known exactly how and why Chubb died, in a fire at his home in the village of Leigh in Somerset. The inquest would not have happened at all, had it not been for a tireless campaign by Kerry Sparrow - described variously as Chubb's lover or mistress, though she prefers "partner" - which has taken six years. Sparrow succeeded in getting the original coroner's verdict of accidental death overturned; this time, the coroner recorded a narrative verdict, saying there was not enough evidence to prove whether it had been an accident or suicide - something Sparrow has always questioned. "I'm happy with that," says Sparrow. "I feel wonderful that I got at least that for Andrew."Chubb, a 58-year-old judge, used to joke that Sparrow, 38, was like Erin Brockovich, the American legal clerk who built a case against a huge corporation and won. It is a good comparison. She claims to be "shambolic" (this is true - we laughed at how messy her car was, when she drove me back to the station near her home in a village in Hampshire) and says she does not read the Guardian very often because it is full of long words, but she kept on top of a complicated case and pushed it all the way to the door of the attorney general. She plays idly with an unlit cigarette in one hand, a lighter in the other, her feet in sparkly gold high heels tucked underneath her on the sofa, an unlikely thorn in the side of the system.On the night of July 27 2001, a Friday, Chubb died in a fire in a wooden shed at his Somerset farmhouse. Shortly before he died, he had told his wife, Jennifer, that he wanted a divorce - he had told her about his relationship with Sparrow some weeks earlier. According to Jennifer Chubb, he had then said he was going to mow the lawn; she had found him in the shed checking the sit-on mower and told him that they needed to discuss the divorce, but he refused. She said she went back inside to make something to eat, and sat down to watch television, when she saw the shed explode.The investigation over the next few days was described later by the Police Complaints Authority as "far from thorough". Even though police knew that Andrew and Jennifer Chubb had had an argument earlier, and that he had asked for a divorce, Mrs Chubb wasn't interviewed, her clothes were not taken, and her hands were not swabbed for evidence of petrol. A loud squealing of tyres described by witnesses was not followed up. The next day, a forensic scientist, Bob Bell, arrived to see if there had been any sign of a struggle in the house - nothing was out of place. With a fire investigator, Bell looked at the shed and concluded that petrol vapour from the cans in the shed could have built up and been ignited by accident, possibly by a match or by a spark from the mower, though neither expert claimed to have proof of this.Chubb's body was sent for postmortem. Instead of being conducted by a specialist Home Office pathologist, as is usual in suspicious deaths, it was done by Charlotte Fisher, a pathologist at the local hospital in Yeovil. Fisher did not inspect the lungs, which could have shown whether the judge was dead before the fire started, nor did she do any blood tests. That same weekend, Jennifer Chubb asked if she could bulldoze the shed and was told by the police that she could - the mower engine, along with any other potential evidence, ended up in landfill. After the postmortem (the cause of death was put as "burning"), Mrs Chubb was given permission to have her husband cremated. Sparrow didn't know any of this at the time, but she knew something wasn't right. When a police officer came to see her days after Chubb had died, he said that they would probably never know what happened. She couldn't work out why, if they were going to do an investigation. "I was told the investigation would last six weeks," she says. It took just a few days.There had been one theory that Chubb's death was a suicide - when Jennifer Chubb called 999, an operator overheard her telling a neighbour who had rushed to the scene that Chubb had killed himself. When police visited Sparrow, she says she had to force them to listen to messages he had left on her mobile phone the day he died, in which he sounded normal, happy and told her he would call her later. "Everything was wrong," she says. "Andrew was a very happy person. He loved life, he loved me. Then he goes home and he's dead in a fire. People don't generally burn to death in a shed, it's a very unusual thing. Accidents can happen but he was meticulous with safety and a very intelligent man. He wouldn't have lit a match in a shed full of petrol anyway."Things did not add up. The grass had been cut only days earlier by the Chubbs' gardener, Chubb did not smoke and probably would not have been carrying matches, the shed was flimsy - had a fire broken out, surely he would have been able to escape easily. Nobody heard any screaming or shouting from the shed, which surely would have raised questions about whether he was dead, or incapacitated, before the fire.Sparrow met Chubb while she was working as a legal assistant and he was a barrister. They swapped numbers, but their relationship did not begin until three years later, when he had been appointed a judge at Portsmouth crown court. "He was such a lovely man. He was funny, everything about him was wonderful." She knew he was married and had three grown-up children, but says that he told her his marriage had been over for a long time. "For 20 years, they wouldn't even hold hands or touch. He should have got out, but it had left him with low self-esteem. When he met me, he said it changed his whole life. It was like he was alive again. People noticed him looking younger, his sister said he had started to wear more fashionable clothes."What was their relationship like? "Just normal. I wasn't a kept woman, he wasn't paying for some penthouse in London for me. We did things like any other couple. I loved cooking for him. Whenever I went to his flat, he would cook for me and always made an effort to make it look lovely with candles. It was always wonderful. We argued sometimes, because we were a normal couple. He never hid me, we would walk around holding hands." Did she ever feel guilty about his wife? "No, because I knew it was a broken marriage. If it was a normal marriage, I would have done because I couldn't have seen a married man."They would see each other during the week, while Chubb lived at his flat in Portsmouth, and at weekends he would go back to Somerset. She says she never put pressure on Chubb to leave his wife, but that their relationship was becoming more serious. The weekend after his death, Sparrow says she was due to meet Chubb's son, Tom, for the first time, and she had agreed that he should meet her 12-year-old daughter, Sabina. "We were looking forward to that and the things we were going to do together, going away, things like that. On the Friday when he didn't phone, I wasn't concerned because I thought they probably had a lot to talk about. But then the morning call didn't come, and then the lunchtime call didn't come and I knew Andrew would know I was worried."Instead, a police officer called her and told her that Chubb had died in a fire. "I don't know how to explain the shock," she says. "For weeks, I didn't know what to do with myself. I'd go into the woods and just lie there on my own. It was hard for my daughter to see me like that but I couldn't deal with it." She was in such a state, her doctor prescribed sedatives. "I would take these tablets straight away in the morning because I didn't want to have to face the day. There are just things that you miss. He used to phone me so much, so when the phone rang it made me feel sick because I knew it wasn't going to be him. All these things were going through my mind - perhaps it's a mistake, perhaps he's not dead. On top of this awful grief, I had concerns about the investigation."The isolation was almost too much to bear, she says. "I just didn't know where to go with it. I wasn't family so I wasn't entitled to know everything." When two police officers came to see her, she says she knew she had to tread carefully and not be seen to be questioning the quality of their work, but she says they took a bullying tone with her. "One said, 'How do you know he didn't throw petrol over himself?' That just made me break down. I asked them to leave."She asked Jennifer Chubb, through her solicitor, if she could have some personal items from Chubb's Portsmouth flat - "nothing of value. I wanted the sheets from his bed, for instance, because they would have given me comfort" - but the request was refused. Sparrow, perhaps unsurprisingly, wasn't invited to the funeral, but attended anyway.When Sparrow received the files before the inquest, she decided to find her own experts to look over them. She found a forensic expert who specialised in the investigation of fires, Dr Chris Foster, and sent him the file. "He alerted me to the pathologist's report. He really had concern with it and said we had to get the inquest adjourned but it was hurried through." She was devastated at the coroner's verdict of accidental death at the inquest in December 2001, even though the coroner heard that the police "had no concerns" that Jennifer Chubb had had anything to do with it, despite knowing they had had an argument, that she was the only person at the scene and that they had not interviewed her or examined her clothing. Mrs Chubb confirmed that the judge had not been carrying matches, and so on the evidence of the forensic scientist Bob Bell, the coroner decided that sparks must have come from the mower's motor, even though the motor had not been examined.Sparrow, who had stood up in the court, angry and frustrated, and shouted "absolute rubbish" at the verdict, began bombarding Avon and Somerset police with letters and phone calls, asking for a new inquiry. "To begin with, they treated me like I was some sort of mad woman, unable to accept he was dead," she says. Eventually, the chief constable agreed to reinvestigate. The motor was dug up from the landfill site and tested - there was no reliable evidence that it had produced sparks which caused an accident - and Jennifer Chubb was arrested on suspicion of murder. However, she was released without charge (the coroner at the second inquest cleared of her of all suspicion, saying she would not have had time to rig a trap in the shed, and dismissed the idea that, as a nurse, she could have administered a sedative, saying there would have been no time for it to take effect). Didn't Sparrow ever feel like giving up during the campaign? "Maybe once or twice, but the next morning I was fine and straight back on it. It wasn't easy. After the police reinvestigated it, they wanted it closed. Then it became really hard as to where next to go. That was the hardest bit, getting through that bit. I was really getting in a state."Sparrow launched a formal complaint, and in 2003, the Police Complaints Authority described the original investigation as "far from thorough" and that "the clues from the outset were clearly suspicious".With the help of her solicitor, Raju Bhatt, Sparrow applied to the attorney general to get a review of the case. "It feels like all these doors were slamming on me, and I couldn't get through anywhere, but there was almost like this little bit of light to keep me going. I had to wait six months for the attorney general's decision. When that came through, I was so happy because I thought it must mean that there was enough to go for a new inquest." In November, at a judicial review, Lord Chief Justice Phillips ordered a new inquest."I had this new inquest and I should have been happy, but I couldn't afford it," says Sparrow, who had given up her job and was living on income support. The legal fees were going to cost tens of thousands of pounds. "Yet again, there was a huge block trying to stop me. Sometimes, I couldn't even afford the train fare to London. I knew there was no way I could get the money. I wouldn't even have been able to get a loan. That was one of the worst parts. I couldn't sleep at night." Her legal team eventually agreed to work for free. At the inquest Jennifer Chubb, who has emigrated to Australia and didn't attend, alleged that Sparrow had been blackmailing her husband, threatening to reveal their affair. "That really hurt me. It was ludicrous. Blackmail him for what?" She also said that Sparrow had had an abortion during her relationship with Chubb, something Sparrow didn't want to have revealed in public.What next now that it is over? Sparrow, who lives with her 18-year-old daughter, is starting a gardening business. "It's a strange feeling now because there's a huge gap in my life, it consumed me," she says. "It has been a nightmare, fighting the system just to put it right. It was hard but I couldn't let it go. Some of the failures are so serious, it would be wrong of me not to protect other people from going through what I did. I know Andrew would be really happy I've done it."What kept her going, she says, is that she knew she would get somewhere eventually. "I'm a strong believer that if the system does something wrong, it has to be put right and when they were fighting me all the time, that made me even stronger." A lot of her remaining anger is directed at the original pathologist, Charlotte Fisher. "Because of her, I'll never know," she says. At the inquest, the Home Office forensic pathologist, Hugh White, described the results of the postmortem as "insufficient", "confusing" and that they "did not make sense". Fisher had claimed that she could not get blood from Chubb's body; "I find it very difficult to accept," Dr White told the inquest. Fisher says she would not have carried out the postmortem had she been told by the police that there were suspicious circumstances.Can Sparrow cope with not knowing exactly what happened? She isn't sure. "I have to accept that's all I'm ever going to get, but I'm not sure I will. I can't explain it but I still think there is just something more to it. But it doesn't take over my life any more." One of the things she is glad about is that people have taken her and her relationship with Chubb seriously. She is in touch with his brother and sister, though has never had any contact with his children. Chubb's wife inherited his estate and life insurance and Sparrow has never tried to make a claim on it. "I'm not painted as some scarlet woman any more," she says. "It was said at the inquest how much Andrew loved me. I knew that already, but to hear someone else say it meant a lot. I still miss him, and I know that I will never have what we had with anyone else, but I've been grieving for six years. At first I would cry all the time and then after a while I wouldn't cry as much, but then that made me feel guilty. But after time, you learn to accept it."How has the whole experience affected her? "Sometimes I think it hasn't affected me, but maybe it has. I won't know, I don't think, until I start getting on with my life. I haven't been able to move on, but I will now. I'm not messed up by it, if that's what you mean. It probably has changed me, probably made me a bit more cynical but I hope it hasn't. When I look back on it, I remember how hard it was but at all times I had to do it. I don't think I could live my life had it not been put right".