David Blunkett, the home secretary, was forced to drop some of his plans to restrict the right to trial by jury after he became embroiled in an unresolved and angry stand-off with the House of Lords last night over the measures.In a classic piece of parliamentary ping-pong, the Lords threw out key planks of the criminal justice measure yesterday afternoon, forcing Mr Blunkett to make a string of concessions. But they proved to be insufficient for Mr Blunkett to secure his criminal justice bill last night. Instead, the peers voted by 148 to 99 to adjourn just after 11.30pm, requiring the bill to return to the Lords again this morning. It is highly unusual but not unprecedented for the opposition to force an adjournment against the wishes of the government. But government sources slammed the Tories for stopping proceedings, pointing out that the peers had earlier adjourned for three hours for dinner, in part to let some senior peers attend the state banquet at Buckingham Palace. The four key areas thrown out by the peers yesterday were: 路 Allowing defendants to choose a judge-only trial; 路 Restricting the right to jury trials in long and complex fraud cases; 路 Imposing a judge-only trial in cases of jury nobbling; 路 Allowing the presumption that a defendant's previous convictions, or bad character, will be used in proceeding. In a bid to secure an agreement, Mr Blunkett dropped the most controversial proposal that an accused person could choose between a judge only or jury trial in the crown court, a proposal from the Auld report. In a further concession, Mr Blunkett also proposed that the Lord Chief Justice would decide in long and complex fraud cases whether the jury should be abandoned, and instead let the case be heard solely by a judge. The government also promised that a judge would be required to consider whether a defendant could get a fair trial in a case of jury nobbling. The home office minister Paul Goggins became angry when it emerged that his concessions were insufficient, saying: "Loss of this bill would mean the loss of tougher sentences for people who commit murder." Dominic Grieve, the shadow attorney general, said the concessions were a step in the right direction. Issues of jury trial were "of absolutely fundamental importance" to the way justice was done in this country, he said.