My cat ate songbirds, savaged rabbits, toyed with mice to the death, clawed our dog relentlessly. None of us put it in the bin. Some might say our pet was cruel. But then, it was only a cat.The last five words were Mary Bale's, too, when she was confronted by reporters after that infamous CCTV footage of her dropping a cat in a wheelie bin appeared, and they helped fan the flames of public outrage at her actions. Some of the Facebook campaigns and the Hitler comparisons may have been tongue-in-cheek. But even Wednesday's Guardian report starts by referring to an "act of inexplicable cruelty" – an assumption that suggests an intent to hurt or maim that none can prove.She can't explain her actions, she said. No one can. We do know she was visiting a dying parent daily. Here's my speculation, to go alongside all the other speculation: that she didn't think the cat would come to any eventual harm, like all the cats that get stuck somewhere every day; that the next person walking down the street would hear it. Or perhaps it was that, having gone every day to a job in a bank, to come home via a hospital to deal with her stress and grief alone, she might have felt a stab of resentment at that simple cat; a cat that strangers like her would stroke, and that people would look after unconditionally, and for which a nation feels enough false sympathy to destroy a woman's life.Still, like all those who accuse her of being cruel, I'm only speculating. What we definitely now know is that Bale's father was dying, and has died. That she had to be signed off work with depression, that she has now lost her job, that she still faces vilification on every website that posts this story.That famous Gandhi maxim – that the test of a civilised society is how it treats its most vulnerable – is often adopted, rightly, in defence of animals. Even if our society hadn't sent thousands of animals to the slaughterhouse in the hours one cat spent in a bin, one might question the sincerity of the outrage. Even if most news organisations hadn't ignored the story of an asylum seeker who died while being restrained on a busy BA flight, one might question the priorities. But here, in Bale's story, the most vulnerable party no longer seems to be the cat.Google "cat in bin lady" and the first result is Nick Clegg "expressing his shock" – yes, that Nick Clegg, the one who signed up to all the cuts he opposed. Maybe he could understand someone acting out of character? Go to the Daily Mail's report and the most unpopular comment of all on this story is the man who points out "the cat was fine".A woman who was clearly suffering and remorseful and lost so much, was punished again on Tuesday. She's sorry for her moment of madness. The lynch mob should have a long hard think about their own.