This was a time of acute test. It was also a time to see which mediums handled the bleak message from the streets best. And, even under such pressure, it was both surprising and heartening to discover that, even in a riot, everything had its place.Digital first (as per current fashion). Not just debates about BlackBerrys in Arab springs and Hackney summers, but about the essential task of telling people what was going on – especially on that third, grisly night of rioting when an ordered society itself seemed to teeter on the edge.And there was no doubt what served you best in those hours of panicky pressure: a television tuned to 24-hour news (Sky just as much as BBC) in the corner of the room and a laptop or tablet scrolling through the sites of newspapers that have really put money and effort into building a web presence – say the Telegraph and the Guardian for starters. Cue interactive maps, recording every incident – but cue, too, the ability to gather in news from far and wide, to combine tweets, videos, the whole gamut of information, and put it out in a considered trice.The technique of the running blog, updated minute by minute, offers more detail than any conventionally orchestrated broadcast can do. It is not about men in suits with open-neck shirts and microphones. It's about facts, rippling apprehensions, perceptions. It's inclusive, not exclusive. And if you could see Croydon burning on a 42-inch screen, you could also glimpse the whole picture. You had a macabre seat in the stalls.Radio, for all its virtues, couldn't offer that – nor the sight of generations of the family Reeves watching the furniture store they'd seen handed down from generation to generation burnt to the ground. And print, naturally, was still further off the pace.There's no means on earth that enables printed sheets to be turned around so that the news you get is as fresh and urgent as you need in crises like this. Digital trumps that in a heartbeat. TV cameras in a chopper up above have spectacle and a seeming panoramic eye on their side. Heavy presses and lorries thundering through the night, in the first instance, are part of a moribund, if sentimental, old routine.But then, on the day after, other demands start to grow. Not the whats, but the whys – and the balance starts to shift. Once the helicopters are grounded – too expensive, too melodramatic, too much of an incitement to copycats? – TV goes back to arid studio discussions. Set Kelvin MacKenzie against an anti-capitalist rapper on Newsnight and what have you got? Mere heat without the slightest hint of light, confrontation as preordained tedium? And the queues of blogs spewing answers to questions that haven't been formulated yet are little better.The news that kept you riveted to your screen has gone. The acrid disgorgement of views that bolster only the self-esteem (or group loyalty) of individual bloggers has taken command. You need your newspaper again.For argument, for columns, for brooding contextualisation? Yes (in modest supply, to be sure: somewhere short of Melanie Phillips in the Mail pulling down the temples of loathed liberalism again). But also because professional reporters out pounding the streets with minds and notebooks open are priceless at times like these. Put Paul Lewis and James Harkin of the Guardian in London together on Tuesday and, in 1,500 or so words, you know more about the looters than 150 words to camera can ever reveal."One man said: 'Hampstead, bruv. Let's go rob Hampstead'. Another, looking at his BlackBerry, said: 'Kilburn, it's happening in Kilburn and Holloway.' A third added: 'The whole country is burning, man.'"And as multi-ethnic areas from London to Birmingham … burned, a myth was being dispelled: that so-called 'black youths' are largely behind such violence". Here were Asians and whites, 10-year-olds in Enfield and teenagers in Hackney. Here was a girl smiling sheepishly as she carried a wedding dress away in Peckham.There'll be millions more words to read and hours of earnest discussion to watch before all this is over, shedloads of Melanie, Littlejohn, Parris et al. What began in shock will subside under the weight of its own portent soon enough. But at least, when the mood was fresh and the need for answers at its keenest, every bit of the information spectrum chipped in – and, please note, had its separate, valuable place. These messages needed every medium in town.