The home secretary, David Blunkett, was initially tempted to "open a bottle" when he heard of Harold Shipman's death, it emerged today.But Mr Blunkett quickly realised that families of the killer doctor's victims felt cheated by the apparent suicide and so celebration was inappropriate. In remarkably frank comments, Mr Blunkett said: "You wake up and you receive a phone call - Shipman's topped himself. "You have just got to think for a minute: is it too early to open a bottle? "And then you discover that everybody's very upset that he's done it." He added that he had to be "very careful" about what he said in his job, paying tribute to his "splendid special adviser" Huw Evans, who "restrains my wilder instincts". During a public appearance on Wednesday Mr Blunkett declined to say anything about Shipman's death. Britain's most prolific serial killer was found hanged in his cell at Wakefield Prison before dawn on Tuesday. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, criticised Mr Blunkett's admission. "Many families of Harold Shipman's victims were devastated to learn of his suicide," he said. "Now they will never know why he killed their mum or granny or brother or sister. "Mr Blunkett has nothing to celebrate in the fact that the prison service is incapable of detaining people properly for their crimes, and has an appalling suicide record. "Mr Blunkett should put his cork back in the bottle." Shipman was jailed for life at Preston crown court in January 2000 for murdering 15 patients. His killing spree was described by trial judge Mr Justice Forbes as "shocking beyond belief" and in 2002 Mr Blunkett ruled he should spend the rest of his life behind bars. Dame Janet Smith, who chairs the continuing inquiry into his killings, reported in 2002 that she believed Shipman, from Hyde, Greater Manchester, had killed 215 patients and there was a "real suspicion" over another 45. After Shipman's death, Jayne Gaskill from Hyde, whose 68-year-old mother, Bertha Moss, died at the doctor's hands, echoed the views of many relatives when she said: "He has won again. He has taken the easy way out. "He has controlled us all the way through and he has controlled the last step and I hate him for it." Mr Blunkett made his remarks yesterday at a lunch for London-based regional journalists. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "All we can say is that we confirm the home secretary made those comments."