The discovery of £150,000 in a safe deposit box led to police breaking up an alleged sex-trafficking ring and rescuing five women in London and Hertfordshire yesterday.Detectives spent nine months investigating after the cash was found in a safe depository in Hampstead, north London, last year during Operation Rize, a project designed to disrupt organised crime and open more than 3,000 storage boxes left in banks and lock-ups across London.The owner of the box, a woman from south-east Asia, was already known to officers from the Metropolitan police's clubs and vice unit, but until the discovery of the money detectives had failed to find any evidence that she was involved in sex trafficking. She was arrested and questioned last summer but said the money in the box was cash she had accumulated from incapacity benefits.The woman was bailed and officers began an undercover operation, which led them to the criminals. The organised crime gang was found to be trafficking women from south-east Asia for forced prostitution. Detectives raided five brothels yesterday in Camden, Finchley and Harrow, north London, as well as at Hemel Hempstead and St Albans, Hertfordshire, and at five home and businesses addresses. At one property, officers found £50,000 in cash. Five women and seven men were arrested and questioned on suspicion of trafficking, controlling prostitution for gain, money laundering and possession of a stun gun. The inquiry has revealed just how lucrative trafficking women for prostitution is for organised criminals.Over five years the group allegedly involved paid more than £800,000 into a bank account in south-east Asia, reportedly the profits from their operation. As part of the inquiry another £96,000 was frozen by police.Yesterday, at a brothel in Camden, officers found a woman being forced to live in a dank three-bedroom flat where she was in effect imprisoned. The room where the victim was made to work as a prostitute was squalid and had two small beds covered in dirty quilts and not much else, said police at the scene. The five women were taken yesterday to a reception centre where specialists, doctors and sexual offences officers talked to them. Detective Chief Superintendent Richard Martin, head of the Met's clubs and vice unit, said the experience of the women had been "horrendous". "Typically these women get just £20 or £30 from each £200 they might make from clients," he said. "Out of that money they will have to pay the debts they owe from being brought here."The investigation is one of more than 1,000 inquiries pursued after Operation Rize, in which 3,554 safety deposit boxes were opened last summer.