Britain's black market in counterfeit goods has almost doubled in less than five years, prompting Ministers and Whitehall mandarins to hold urgent talks to find new ways of tackling a problem that is costing taxpayers almost £2 billion in lost revenue.Anti-counterfeiting groups estimate that fake goods cost UK industry more than £10bn in 2003, compared with £6bn in 1999. They are warning that the figure is set to rise this year, as gangs move out of drug smuggling and into the lucrative - and less policed - market of counterfeiting. Fake branded products such as perfume and clothes still make up the lion's share of the counterfeit market. But trading standards officers believe that an explosion in the amount of pirated media smuggled into the country from Russia and the Far East is becoming the fastest growing area. All the major anti-piracy trade bodies are reporting a huge rise in the level of fake products being smuggled into the UK. The Federation Against Copyright Theft (Fact) seized almost 1.8 million pirated DVDs last year, a rise of 405 per cent on the previous year and one that deprived the film industry of £440m in lost revenue. 'You can bet that this year the figure will be an increase on that,' said Jim Angell, director of operations at Fact. ELSPA, the trade organisation that represents videogame manufacturers, says it impounded more than 250,000 fake games in 2003, a rise of 20 per cent on the previous year. The BPI, which represents the major record labels, says that commercial piracy is on the increase and is responsible for more than eight million fake CDs being sold on market stalls and at car boot sales every year. But even these estimates, which are based on seizures of counterfeit media, are thought to underplay the true extent of the problem. 'Piracy is certainly growing. But to try to work out its growth rate is very difficult. We just don't have the resources available,' Angell said. Anecdotal evidence collected by trading standards officers also appears to confirm that there has been a huge rise in pirated media in the past year. Raids on several premises in 2003 produced fake CDs and DVDs worth more than £10 million. Anti-piracy groups also believe that an explosion in the number of websites and internet user groups devoted to selling illegal copies of CDs and movies also indicates that the problem is growing. Trading standards officers are particularly concerned at the speed at which the counterfeiters can now distribute pirated media. Last year, the animated blockbuster Finding Nemo, which was not shown on UK cinema screens until the late autumn, was being sold on the black market in July. Other films that enjoyed huge box office success, notably Pirates of the Caribbean, Calendar Girls and Kill Bill, were all available long before their official release date. The problem has become so acute that leading members of the British film industry have warned of dire times ahead. 'Theft of this kind is denying the legitimate film business the income to reinvest in great British films. If we cannot stop the pirates, then we may not have a British film industry,' said Calendar Girls star Helen Mirren. 'But what is worse is where the money from piracy goes. 'It is increasingly clear that the money people spend on fake DVDs goes straight into the pockets of organised crime and international terrorism. That money, in turn, is invested in other forms of criminal activity - human trafficking, pornography, drugs, and prostitution,' Mirren added. And it is a problem that is threatening to become much worse in the years ahead, according to anti-piracy groups. 'When the accession countries join the EU, we are going to need a new level of enforcement. It's something that worries us greatly,' said Lovinia Carey, chair of the Alliance Against Counterfeiting & Piracy. However, there are now signs that the Government is starting to wake up to the problem. 'We do detect a change in attitude. They are starting to take the issue of intellectual property theft far more seriously,' Carey said. In recent week, Ministers from the Departments of Trade and Industry and Culture, Media and Sport have met with anti-piracy groups to suggest new ways of combating the problem. It is understood that Ministers and senior civil servants are to create an intellectual property policy group, which will be charged with protecting Britain's creative industries. Anti-piracy groups hope that it will spearhead a campaign to strengthen the powers of trading standards officers and provide them with more funding to prosecute criminal gangs. But trade bodies also warned that the problem could not simply be solved by just clamping down on the counterfeiters. John Hellier, head of ELSPA's anti-piracy unit, said: 'There's a huge education problem here. We need people to understand that ripping off content has an impact on the future employment of people working in the creative industries.'