I read the government's discussion paper on obtaining more convictions for rape with a growing sense of gloom. This was not because it was a bad report. On the contrary, it was full of good intentions and a few sensible proposals. My frustration was caused by the feeling that even if all of them were brought into force, it would make very little difference. Worse, I could not accuse the government of having missed an important trick. I am unable to offer a better solution.I am coming to the unacceptable conclusion that the criminal law is incapable of dealing with one of the worst of crimes. Much has been done in recent years to try to help rape victims cope with their second ordeal, their part in the criminal justice system - a more sensitive police to receive complaints, a ban on victims' names being revealed by the media, restrictions on being cross-examined about their sexual history, and a succession of changes to make it more difficult for men to allege, "I thought she consented". The outcome of all those improvements has been to raise the volume of rapes reported, but to lower the conviction rate.The latest government initiative suggests three further steps: expert witnesses should be allowed to give evidence, explaining or dispelling commonly held but falsely based beliefs ("If she'd really been raped, she wouldn't have waited 10 days to report it"); showing the jury a video of a complainant's original interview with the police; and a better definition of an alleged victim's capacity to consent to sex when drunk.But how often will these make a difference to a jury's verdict? It is said that jurors might disbelieve a woman's whole story because she did not report the rape immediately. Under the government's proposal, an expert would tell them such a reaction was psychologically explicable, and the jury would convict.This might happen occasionally; but in any significant numbers? Any new definition of a woman's legal "capacity" to consent to sex when she has been drinking will suffer the same difficulties of all other attempts to pin down whether a woman has consented. The law becomes complicated, even for lawyers and judges, and more difficult to put across to a jury. Essentially, the law is attempting to define in words and concepts what are often subjective reactions by jurors about whom to believe.The law is trying very hard to allow a woman to present the evidence of her experience in the most convincing way possible, leading, it is hoped, to a conviction. But, with the government's latest ideas, I think we have reached the end of what the law can do, without negating an accused's right to a fair trial and to have the case against him proved to the hilt. We are not going to achieve a substantial increase in convictions by further fiddling with rules and definitions. What is needed is a change of public attitudes (including those of juries) to modern sexual habits. Juries are clearly reluctant to treat date rapes as seriously as stranger rapes, and surveys have shown a strong public belief that women are "asking for it" if, for instance, they wear sexy clothes. Such attitudes are as much to blame as shortcomings in the legal system.