The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday January 8 2006Contrary to our headline above, Epping was not the scene of a triple gangland murder in 1995. The crimes took place at Rettendon, 20 miles from Epping.It was the case that exposed gangland Britain and seared an indelible image of the criminal underworld's code of retribution on the national psyche.A blue Range Rover had been discovered in a secluded farm track deep in the Essex countryside. Inside sat the three blood-soaked bodies of major local drug dealers. The men had been executed: shot in the face with a pump-action shotgun.The triple murder may have taken less than three seconds, but overnight it would become one of the most notorious killings in Britain for decades. A massive police investigation would eventually lead to the conviction of two men in a case known simply throughout the world as the Essex Range Rover Murders.And for many that was that. Justice, it seemed, had been served.However, 'vital' new evidence has now emerged that could set free those who were imprisoned for life over the killings on a remote farm track close to the village of Rettendon 10 years ago. Behind the swooping gothic façade of the Court of Appeal, new developments will be heard this month that raise fresh doubts over the safety of the convictions.The appeal raises the prospect that there was a miscarriage of justice, carrying implications as grave as those raised by the release of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six. But it also raises another burning question that has dogged the case since the three bodies were discovered that frosty morning on 7 December, 1995; who really was responsible? Already the appeal case reads like a classic thriller, centred as it is upon a financial deal between one of Britain's most successful crime writers and its most famous supergrass while, once again, lifting a veil on a vengeful, violent criminal underworld.Jack Whomes and Michael Steele were jailed for life over the triple killings in 1998 following a £1.5m murder trial at the Old Bailey lasting almost five months. Throughout, both had proclaimed their innocence. Supporters are convinced the killers remain at large.Whomes, 36, and Steele, 55, were sentenced almost solely on the testimony of a former friend, Darren Nicholls, a convicted counterfeiter who turned police informant. So crucial, in fact, were Nicholls' testimonies that, summing up at the trial at the Old Bailey, the judge told the jury: 'I hardly need stress the importance of Nicholls' evidence. So much hinges on what he said.'Yet what Mr Justice Hidden did not know at the time - and neither did the jury or the defence - was that some months before the 1997 trial Nicholls had agreed to a 'commercial arrangement' with the journalist Tony Thompson, who later would become a best-selling true crime writer.It is understood they had agreed on a contract to collaborate on a book, which when published covered in detail numerous elements of the Range Rover murders and ultimately made Nicholls several thousand pounds.It is this deal that has emerged as the central element in the forthcoming appeal case. For those seeking to quash the convictions of Steele and Whomes, the discovery of the agreement represents a critical breakthrough.Could the agreement, lawyers will ask, have compromised Nicholls' crucial evidence? Could Nicholls have embellished his testimony to create a more exciting account? If the jury had known of such a deal, would they have ventured a unanimous guilty verdict against Steele and Whomes?In fact, would the costly high-profile trial have been allowed to take place at all?A lawyer for the defence said: 'The gist of the appeal is that, long before giving evidence and long before committal proceedings, a supergrass called Nicholls entered into a commercial arrangement with Tony Thompson that was unknown to the defence. 'What effect did the commercial arrangement between Thompson and Nicholls have on the evidence of Nicholls?'The decision to re-examine the issue follows an 18-month investigation by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, an independent body set up to investigate suspected miscarriages of justice.During its inquiry, the CCRC opted for the rare move of instructing Hertfordshire Police to investigate its concerns, a move that allows a witness to be placed under caution and key evidence to be seized. The resulting 70-page report of their findings convinced both the Crown Prosecution Service and the Court of Appeal that the case was robust enough to be heard.Those close to the case believe it could go either way, with CCRC sources confirming that it is Thompson's pre-trial agreement with the supergrass that is a 'key element'. Yet potentially more damaging allegations surrounding the case could emerge in court. Lawyers acting for the convicted men will question whether Essex Police knew of the deal between Thompson and Nicholls. And, if so, why was the defence not told?'We simply say that the circumstances are such that the police would inevitably have known about the arrangement with Thompson, if not in detail then certainly in broad terms,' said one. At the time the deal with Thompson, 40, was brokered, Nicholls was under the police's witness protection programme.Advocates for Thompson, however, insist that the police had no knowledge of his agreement with Nicholls. Among the intrigue, one certainty remains. Britain's fascination with the Essex Firm, a criminal gang whose violent reign ended with the discovery inside the Range Rover, is sure to be rekindled.So intense was the interest surrounding the original trial that, soon after, a major film called Essex Boys was commissioned. Uncompromising and brutal, the film stars Sean Bean as a former convict skulking among the marshland and industrial estates of south Essex. Upon release in 2000, distributors knew their biggest selling-point was not fancy special effects or Hollywood actors. Instead it was the iconic image of a metallic-blue Range Rover in Workhouse Lane.So they gave the public what it wanted. Essex Boys was promoted simply with the promise that it was 'inspired by the Rettendon Range Rover murders'.Travel north up the winding spine of the A130, from the dark, flat wilderness of the East Tilbury marshes to central Essex, and it is unlikely you will notice the muddy track on the left near Rettendon. It is ten years since the Essex Firm - Pat Tate, Tony Tucker and Craig Rolfe - were found dead, but Workhouse Lane remains a grim landmark in a region synonymous with flash gangsters, fast money and occasional fury.Each of the men found in the Range Rover that clear winter morning can be viewed as a product of the Essex Badlands; dysfunctional career criminals not shy of following through their menacing threats.Slumped behind the wheel was 26-year-old cocaine addict Rolfe, who days before meeting his end was suspected of murdering a rival drug dealer.Behind, sat the hulking, 18-stone frame of Tate, short on temper but with a long history of violence. Just the night before his death, the 36-year-old had grabbed the head of a Basildon pizza shop manager and slammed it into a glass plate counter following a row over pizza toppings.Typically the victim declined to press charges. Perhaps he knew of Tate's past and his close friendship with men like Kenneth Noye, convicted in the M25 road-rage murder of Stephen Cameron and accused of smelting the gold from the Brinks Mat robbery.Alongside Rolfe in the front passenger seat sat Tucker. No longer would he be speeding along the A130 in a black Porsche registered TT9 as a prominent security guard who controlled the ecstasy trade in the local nightclubs.Tucker, too, counted the famous among his friends, acting as a bodyguard to one of Britain's best-known former boxers, Nigel Benn.The 38-year-old was also linked to another household name, although the two had never met. Weeks before he was found 'with his face hanging off,' Tucker had supplied the ecstasy tablet that killed Leah Betts on her eighteenth birthday.That the trio were associated with one of Britain's most disturbing ecstasy deaths was not surprising to those who studied the region's criminal fraternity. South Essex in the mid-Nineties was the distribution corridor of ecstasy from Holland. Men like Tucker and Tate were thought to be earning £1million a year from feeding the nearby capital with its favourite party drug. Ultimately, though, it was claimed that the lure of more riches from drugs sealed their demise.According to Nicholls' testimony, which was denied by both Steele and Whomes, Tate, Tucker and Rolfe had become embroiled in a festering feud with the two convicted men over a shipment of poor-quality cannabis. Steele had promised to make it up, the Old Bailey heard, by offering the trio a deal on a cocaine cargo which would be flown into Essex via a makeshift landing strip beside the village of Rettendon.On the night of 6 December, 1995, Nicholls claimed Steele and Whomes shot the three men in their Range Rover. Moments later Nicholls, oblivious of the murders, arrived to pick his two friends up. Steele, the jury was told, had double-crossed the Essex Firm before they in turn could kill him.In the book that Thompson wrote in collaboration with Nicholls little is left to the imagination when it comes to the night of the murders.'They're all covered in blood and bits of brain - they start laughing and joking, giggling like a couple of schoolboys who've just seen their first naked women', writes Nicholls, as he describes the frenzied moments following the shootings and the instant he first realises his friends have implicated him in the extinction of the Essex Firm.The passage is among the first in the book, part of an opening chapter called: 'If you want to know the truth.' It is precisely that which some feel is at stake in the Court of Appeal on 18 January, a final chance perhaps for those who have attempted to undermine the credibility of Nicholls' testimony in a quest to prove that Steele and Whomes are not guilty of the murders.Allegations put forward over the years have included suggestions that the real Rettendon killers in fact belonged to a criminal cartel in east London. The court will hear evidence from mobile phone experts that place Whomes some distance from the murder scene that night.Yet it is the pre-trial deal between Thompson that is likely to determine whether Steele and Whome are freed after serving just seven years of their triple life sentences.The book at the centre of the deal, Thompson's second, is called Bloggs 19. Before protected witnesses are given new identities they are known as Bloggs, Nicholls being number 19. Investigators from the CCRC are understood to have analysed the testimonies that Nicholls supplied before and after the deal with Thompson was made. Despite examination of the vocabulary and phraseology, it is understood that the accounts of Nicholls do not change.Supporters of Thompson also claim that when the original agreement was reached it was not strictly for a book on the Range Rover triple murder. Instead when Nicholls approached Thompson in 1997, while the journalist was working at Time Out in London, the deal was to offer a rare glimpse into life on the police witness protection programme rather than a commentary on the Epping Forest murders.Another crucial point is that Nicholls did make money from the pre-trial book deal. Although not much; in fact, little more than £5,000 over a three-year period. Bloggs 19 was published in early 2000, two years after Steele and Whomes were sentenced and shortly after Thompson joined The Observer as its crime correspondent before leaving last year to further his writing career.Whatever else, the case will raise fresh questions over the ethics of payments to witnesses and the dangers of 'chequebook' journalism. By strange coincidence, in the month after Steele and Whomes were jailed for life in January 1998, the government called for new controls outlawing the 'buying up' of witnesses. It followed concern about the reporting of the murder trial of Rosemary West in which up to 19 witnesses were said to have entered into agreements with the media.The media law expert Mark Stephens is among those who believe only a blanket ban prohibiting witnesses selling their stories or agreeing to a contract before a trial will stop the practice. Lawyers who can prove knowledge of any form of payment or commercial arrangement with witnesses can easily portray them as inducements to embroider their tales or lie to increase the rewards on offer.The case may be damaging for the media, but the fallout from the hearing promises to reverberate widely. Lawyers for the convicted men promise that the allegations will be breathless, promising to reveal 'who knew what, when, why and who was covering that up'.Could the riddle of the triple murders be about to deepen?The road to the Court of AppealDecember 1995   Three men found dead in a Range Rover near the Essex village of Rettendon. It later emerges that one of the murdered men sold the ecstasy that killed Leah Betts on her 18th birthday.May 1996  Darren Nicholls turns supergrass and offers evidence against Michael Steele and Jack Whomes. Nicholls is placed on a witness protection programme and assumes the identity of Bloggs 19.September 1997  Trial starts at the Old Bailey. Court hears how the three men were killed with 'merciless efficiency'.January 1998 Steele and Whomes sentenced for life. January 2000 Tony Thompson's book, Bloggs 19, is published following a pre-trial agreement with Nicholls.The book features large chunks of detailed testimony from the supergrass on the triple murders. December 2004 Convictions of Steele and Whomes referred to the Court of Appeal. January 2006 Court of Appeal will hear 'vital evidence' that could quash the convictions of Steele and Whomes.