The case of Sam Hallam, who was jailed for life at the Old Bailey in 2005 for the murder of Essayas Kassahun, has been referred back to the court of appeal by the Criminal Cases Review Commission. The move follows a lengthy campaign by Hallam's family and friends to have his case reopened.Now 24, Hallam, from Islington, north London, was a kitchen fitter who planned a career in the army when he was arrested for the murder of Kassahun, a 21-year-old trainee chef, in 2004. Kassahun had come to the aid of a friend, Louis Colley, who was being attacked on Old Street, in central London, by a mob of youths over a trivial perceived insult.Hallam was convicted on the basis of disputed identification from two witnesses who placed him at the scene of the killing. In his defence Hallam claimed that he was playing football with a friend at the time. He said he knew there was going to be trouble on the night of the killing as a mob set off to look for Colley and had wanted to avoid it.One of seven charged with the murder, Hallam initially, on the advice of his lawyer, declined to answer police questions, something his supporters claim may have counted against him at the trial. One other man, Bullabeck Ringblong, was also convicted of the murder and is serving life. The trial judge recommended Hallam, who is in HMP Bullingdon, should serve a minimum of 12 years.His campaign and legal team submitted new evidence to the commission in February 2008. This included statements from witnesses present at the murder scene, testifying that Hallam was not involved. Paul May, of the campaign to free Hallam, said he believed analysis of Hallam's mobile phones places him away from the scene of the crime. May said the campaign is optimistic that the fresh evidence will now lead to a successful appeal. An appeal in 2007 failed.Among Hallam's many supporters are the actor Ray Winstone, whose nephew and daughter know him, and members of the Birmingham Six and Guildford Four. At a demonstration outside the House of Commons two years ago, Paddy Hill of the Birmingham Six said: "When you look at the evidence, it's obvious that he's innocent. We thought the system would change after what happened to us. It has changed – but it's got worse."A spokesman for the CCRC confirmed that the case has been referred back to the court of appeal because of "a range of issues" that raised a "real possibility" that the conviction would be quashed. Identification evidence is one of those issues.