Two hundred riot police from five counties used CS gas, dogs and batons to disperse 1,000 ravers at an illegal party in Essex on Saturday night. Riots broke out in a corn field next to the village of Ickleton, near Saffron Walden, as partygoers clashed with police in scenes reminiscent of the zenith of the free party movement in the late 1980s.The violence, which flared up sporadically until early yesterday, was sparked when a small delegation of officers tried to negotiate the break-up of the party but met "unprecedented and ferocious" resistance, police said. A police car was set on fire and nine officers were wounded during the clashes, with injuries to police including a suspected broken collarbone and a severed finger. At least two revellers were also injured.Police blockaded the M11, a string of patrol cars lining a half-mile stretch of the road, and officers later enforced a 40mph speed restriction after ravers tried to cross the motorway to get into the heavily guarded fields where the party took place.A minority of revellers attacked officers, hurling broken bottles, scaffolding bars and other missiles, police said.Partygoers allege that officers used unnecessary force to close down the party. One of the organisers described the police's approach as a "proper fascist act of complete inhumanity".By 6am officers had arrested 35 people on suspicion of causing a public nuisance and seized vehicles, generators, a sound system and a small quantity of drugs. Six hours later, as officers began to clear debris from the site of the previous night's battles, a hardcore group of between 50 and 100 people refused to leave the field in protest at the tactics used by police."It was terrifying," said Katherine, 21, from Norfolk, who left earlier in the morning. "Suddenly we were surrounded by policemen in full riot gear with shields and batons. They just came tearing through the field, battering people and even using pepper spray. Several of my friends suffered head injuries when they were hit and some were trampled underfoot as the police advanced."All we want is to have a good time. The authorities may have won this one but there will be other [parties] this summer."Another raver, Billy, 29, from Suffolk, said: "There were hundreds of riot police surrounding a sound system, which isn't normal at an event like this, and a police Land Rover was being smashed up. The riot police were everywhere, surrounding the whole field. There were still people dancing. Then a helicopter came over and through a loud-hailer told us to leave the area right away. Police charged everyone; it was heavy-handed."The party is understood to have started on Friday night and comprised a large dome, several tents and four separate music stages powered by a generator."I heard music on Friday but I thought it was coming from somewhere else," said Robert Fairhead, 69, the farmer who owns the field used for the rave. "I never expected to see anything like this in my lifetime here."At about 7pm on Saturday, after Mr Fairhead contacted police, officers blocked the entrance to his fields and some tried to negotiate with the organisers."We went there with the intention of negotiating the implementation of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act," said Chief Superintendent Graeme Bull, from Essex police. "We wanted to maintain the peace and ask people to disperse. The majority of people were compliant and prepared to leave, but there was a significant minority who met police with unprecedented and ferocious resistance. Their conduct was disgraceful - weapons were used, missiles were thrown."As tension increased, riot police were hastily drafted in from Cambridgeshire, Hertfordshire, Suffolk and Norfolk to contain the rave, he said. "These sorts of raves are quite unheard of in this county - I have not seen this sort of violence since the old days of acid house."He added that the level of aggression was "so intense" that police were investigating the possibility that there was an organisation behind the violence. But complaints about police brutality would be taken seriously, he said.Police also sealed off a farm near Heston, Cornwall, yesterday after receiving information that the site was to be used for a rave.In Gloucestershire, two officers were injured and several people were arrested when police broke up an illegal party at a business park early on Saturday.