"How can a child starve to death in 21st-century England?" asked prosecutor Paul Greaney at the start of Amanda Hutton's frequently harrowing trial. By the time the guilty verdict came, it had become horribly clear Hamzah Khan had not just wasted away. As Shaun Kelly from Action for Children put it, he was "invisible to society" throughout his short life.No doctors saw Hamzah from when he was two weeks old, and Hutton slammed the door in the face of visiting health workers – when she bothered to answer the door at all.Hutton, according to her ex-partner Aftab Khan, "hid" Hamzah's death well. But he said the authorities should have done more to protect his children. "They knew there had been problems for a long time," he said.After Thursday's verdict Bradford council admitted none of Hutton and Khan's surviving school-age children were on the "at risk" register.So could the authorities could have done more to prevent Hamzah's death? Health visitors and social workers, police and teachers from a local school had all tried to visit Hutton and were well aware that all was not well in her family.But very few professionals ever actually gained access to the property until it was all too late. Those who got past the threshold reported no concerns about the children and their living environment, even when they had seen the youngsters.The court heard that Hutton's contact with the authorities dated back to 1996 when she was 25 and had just two children. Police were called when she ended up with a black eye after an argument in the street with Khan, with whom she had begun a relationship around 10 years earlier.Hutton was a frequent caller to police over the years and she was assigned a case worker from the domestic violence unit. According to a senior officer within West Yorkshire police, every time Hutton made a complaint of domestic abuse, police officers would alert social services because they knew there were children in the house.Bradford council denies that such referrals were made. More details will no doubt emerge when a serious case review is published later this year, assessing the involvement of different agencies with the family.But we already know of at least eight occasions in which police were called to disputes between Hutton and Khan. It was only in Christmas 2008, however, that she decided to pursue a complaint through the courts after an argument with Khan which turned violent. Khan initially denied assault but changed his plea to guilty the following summer after Hutton appeared in court to give evidence against him.Hutton's family was also mentioned at three multi-agency risk assessment conferences (Maracs) between June 2008 and January 2009, specifically aimed at pulling together all available information to help high-risk victims of domestic violence.West Yorkshire police said they shared information about all their engagements with Hutton with the social services department. But Hamzah was only seen once by a social worker, in November 2006, before the Maracs began, and the one-year-old appeared "well cared for and well dressed".Earlier, when he was four months old, a health visitor had the door slammed in her face by Hutton. She looked through the letter box and noted the house was untidy. Later, health visitors, who offer a non-compulsory service for parents, repeatedly called at the house but did not get through the door.And when Hutton failed to register Hamzah's birth she was visited by the registrar and was seen to have a "puffed-up" eye injury and smelt of alcohol.Hamzah was registered with his local doctors' surgery in September 2006 – 15 months after his birth – but he was never seen by a GP at the practice. The surgery eventually took Hamzah off its list in 2009 because of a catalogue of missed appointments. The court heard this common practice is being examined because "it causes children to sink even further below the radar".The court also heard about a welfare check by PC Maria Furness eight months before Hamzah's death. This was prompted by an incident when some of Hutton's children were not picked up from school. Teaching assistants took them home and were concerned about the state of the mother and the school contacted police. But Furness told the jury she found the children, including Hamzah, to be "fed well, clean, healthy looking and there was an appropriate adult in the address".A final key question will be why Hamzah was not missed at school. Three of his siblings were at school, although attendance issues had been flagged up on a number of occasions.Hamzah would have been six if he had still been alive when his body was found in 2011 – well over the statutory school age. But for the last year of his life he rarely if ever left the house. When news of his death became public, neighbours said they had never seen him. He may as well have not existed.