Police are investigating the murders of two teenagers stabbed in separate incidents in nearby streets in south-east London.Officers were called to Colegrove Road in Peckham, SE15, shortly after 7pm on Friday and found a male, believed to be 16, suffering from stab wounds. He died at the scene a short time later. The teenager’s next of kin have been informed though formal identification has yet to be carried out.Detectives are investigating the murder and several weapons have been recovered from the scene. No arrests have been made.Meanwhile police have appealed for information and witnesses after Andrew Oteng-Owusu, 19, was murdered in New Cross late on Wednesday night. Police were called by ambulance staff to Sharratt Street, also in SE15, where he was found with stab wounds.Oteng-Owusu was taken to King’s College hospital but died late on Thursday morning.   Andrew Oteng-Owusu. Photograph: Metropolitan PoliceA postmortem examination conducted on Friday found that the cause of death was a single stab wound.The Met officer leading the investigation, DI Mick Norman, said: “Andrew has been described as a ‘gentle giant’ who was clearly well liked on the Lovelinch estate and provided a good deal of support for his mother. I am grateful for the assistance we have received so far but I do need further information.”No arrests have yet been made in connection with the killing. Police want to talk to two key witnesses, one of whom helped Oteng-Owusu after he was stabbed and a man who helped police near the scene.“The first is a young black man who, after the stabbing, walked with Andrew to the block of flats where he lived,” Norman said. He is in his late teens or early 20s and was wearing a white T-shirt.“The second key witness – also a black man of similar age – was riding a moped and directed police into the estate to the area where Andrew had collapsed. He was wearing grey clothing.”Anyone with information is asked to contact the incident room at Lewisham police station on 020 8721 4961 or anonymously through Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.Knife crime in the capital has risen by 16% in the past two years, with at least 10 young people dying on the streets of London in this way since January. Last month London’s mayor, Sadiq Khan, said that a knife crime summit would be held at City Hall in October. He also announced funding of £400,000 for two schemes that offer support for vulnerable young offenders across 12 boroughs in the capital.Khan said: “Every young death is an utter tragedy, yet both knife crime and youth violence are growing problems. Earlier this year, a 20-year-old Londoner was stabbed to death just yards from my own home. As mayor, and as a father of two teenage daughters, I am deeply concerned and determined to do everything I possibly can to help rid our communities of this terrible violence. We need to send a strong message that carrying a knife is completely unacceptable and is more likely to ruin your life than to save it.”