Nursery worker Vanessa George has still not identified any of the victims she abused, it emerged today, as she was told she will be held in prison until she is no longer considered a danger to the public – which could be the rest of her life.Judge Mr Justice Royce described George, who created and swapped graphic images of abuse and swapped them with fellow paedophiles Colin Blanchard and Angela Allen, as wicked and calculating.He said the case had led to widespread revulsion, causing shockwaves in nurseries across the country. George, a married mother of two, had breached the trust of families who sent their children to Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth and "plumbed new depths of depravity".She was told she would serve seven years before a parole board would consider sanctioning her release. Like George, Allen was given an indeterminate sentence. Blanchard is to be sentenced at a later date.Bristol crown court was told that despite being ordered to do so by the judge, George had yet to provide police with enough information to identify any of her victims. Police believe that about 30 families may be involved and after the hearing officers said they would continue to try to identify the children who had been abused.Two mothers of children who attended Little Ted's were led from court by ushers after hurling expletives as George was taken away. Outside, one said she ought to be hanged and some expressed anger that she would be considered for parole after seven years.Another mother said: "I did not see the telltale signs. Your child is screaming and kicking at nursery and you don't know why. The children are too young to voice their feelings and emotions. My son came home from that nursery staring into space. Something happened to him when he was at that nursery – a mother knows."Devon and Cornwall police released a statement on behalf of other families in which they said no sentence would ever compensate for the trauma they had been put through. The statement read: "Since the day the police first came to us we have gone through every emotion from anger and hatred to guilt. Our children are very young and it may be some time before we know the long-term effects George has had on them."Earlier there had been gasps from the public gallery as details of what was done to the children were revealed.The court heard George had become obsessed with Blanchard and took dozens of pictures of children in her care to please him.People who knew George told police she seemed prepared to do anything and her "sexual boundaries" became blurred.The three, all 39, met via Facebook. They lived miles apart: Blanchard in Greater Manchester and Allen in Nottinghamshire, and only met for the first time in court. They admitted a string of offences of abusing children, taking pictures of them and sharing those images.