David Cameron's renewed claim that Britain is "a broken society" had a very plausible ring this week. It has been an exceptionally horrible week in which a jeering mob in Derby urged a disturbed teenager to jump to his death from a roof and then jostled to take pictures of his corpse with their mobile phones; in which a gang of youths in Norwich murdered a man for coming to the aid of someone they were in the process of beating up; in which staff of a flooring company in Essex frog-marched a former colleague through the streets with a placard reading "thief" around his neck.In his big speech at the Conservative party conference in Birmingham, Cameron talked of "the senseless, barbaric violence on our streets" and "the angry, harsh culture of incivility that seems to be all around us". It is difficult to disagree with him. The barbarism we have been witnessing feels in its crudity like a step back into the middle ages. If Cameron's contention that society is "broken" is something one could argue about, since it's difficult to know exactly what it means, there is no doubt that society is full of rotten little pockets in which the most callous and brutal behaviour is tolerated if not glorified.A policeman among the negotiators who had been trying to persuade the Derby teenager not to jump said of the crowd's heartless clamour: "I find it a disturbing and shocking reflection on society when people feel inclined to do that." So do we all; but what can be done to curb such revolting impulses?Cameron cannot be expected to know. He talks of "responsibility", of education, and, like Tony Blair, of tackling not just crime, but the causes of crime. This is all stuff we have heard many times before, and it's hard to imagine that anything will make much difference until the public mood changes of its own accord, as it has in other times of crisis, such as war. But still, I think he is right to insist that we face up to reality.· This is not a comfortable time for fat cats. The popular backlash against them is fierce both here and in the United States, where calls to members of Congress by their constituents have been running at about 100 to one against the bail-out plan. Why, it is said, should ordinary taxpayers fork out to save the livelihoods of the greedy pigs who have brought them such grief?But it's better to be a hated fat cat than not a fat cat at all, and it doesn't look as if those who have got hugely rich by gambling with other people's money will have much of a price to pay. Neither Labour nor the Tories, committed as they both are to free markets and trickle-down economics, can find plausible ways of punishing them, and there is no better protection against a financial tsunami than having millions already tucked away.The immunity of the seriously rich to the troubles besetting the rest of us is strikingly illustrated in a brochure of Knight Frank, the grand estate agent, which recently arrived in the mail. House prices may have fallen on average by 12.4% over the past year, but it's a different story where the most expensive properties are concerned. "Prices of select properties in the super-prime sector - those in the best postcodes with price tags of more than £10m - have only fallen marginally over the past few months and are still much higher than a year ago," Knight Frank reports. The number of "the truly wealthy" in London is still growing every month, it says; and "some hedge fund managers and other City traders are still making fortunes". The result is that "there is an acute shortage of stock above £15m, and a limited supply between £10m and £15m".So to the financial hardship many of us face must be added the frustration that there is no obvious way to take revenge on those who have brought us to this pretty pass.· One thing that might help to mend our "broken society" is a general slowing down. When people are driving more slowly to save petrol they are less likely to commit road rage. When people are forced by lack of money to forego visits to pubs and clubs and have to eat "slow food" at home instead, they may conceivably quieten down. And even if none of that happens, there is a lot to be said for slowness in general. The accelerating pace of life creates an atmosphere of frenzy in which it is difficult to concentrate or think about anything. Slowness calms the spirit and favours good judgment. If trading in the financial markets were not so frantic, we might not be in our present mess.So it would be a good idea if slowness, forced upon us to some extent by circumstances, were to be cultivated for its own sake. Slow cooking, for example, not only militates against obesity but also, according to a new report by the Food Climate Research Network, helps to reduce global warming.One sector that could set an example is the broadcasting industry, which bombards us with endlessly repeated news "packages" and is enslaved by pre-ordained "running orders". Even the most accomplished interviewers seem to take pride in cutting their interviewees short - "We're out of time, I'm afraid"; "We have to end it there"; "Answer in 10 seconds, please". They should at least pretend, for our sakes, that they are not in a hurry. · This week Alexander repaired to the Tuscan countryside, where he lay in the sun reading Zoë Heller's new novel, The Believers: "It is a depressing tale of family dysfunction, but so beautifully written and subtly observed that it left me lost in admiration." He also ate a lot of ripe figs from the trees.