A 70-year-old grandmother was facing the prospect of dying behind bars yesterday after a landmark case in which she was found guilty of plotting the "honour killing" of her daughter-in-law.Bachan Athwal, one of the oldest women in Britain to be convicted of murder, decided to "get rid" of Surjit Kaur Athwal, 27, by luring her to India after she had an affair.Surjit, a customs officer described by her family as an "enthusiastic mother and a happy sister" is believed to have been strangled in the Punjab and her body dumped in the river Ravi in December 1998. Her body has never been found and details of the plot only came to light when her Indian-born mother-in-law boasted that she had got a relative to kill her.Surjit's husband, Sukhdave, 43, who still lives with his mother, finalised the plans for the murder over tea and biscuits in the front room of their house in Hayes, west London.Yesterday, Athwal clasped her palms together in prayer, sobbed loudly and shook her hands at the Old Bailey jury after being convicted. Her son, who was also found guilty of murder after a 13-week trial, looked straight ahead. Both were remanded in custody to September 19. Jagdeesh Singh Dhillon, Surjit's brother, who has campaigned tirelessly to help bring his sister's killers to justice, said the verdict "brought the struggle and pain of the last nine years to a positive conclusion". He added: "This conviction sends out a powerful signal that this kind of cold, calculated, concealed murder will be seized and punished."Surjit, originally from Coventry, endured 10 years of an unhappy arranged marriage living with her husband and mother-in-law before beginning an affair with a colleague at Heathrow airport and starting divorce proceedings. Her diaries, which were read out in court, revealed the extent of her unhappiness.Athwal accused her of having an abortion and branded her a "murderer" and a "slag" after she suffered a miscarriage three months after the wedding. When she finally gave birth in 1991, the Sikh matriarch snatched her granddaughter and taught the child to call her "mummy".By December 1998, Surjit had decided to leave, but reluctantly agreed to go on a trip to India with Athwal to attend family weddings. The older woman returned alone and claimed her daughter-in-law had left to attend a course in England.But Sarbjit Athwal, another daughter-in-law, told the court she had been told they planned to dispose of Surjit in India. She said: "My mother-in-law said she wasn't getting on and it was causing too much confusion and problems in the family - and they were going to get rid of Surjit."When her sister-in-law failed to return, Sarbjit threatened to go to the police but was warned by Sukhdave that "if you say anything you will go down with us".Athwal and her son told police Surjit had run away. They even forged letters supposed to be from the Metropolitan police to their Indian counterparts to disrupt the investigation.But the young woman never touched her bank account, used her credit card or applied for a new passport or driving licence in the eight and a half years between her disappearance and the trial.Detectives discovered Sukhdave had taken out life insurance for £65,000 shortly before his wife vanished, but cancelled it after realising the company would not pay up without a body.Sukhdave divorced his missing wife in 2001 and remarried. In 2004, mother and son forged papers to transfer ownership of the family house out of Surjit's name, faking her signature. That proved the final straw for Sarbjit, who went to police.