While his cabinet colleagues have been taking a well earned post election break or simply just trying out their new ministerial chairs for size, David Blunkett has wasted no time in making his mark as home secretary.Blunkett has always been a naturally hyperactive politician, but the kind of coverage and headlines he has generated in the last four weeks could begin to make Gordon Brown jealous.Whether it is his pledge to take on the "Spanish practices" of the police and the subsequent removal of the Sussex chief constable, the release of the Bulger killers or the sidelining of the hardline drugs tsar, Blunkett has been leading from the front. He appears unafraid of venturing into areas that some previous home secretaries have regarded as best left alone. It had been an open Whitehall secret since last autumn that Blunkett wanted, and would become, home secretary. It is obvious now that he spent the intervening months in careful preparation. The malign Downing Street whispering campaign that he would "make Jack Straw look like a liberal" on his appointment and his own appetite for favourable Daily Mail headlines made many liberals fear the worst. It means he has sometimes ended up talking nonsense.Today's apparent endorsement of the use of water cannon for riot control falls into this category of a knee-jerk response that will never happen. Blunkett also likes to make clear that his driving influence is not Hampstead liberals (code for Hugo Young) but the instincts of the working classes of his beloved Sheffield who suffer most from the blight of inner city crime. So far it has turned out that that the instincts of the Sheffield working class appear to be far more liberal than many might have supposed. The sidelining of the drugs tsar has already led to Blunkett's encouragement of the debate over decriminalisation into territory that is a million miles away from the Blair/Brown rhetoric of the war on drugs. On criminal sentencing and prisons Blunkett has also shown himself adopting a far more liberal tone that Straw ever did with his belief that prisons can be an expensive way of making bad people worse and publishing plans last week to empty the jails of minor offenders. All this activity is bound to make enemies. The toughest are likely to prove the police. They were more than a match for Kenneth Clarke when he tried similar reforms a decade ago. Blunkett is consciously a man in a hurry. He knows that unlike the job of education secretary, the sheer pace of events soon overwhelms any home secretary. "I want to see some progress within two years. I want to create some momentum. That's why we have been so busy in the first month," he said last week. Related articles09.07.2001: Blunkett calls for drug debate09.07.2001: Crackdown to quell race riots06.06.2001: Blunkett unveils crime shake-up27.06.2001: Whitehouse does Blunkett's bidding and goes - but with a broadside25.06.2001: Blunkett tries to cool Bulger angerSpecial reportsLabour partyRace issues in the UKJames Bulger caseDrugs in BritainUseful linksAsk AristotleLabour partyHome OfficeLabour weekly briefing