A former SAS soldier told a jury today how he smothered his terminally ill son to death to end the boy's suffering.Andrew Wragg, 37, told Lewes crown court that he killed Jacob after he felt the 10-year-old's condition had deteriorated to the point where he was "days away" from being in severe pain. Giving evidence for the first time in the trial, Mr Wragg said: "I did not want him to suffer. I wanted him to die with dignity in the place where he was most loved and most comfortable and that is what happened." Jacob was left deaf, unable to speak and crippled by Hunter syndrome, a degenerative disease which affects physical and mental development. Few sufferers live past their mid-teens. Mr Wragg denies murdering Jacob at the family home in Worthing, West Sussex in July last year but admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. Mr Wragg, who was awarded a UN medal for his service in Bosnia and narrowly avoided being killed by a suicide bomber in Iraq, told the court how he returned home on July 24 after drinking in three pubs. He had earlier asked his wife, Mary, from whom he is now divorced, to take their elder son George to her mother's house.Wearing a grey suit and tie in court, Mr Wragg said: "I went straightaway to his bedroom. He was asleep, fast asleep. I took a pillow from beside him and then I knelt across him, put the pillow over his face and then I laid down with it on top of him." Mr Wragg said there was no sign of any struggling. He said that after he phoned his wife, he lay with his son for about 20 minutes or half an hour. "That was spent stroking his head, talking to him, trying to explain why I thought it was the best thing for him," he said. His wife arrived and said, "Oh my God," Mr Wragg told the jury. "She hugged me," he added. Asked by Sir Michael Sayers QC, defending, if he felt Jacob was at "death's door" when he killed him, Mr Wragg, replied: "No, but I did feel he was days away from being very uncomfortable, and in a great deal of pain." Mr Wragg added: "I did not believe that Jacob had a future. Any future he did have was painful and undignified."The court heard that Jacob could walk no more than 30 yards before falling over and that outside the family home the 10-year-old spent his whole life in his wheelchair. Mr Wragg, the son of a policeman and whose brother, Steve, is head of security at Washington DC airport, told the court that on the morning of the killing he spent 30 minutes with Jacob in his room. "There was not much interaction," he said. "He was just staring at me. It was the first time I realised there was something desperately wrong. He looked sad and fed up with life and with his condition. The whites of his eyes were stained. He was just staring. I was holding his shoulders to try and get a response but there was no response. He looked desperately sad that day." Earlier today the court heard how Mr Wragg's ex-wife, Mary, had had an abortion at seven-and-a-half months after a second unborn baby, later named Henry, was diagnosed with Hunter syndrome. Mary, who was in court today, underwent an eight-hour labour to deliver Henry's dead body. The jury was told that Mr Wragg served with the army for almost five years and rose to the position of lance corporal before being discharged on compassionate grounds in 1996. He was described as a "mature, determined and ambitious soldier" with "exemplary" conduct. "Never one to remain in the background, he was forever trying to achieve great things," one annual report said. A report from a major in July 1996 said: "I have been impressed with the way Lance Corporal Wragg has conducted himself and the way he has kept his family together during this difficult time." The defendant later spent three "terrifying" months working in Iraq as a private security guard. The case continues.