A "white backlash" against the Macpherson report has contributed to a rise in the number of white victims of racist incidents being recorded by the Metropolitan police, a former Home Office adviser has claimed.The number of racist incidents reported to police by whites is increasing faster than those suffered by black victims, according to Marian FitzGerald, former adviser to the Home Office and joint author of a book to be published next month, Crime, Disorder and Community Safety.But her conclusion as to the reasons for the unexpected figures include the suggestion that some officers may be misinterpreting the Macpherson recommendations. The researcher said that while there has been an increase in the number of recorded racial incidents, there has not been an equivalent rise in charges or cautions. "This suggests that some officers may have actively connived in the white backlash by recording this type of perverse reporting," she says. "If there was a genuine rise in the number of white victims, we'd expect to see a match in the number of judicial disposals." Following the Macpherson inquiry, a new definition of a racist incident was adopted by the Home Office and all police forces which stated that: "A racist incident is any incident which is perceived to be racist by the victim or any other person." The new definition aimed to overcome the frequent tensions between victims and officers' perceptions of racial motivation. The definition embraces all incidents irrespective of the ethnicity of the victim or the perpetrator. According to figures from the Metropolitan police the proportion of racist incidents recorded where the victim is white has risen by four percentage points since the inquiry. Between 1997 and 1998 the Met recorded 27% of victims of a racist incident as white, 27% as black and 37% as Asian. Between 1999 and 2000, the number of black victims rose to 29% and the number of white victims increased to 31%.In addition, although whites were still the main perpetrators of racist incidents, there has been an increase in the number of suspects recorded by the Met as black and a fall in the number of white suspects since the release of the report. Between 1997 and 1998, 71% of suspects of racial incidents were white. This figure fell to 67% between 1999 and 2000. During the same period black suspects have risen from 16% to 20%. Ms FitzGerald said the Macpherson inquiry's emphasis on the extent to which racism could be implicit as well as explicit may have encouraged more victims reporting crimes to additionally identify any racist element. She said that the findings of a study into stop and search she conducted in 1999 found that "publicity surrounding the Macpherson inquiry was indeed creating resentment among some white people". She added: "They believed that ethnic minorities were receiving privileged treatment; and several officers I interviewed spontaneously reported being taunted by white youths claiming that the police were picking on them because they no longer dared to search black people." Ms FitzGerald said that research showed that police officers were being told by white victims of crime that their cases would have been taken more seriously if they were black or Asian. "There are poor whites who feel that ethnic minorities are getting a better deal than them."