What is to be done to improve prosecution for rape? First we heard that the coalition had plans, later discontinued, to grant anonymity for those accused of rape; then, last month, that the scheduled government review into how the police handle rape cases had been scrapped. It seems we are going backwards in terms of finding an effective way to deal with rape, although Britain has one of the lowest conviction rates for the offence in Europe. Despite pilot schemes being developed in various parts of the UK over the years in an attempt to increase prosecutions, and decades of feminist campaigning to challenge the ease with which rapists avoid paying for their crimes, the situation remains grim.In recent years the Independent Police Complaints Commission has seen an increasing number of rape investigations being referred to them. Police incompetence was highlighted recently in the notorious John Worboys and Kirk Reid cases in which two serial rapists were left to continue their attacks for years, despite victims reporting to the police.One review of the rate of attrition in reported rape cases, published by the Home Office in 2005, scrutinised 677 rape allegations made over a period of two months in the same year. It found that the vast majority of complainants – 87% – had at least one additional factor of so-called vulnerability, such as being a child under the age of 18; suffering from mental ill health; intoxicated at the time of the alleged attack; or in an abusive relationship with the accused.The study found that these vulnerabilities significantly influenced the case during all the key stages, from police action to outcome of any court case. In other words, the more vulnerable a victim, the least likely it is that their attacker will be convicted. The review also found that many of the suspects, including a majority of those who were charged but not convicted, had a history of offending. It presented evidence that perpetrators deliberately target women who had been drinking at the time of the attack. More than three-quarters of the suspects who were charged in cases where the victims had been drinking had a history of offending.Because cases are difficult, particularly when there are vulnerability factors involved, police often give up before they start. And in cases where there is more courageous policing, they may be thwarted by a lacklustre Crown Prosecution Service unwilling to take a chance in front of a jury.The CPS will only take a case to court if it has a "reasonable chance of conviction", which means that those cases involving complicated factors, such as a previous sexual history between the complainant and suspect, often do not even get an airing. Evidence from the United States, however, where there are specialist prosecutors working from dedicated sex crime units, shows it is possible to achieve a far higher conviction rate for rape by taking every case to court where there is some evidence to put before a jury.Despite massive reforms there still exists a culture within the police that assumes that women who report rape are lying. A third of police interviewed for the study said they believed that at least a quarter of all reports were false, and yet research suggests that numbers of false allegations of rape are no higher than for any other crime.Even where the IPCC makes a finding of misconduct by an officer it cannot impose sanctions. This is a decision solely within the power of the relevant police authority. Even where disciplinary proceedings are brought, the heaviest sanction for serious incompetence is unlikely to be anything more than "words of advice", or loss of a week's pay. In complaint investigations senior officers responsible for supervising the incompetent officer are rarely identified, let alone held accountable. Sharon Shoesmith, head of Haringey social services during the Baby P scandal may not have been directly involved in any of the decisions that led to his death, but she was rightly held accountable for the failure of systems to prevent the tragedy. The officers in charge of the rape investigation departments in the Warboys or Reid cases remain free to continue on their career within the police force.The police service is the only public body that is exempt from being sued in the civil court for negligence. In a recent House of Lords case, the late Lord Bingham was outvoted by four other judges in considering whether the police should no longer be immune from being held accountable in this way. Nothing will significantly change unless the commissioner or chief constable ceases to have this unjustifiable protection from the courts. If the police budget were to become vulnerable to compensation claims, it might result in systems being put into place to root out incompetence and prejudicial attitudes towards vulnerable complainants.The law needs to be changed to enable the highest level of accountability within the police service. To do so would require an act of parliament. Is there an MP brave enough to introduce a private member's bill that could hasten an end to this obscene protection racket?• This article was amended on 6 October 2010. The original referred to John Warboys. This has been corrected