A woman jailed for life for the murder of her neighbour's two-year-old son while she babysat him will be retried after a judge today ruled her conviction was unsafe.Suzanne Holdsworth was granted conditional bail ahead of the retrial, and will be released from Low Newton prison, in County Durham, where she has been held since being convicted in March 2005.The 37-year-old was found guilty of killing Kyle Fisher by repeatedly banging his head against a wooden banister at her home in Hartlepool.The court of appeal, which heard Holdsworth's lawyers say new medical evidence demonstrated she had been the victim of a "serious miscarriage of justice", upheld her appeal.Quashing Holdsworth's conviction, Lord Justice Toulson said: "We do not consider that we can safely dismiss the medical scenario advanced on the applicant's behalf as definitely incredible."Her defence lawyers had said new evidence established that there was a reasonable possibility that the child had had a prolonged epileptic seizure.Her solicitor, Campbell Malone, said: "I've spoken to her today and she understands that a retrial has been ordered. "She's obviously very relieved at the outcome, and understands it is the necessary first stage in the process of clearing her name, which she is confident will be completed when she has had the outcome of bringing the available evidence in front of the jury."Holdsworth had been babysitting Kyle while his 19-year-old mother had a night out in August 2004.She was alleged to have "snapped", hitting the child's head with such force that the impact was similar to throwing him from a car travelling at 60mph. He died from severe brain swelling in hospital two days later.Holdsworth, a mother of two, was convicted by a jury at Teeside crown court in March 2005. She has consistently maintained that she did not harm Kyle and that he had a fit while they were watching television.In a statement issued through Cleveland police, the child's family said: "All we have ever wanted was to know the truth about what happened to Kyle. "Since his death, our lives have focused around the case. Not one of us has been able to move on."Today's decision has brought all the heartache back. However, we will fully co-operate in the preparation for the retrial." Kyle's grandmother, Jane Whitfield, said: "I'm so happy for Suzanne Holdsworth and her family. I was there every day of the trial and I don't think the evidence proved she did it."I hope that now everything comes out properly. He was my grandson and I loved him. We need to know and deserve to know what happened." Henry Blaxland QC, representing Holdsworth, said the doctors who gave evidence at the trial "got it wrong" and "collectively failed to diagnose" that the boy had a "highly unusual brain" that predisposed him to epilepsy."No jury properly directed could safely convict," he said, adding that the prosecution's case at the trial had been based on expert medical opinion that the boy's brain swelling was caused by forceful blows to the head."Particular caution is needed where the scientific knowledge of the process or processes involved is or may be incomplete," Toulson said. "As knowledge increases, today's orthodoxy may become tomorrow's outdated learning."Special caution is also needed where expert opinion evidence is not just relied upon as additional material to support a prosecution but is fundamental to it."