Tests showed that Shannon Matthews was dosed with powerful sleep-inducing drugs for nearly two years before her alleged kidnap, a court heard yesterday. The nine-year-old is said to have been held prisoner by her uncle, Michael Donovan, as part of a plot with her mother, Karen Matthews, to claim a £50,000 reward.Jurors at Leeds crown court have been told that Shannon, who vanished after a school swimming trip in January, was found 24 days later, hidden with Donovan, 40, in a storage drawer under a bed. Yesterday a forensic toxicologist told the court that hair samples from the girl showed she had regular doses of the "potent hypnotic" drug temazepam in the months before she vanished. Craig Chatterton said trace amounts of the drug, plus and the travel sickness medication Melcozine, were found in Shannon's urine after she was found, indicating they had been ingested up to 72 hours before the sample was taken.He said that traces of the drugs were also found in each segment of her hair, showing they were "ingested over an extended period dating back 20 months". Chatterton said it was not usual for children to be given temazepam; he told the jury that it had powerful sleep-inducing effects; Melcozine, which is sold commercially as Traveleeze, had the side-effect of causing drowsiness.The court also heard that Matthews "babbled" different excuses and explanations after the child was found in the flat of her co-accused, Donovan.It also emerged that she left Donovan's name off a family tree she wrote out at the request of police' officers to help them check addresses in a £3.2m search.Donovan and Matthews, 33, deny kidnap, false imprisonment, and perverting the course of justice. The jury at Leeds crown court heard that Matthews was arrested in a police car, three weeks after Shannon was found, when she broke down and said that she had been trying to leave her partner, Craig Meehan, Donovan's nephew, but "everything went wrong".A neighbour on the Moorside estate in Dewsbury, Natalie Brown, who was also in the car, told the court: "She was in floods of tears, shaking, really scared. She said she couldn't go in a cell and started babbling.".Alan Conrad QC, for Donovan, suggested that Brown got annoyed with Matthews because she was "constantly changing her story and contradicting herself". Brown agreed that Matthews had backtracked almost immediately and claimed instead that Meehan and his mother had arranged for Donovan to take Shannon.Det Con Christine Freeman, a family liaison officer who arrested Matthews, told the court: "Karen took the biggest intake of breath that I've ever heard in my life" before admitting that she had asked Donovan to take her daughter. Afterwards at the police station, she said Donovan had abducted the child.Matthews, 33, of Dewsbury Moor, and Donovan, 40, of Batley Carr, West Yorkshire, both deny kidnap, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice. The hearing continues.