Some of Scotland Yard's most senior officers have been diverted from fighting crime and "completely absorbed" by the battle to save Sir Ian Blair from being driven from office, the Guardian has learned.Several senior sources, all of whom support Sir Ian, say at least four of the force's top leadership have been virtually unable to work on any other policing issue. They include the deputy commissioner, Paul Stephenson, and one assistant commissioner, John Yates, as well as the commissioner himself.Sir Ian's position has been under huge pressure after his force was found guilty last week of breaching health and safety laws in the lead-up to the shooting dead of Jean Charles de Menezes after he was mistaken for a suicide bomber.Yesterday the force was embroiled in a fresh row after a lawyer who represented the mother of Stephen Lawrence called for an inquiry into a claim that the Met leaked details about the unsolved murder case.Barrister Michael Mansfield QC said he believed it possible that the news of an apparent breakthrough had been leaked by someone within Scotland Yard to divert attention from Sir Ian's troubles. Mr Mansfield called on the home secretary to order an investigation and said Doreen Lawrence was "disturbed and angered" by the leak of the sensitive information.For the commissioner the allegations were unwelcome, coming as his allies were beginning to believe he has survived for now. Senior Scotland Yard officers are surveying the damage done to their leader and force by the intense row that saw Sir Ian refuse to resign despite calls by the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. One senior Yard source said: "It's consuming a huge amount of energy. We're in the middle of a soap opera of our own making."While those who talked to the Guardian support Sir Ian, they fear his departure may be the only way for the force to get back on track. "All the really important things begin to look in jeopardy because the future is so uncertain," said the senior source. "I do question if the authority of his office has been irrevocably damaged."Another senior officer said the furore had "completely absorbed" the force's leadership, and the fact that the commissioner avoided resignation because of the support of a Labour government jeopardised the Met's appearance of political independence."We have a commissioner who is totally politicised - he is now a Labour commissioner, and could be seen as an adjunct of government," he said. "I don't want to see the commissioner go but we are weakening ourselves and our [traditional] position of being independent."Another senior officer dismissed the suggestion that Sir Ian would be beholden to Labour, saying the commissioner had too much integrity for that. One senior Scotland Yard source said: "He can't afford any more cock-ups. But we think he has got through this crisis. Until the next one."A senior source with close knowledge of the Met agreed the issue had been "dominating" but said he hoped it would now be less time-consuming. The source rejected the idea that the commissioner was beholden to Labour: "If the Tories were in power they would have taken this stance to stand by one of their officials."Speaking after the IPCC report was published, Sir Ian vowed to continue his reform of the Met: "I have been entrusted with the long-term development of the Metropolitan police. With the team of outstanding colleagues who make up this service, I intend to continue doing just that."On Wednesday, the London assembly voted for Sir Ian to resign. His future will be decided by a special session of the Metropolitan Police Authority on November 22. Sir Ian's allies believe a no-confidence motion will fail.On Thursday an official report into the shooting of De Menezes found the commissioner had caused more damage to his own force by trying to block an independent inquiry into the death.