The government would have you believe that just 7.8% of prisoners (or around 6,500) take drugs while in prison. This is the figure derived from the number of positive mandatory drug tests (MDT), whereby a small proportion of prisoners are tested every month. It is, according to the Prison Service, "the most accurate indication of the level of drug misuse in prisons."Policy Exchange has recently conducted one of the largest independent surveys of prisoners ever undertaken in England and Wales. The results should cause the Prison Service to change their view about the reliability of MDT. We discovered that up to 30,000 prisoners (35% of the total population) at any one time could be taking drugs, with 85% of prisoners confirming that they could get hold of illicit substances. A staggering 20% of respondents reported using heroin in jail and more than half claimed that the easy availability of drugs was preventing people from getting clean and rebuilding their lives.Why is there such a disconnect between official figures and this disturbing reality? And what does it mean for the debate about the future of our penal system? Our forthcoming report will contend that mandatory drug testing is not only inherently unreliable, but is now actually part of the problem – actively hindering solutions to the problem of addiction. It is common knowledge that it is open to abuse, encourages harder drug use (heroin and cocaine leave your system quicker) and, above all, it has ceased to be any kind of accurate measure. Instead, MDT rates are a key target within the performance management regime. This incentivises prisons to cover up the problem rather than confront it. This is exacerbated by the worrying overuse of methadone and other opiate substitutes, which allows prisoners who are being maintained to use heroin on top, because any positive test is overturned on appeal.By accident or design, the Prison Service has created a perfect storm, with no idea how much drug use there is and no incentive to stop it. If we're ever going to get a grip on this problem, the Prison Service must stop relying so heavily on MDT because it paints such a positive picture, and instead come clean about the true levels of drug abuse in our prisons.