There is a general perception that effective policing ideas are either American or European. Western journalism focuses on the troubles in the Middle East and has helped to build a caricature of Muslim countries as hotbeds of despotism whose law enforcement agencies are renowned for human rights breaches and corruption rather than for good policing innovations. The British public can be forgiven for believing that, once one enters the Middle East, sensitive, innovative and efficient policing is replaced by that of corrupt, camel-hoarding officials and feudal warlords who chop off the hands of thieves and stone adulterers to death.The implication is that Islam and harmony don't mix; that freedom and choice cannot be found in a Muslim country.Sensitive policing won't work in Afghanistan because of the warlords; it won't work in Egypt, or Saudi Arabia, or the United Arab Emirates (UAE), or the rest of the Arab world because of autocrats and Muslim extremists. And thus the critics conveniently dismiss the millions of Muslims who remain true to their religion but thrive under peace and revere it. I set out to examine policing in the UAE. The way a nation polices its people is indicative of its national values, and a true gauge of its commitment to its citizens' wellbeing. Dubai is one of the most ethnically diverse societies in the world and, by examining the governance, structure, accountability and legitimacy of its police force, it was patently obvious that British policing can learn an enormous amount about how law enforcement can help achieve community harmony. Here is a state in the most volatile part of Middle East where commercialism and capitalist philosophies walk hand in hand with Islamic values. Strong religious values seem to merge easily with the growing western influence imported by British and US companies and expatriates. Its population is much more diverse than in most British cities, with over 180 nationalities speaking more than 100 languages - yet there is a conspicuous absence of inter-community tension. It is one of the busiest tourist destinations in the Middle East, with 45,000 British expatriates. Unlike in Britain, the host community is in a minority and the majority of the population are there to work - invited for their skills. Hence immigration and asylum is celebrated rather than demonised. Dubai has transformed its standing as a centre of commerce by utilising the skills of migrant workers and professionals, who are subject to stringent but realistic conditions. Their welcome does not include placing them in holding centres and giving them food vouchers; there is no daily tabloid press portraying them as parasites. There are, however, a number of conditions. For example, they cannot buy property unless it is in designated zones. These zones are not ghettos - the aim is to ensure that the country's Islamic values are not undermined by western mores. In a recent public opinion survey, 84% of Dubai residents said they felt "secure and safe", despite being a stone's throw from some of the most problematic countries in the world. The crime detection rate of 89% puts to shame our own struggle to detect crime. Every police district employs a team of officers whose job is to ensure compliance to human rights. Senior police officers and politicians welcome these rights rather than see them as a hindrance. And, rather than adopt Britain's conventional method of putting police officers in classes and telling them what a Muslim or a Hindu looks like, operational officers are sent on intensive courses to learn the languages of the migrant communities, encouraging a true understanding of different cultures. They are expected to conduct interviews in these languages. The greatest threat to the UAE, and to Dubai in particular, is from the organised criminals who are inevitably attracted by the country's wealth. There is growing evidence of the presence of south-east Asian gangs, west African drugs cartels and major-league British criminals using Dubai as a base for their activities. The extent of money laundering through the country's banks, and drug trafficking via its ports, are serious concerns for its government and for Britain. If Dubai is not to become a haven for organised criminals, the police forces of Britain and Dubai must collaborate. But while British officers can assist Dubai's police, there is a lot that British policing can learn from the Muslim world and its attitude to community relations. The idea that we know best in the west how to police our communities may soon have to be given a decent but final burial. · Dr Ali Dizaei is a chief superintendent in the Metropolitan police and legal adviser to the National Black Police Associationcomment@theguardian.com