It's 7pm in a high-security jail. The evening comes to an abrupt halt as men are herded behind locked doors - mostly two or three to a cell. Tomorrow only a handful will have any meaningful activity: many will remain 'behind the door' apart from collecting meals and a short period of evening 'association', before once again the doors clang shut and the cycle starts again.Earlier I had toured the prison: the education block was empty; the workshops offered a mere handful of inmates menial tasks; the sports area was out of use. Against the odds, prison staff provided some redemptive projects. A handful of prisoners were pursuing a course designed to encourage them to think about the consequences to others of their crimes.No one has yet written 'Abandon Hope All Ye Who Enter Here' above the doors of Britain's prisons, but it would not be inappropriate in the present crisis. Tony Blair told the Commons last week that 'prison works'. There were, he said, '40 per cent more dangerous, violent and persistent offenders in prison than in 1997, despite crime having fallen'. What he couldn't explain was why, if it has been policy to drive up prison numbers in order to force down crime, no one had the foresight to provide more jail room.Last week's reminder by the Home Secretary, John Reid, to judges and magistrates to go easy on prison - truly bad boys only - was a damning admission. The consequences were rammed home when Derek Williams appeared grinning on television and telling the world that he was 'lucky' not to be behind bars.Williams had downloaded child porn on his computer and could have expected a stiff sentence. Instead the judge, one of those to have received Reid's 'reminder', told Williams that he had to observe the 'current sentencing climate'. In popular terms, Williams had 'got off' for a crime that incurs maximum tabloid and public disgust. There was no room in jail to squeeze in one more paedophile.Williams's sentence was rapidly followed by the bailing of Keith Morris, another sex offender. And Rod Morgan, chair of the Youth Justice Board, decided not to seek reappointment, lamenting that the swelling numbers in jail included an increase of 26 per cent of young people in three years. He called it 'swamping'.Almost every room within the criminal justice estate with a lock on the door now has a prisoner confined inside. In 30 years prison numbers have doubled. Are we twice as wicked now as then? And are we that much more unlawful than our fellow Europeans? Britain comfortably tops the league table for the highest proportion of incarcerated citizens.The Home Office is building to increase the prison capacity by 8,000 new places - most not ready until Olympic year, 2012 - which is akin to erecting a brick wall to halt a tsunami. With magistrates jailing more petty offenders and judges handing down heavier sentences, these cells will have - as it were - names on their doors long before the bars are in place. Meantime, there is talk of prison ships and army barracks being pressed into service.Some time, somehow, a government will have to face the fact that more offenders will have to be 'punished' in the community. For the moment this government remains mesmerised by 'public opinion'; it has a terror of endorsing penalties that can be characterised as 'soft', thus postponing the day when rising prison numbers will finally be halted.It must confront robustly the lack of public faith in alternatives and give them teeth. A magistrate said yesterday that only the prospect of jail persuades many offenders to mend their ways. I have seen youths on community service lounging by a canal that they were supposed to be clearing of junk. Smirking and smoking and citing 'health and safety', they refused to do anything without protective gloves and goggles.John Reid says that building new prisons is a prerequisite to creating public faith in alternatives. If people think that offenders are getting community service simply because there is no room in jail, alternatives will lack credibility.The flaw in this argument is that the more prison cells there are, the more prisoners there will be. At the very least, no alternative to jail would get close to matching the £30,000 a year each prisoner costs. This might just appeal to our probable next leader's renowned prudence.· Robert Chesshyre is author of The Force: Inside the Police, and a contributor to New Statesman