Friday 17 December 2010Joanna Yeates leaves the Ram pub near Bristol city centre and walks back to her home in Clifton. She is believed to get back to Flat one, 44, Canynge Road, at about 8.45pm. At around 8.50pm screams are heard.Sunday 19 DecemberYeates's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returns home after a weekend away to find her missing from their flat. He dials 999 shortly after midnight.Monday 20 DecemberAt 4.15am a police officer, accompanied by Reardon, knocks on the door of Tabak's home, Flat two, 44, Canynge Road. He appears "vague and confused" and says he knows nothing of Yeates's disappearance.Tuesday 21 DecemberYeates's parents, David and Teresa, make their first appeal for information at a police press conference in Bristol. They say: "Jo, whatever the reason that you have not been in touch over the last few days, we want you to know that we love you dearly and are desperate to know that you are safe and well."Thursday 23 DecemberPolice search Tabak's flat. He is "co-operative", and they find nothing of interest.Friday 24 DecemberTabak has left Bristol and is at the house of his girlfriend's parents in Cambridge. A detective speaks to Tabak on the telephone. He tells her he had been at home on the night of 17 December and only went out in the early hours to pick up his girlfriend, Tanja Morson, after a night out.Saturday 25 DecemberA dog walker finds Yeates's body covered by snow on the verge of Longwood Lane in Failand, three miles from Clifton.Tuesday 28 DecemberPolice reveal Yeates was strangled and her death is being treated as murder. Tabak and Morson drive to Holland via Eurotunnel.Thursday 30 DecemberDetectives arrest Christopher Jefferies, Yeates's and Tabak's landlord, over the young woman's murder. Tabak speaks to detectives from Holland and claims he may have information about Jefferies.Friday 31 DecemberPolice travel to Amsterdam and speak to Tabak. He changes his story about what he did on the night Yeates vanished. He also says he may have once been in the flat while he chatted with Jefferies. He provides a DNA sample and is fingerprinted.Saturday 1 January 2011Jefferies is released on police bail.Sunday 2 JanuaryTabak and Morson return to the UK. Tabak expects to be stopped at the border and arrested. He isn't.Police continue to try to keep the case in the news, organising appeals and working with the BBC's Crimewatch programme.Thursday 20 JanuaryTabak is arrested on suspicion of the murder of Yeates after DNA evidence links him to her body.Friday 28 OctoberTabak is sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Yeates, with the judge ordering that he spend at least 20 years in prison. He was found guilty of strangling the 25-year-old at her flat before bundling her body into the boot of his car and dumping it on the side of the road.