The owner of a haulage company and a mechanic have been jailed after a 32-tonne truck with faulty brakes killed four people, including a four-year-old girl, when it careered down a steep hill in Bath.Matthew Gordon, 30, and Peter Wood, 55, were each convicted of four counts of manslaughter. Gordon was sentenced to seven years and six months in prison, and Wood to five years and three months, on Friday at Bristol crown court. The lorry driver, Phillip Potter, 20, was cleared by a jury at Bristol crown court last December. Mitzi Steady, four, died and her grandmother, Margaret Rogers, suffered serious injuries when they were hit by the lorry as they crossed the road. The heavily loaded vehicle continued down Lansdown Lane and hit a parked car, killing three men inside: Stephen Vaughan, 34, of Swansea, south Wales, and Philip Allen, 52, and Robert Parker, 59, both of Cwmbran, south Wales. In a victim impact statement read to the court, Mitzi’s mother, Emmajade Steady, said the family, including the girl’s two siblings, were struggling to cope.“I think of Mitzi so often and yearn for her constantly. We are devastated that our bright, lively, beautiful, vibrant, outgoing little girl will never have her first day at school, learn to read, have best friends to giggle and play with ... the list is endless,” she said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mitzi was killed when she was hit by the lorry as she crossed the road with her grandmother, who was badly hurt. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police/PA“We are bereft and emotionally distraught to be without our child. I still find it difficult to sleep and accept that Mitzi has died. That I can no longer hold her and protect her. That she had to suffer such a sudden, traumatic, senseless death. That I was not there with her and cannot be with my beautiful girl now.”The jury heard that Potter was following Gordon, the owner of Grittenham Haulage in Wiltshire, down the steep lane when the brakes on the 11-year-old lorry failed. Mitzi’s grandmother said that in the immediate aftermath, she woke up on the roadside, but was so badly hurt she could not get to Mitzi. “My concerns were that I couldn’t get up and go to Mitzi,” she said. “I was also anxious about being unable to pick up my other grandchildren who we had been on our way to collect.”She spent three months in hospital being treated for her injuries, including to her legs, which had to be amputated below the knee.“It has been difficult for me – I was looking after Mitzi. I do ask myself what else I could have done? But you could set yourself mad going off on a train of thought thinking of the ‘what-ifs’,” she said.“Since the incident on 9 February 2015, I hardly sleep, relying on audio tapes playing throughout the night to prevent me focusing on the loss of my granddaughter.“The facts of that terrible day cause physical and mental pain that me and my family continue to live with. In the morning I see my prosthetic legs and wheelchair by my bed, reminding me that I am disabled. I used to be fit, independent and self-sufficient. Now I suffer distress and humiliation because of my dependency on others.” Sian Vaughan, the wife of Stephen Vaughan, told the court he died six months after their wedding. “I gave him a kiss goodbye and told him I loved him. Little did I know that this would be the last time,” she said.She said she struggled to believe her husband was gone until she went to identify him. “In that moment, I realised that it was true. Steve was laying in front of me as if he were sleeping. I was waiting for him to take a breath and open his eyes, but it didn’t happen. I held him and told him that I loved him. He felt so cold. He hated being cold.”Louise Allen, Philip Allen’s wife, told the court he had been key in planning his daughter Hayley’s wedding, but died before he could walk her down the aisle. “None of us got to hear Phil’s speech and Hayley didn’t get to have her dad walk her down the aisle. Her wedding day will always be remembered as bittersweet,” she said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matthew Gordon, left, was sentenced to more than seven years in prison and Peter Wood to more than five years at Bristol crown court. Composite: SWNS/PAAdam Vaitilingam QC, prosecuting, described Gordon’s business as “a shambles from start to finish”. Grittenham Haulage did not carry out the recommended brake efficiency tests on the vehicle, which had almost 450,000 miles on the clock at the time of the incident. The final safety check carried out by Wood was described as “wholly inadequate”. Mr Justice Langstaff told Gordon, of Dauntsey, Wiltshire, and Wood, of Brinkworth, Wiltshire, that the brakes were in an appalling state and the lorry should not have been on the road. “You were not concerned for the public,” he told Gordon.