A man described by police as one of the most professional conmen they had ever encountered was today jailed for four and a half years following a series of deceptions that included tricking his way into Windsor Castle.Michael Hammond was sentenced at Isleworth crown court, in London, after admitting one count of being a public nuisance, incorporating 11 separate instances of impersonating a police officer and one of wasting police time, at an earlier hearing.The 36-year-old prompted a major security scare last May after gaining access to Windsor Castle by posing as a policeman accompanying close friends of princes William and Harry. He spent an hour in the castle grounds. Judge Richard McGregor-Johnson said that it was this case that caught the public's eye, and had "serious" security ramifications, but that on other occasions Hammond's "attention-seeking behaviour" had created more impact on innocent members of the public.People were searched at gunpoint and armed emergency units were sent out when after Hammond, of Cubitt Town, east London, made a series of hoax calls to the Metropolitan police.He led officers on a string of wild goose chases as he made calls for assistance and reported having sighted armed suspects wanted by the Met's Operation Trident unit, as well as other murder suspects. "On three occasions, innocent people were stopped at gunpoint because of what you said and pretended to be. Quite apart from the stress and fear that must have caused those people, you created the risk of something much worse," Judge McGregor-Johnson said. "You could not possibly know how those being searched would behave or react and, however well trained and disciplined armed officers are, carrying ... or producing loaded weapons in such circumstances inevitably carries with it the risk that an action or reaction could be misunderstood with tragic consequences. Fortunately that didn't happen, but you had no way of knowing whether that might or not."Although no royals had been at Windsor when Hammond gained access to the castle, it created a major security scare only 10 days after an extensive review of royal security. He duped officers in the castle's control room into letting him through the Henry VIII gate, which is normally reserved for members of the royal family and staff. Today, he looked unconcerned as Judge Richard McGregor-Johnson told him the old-fashioned wording of causing a public nuisance "obscures far more serious conduct than simply making a nuisance of yourself". Hammond, seen by police as a serial liar, has also pretended to be a millionaire, falsely claimed to have dated the singer Dannii Minogue, and insisted he was friends with the Prince of Wales, his two sons and the Duke of York. In February last year, he was given a police escort when he called City of London police, pretending that he was a doctor on his way to perform a lifesaving operation on a child.