Road safety campaigners and a distraught family called for tougher sentences on criminal drivers yesterday after horrific details emerged of a teenager's death when her boyfriend crashed while driving illegally and refused to call an ambulance.Kirsty Cash, 17, was bundled into another car unconscious with blood coming out of her ears after Andrew Bennett threatened to smash in the face of another girl who was about to dial 999 on her mobile phone.Bennett was given an unusual "indeterminate" life term in detention, but with a possible parole date of 2011, which prompted Kirsty's father to storm out of Sheffield crown court. Stan Cash said: "I am prepared to hang for what I would do to all of them involved in this. The sentence was a joke. Bennett has shown no remorse for what he has done. He is evil."Kathy Keeler, of the road safety campaign Brake, said: "Bennett could be out in four-and-a-half years, which would be a ridiculously low sentence for this despicable crime and make a mockery of his 'life' sentence. He placed a higher priority on evading detection than on saving the life of his girlfriend. We are pleased that the charge of manslaughter has been made to stick."Another group, Roadpeace, held talks with the Home Office yesterday about harsher penalties, including a new offence of causing death by careless driving which is in the current road safety bill.Bennett, 20, was warned by Judge Alan Goldsack QC, recorder of Sheffield, that he could be in jail "for a very long time". The court heard that he had never held a driving licence or taken lessons, and had 16 previous convictions, almost all involving road offences.He was driving at over 90mph on narrow lanes near Sheffield after a drinking and cannabis spree when he lost control and ploughed his Subaru Impreza into a tree. Kirsty, who had just undone her seatbelt to retrieve a dropped cigarette, was flung through the windscreen and into a stone wall.Joanne Kilner-Farr told the court that she had also been injured in the crash. "I saw Kirsty badly hurt. I got my phone out to call an ambulance. He [Bennett] could clearly see what I was doing. He dropped Kirsty on the floor and lunged at me."He screamed: 'Don't call them because I'm a banned driver. Don't call them or I'll smash your face in.' It was clear he was only concerned about himself, not Kirsty."Bennett, who is unemployed and, according to his counsel, has the IQ of a 13-year-old, admitted manslaughter, driving while disqualified and conspiring to pervert the course of justice by trying to conceal the crash. He enlisted his stepfather to take him and the two girls back to his home, and later returned with a friend to set fire to the wrecked car.He had bought the Subaru hours earlier with a £5,500 insurance payout made to his mother to help her care for Bennett's disabled brother.