You like smoking dope, have no particular educational qualifications, have designed your own knuckledusters, threatened to kill your dad with a knife and your gang has overturned a car with a rival gang inside it – so what do you choose as a career? The police, of course. This is what we learned from An Inspector Recalls by Graham Satchwell (The History Press), one of a batch of increasingly frank police memoirs; the genre goes back two centuries and provides an invaluable prism through which we can see how and by whom our laws are enforced. Once the most senior detective working the railway beat, Satchwell gives us Life on Mars through the eyes of a remarkably frank Martian and much of it is winsomely light-hearted. We meet one of his colleagues whose specialty in chasing villains was shouting “Stop or I’ll let the dog loose!” followed by a realistic alsatian bark.Next South Yorkshire police chief must show proof of ‘leading with integrity’ “It is a sad fact that when I became a policeman, and throughout my service, strangers would assume, because of my occupation, that I was a racist, a bigot, a bit thick and a right-winger,” writes Satchwell, whose career ran from 1968 to 1999, by which time he was a detective superintendent (which does not lend itself so neatly to a book title). He does not shy away from tales of corruption and worse: a very senior officer at Hendon police college would unbutton the blouses of young female recruits and, if stopped, would tell his victim that it was just a test to see if they would let anyone take advantage of them. But there is much admiration for fellow officers, and reflections on kidnap, robbery, IRA bomb threats and train disasters. His investigation of the 1997 Southall fatal rail crash led to him being interviewed by David Hare for his play The Permanent Way, which made Satchwell cry when he watched it at the National theatre.Former undercover drugs squad officer Neil Woods confesses that he ended up having more empathy with the Brighton junkies he had infiltrated than with his fellow officers, whom he despised. We learn this in Good Cop, Bad War (Ebury), published in the summer, a remarkably frank tale of how Woods – who tossed a coin as to whether or not to join the police – ended up having to strip naked at gun-point to prove to heroin dealers he wasn’t wired up. Woods concludes that the “war on drugs” is both a failure and counter-productive and he now campaigns to end it.For the genre, these are breaths of fresh air – and these are breezy times for police memoirs. At the Newark book festival this year, there were no fewer than four former officers with recently published tales. The earliest of such recollections go back to 1824 and Henry Goddard’s Memoirs of a Bow Street Runner. The police historian Martin Stallion has logged more than 500 memoirs and biographies, including those of former officers, such as the cricket writer and commentator John Arlott and the broadcaster Gilbert Harding, who were better known for their lives outside the service.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   This image, from William Merrilees’sThe Short Arm of the Law, is captioned: ‘A typical homosexual’.“The first boom in publishing was in the 1920s and 1930s, which was, of course, also the so-called golden age for detective fiction,” says Stallion. “The recent increase in output, from those who joined from about 1960 onwards, I would attribute to the success of [former inspector] Nicholas Rhea’s Constable series and the Heartbeat TV series based on them, together with the rise in self-publishing.”One of the most successful of the modern crop, Mike Pannett, who served in both the Metropolitan and the North Yorkshire police, has built a cottage industry for himself as the copper’s answer to James Herriot’s vet series. Pannett cheerfully recounts how he first created interest in the books by calling Waterstones in Harrods and telling them that he was from a Metropolitan police reading group which was studying his new memoir, Now Then, Lad. The shop duly stocked the books prominently, the Yorkshire Post was alerted about a local author’s success and a feature article followed and when his grandfather assured the Daily Mail that the book was a cracker, the Mail duly followed suit. Hey presto, he is now on his sixth memoir and is sponsored by Yorkshire Tea. He is a witty story-teller – how else would we know about North Yorkshire CID’s discovery of a new type of drug abuse, in which the user injects ecstasy directly into the mouth. It’s called “E by gum”.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Richard Venables, a former detective inspector, was on duty on the day of the Hillsborough disaster: ‘I will feel guilt for the rest of my life.’ Photograph: Rex FeaturesIn a very different style is the sombre A Life in Death by Richard Venables (Thistle), a former detective inspector from Rotherham, who was on duty at Hillsborough and later became a specialist in identifying dead bodies. It is a touching and honest account. “My application form said I wanted to join the police to help people and to make a difference,” he writes. “In truth, I wanted to be a policeman because it would give me an identity ... I wanted the uniform.” Of the Hillsborough disaster, he writes: “I’d seen people die right in front of me and I’d been unable to help them, I will feel guilt for the rest of my life. It is real, permanent, devastating. Flashbacks strike whenever life’s not going well.”His story is a reminder of some of the hellish things that officers can encounter. Of one rail crash in which 10 people died, he recounts: “We were in the process of  searching and undressing a victim when his mobile phone, which was in his trouser pocket, rang. The device’s ring was so eerie that we all froze … I saw the phone’s screen as I removed it from his pocket. The display said ‘Mum’. We let the rings finish and then placed the phone in a Faraday (forensic) bag.”Venables follows a long line of specialists sharing their skills. In 1954 Fred Cherrill, the former head of Scotland Yard’s fingerprint branch, published his memoirs which tell of an era when someone’s “dabs” rather than their DNA or mobile phone were the surest way of tracking them down. “With all man’s mighty achievements he has never accomplished a feat comparable with that which Nature is achieving every hour and minute of the day,” he wrote in Cherrill of the Yard. “From the inexhaustible store of designs in her womb … she continues to mark every new finger with a stamp of individuality.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  This Small Cloud: A Personal Memoir by Harry Daley includes this photograph of Daley in uniform, with a friend at a swimming pool. Photograph: Courtesy Harry DaleyMemoirs from the last century can also be chillingly revealing. Willie Merrilees was Scotland’s most famous officer in the 1950s, even appearing on the TV programme, This Is Your Life. In his autobiography, The Short Arm of the Law – he was four inches shorter than police requirements of the time but was able to enlist nonetheless – he describes how he sought “to cleanse Edinburgh from the stain of having one of the most vice-ridden underworlds of any city” and drive out “rampant homosexuality”. He helpfully includes a photo of “a typical homosexual”, a simpering soul in a woman’s coat. Also included, without irony, is a picture of Merrilees himself, in full drag – “my disguise used to investigate many cases of robbery and assault”. His moral crusade led to his having to hide in bedrooms to observe the deviants’ sexual activity and he even posed as a gay man: “I am afraid I almost left myself with a permanent lisp, so authentic was my behaviour.” To get rid of undesirables, “I adopted methods as unorthodox as their own – sufficient to say that within a fortnight these gigolos left Edinburgh. I don’t think the east wind agreed with them.” As for pimps, he would “get hold of the bully, take him discreetly to some quiet spot and there ‘sing him a lullaby’”.Contrast this with This Small Cloud by Harry Daley, a Met policeman between 1925 and 1950. Openly gay at a time when this was even harder, Daley was the lover of EM Forster  and Duncan Grant, who painted his portrait. “The policemen hostile to me,” wrote Daley in his memoir, published posthumously in 1987, “were ex-Guardsmen ... who looked on homosexuals as a source of extra income. They couldn’t resist telling of their adventures … with rich old queers but anxious not to give themselves away completely always ended with ‘Of course – directly he touched me – biff bang wallop.’ Of course!” Daley also paints a picture of a time when villains knew their place: “I often had to lock up my friends and acquaintances - not so upsetting as it sounds. They were from families where such things are no disgrace.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Jack Slipper attempted to arrest Ronnie Biggs in Rio de Janeiro. Photograph: Richard Young / Rex FeaturesThings may have changed a bit since then but, as Brian Paddick recounts in Line of Fire, published in 2008, not so much. Lord Paddick of Brixton, as he now is, was the most senior openly gay officer when his former partner sold a kiss-and-tell tale to the Mail on Sunday for £100,000 in 2001. “What does Brian say or do as he climaxes?” was one of the hundreds of questions – all in the public interest, of course – that the paper’s reporter wanted answered for her money. Paddick eventually won damages for some of the allegations and his account of the smear campaign mounted against him by the Mail group and its self-righteously prurient columnists is sobering and depressing.Writing styles can vary from the plodding to the racy. “She was tall and blonde and slender,” writes former deputy assistant commissioner Ian Forbes of Kim Newell, convicted of being an accessory to the 1967 murder of her lover’s wife, June Cook, in a staged car crash. “She wore an elegant grey costume, silk stockings on her long legs, and she had an air of easy confidence as if she knew what effect she had on men and enjoyed every bit of it ... In different circumstances I would have been the first to admit that this 23-year-old girl would have been a very attractive companion, but I knew I was looking at the most evil woman it was my misfortune to meet in my 30-odd years as a copper.” His memoir, Squad Man, published in 1973, gives copious thanks to Sunday Mirror crime reporter Norman Lucas, which may explain the breathless prose.Some of the memoirs are dependent on an officer’s involvement in a famous crime. The late Jack Slipper, who unsuccessfully pursued train robber Ronnie Biggs to Rio, wrote a rueful account of it in Slipper of the Yard (1980). Leonard “Nipper” Read nailed the Krays. “I have long overcome any embarrassment when people say ‘I hope you don’t mind but tell me what were they really like?’ Of course I don’t mind,” writes Read in Nipper (1990). “The Kray trial brought me fame which I would never have enjoyed had I not been selected to undertake the investigation.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Leonard ‘Nipper’ Read: ‘The Kray trial brought me fame.’ Photograph: William Lovelace/Getty ImagesAnother memoirist who, like Merrilees, was not plagued by self-doubt was Robert Fabian – “Fabian of the Yard”. In his 1950 memoir of that name he pays tribute to Winnie, “the wife – a most important part of a policeman’s equipment”, a reminder of just how male the profession then was. While the vast majority of the books are by men, Lilian Wyles entered the field with A Woman at Scotland Yard in 1952; Alison Halford, once the most senior woman in the service, who encountered a mountain of sexism on her way to the top, wrote about it in No Way Up the Greasy Pole (1993). Former Flying Squad officer, Carol Bristow, who once busted Francis Bacon on a drugs charge, described her 30-year career in Central 822 in 1998.Former Met commissioners, including Ian Blair, John Stevens and David McNee, tend to go into print to “set the record straight”. Robert Mark’s In the Office of Constable (1977) remains the most significant. Doubtless the beleaguered Bernard Hogan-Howe, who retires from the post next year, will be considering following their lead.Who reads them? John Grieve, the former head of anti-terrorism, credits John Gosling’s Ghost Squad (1959) as “one of many books that made me want to be a detective”, as did Peter Beveridge’s Inside the CID (1947). “At the very least they expressed an ideal of what many officers were trying to achieve.” And why did Martin Stallion think that criminals’ memoirs sell more? “As a journalist you surely know that bad news is better than good news. As the Fat Boy said in The Pickwick Papers: ‘I wants to make your flesh creep’.”• We’ll All Be Murdered in Our Beds! by Duncan Campbell is published by Elliott and Thompson.