A report is to be published today investigating the failures that led to the death of a seven-year-old girl who was starved by her mother after she was withdrawn from school.Khyra Ishaq died in May 2008 at her home in the inner-city Birmingham district of Handsworth. She had not left her home for several weeks and suffered an infection brought on by extreme malnutrition.The serious case review will be published in Birmingham later this morning and is expected to be critical of the authorities that failed Khyra.She had fallen off the radar of educational welfare and social workers and had been kept away from school by her mother, Angela Gordon, who was purportedly home-tutoring her.In March, Gordon, 35, was jailed for 15 years after admitting being responsible for her daughter's death. She was cleared of murder but convicted of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility.Khyra's stepfather, Junaid Abuhamza, a Muslim convert, was jailed indefinitely with a minimum term of seven and a half years. Both admitted five other child cruelty charges relating to children who can't be identified.The trial at Birmingham crown court heard that cries of "let me out" had been heard coming from the house. A neighbour saw Khyra whimpering in the back garden before her death, dressed just in her underwear.A detective who was involved in the case said Khyra's untimely death was ultimately caused by an overwhelming infection brought on by severe malnutrition – "a cause of death you don't expect to see in the western world, let alone Birmingham, in the 21st century".There were horrific echoes of the death of Victoria Climbié, who was abused by an aunt before she died in Haringey 10 years ago.At the time of her death, Khyra weighed just 2st 9lbs (16.8kg) – just 12lbs more than her healthy weight as a 14-month-old baby. She had lost around 40% of her body weight and her body mass index was so low it ran off the scale of normal medical charts.Roger Malcolmson, the doctor who examined Khyra's body, said he had never seen such a rapid fat loss. "It was shocking, in fact, to see her for the first time." He described how the joints of her elbows were particularly prominent and her face was sunken. There was little skin fat and her jawbone was prominent.She had been subjected to a sadistic regime of starvation, punishments, including cold baths and being beaten with a cane or made to overeat until she vomited. A forensic pathologist who carried out a postmortem examination on Khyra found 60 marks, 34 of which could have happened in the week before her death. Eight were consistent with being struck by a cane.When Khyra was removed from school, the deputy headteacher contacted social services on four occasions within a 24-hour period. But she was told the case did not need further assessment.The deputy head called unannounced at the family home and talked to Gordon on the doorstep. "She was agitated by our presence. We didn't see the children," she said. "Social services said the referral didn't warrant initial assessment."The serious case review is expected to be damning of the failures by social services to intervene in Khyra's case and is likely to make a series of recommendations to prevent a repetition of the appalling tragedy.