At what age, in this uncertain economic climate, should a criminal retire? The question was prompted this week by Judge Roger Thom QC when sentencing a recidivist, aged 65, in Hull crown court. "I cannot help but notice you have passed traditional retirement age. Please will you now retire from crime?" said the judge.So what would be the suitable age to hang up the balaclava? "By the time I reached my seventies, I decided that I just had no more time to offer them," Peter Scott, once Britain's most active cat burglar and the author of Gentleman Thief, said a decade ago. "It wasn't that I was reformed, it was just that I had no more of my life to give them behind bars."And what does he say now? Even after he made the decision to retire and coach tennis, Scott admits, he slipped back into the business with a bit-part in the theft of a Picasso. "So I had to give them another two years. Common sense should tell you that you're not what you were and it's time to get out."The late George 'Taters' Chatham, who was Scott's mentor, if that is the right word, went on breaking into Mayfair homes well into his 80s despite many tumbles from roofs.Where to retire to? The coast of Spain was, for many years, the favoured place for the senior end of the underworld, initially because there was a period when the extradition treaty between the UK and Spain lapsed. Now Turkish-occupied Northern Cyprus (no extradition treaty) or Pattaya in Thailand offer a happy haven for retired villains who can keep their hand in by selling fashion knock-offs and dodgy time-shares. Most career criminals do not benefit from a company pension scheme – unless it's one they fiddled for themselves.Because of the lengthier sentences now being handed out, many criminals of pension age are already living in sheltered accommodation – otherwise known as prison, where the over-60s are the fastest growing age group. From 1996 to 2006, prison numbers for those aged over 60 increased twice as fast as those of their juniors. The old days when a robber hoped to go legit, with perhaps a club or restaurant, by the age of 50, seem long gone.But what's the alternative on the outside? Former armed robber Patsy Feeley reckoned that jail was preferable in many ways to most residential homes because the food was better, the company more entertaining and the staff treated you with greater respect."You know where you stand," he said at the launch of his biography, Nil Desperandum, in 2008. "In care homes, it's different. I miss prison in a way."