A 13-year-old girl witnessed Damilola Taylor become the victim of a "deliberate and controlled" act of violence after he was targeted by a gang of young muggers, the Old Bailey heard today.After being stabbed in the leg, probably with a broken beer bottle, she watched as the ten-year-old schoolboy was left "crying for help" while his four teenage attackers displayed no concern, counsel Mark Dennis told the murder trial jury as he opened the prosecution's case.It also emerged today that a post mortem, which concluded he had died of a single stab wound, showed a glass marble had been placed into his mouth. This was probably the reason why a police officer had been unable to clear his airways when trying to revive Damilola. Mr Dennis told the jury his attackers "had a hard and cruel streak in them". The young girl witness, who did not realise the gravity of the violence visited upon Damilola, hid behind a car, powerless to help as he was attacked on a quiet street on his way home from an after-school computer class in Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000.Mr Dennis, who praised the girl's courage in coming forward as a witness against her peer group when she could have stayed quiet out of "self-protection" and prudence. He said she knew three of the attackers and had seen the fourth around the area of the North Peckham Estate where Nigerian-born Damilola lived.Two sixteen-year-old boys, a 17-year-old and a 14-year-old plead not guilty to murder, assault with intent to rob and manslaughter. The accused, said to be close friends, cannot be named because of their ages.Mr Dennis said Damilola was confronted by this group of youths as he was making his way home shortly after 4.30pm. "He was alone and, judging by the way he was playfully walking, he was untroubled and without any apparent care in the world." Mr Dennis said: "The youths were possibly part of a larger group of boys and had been loitering in the area waiting, it would appear, for a young vulnerable victim to rob. Damilola Taylor, walking alone in a quiet side street by the North Peckham Estate, proved to be an irresistible target for four of the boys."The 13-year-old girl witness noticed four youths running into Blakes Road and said she was curious to know why the boy were in a hurry. By the time she reached them, they were half way along the road and had surrounded Damilola on the pavement outside the boiler house.Mr Dennis had speculated that the robbers may have been "initially attracted by the distinctive silver coloured jacket which Damilola was wearing". In any event, the "boys accosted him as he walked along the pavement - he was stopped, surrounded and trapped". Mr Dennis said it was unlikely that Damilola would have been in possession of any valuables on this occasion - he would not normally carry any money and he was not known to have a mobile phone. "As a result, the boys' demands would have been met with resistance and proved fruitless. It may well be for that reason Damilola was not simply left to go on his way and events escalated to a higher level of aggression and violence."Mr Dennis went on to describe to the jury of seven men and five women the events which led to the boy's death. One of the boys was allegedly pushing Damilola as he said something to him. The 13-year-old girl could not hear what was said. Mr Dennis said the 17-year-old boy then "fetched a beer bottle that had been discarded near a rubbish area. He broke the bottle and handed it across to one of his accomplices." Mr Dennis added: "Within moments - in which what can only have been a deliberate and controlled act of violence - Damilola was stabbed in the left thigh, just above the knee, as he remained trapped and helpless, surrounded by the four boys." He said the stabbing caused a deep and gaping wound which, having severed a major artery and vein in the leg, caused immediate and profuse bleeding. The response of the four boys was simply to run away.Mr Dennis said that from her vantage point the girl did not see "who actually inflicted the fatal wound, nor was she able to see whether any other weapon - whether knife or bottle - had been produced during the final assault". As they fled, she started to follow the youths, one of whom was wearing a distinctive hat, but could not reach them. She then came back to see if Damilola was alright but he had gone, so she went on her way. By then Damilola, who she had last seen trying to sit up, had managed to stagger to the flats around 30 yards away and climb to the third floor stairwell, only to bleed to death 200 yards from the safety of his home. First he collapsed and fell into semi-consciousness. But Mr Dennis said that, "by the time people found him on the staircase and he was rushed to hospital, it was too late and he was finally pronounced dead within an hour of the attack". Damiloa was found by Bill Casal, a carpenter, who noticed a trail of blood leading up the staircase and saw him collapsed at the top of a flight of steps, partly on to a landing. Mr Dennis said: "Mr Casal rushed to his assistance. Damilola was obviously in a terrible state - the only words he was to utter thereafter was 'I'm OK, OK' - words indicative of a rather plucky and brave young boy. "He was, of course, far from OK." Mr Casal used his mobile phone to call for an ambulance at 4.47pm. He also raised help from workmates who "tried to help Damilola as best they could as he lapsed in and out of consciousness". But before they arrived, Mr Casal had allegedly seen three youths. One made eye contact with him and made a deliberate gesture with his hand across the top of his leg, the court heard. Mr Dennis told the jury: "You will need to consider whether these three youths may have been associated with the four defendants." The trial continues.