This week the third set of "acne lights" was fitted to Layton Burroughs estate in Nottinghamshire. Their aim? To disperse kids hanging around the neighbourhood by highlighting adolescent skin problems (this really isn't a joke – the lights are mostly used by dermatologists to get a better look at their patients).Tempting as it is to wring our hands at such a scheme, the lights do seem to work. I spoke to the chairman of the residents' association that ordered the lights, who said that the two underpasses where the lights have been fitted – once full of kids swearing, fighting and drinking – are now empty and safe for residents to walk through. The lights' success has apparently sparked interest from Merseyside police and the Co-op, and drawn visitors from as far away as Germany, Australia and Canada, all of whom are interested in replicating the scheme.But, like the mosquito device – which residents considered but rejected after concerns that it would irritate babies – acne lights suffer from three big problems.First, they discriminate against a particular group, and for some reason we think targeting all young people is OK – even if the lights can't discriminate between those youths who are out to cause trouble and those who just want to enjoy their right to public space without embarrassment.Second, even the chairman of the residents' association admits that these lights cause resentment and bad feeling in the community. By switching on these lights, adults are sending a message: "Young people, you are troublemakers, and we don't want you here." Media coverage of previous installations was unhelpful, describing local young people as "yobs" and "spotty little herbert", and undermining any basis for dialogue.The third reason for opposing acne lights is the most important: they don't deal with the real problems. Nottinghamshire isn't a particularly poor region, but in Mansfield, where the estate is located, one in six young people are on free school meals. Acne lights don't deal with the problems this poverty brings, they simply displace them. When I asked the chairman where his local young people had gone, he said the churchyard. He didn't know whether they were still drinking and fighting and causing trouble there; but he did say that they didn't have enough alternative places to go. When I asked whether the association had considered spending the £1,750 they'd received for the lights on alternative activities for the kids, he said they hadn't.This is not to deny that there are real issues of antisocial behaviour in our communities that we need to face. Of the approximately 120 properties on the Layton Burroughs estate, many house elderly people in sheltered accommodation – who feel vulnerable. I'm not denying that they shouldn't have to live in fear, or that young people don't have an obligation to take responsibility for their behaviour. But acne lights are not the best way to solve these problems. To see the light, we need to switch it off.