The Metropolitan police admitted yet another extraordinary blunder in the Stephen Lawrence case when it was found that a police covert video camera at the home of Stephen's friend, Duwayne Brooks, had no tape in it.In an echo of the failure to install a working camera at Stephen's vandalised memorial stone in south London, the police discovered their mistake when they were called to investigate a possible attempted burglary at Mr Brooks' flat in Peckham, south London, after the security alarm went off. Mr Brooks, who is classified as a protected person after he witnessed Stephen's racist murder six years ago, said yesterday he feared for his safety and was planning to move. Figures released yesterday showed that complaints of racist behaviour against police officers had doubled in the months after the Lawrence report was published. In a further embarrassing twist the statistics were released by the officer in charge of the Met's racial relations strategy, assistant commissioner Dennis O'Connor, who also has overall responsibility for the area where Mr Brooks lives. Mr Brooks was already looking for new accommodation because his address was released to the press two weeks ago, after he was accused of possessing an offensive weapon during a stop and search. The charge was discontinued when the police accepted the instrument was a tool of his trade as a photocopier repairer. The incident at his flat happened in the early hours of last Saturday when he was out. Alerted by the 4am alarm, the police called Mr Brooks on his mobile phone and together they found no evidence of a break-in or of any property taken. Mr Brooks said yesterday: "This has really shaken me up. I am scared for my safety. There are people out there who would like to see me dead." His solicitor, Vicky Guedella, said: "Mr Brooks is seriously worried for his safety and has diminishing faith in the police's ability to secure it." A spokeswoman for the Met's south area said: "We are treating his solicitor's concerns very seriously and have appointed a senior officer from central area to investigate the incident." The number of complaints of race discrimination against officers rose from 51 in April to June 1998 to 115 in the same period this year. They range from an officer's perceived behaviour to abusive comments and overt discrimination. Mr O'Connor said: "It seems unlikely that officers are being more racist. I find it encouraging that more people are prepared to make these complaints and we are now examining each case to see what's happening in detail. "People feel more courageous or willing to imply that they are not getting fair treatment because they were black. Perhaps it is also because of the interest and awareness around the Stephen Lawrence inquiry."