This morning, when the Guardian's Washington office took a straw poll before Scooter Libby was sentenced, no one guessed that he would be put in the slammer for more than two years. Sure, lies are bad things, very bad things indeed. But Libby's actions didn't really fall inside the pantheon of High Crimes: his obstruction wouldn't exist were it not for an investigation into a crime that (apparently) didn't happen. A year or two behind bars seemed like it would do the trick.Well, we were all wrong. Libby got sentenced to 30 months in jail. He got fined $250,000. He even - in a charming flourish - got slapped with $400 in court costs.As a wishy-washy liberal, I'm not 100% comfortable with this outcome. But I'm a bit surprised that some conservatives aren't, either. In an editorial today, the National Review decries the prosecutor's "throw-the-book-at-him" tactics and announces, with touching sentimentality, that "All of this might be funny if it weren't so serious for Libby." Dick Cheney released a statement calling the convict "a man of the highest intellect, judgment and personal integrity", that concludes with the hope for "a final result consistent with what we know of this fine man".The consensus on the right is that the imputed crimes don't live up to the narrative hype. The Republican senator Kay Bailey Hutchison once summed the attitude up quite well when she waved off the charges as "some perjury technicality". And hey, who wants to nail a poor fellow to the cross for "some perjury technicality"?Well, just about every Republican official circa 1998. Bill Clinton, you might recall, was impeached for perjury and obstruction of justice stemming from a crime he didn't commit. (The Paula Jones sexual harassment lawsuit, from which the perjury charges stemmed, was dismissed before it went to trial.) But I don't think you'll recall too many Republicans waving off those charges as "some perjury technicality" or worrying that it might be hilarious, if only it weren't so darn serious.And the irony runs deeper. After all, the man responsible for the rise of firmer, harsher sentencing guidelines was Scooter Libby's former employer, Ronald Reagan, whose state department employed Libby in the early 1980s. In 1984, Reagan signed into law the Comprehensive Crime Control Act, which got rid of parole at the federal level, created a US sentencing commission to standardise punishments and establish mandatory minimums - a legacy that still lives on today. The federal guidelines are the reason Libby must serve at least 80% of his sentence. Good behaviour can't overshadow the Reagan legacy.The reason for these policies was ostensibly to prevent all those soft-hearted liberal judges from letting criminals get away with short prison terms and slaps on the wrist. And when these laws are challenged - usually under the sixth amendment's guarantee of a trial by jury - conservative Republicans have always defended the guidelines (sometimes successfully, sometimes less so) as a federal prerogative.How quickly things change when the shoe is on the other foot. All of a sudden, Republicans are defending a different prerogative: the presidential pardon. In their editorial on the subject, National Review says Libby is a "dedicated public servant caught in a crazy political fight that should have never happened, convicted of lying about a crime that the prosecutor can't even prove was committed". The editorial then goes on to argue that "President Bush has the power to end this ridiculous saga right now. He should do so".No one here contests that Libby is guilty of lying - the new question is simply whether the punishment fits the crime. Well, many on the left have been asking the same of the sentencing guidelines for the past couple of decades. They had better explain, otherwise we'll be left with the impression that they're just like all those soft-hearted liberal judges.