Mid-April is the time of the year for school shootings in the US. This week in 2006 there were four foiled plots - at Riverton High School, Kansas; North Pole Middle School, Alaska; Pearl Junior High School, Mississippi, and one in Puyallup, Washington. The Columbine High School shootings took place on April 20 1999.Last October, I travelled to North Pole, Alaska, the site of one of the failed school shootings, to make a documentary about it for More 4. The documentary - Travels With My Camera - will be shown on May 2.So far there's no word of the Virginia shooter's motive, although the tabloids are saying he was a jilted boyfriend. I suppose we'll never know what was going through his head, nor the Columbine shooters' heads, nor the heads of the many other school shooters who ended the day by killing themselves. Perhaps the most instructive thing about our visit to North Pole was meeting the father of one of the ringleaders of the shooting plot. Hearing his story, I think, goes some way towards understanding why American kids so frequently decide to enact this dark fantasy.The father's name is Joe, and he was fighting in Iraq when he learned that his 13-year-old son had been arrested for being in the final stages of planning a school shooting. Six boys - Joe's son included - had made a list, and their plan was to kill the kids on the list, and to do it in the cafeteria. The plot failed because the boy who was supposed to be bringing in the weapons didn't show up for school that Monday (school shootings frequently happen on a Monday). The kids were discussing rearranging when their plans were overheard."Were they serious?" I asked Joe when I met him last October."I've asked my son that point blank," Joe replied. "I said, 'Would you have done this?' He said, 'Yes. I would have'. And he maintains that to this day. He says they would have done it."Joe paused."They were going to fire some warning shots," he said. "There were other kids that were indirectly involved - they'd been told about the plan - they were to get certain other kids out of the cafeteria when the warning shots were fired. My son was to go to the office with a rifle and disable the communications equipment, and then they were going to start shooting the kids from the list."(Disabling the communications equipment was a bit of a childish flourish - most children and teachers have mobile phones nowadays.)"How many kids were on the list?" I asked Joe."Fifteeen or 20," Joe said. "And there was a comment on there: 'And all the other cool kids.' Who knows what that means? That's kind of open-ended, right? That's kind of subjective."After Joe's wife told Joe the news of the plot, he sought emergency leave. He told me it was hard to leave Iraq. "I had a sense of responsibility to my comrades," he said. "You want to come home with your unit."Sometimes, during our interview, Joe sounded like a soldier making a verbal report to his commanding officer. He said things like, "At this time my son stated to me ... " And so on. But there were other occasions when he was doing all he could to stop himself from breaking down in tears.Joe's son was in custody when he returned from Iraq. The charge was conspiracy to commit first degree murder."I really didn't know how to react," Joe said. "Part of me wanted to grab him and shake him and say, 'What is your problem?' And the other part wanted to hug him and say, 'We'll protect you from this'.""What did you do?" I asked."I gave him a hug," Joe said. "I said, 'I love you', and then I said, 'Sit down.' I could tell he was kind of scared. I asked him, 'Why would you do this?' He said, 'I don't know'."Joe said he doesn't know either. It's not like his son is a Goth, he said."He likes to fish," said Joe. "He likes to go camping. He likes to make up his own jokes. The counsellor is trying to figure out why they'd do this. These kids don't fit the mould. He doesn't come from a dysfunctional family. I mean, we have our dysfunctions, but he's not abused. I don't use drugs. I don't consider myself an alcoholic. I spend time with him. I coached baseball for him when he was younger."Joe paused. "We have rules. He doesn't dress Goth. He's not allowed to dress Goth. He's not allowed to have baggy pants that hang down. He's not allowed to wear his hat cocked to the side and walk around looking like a little punk. We never let him have violent posters on his walls. He's not allowed to play violent video games. He's never been to the mall by himself. He doesn't have any CDs, like rap CDs, with violent themes. That kind of stuff just doesn't fit in with our lives."Apparently, Joe's son behaved perfectly normally over breakfast that Monday morning. He was joking around as usual, even though he believed that within a few hours he was to commit mass murder."His sister goes here," Joe said. "I said to him: 'Did you tell her, so she could get out when the shooting started?' And he said: 'No.' I said: 'What if your sister heard the shooting, worried about you, ran to see what you were doing and one of the kids shot her?' And I could see from the look on his face that those thoughts had never crossed his mind. He said to me: 'We were just going to shoot the bad kids.' And I said: 'Bullets don't care who they hit or who they kill. They go through people. They tear flesh and they go through. It doesn't matter who's on the other side.' He had not thought about that. It was not in his thought process."The Noth Pole kids had an extremely ill-thought-out escape plan. After the shootings, they were going to run to the station and catch a train to Anchorage, where they'd create new lives for themselves using aliases. One boy's alias was going to be John Wayne. The thing is, they hadn't checked the train timetables. The shootings were going to occur at lunchtime in the cafeteria. Even if they gave themselves an hour to kill their enemies and get to the station, they would still have had a five-hour wait on the platform for the Anchorage train."To even think they were going to get out of the school without being killed by the police," Joe said.Joe's son got off quite lightly - with probation, a 5,000-word essay on the effects of school shootings across America, 100 hours of community service, and some anger regression therapy.Joe said he's pleased and relieved nobody has thrown a brick through their window."I don't want people taking the law into their own hands," he said, "because I have an obligation to protect my son and the rest of my family. So if they push I'm going to have to push back. And, if that happens, it's not going to be pretty."