The disgraced broadcaster Stuart Hall and the BBC are facing huge compensation payouts for sexual abuse that may have occurred on the corporation's premises.At least six of Hall's victims are set to sue as a result of the "enormous suffering" inflicted on them by the former It's a Knockout presenter.Alan Collins, a partner at the law firm Pannone who is also pursuing legal action against the BBC over the Jimmy Savile scandal, said the victims had instructed him to sue and that the BBC may also face civil claims."These people have got very good cases and they have suffered tremendously as a result of what Stuart Hall did to them," he said. A number of the claimants are believed to be among the 13 girls attacked by Hall between 1972 and 1982, when he was at the height of his fame.Several of Hall's former BBC colleagues sought to distance themselves from him on Friday. Some said he was "a nuisance" with women, whom he would invite to an old medical room near where the BBC filmed Look North, later renamed BBC North West."It was common gossip that Stuart Hall used the room for assignations," said Gyles Brandreth, the broadcaster and former Conservative MP. "I described the atmosphere then as pretty sleazy, but I don't think anyone thought the girls were unwilling or under age."Brandreth described in his 2009 diaries, Something Sensational to Read in the Train, how he visited the Manchester studios occasionally in the early 70s, where his wife, Michèle Brown, was a continuity announcer and newsreader.Paul Jackson, the former entertainment director who worked at BBC Television Centre in the 70s, said: "I think the fame and the fans it brings with it, coupled in those days with a suddenly sexualised society, led a lot of people to believe that anything goes."We [were] all swinging, in both senses, and there's nothing wrong with that, they thought then. I'm not really saying that some of these things were in any way justifiable. But equally it is hopeless to try and apply today's mores to a very different time."The broadcaster Charlie Lambert worked alongside Hall at BBC North West Tonight in the late 1980s. Lambert said he was "appalled and very very shocked" at Hall's admission and that there was no sign of his "dark side" when the pair worked together."He had his dressing room but it wasn't closeted away, it wasn't as if he had a secret den in another part of the building. There was no attitude of laissez faire, it was quite a cheerful newsroom. He was always cheerful and jovial, looking on the light side of life. He was quite a big character but not in a sinister way."Lambert added: "I was never aware of any dark side. When Stuart made his statement on the steps of the court protesting his innocence I, like other people, thought it must be true. I was absolutely devastated by the announcement yesterday but also realised that what he had said was a complete lie."