Daniel Dutt-Hemp was last robbed at knifepoint last week, inside a fried food restaurant in Streatham. Three boys took his wallet from his pocket as he paid, then threatened him with a knife before fleeing.When he asked the shopkeeper if he could use the phone on the counter to call the police, the 18-year-old says, he was told to use the phonebox down the street. The pair had a bit of an argument, "and the guy comes round the counter with a knife, a proper big long thing! Like he was sweating and he needed me to get out the shop." He laughs at the memory, twisting his baseball cap back on his head."I think [people] rob for money and for the sick satisfaction that they get out of it when they see the fear in the person's eyes when they're taking the money off them. I think they get kind of a little rush or a buzz off that. You can see their eyes light up, seriously. I've been robbed loads of times and you can see when their mates are round them, 'Yeah yeah yeah!' They get proper uplifted from that."A week after the government launched its first knife amnesty in more than 10 years, which has already resulted in hundreds of weapons being turned over, Britain appears seized by an epidemic of knife crime. At least 15 serious stabbings in the past week have seen a teenage sales assistant in a north London shop stabbed seven times after confronting shoplifters (a 16- and a 17-year-old were arrested yesterday in connection with the attack), a 40-year-old woman stabbed to death and her body abandoned behind a row of garages in south London, and a 29-year-old stabbed to death in Bristol in front of his three-year-old daughter. The fight is thought to have started because the dead man would not give his attacker 40p.In Handsworth, Birmingham, a 26-year-old man was stabbed to death outside a nightclub and in north-west London a 32-year-old man was left with knife wounds after being attacked by a gang of youths on a bus after asking them to stop smoking. Meanwhile, the families of Kiyan Prince, 16, attacked last month outside his school in Edgware, north London, and Tom Grant, an undergraduate killed a week ago on a train in Cumbria, are preparing to bury their loved ones after two equally senseless attacks.On Thursday, as more than 100 officers lined the funeral route of Nisha Patel Nasri, a 29-year-old special constable killed last month outside her north London home, the home secretary, John Reid, was meeting his ministerial team to discuss the measures proposed by the violent crime reduction bill, which will raise the age at which one can legally buy a knife from 16 to 18. Campaigners argue that the maximum sentence for those caught carrying a knife should also be raised from two to five years.But in south London yesterday, the politicians' attempts to deal with the problem were met with scorn by a group of young people for whom the weapons are far from unfamiliar. They are not themselves involved in crime, but they spoke passionately about the need to tackle the issue and provide alternatives for those who do carry knives. But as they describe the lives that they and their friends lead it is clear that for some communities in Britain's cities, deadly weapons are an almost casual normality.Daniel is a student and, like the other young people, works at Live, a not-for-profit organisation which publishes a quarterly magazine written and edited by 12- to 21-year-olds in Brixton. He says he has "done a little bit wrong in the past, but admits he is scared by the omnipresence of knives and other lethal weapons where he lives. "I do get scared. I get stopped all the time by little youths just thinking they are big on the streets cos they are in a group. I've seen people as young as 13, 14 carrying knives. Most young people these days do carry knives, or say they do, if they are going out to make trouble."Craig Brown, 17, says he has seen eight- and nine-year-olds carrying knives. Why do they do it? "The main reason I think they carry them is because their mums don't give them money and they're too young to get a job or whatever. They think that's the way to try to make money. The other one is petty arguments. Start arguing, beefing, and if they're not strong enough to fight they'll carry a weapon. First it was hammers, then it moved into knives, bricks, everything." They get them from home, he says, taking a knife from the kitchen if they need to."You get more street cred if you've got a weapon, don't you?" says Kalise Cross, 20. "People will respect you, people won't touch you. That's the way it is."But they're scared though," adds 20-year-old Shola Aleje, "you can see it. When they pick up a gun or a knife you can tell they're scared shitless."Daniel says: "The young ones ... they don't know the meaning of life yet so they don't mind taking it away. They don't know what it is."They describe the spiral of knife possession: children desperate to hang out with bigger kids are persuaded to carry drugs or weapons for the gang as they are less likely to be stopped by police. Gradually they become more confident and begin to brandish or even use the knives. And other young people, intimidated or bullied, start to carry their own to make themselves feel more secure.These young people are themselves astonished by the easy availability of weapons in the areas they live. They talk with amazement about a shop in south London selling guns, samurai swords, knuckledusters, baseball bats with spikes, flick-knives. All of them, at present, could legally walk into the shop and buy a knife.So will longer sentences deter youngsters? Kalise is certain they will not. "I know a boy who was 15 or something and he went to prison for carrying a gun. And because he went in for that, his name has just blown up in the area. As soon as he comes out he's going to be back up where he started, but bigger. His name's big now."Shola says: "I think rather than such harsh jail terms, maybe enforce harsher community service things, things that will actually shame you. Like building, sweeping the road."A perceived police attitude to young people which Kalise describes as "them versus us" does not help: "If they do arrest a young person who has got a weapon, give them some proper information to get a better life. Don't treat them like a criminal if they're 10, 15. Let them know this is bad, but there is another way."Both Kalise and Daniel say they have carried knives in the past, both because they were being badly bullied. Kalise says she has thought about getting another, "because I live by myself and when I'm walking home there's all these young people hanging around and I get scared, I really do. And I think, if I had a knife when I was walking home I wouldn't be scared."But they all say the problem is getting worse, year by year. "Definitely, and it's going to keep getting worse," says Kalise. Craig says: "I just say wait for the summer. That's when everyone's off school and has nothing to do. They're restless. That's when you'll see it."The numbersNumber of homicides in 2004-05 caused by a blade or sharp instrument: 236Number of people who were victims of knife crime in 2005: 2,859Proportion of schoolchildren aged 15 and 16 who admit to routinely carrying a knife: 1 in 4 Percentage of schoolchildren who carry knives and admit having used them against people: 16% Number of knife offences, including possession, recorded by police last year: 4,900 Percentage of those convicted of possession of knives who were jailed in 2004: 14%