Detectives have warned that a Facebook page showing CCTV images of a rape suspect, which was set up by the victim's partner after an eight-month police inquiry, could affect a prosecution if the case reaches court.The identification issue has alarmed Greater Manchester police, and a senior officer has contacted the man behind the page – one of the first of its kind on the social networking site in the UK – to advise him on the legal risks.But the force also admitted today that its own system, which has outlets on Facebook and other web networks, including Twitter, YouTube, MySpace and Bebo, seldom carries CCTV images and appeals for information in cases other than suspected murders for more than a few weeks.A statement from Greater Manchester police acknowledged that officers were "hopeful'' the use of four grainy images on the Facebook page "will generate information leading to an arrest".'The hunt for a middle-aged white man, around 6ft and speaking with a local accent, has faced a series of problems since the attack early last August. The 21-year-old victim was found sobbing and traumatised by the side of a road in Sale at around 3am after leaving a night out at a local pub to walk home to her parents. Her partner, a former restaurant manager in his 20s, says on the Facebook page, which by this afternoon had more than 5,500 members': "This man needs to be caught ASAP. He is a danger to the public. After a frantic search I found her in the state this beast left her in. I ask everyone to help bring this sick pervert to justice."The page includes four CCTV shots of a suspect released by Greater Manchester police after a trawl of cameras at local pubs. Two of the pictures are from the King's Ransom where, according to the Facebook page, the man claimed to drink regularly.The victim's partner said more publicity after the attack might have helped. He said: "I have managed to get the picture out to more people who are likely to have been out that evening. I've been told the site could jeopardise a court case, but if he's not caught, there won't be a court case at all. I'd ask anyone who recognises the man to contact police."The page emphasises that people should contact the police and warns that threats against anyone thought to be the man on the film could lead to the site being closed down."This is a subject that can create heated emotions so better to have the right guy named than the wrong one," it says. The victim has talked to the police several times but remains severely affected and has not been able to return to work. Greater Manchester police said they had no interest in shutting down the site. Nor did they have the power to do so, as long as the content stayed within the law.Detective Inspector Mick Montford, from the Public Protection Unit at Trafford, said the page was being monitored closely. He said: "When this group was first set up, some comments were posted that were violent and provocative. We had a meeting with the victim and her fiancé and made sure they were aware of this, and the possibility that members of the public could take matters into their own hands."I also wanted to make sure that they were aware that, should we arrest anyone for this rape, we will need to disclose everything that has been made public to defence solicitors."Since the horrific rape of this woman last August we've issued several media appeals. We have compiled a lot of information about this rape in the last few months, and we need to make sure anything new comes to us straight away. I'd ask if anyone does know anything about this to contact us directly."