A psychiatric nurse was jailed for nine months after a court heard she forged time sheets in order to steal nearly £36,000 from the NHS.Rhian Slaymaker forged signatures on documents used by "bank" nurses, who are used to cover staff shortages, and spent the cash on holidays to Australia, Mexico, Hawaii and California, a car and a £60,000 house, Cardiff crown court was told. Nicola Harris, prosecuting, said Slaymaker had "got away with it" once and it then became a habit. "She did it initially because she was in a little bit of debt but then spent money on lots of holidays," Ms Harris said. Slaymaker, a staff nurse with Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust, submitted 192 false time sheets between August 2000 and October 2003 and claimed a total of £35,901, she said."The trust holds a register of nurses available to work extra shifts. Bank nurses will work an extra shift and must then complete a time sheet for the hours worked." An investigation was launched when a "significant deficiency" was noticed in the bank nurse budget at Pen-yr-Ynys unit in Barry, south Wales, where Slaymaker worked. Her manager saw that she had claimed payments but knew she had not worked an extra shift for at least a year, said Ms Harris. When the paperwork was examined forged signatures, including that of Slaymaker's manager, were discovered on time sheets and the verification sheets that went with them, the court heard. One of the names Slaymaker had used was that of her friend Eleanor Stevens, though she had spelt it wrongly, Ms Harris said; other names were made up. Slaymaker said in an interview that she had found genuine verification sheets in the internal mail system and added her own name before filling in and submitting corresponding time sheets, the court was told. Slaymaker earlier pleaded guilty to nine counts of false accounting. She asked for 169 further offences to be taken into consideration. Peter Heyward, defending, told Judge Jonathan Durham Hall: "You have before you in the dock a young lady who is full of remorse and shame." Her crime was out of character, he said, adding that Slaymaker, who had suffered personal tragedies, was "horrified" at what she had done. Mr Heyward said Slaymaker was now working for a nursing agency, adding: "It is her firm wish - and it may take the rest of her working life - to make recompense to the NHS for the monies she stole." Jailing her for nine months, the judge described Slaymaker's crime as "devious, methodical, sophisticated and persistent". She had hit a system that was desperately short of resources, he said. "You are a caring person who attacked a system dedicated to the care of others. This was a long-lasting, determined and significant abuse of trust that led to the loss to the health service of nearly £36,000, which you threw away."