Kenny Richey, the Scot who has spent 18 years on death row in Ohio, has been given hope of freedom by federal appeal court judges who have sent his murder conviction back to Ohio state judges for reappraisal.Richey, 38, was convicted of killing Cynthia Collins, aged two, in 1986 by setting fire to the flat she was in, in an attempt to kill his girlfriend, who was sleeping in the flat below with her new lover. The prosecution says he acted in a jealous rage. Richey's death sentence rests on the American legal notion of "transference". The prosecution says that although he did not intend to kill Cynthia Collins he did intend to kill his former girlfriend, and that premeditation can therefore be transferred. But the appeal court judges ruled that this cannot be allowed in capital cases. "It is an extremely complicated legal argument, but it basically means the appeal judges say the murder conviction shouldn't stand," Richey's girlfriend, Karen Torley, said. "If that's the case, the death sentence is removed." The Ohio state judges can, however, disagree with the appeal judges, who have yet to give a ruling on the bulk of Richey's appeal."We are still waiting for judgment on the arson part of Kenny's conviction, and this thing is a long way from over," Ms Torley said. According to the prosecution, Richey broke into the flat, poured petrol or paint thinner over the carpet and set fire to it. But his defence lawyers have expert witnesses who say no accelerant was used in the fire. They have also brought forward witnesses who appear to disprove key aspects of the prosecution's case. But the prosecutors have so far successfully argued that, even though the new evidence could clear Richey, he should still receive the death penalty because the prosecution did not know the evidence at the time of the trial was unreliable. Richey, who was born and grew up in Edinburgh, moved to the US with his American father in 1982 after his parents divorced. More than 150 MPs have signed a motion calling for his release. Amnesty International describes his case as the "most compelling case of innocence on death row", and the junior foreign office minister Chris Mullin says Britain is doing everything it can to prevent his execution.