Police investigating the murders of three prostitutes in Ipswich said this afternoon that they had found the bodies of two more women.Detective Chief Superintendent Stewart Gull said the "natural assumption" was that the bodies were those of missing prostitutes Paula Clennell, 24, and Annette Nicholls, 29. However, Mr Gull stressed that the identity of the fourth and fifth bodies to be found near Ipswich in the last 10 days had yet to be confirmed.They were found after a member of the public alerted Suffolk police at 3.05pm. Mr Gull said a man had seen one of the naked bodies while walking on the Old Felixstowe Road close to the turn-off for Levington, which is around five miles south of Ipswich. The body was only around 20 feet from the road. A cordon was established and a crew member who was in a police helicopter, which was filming the scene from above, spotted a second body a few hundred yards from the first at 3.48pm, Mr Gull said. The area is close to Nacton, where the third dead woman, Anneli Alderton, was found in woodland on Sunday after a passing motorist saw a naked body. Earlier today, Mr Gull said Ms Alderton, 24, of Colchester, Essex, was murdered by asphyxiation and "probably strangled".Suffolk police is a relatively small force and questions have been asked about whether it is able to cope with an inquiry of this scale. Mr Gull said more than 100 staff were working on the murders, with extra officers being drafted in from Essex today.This morning, Mr Gull spoke of having "grave concerns" for Ms Clennell and Ms Nicholls. Ms Clennell, a mother of three, has not been seen since 10.40pm on Saturday. She was reported missing late on Sunday. She is a sex worker and a known drug user, who had been using drug services in the town, a source confirmed to the Guardian yesterday. Neighbours at an address in London Road, Ipswich, said Ms Clennell had lived there until about two years ago, in a property they believed to be a brothel, but she had moved on to an unknown address.Following widespread publicity about the other murders and disappearances, Ms Nicholls' family grew concerned and reported to police that she had not been heard of since December 3 or 4.The cause of Ms Alderton's death was revealed after the completion of a postmortem examination by a Home Office pathologist last night. Postmortems examinations on Tania Nicol, 19, and 25-year-old Gemma Adams, whose bodies were the first two to be found, were inconclusive. Further tests were being carried out.Mr Gull told a news conference this morning that there were no signs that either of the first two dead women had died of asphyxiation, saying there appeared "to be different causes of death".He said officers were investigating the possibility that the three women had been poisoned, and forensic scientists were doing toxicology tests.Mr Gull said the women could have been killed by the same person, but stressed he was not using the phrase "serial killer". In a direct appeal to the killer or killers, he said: "Make contact with Suffolk police. Clearly you have a significant problem. Give me a call and we can deal with this. My appeal is simple - give yourself up."The first two murders have been officially linked but the killing of Ms Alderton has yet to be formally linked to them; an official murder inquiry into her death was launched today. Mr Gull said it was not known if Ms Alderton had been sexually assaulted. He reiterated that there were no signs of significant trauma to the bodies of either Ms Nicol or Ms Adams, and said neither appeared to have been subjected to a serious sexual assault.Suffolk police has received more than 450 calls from the public about the deaths, with around 25 being made on a dedicated line set up for prostitutes working in the county.Mr Gull said police were looking at "a number of interesting individuals", and that officers were carrying out searches in different parts of Suffolk. However, he stressed the killer or killers could be from outside the county.Mr Gull appealed to men who had recently been clients of the women to get in touch with officers, and also appealed to prostitutes to contact police. "The perpetrator may be a client, he may be a kerb crawler," he said.Police have warned all women to stay away from the red light area of Ipswich, and Mr Gull urged women in the town and its surrounding areas to be vigilant."Do not go out alone, go out in company - make sure you know where you are going and, if possible, give someone a contact number," he said. "Any single woman could potentially be in danger."