MI6 and GCHQ are mounting a last-ditch defence against Whitehall proposals to end the traditional British ban on phone-tap evidence being used in court, reliable sources have told the Guardian.The secret intelligence service and the electronic eavesdropping agency claim that criminals and terrorists would be tipped off about their sophisticated techniques if they were made public. Allowing wiretaps into the courtroom would not only bring Britain into line with the US and many EU countries, it could transform the conduct of many high-profile cases, particularly those involving drug-smuggling, international organised crime and terrorism. The change would need a repeal of existing laws. The issue has been under review by a team of David Blunkett's officials at the Home Office for more than a year but has met stiff opposition from certain groups in the intelligence community. Those in favour of the reform are a slightly surprising alliance of government prosecutors, who see the opportunity of getting more convictions, and civil libertarians, who believe it would enhance the rights of defendants. Shami Chakrabati, director of Liberty, said last night: "People are being interned and deprived of a proper trial for terrorist offences on the grounds there is no admissible evidence against them at present. Much of that evidence will be intercept products." If wiretaps were openly admitted and their product allowed as evidence in court, defendants could get proper disclosure of the surveillance evidence that had been gathered on them. At present, the existence of bugged phone conversations is routinely concealed from the defence. The outgoing director of public prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith, believes that overturning the ban on wiretap evidence would help prosecutors get many more convictions. "This change would assist us enormously," he said last year. "As prosecutors, our lives would be made much easier. I'm quite sure there are cases where important evidence which would have strengthened the prosecution is having to go by the board". Sir David said the vehement arguments of the diehards were implausible. Many criminals knew already that their telephones were likely to be tapped. "It's been common knowledge for years," he said. The moves to review the present law, which makes it a criminal offence to reveal the existence of wiretap material, began after the September 11 terrorist attacks. In the US and many other jurisdictions, wiretap evidence is an important part of prosecutions against terrorists and the mafia. MI5, the internal security service, has long been reconciled to the opening up of phone tapping. Many police forces are also in favour. Customs, who were previously opposed to the change and who use a large number of phone taps, are guardedly open-minded on the issue. "Experience shows how valuable this is as an intelligence tool in disrupting and convicting drug traffickers and serious revenue fraudsters, and the benefits of any change must clearly outweigh the exposure in court of the detail of law enforcement intelligence techniques," said a spokesman. Those in favour of the move also point to the anomaly whereby the product of bugging or surveillance operations can be used in court cases but the product of telephone conversations can not. Security sources say the potential disadvantages of advertising wiretap operations are outweighed by the advantages of being able to use evidence against suspects. The issue is all the more important now that the government and senior police officers are considering setting up a kind of British FBI. It is also significant in the light of growing cooperation between British security and intelligence agencies and their counterparts in the EU and elsewhere. But Whitehall sources said that the problem is complicated by the growing number of telephone companies following deregulation and the need for all of them to agree to procedures that would make evidence from taps admissible in court cases.