On Wednesday last week a serious case review criticised the West Mercia police, children’s services staff and mental health workers over the case of Jamie Reynolds – a man now serving a life sentence for the murder of 17-year-old Georgia Williams. Reynolds, a frequent user of violent strangulation pornography, had attacked numerous women before killing Williams.Yet despite the threat he clearly posed, no further action was taken against him.For those of us campaigning in the women’s sector, the awful murder of Williams rang far too many familiar bells. These included the failure of the police to take the threat Reynolds posed seriously; the lack of coordination between services that could and should have intervened; the serial attacks on women that were ignored or not fully investigated. And then, at the end of it, a murdered young woman.We read the review, and we wonder how many more serious case reviews like this we will read, how many more women will die before this situation changes.Such murders fill us with horror. They bring the grim reality of male violence into our living rooms. The girls’ names are repeated on our TV screens, on our newspaper front pages.But there is something that sets them apart from most murders of women. And that is that they are reported at all.On 30 September 2015, the Counting Dead Women project announced that 97 women had been killed by men this year. That’s one woman every 2.8 days. With those numbers, we can be pretty certain that last week the 100th woman was killed as a result of fatal male violence.And yet, we don’t know the names of most of the women killed by men this year – or of the 149 women killed last year, or the 144 women killed in 2013. But Karen Ingala-Smith’s Counting Dead Women project records and remembers every woman killed by a man – demanding we see the woman behind the crime statistic.The sad and sorry truth is that the killing of women by men is so common that it rarely makes headlines. Instead, we repeat the statistic that two women a week are killed by a current or former partner – a statistic that is so well-worn it has almost lost its power to shock.But we should be shocked. Men have killed 100 women in 42 weeks. This is a national crisis.If a defined group of people is being killed at such a rate by another defined group, then normally we would take action. We would use words like “terrorism” and deploy Operation Cobra. We would not shrug at the numbers. We would not report these fatalities as “domestic” incidents. We would look at the patterns of these deaths – the faces of the perpetrators and the faces of the victims – and stop referring to fatal male violence as an “isolated incident”. We would be doing something more.And yet we are do less. Since the coalition government came to power in 2010, followed by the Conservative government in 2015, the women’s sector has been hit repeatedly. Refuges that sheltered women from male violence have been closed down. In 2012, this newspaper reported that the situation had become so severe that helplines were advising women to sleep in Occupy camps.Last month, the women’s charity Eaves reported that there was a 70% increase in demand for services during the first six months of 2015. And yet the services such organisations have to offer are being laid waste – the rise in demand has not been met with a rise in funding.Since coming to power in May, the government has announced it will make more and more cuts. They talk about difficult decisions and tough choices. They say this knowing that the pattern of the last few years will continue and that the cuts will result in the closure of more women’s services. They know that this will lead to more women having no safe place to go.We can guess that, at best, these cuts will mean the numbers of women dying will stay the same. At worse, they will increase.The reasons women’s refuges exist at all is because during the second wave of feminism in the 1970s, women came together to build a network of havens that would keep women safe. We cannot let this life-saving legacy die on our watch. That’s why feminist activists across the UK are – quite literally – not taking these cuts lying down. Take Sisters Uncut, who last week lay across the red carpet at the premiere of the film Suffragette to protest about government cuts to domestic abuse support services.Then there are women such as Ingala-Smith, whose project has led to the creation of the femicide census. There are the volunteers and paid staff at charities, doing everything they can to protect women. Feminist networks and societies are marching, writing letters, demanding change.But we must do more. All of us who care must show the government that cutting services that save women’s lives shouldn’t be a “tough choice”. It should be no choice at all. Not when, by mid-October, we can be fairly sure that 100 women will have been killed by men this year.