The prime minister, Tony Blair, will today reveal that the number of antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) handed out in the last 12 months amounts to twice the total issued in the previous four years.Mr Blair will reveal that 2,600 Asbos have been issued since last October. He also is expected to say that police used new powers brought in last year to move on groups of youths more than 400 times in the last 12 months, and have relied on their new statutory authority powers to close crack houses on 150 occasions.Speaking at a London conference called "One Year On", Mr Blair is due to say: "We haven't defeated this problem. Not by any means. But we have shown together what can be done."  The conference, called to mark the first anniversary of the government's antisocial behaviour action plan and its 'Together' campaign, will also be told of plans for a five-fold increase in the number of special antisocial behaviour 'trailblazer' sites. These are areas where local authorities receive extra funding and support including specialist prosecutors for anti-social behaviour and antisocial behaviour response courts. The new sites include Exeter, Cardiff, Coventry and Middlesbrough. Proposals to strengthen on-the-spot fines and the use of Asbos are also expected to be unveiled by the home secretary, David Blunkett, and home office minister, Hazel Blears, in keynote speeches.Speaking this morning on BBC's Breakfast programme, ahead of the conference, Ms Blears said Asbos were a real success story and "send a real message out to people who've got away with this behaviour before". She denied that figures released yesterday, which showed that 36% of Asbos are breached, meant that they were not helping those communities they were designed to protect. She said: "In cases where there are breaches, the authorities are taking that very seriously." She rejected the suggestion that the new powers given to police to disperse youths only moved the problem on to a neighbouring area. She told television viewers: "The evidence is clear that where we are reclaiming the streets, we are changing people's behaviour for the long term."The Labour MP for Mitcham and Morden, Siobhain McDonagh, said the battle against antisocial behaviour should be extended to cover disturbances such as noise from gopeds, mopeds and motorcycles as well as eyesores such as fly-tipping and graffiti 'tagging'.In an article published by SocietyGuardian.co.uk today , she wrote: "In Merton, pilot schemes to place gates across alley entrances have led to significant reductions in fly-tipping and also had an impact on burglary. "They have proved popular with residents, who must all agree to them and put up some of the money themselves, with councils or voluntary groups paying the remainder."