A consultant paediatrician raped and indecently assaulted young girls in the 1970s and 80s thinking he was “bomb-proof” because no one would believe a child over him, a jury has been told.Michael Salmon, 79, worked at hospitals including Stoke Mandeville in Buckinghamshire, which has been in the spotlight after disclosures about the activities of the disgraced late DJ Jimmy Savile. The court was told there could be references to Savile during the trial but it is not alleged that Salmon and the DJ operated together.Miranda Moore QC, prosecuting at Reading crown court, said: “There might be the odd passing reference, but there’s no suggestion that this defendant abused a young female patient in concert with Jimmy Savile. It’s simply that these allegations relate to a time when the other things were happening.”Salmon, of Salisbury, Wiltshire, faces three counts of rape, 11 of indecent assault and two of using an instrument with intent to procure a miscarriage. The charges relate to eight girls aged from 11 to 18, between 1973 and 1988. Salmon denies all the alleged offences.Moore said: “Each count relates to a young girl that he met while working as a consultant paediatrician based in Buckinghamshire. The witnesses will probably refer to him as Dr Salmon. He’s no longer a doctor, not because he’s retired, but because he was struck off the medical register in 1991 after being convicted in 1990 of three counts of indecent assault against young female patients.”She said the defendant would examine young girls in a consulting room, where either they were screened from their parents or the parents were outside the room.“On some of the occasions he handled the breasts of some of the young girls, with the pretence of listening to their heart, and he also on occasions carried out internal examinations, something for which there was no medical need whatsoever, without a nurse present and without wearing surgical gloves.”She added: “In one case he used a girl’s distress to offer to undertake an illegal abortion, and raped her in the aftermath, at the same time.”This girl believed she was pregnant and sought help from Salmon, Moore said. He told her she was indeed pregnant and took her to the bedroom of his home, where he produced an instrument like a tube which he said would suck out the foetus, the court was told. The procedure made her bleed, and she went into the bathroom and cleaned herself up, jurors heard. He then told her to lie on the bed, said “one favour deserves another” and raped her, Moore said. A couple of weeks later he rang and said she may have been going to have twins and persuaded her to come to his house again. He performed the same procedure again and tried to rape her but this time she managed to fight him off, Moore told the jury.Another rape charge relates to a child patient at Stoke Mandeville, who claimed Salmon told her to call him Uncle Mike. On one occasion, when she was aged between 12 and 14, Salmon and two other men allegedly raped her. She was taken back to her hospital bed by a porter, it is claimed.The defendant was arrested in November 2013 and described allegations against him as “absolute nonsense”, Moore said. Following his arrest, Salmon called his accusers “gold diggers” and said: “I’m speechless. I’ve never in my life raped anyone.” The trial continues.