The wife of the murdered financier John Monckton broke down in the witness box today as she described how two robbers burst into their home and stabbed her husband to death.Describing how she and her husband tried to stop the robbers forcing open the door to their home, Humeyra Monckton, 46, told a jury at the Old Bailey: "We were not strong enough." Emergency services saved Ms Monckton after she was stabbed twice in the back in the attack at the couple's £3m townhouse in Chelsea, west London. Ms Monckton told the court that two men entered, a man dressed "like Postman Pat" who had tricked her husband into opening the door by saying he had a parcel for him, and a man with a balaclava who was holding a short knife and a gun. She said the masked man "came through and stabbed me the first time ... he stabbed me almost immediately, without saying anything. "All I could think about was there was a panic alarm in the bedroom on the first floor and I needed to get up there. I was stabbed as I was going up." Ms Monckton was giving evidence at the trial of Elliot White and Damien Hanson, both 24, who deny murdering Mr Monckton, a 49-year-old senior bonds director with Legal and General. White and Hanson also deny attempting to murder Ms Monckton during the robbery at around 7.30pm on November 29 last year. Hanson also denies robbery, but the court heard that White, whose blood was found at the scene, had pleaded guilty to robbery.It is the prosecution's case that Hanson was the masked man. Ms Monckton told the jury that her husband had been anxious that someone was delivering a parcel because he was not expecting anything.At first he opened the door on a security chain, while she watched from behind him in the hallway. Recalling the moment Mr Monckton opened the door, she said he started shouting "No, no, no!" At first she said she did not know she had been stabbed but could not feel anything in her legs. After failing to reach the panic alarm on the first floor and being stabbed again, she told the jury she sat down and could see her husband fighting with another man below. She said she thought the man attacking her husband was armed because of the way Mr Monckton was holding the other man's hands in front of him. Ms Monckton said the masked man took her jewellery, asking for it in a "shockingly calm voice". She said she then focussed on her husband. "I thought I was dying but he would survive, he looked so strong. He was fighting, still holding the man's wrists. I screamed to my husband I had been stabbed."The jury then watched a video interview with the Monckton's nine-year-old daughter Isobel who saw some of the attack. Isobel said she was reading stories upstairs when the doorbell rang loudly. "Mummy and Daddy answered it and they got stabbed. I saw blood everywhere. Then Mummy said 'help' and I came down and called the police." Earlier the court heard Hanson had been released from a jail sentence for attempted murder and robbery only three months prior to the attack. Richard Horwell, prosecuting, said the law permitted the jury to hear relevant information about the defendant's character. Hanson claims he has an alibi and was not the second robber, but Mr Horwell said Hanson tended to fabricate alibis, citing three occasions when he had done so.The jury then heard that when Hanson was 16, in 1997, he was involved in robbing a youth. When the victim tried to escape, he was shot three times by Hanson's accomplice. Hanson claimed he had an alibi but was found guilty of attempted murder and robbery, and was sentenced to 12 years in prison. He was released early in 2004. Mr Horwell also told the jury Hanson had collected articles about Britain's wealthiest people because he was obsessed with the rich. The trial continues.