Michael Howard was right yesterday to warn of the dangers of police forces becoming remote and out of touch with the communities they serve. Where he was wrong was in his analysis and solution. The reason why the police became more remote was the dead hand of central control. The dreaded centralised planning and performance management regime within the Home Office was begun by Mr Howard's predecessor, but reinforced by him in his own five-year term, and carried on by Labour until two years ago. Mr Howard's recipe - locally elected police commissioners - is as inapposite as his analysis is inaccurate.Under the latest Conservative plan, set out in Manchester, directly elected police commissioners would replace the current system of police authorities, whose representatives are drawn from the ranks of local magistrates and councillors. It is certainly true that elected commissioners ought to have a higher profile and might become better known than inconspicuous authorities. But one reason for the anonymity of the authorities is the loss of power they suffered under previous Conservative administrations. What elected commissioners would do is produce a dangerous confusion of decision-taking at the top. Chief constables would retain their operational indepen dence, yet would have a single elected politician above them, able in Mr Howard's words, to "reflect the concerns of people who elected them - they will be able to put police muscle power behind the public's priorities, tackling crime and disorder, vandalism, rowdiness and thuggery".There are two more fundamental objections. First that the elections would not produce the locally accountable police services that the plan claims. The big conurbation forces - Greater Manchester, West Midlands, Merseyside as well as the London Met - stretch across many different local communities. One elected official could not represent this diversity. Second, and more important, a more locally accountable police service is already in train, with Labour's plan to devolve police budgets down to the country's 300 plus basic command units (BCUs). This model of community policing, pioneered here in the 1970s and then exported to Chicago with great success, is rightly being re-imported. The emphasis is on locally based neighbourhood teams with close links to the community. Mr Howard will be understandably concerned by Labour overtaking his party in the latest polls on competence in controlling crime, but his latest plan is neither practical nor politically appropriate.