Three teenagers will appear in court today charged with the murder four years ago of 10-year-old schoolboy Damilola Taylor.The boys - two brothers aged 17 and 16, who cannot be named because they are juveniles, and 19-year-old Hassan Jihad - were arrested on Wednesday morning at addresses outside London. Mr Jihad and the two juveniles, who are all from Peckham, south London, were among more than a dozen members of a street gang arrested in the weeks after Damilola's death in November 2000 but were never charged. They are due to appear at Camberwell Green magistrates court today. The three, who would have been aged between 12 and 14 at the time of the attack, were being held in separate police stations in London last night. Damilola, a pupil at Oliver Goldsmith primary school, bled to death in a stairwell on the north Peckham estate after being attacked - police believe with a broken bottle - as he walked home from an after-school computer class at the library in November 2000. The schoolboy stumbled 200 yards, leaving a trail of blood, before collapsing in the stairwell outside a lift on the estate a few hundred yards from his home. Four teenagers were charged with his murder but the £7m trial ended in ruins after the prosecution's star witness, a 14-year-old girl known by the pseudonym Bromley, was discredited as a liar. Her evidence was thrown out by the judge, who criticised police for offering her inducements to give her evidence, at the Old Bailey murder trial in January 2002 and a 15- and 17-year-old were acquitted on his orders. The jury acquitted the two other defendants after the three-month trial. The new arrests came after police, led by Detective Chief Inspector Nick Ephgrave, submitted all the pieces of evidence collected in the inquiry to be re-examined using the most advanced DNA technology. The decision to charge the three youths will inevitably lead to a thorough examination of where the first police inquiry went wrong. The death of Damilola, who came to Britain with his mother Gloria, sister Beme and brother Tunde in order to get treatment for his sister's epilepsy, shocked the country. For detectives, the killing of a young black boy on the streets of London brought back memories of the Stephen Lawrence murder and the pressure was intense to gain a conviction. Learning from the mistakes made in the Lawrence inquiry, officers attempted to work with the community to ensure they did not stir up sensitivities on the estate. Damilola's father, Richard, and his mother have been kept fully informed of the developments in the police inquiry. Mr Taylor, who sat through every day of the three-month trial in 2002, now faces having to hear again how his son bled to death. In a brief statement after the arrest of the three suspects, Mr Taylor said: "All that we have ever wanted is justice for our son."