Here is a civic society health warning which should be followed from now until the next election: treat all political initiatives on crime from ministers and opposition leaders with the greatest of scepticism. Ignore this advice and you will only help fan public fear of crime along with public mistrust in the criminal justice system, two trends that all political parties purport to want to reverse. Yesterday showed both sides spinning stories, although the latest Tory defence of the right of home owners to exercise disproportionate force in defence of their property was more damaging than Labour's efforts.There is no doubt the latest Conservative policy on crime will win public support. The party has endorsed a private member's bill, that would amend the 1967 Criminal Law Act so that householders who confront burglars would only face prosecution if the force they used was "grossly disproportionate". It has a natural appeal to the gut instinct, but as one wag observed some years ago, the gut is not a particularly useful organ for thought. There are several things wrong with this political move. First is the suggestion that the current criminal justice system is "limp wristed" and leans too much in defence of offenders. The current law already allows householders to use reasonable force when confronting a burglar in their home. With more than 100,000 burglaries reported every year, there are numerous occasions where this happens when neither the police nor prosecutors see any reason why the householder should be prosecuted. Second, if the current law permits reasonable force, which the Conservatives feel is inadequate, then the party clearly supports "unreasonable force" or "disproportionate, but not grossly disproportionate" force. This would be in breach of article two of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protects the right to life. This is an absolute right, not a conditional right set out in several other articles that have to be balanced against each other, such as free speech v right to a private life.Third, the latest move is more restrained than a previous Conservative private member's bill by Roger Gale earlier in the year that would have allowed householders to determine what was a reasonable response. Under the latest proposal, Tony Martin, the farmer who shot dead a 16-year-old intruder who was running away, would still have been prosecuted. David Davis, the opportunist shadow home secretary, was quick to emphasise yesterday that this was not an "anything goes" bill. What is also different is the support the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, gave to a change in the law. To make the semantic arguments even more complicated, he said in a weekend interview he would like the line drawn at "gratuitous violence". It is one thing for political parties to seek advantage, but quite another for a commissioner. He should have known it is far more complicated than he made out and should not have got sucked into an election-driven argument. Meanwhile, yesterday began with the lord chancellor talking of a "new" plan to ensure all crown courts and 90% of magistrates' courts will have separate facilities for witnesses and defendants. The aim is a worthy one of reducing stress on victims and witnesses, but it has been talked about for years - and will still after yesterday's announcement be talked about for a further four years before full implementation. Even so, unlike Tony Blair, at least the lord chancellor eschewed the idea of replacing the criminal justice system with a victim justice system. The founding principle of the criminal justice system is that it does not favour either side, but remains strictly independent, objective and neutral.