Manchester is Britain's unashamed capital of anti-social behaviour orders.Councillors are proud that Asbos have helped to bring order back to some of the city's estates, and have little truck with those who worry about the rights of those targeted. Since 2000, Manchester has taken out 474 Asbos against 280 individuals whose activities have featured in the Manchester Evening News beneath headlines such as "Yob is banned from airport", "Terror reign thug barred from street" and "Banned yobs may go to Europe". Not all alleged yobs have been teenagers: more than 60% of the orders have been issued against adults, many of them young men in their 20s. The city is also proud that Bill Pitt, head of its nuisance strategy team, has been seconded to the Home Office to become an anti-social behaviour "ambassador" to encourage other towns to follow Manchester's lead. "Bill Pitt's secondment to the Home Office is a powerful confirmation of the council's work in tackling anti-social behaviour," said Eddy Newman, the executive member for housing. "Manchester's team are the most active in the UK in gaining around 4,000 successful legal actions against nuisance tenants to date. Only 17% of perpetrators breach their orders sufficiently to require criminal action in the courts." Asbos issued in Manchester have banned three boys from going anywhere near the city's airport without valid tickets. One youth was banned from wearing a glove - a gang emblem - and another was banned from using a laser pen after allegedly shining it in the eyes of bus drivers. The city also claims it issued the first Asbo to cover behaviour in a classroom and the first linked to domestic violence. Another Asbo banned an alleged car thief from every car park in the UK. A 13-year-old was banned from parts of the city for two years after neighbours claimed he trespassed in gardens, tormented residents, vandalised property and shouted abuse. In January, Greater Manchester police won Asbos against four alleged gang members. The men were banned from wearing body armour or riding bicycles anywhere in the city. Last year the former executive member for housing, Basil Curley, rejected claims that the orders infringed human rights. "Somebody from Liberty rang up to complain and I offered to let him park his BMW in any of the streets where we are having problems," he said. "He did not take up the offer."