Up to 1,200 criminals were being released from the overcrowded prison system today as the government's early release scheme came into effect.Opposition parties condemned the move, and said it was a legacy of years of neglect and underinvestment in new prisons.The new justice secretary, Jack Straw, defended the releases, saying they involved non-dangerous offenders who would be "carefully selected" by prison governors.Those released today would have been let out by the middle of next month in any event, he said. Officials said prisoners were being released a maximum of 18 days early.Mr Straw said that around 1,000 inmates a month would be released early by around the same amount of time until the prison system became stable.Those eligible to be selected for early release are the 25,000 prisoners a year who receive sentences of between four weeks and four years. Those convicted of serious sexual and violent crimes will be excluded, as will foreign nationals nearing the end of their sentence.The move, announced on June 19, comes after the prison population in England and Wales hit a record of more than 81,000 earlier this month.The prison population was only around 61,500 in 1997. Since coming into office Labour has built 20,000 more jail places, including nine new prisons, bringing the total in England and Wales to 140.The government admits that it needs more prison spaces. Last week's announcement of the early release scheme coincided with the then chancellor, Gordon Brown, announcing that the Treasury was making £240m available to build an extra 1,500 prison places on top of the 8,000 already planned to be added by 2012.The first 500 places are in the form of £80m worth of "ready-built residential" units, and will be in place by the end of the year.Today, the shadow home secretary, David Davis, condemned the early releases. "The first act of a Brown government is for over 1,000 offenders to be released early. This is a consequence of the new prime minister's refusal to adequately fund our prisons when he was chancellor, and it is the public who are now paying the price with their safety."The Liberal Democrat's justice spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "This is a fiasco that has been a decade in the making. A series of Labour home secretaries have failed to take the action that would have prevented the need for these emergency measures."The government's obsession with wanting to look tough on crime has had the remarkable effect of leaving our prisons full to bursting and fear of crime at an all-time high."The previous justice secretary, Lord Falconer, said the release scheme was a "temporary" move.Outside HMP Winson Green in Birmingham, a number of people waited for friends and relatives to be released. One man, who gave his name as Mark, told the Press Association news agency: "My mate's over the moon. He was dancing around when he heard the news."[But] I don't think it's a good solution. My mate got eight months for theft and he's only done two. He's a drug user, and he hasn't had time to get treatment. This must be his fifth time in prison this year, so how's that a low risk?"But the chief executive of ex-offenders' charity Nacro, Paul Cavadino, welcomed the start of the scheme. "The early release of non-violent prisoners is the only immediately available way of relieving the prison population crisis," he said. "The early release scheme will increase public protection, not reduce it."Mark Leech, editor of the Prisons Handbook, said the scheme did not go far enough. He said: "The prison service needs breathing space. If numbers continue to rocket up, we are in danger of a loss of control. But 1,200 is nowhere near enough. We need to have at least 10,000 prisoners released to give the prisons the respite they need."