William Hague suffered a damaging blow yesterday when a Church of England bishop accused him of reneging on a commitment to refrain from making political capital out of the Macpherson report.Tom Butler, the Bishop of Southwark, expressed surprise that the Tory leader had criticised the report months after assuring a group of church leaders that he would accept Sir William Macpherson's findings into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence.In an interview with Radio 4's Today programme, the bishop said Mr Hague had been "very firm" during the meeting in September that the Tories would not play the race card. "William Hague actually raised the question of the Macpherson report and said that some people were critical. But he said: 'We haven't said anything about this and we don't think it would be helpful to do so.' I agree with what he said to us in September. I do not think it is helpful." The bishop said Mr Hague was wrong to criticise the report which had transformed relations between the police and members of ethnic minorities. "Yes there are fewer numbers [of police] but they are policing with the greater support from the community and therefore they are getting the intelligence," he said. His remarks were an embarrassing blow to Mr Hague who sparked a storm when he said Sir William Macpherson's description of the Metropolitan police as institutionally racist had led to a collapse in police morale. Tory officials last night angrily rejected the bishop's claim. Central Office produced a written note of the meeting in which Mr Hague reportedly gave no assurance on his stance. The decision to release minutes of a private meeting demonstrated the determination of Mr Hague to hit back at criticisms of his views on crime. He surprised many Tories on Monday when he dismissed calls for restraint from Damilola Taylor's parents to warn that another Labour government would lead to more tragedies in the inner cities. The bishop, whose diocese covers Peckham, where Damilola was killed, said it was "foolish" to link falling police numbers to Damilola's death. "With this particular crime, we don't know what happened. It is very foolish to speculate." The commission for racial equality is to write to the political parties expressing its fear that the row over police numbers, stop and search and the murder of Damilola will break the political consensus not to use the race card in the election. The CRE chairman, Gurbux Singh, has been in private talks with the parties to persuade them to again sign the compact they agreed prior to the 1997 general election. The compact was a publicly agreed understanding that no party would use raceto gain votes.