Independent Editorial, October 26"[On Monday] David Blunkett unveiled a thoroughly illiberal plan to allow the details of defendants' previous convictions to be known to juries in cases of child sex abuse and theft. This proposal serves to demonstrate the government's dangerously cavalier approach to traditional judicial safeguards and civil liberties. "The rule that guilt must be established on the facts of a particular case alone seems to be of little consequence to the home secretary. He argues that these reforms will 'put victims at the heart of the justice system', but there is a grave risk that what juries will end up doing is trying defendants for their previous crimes. The presumption of innocence, the principle on which our legal system hinges, will be badly compromised." Daily Mail Editorial, October 26 "However heinous a person a paedophile is, he deserves the same justice as everyone else. That is why the Mail feels distinctly uneasy about the government's plans to allow courts to be told of a defendant's previous convictions, even in child sex cases. It is impossible to believe that the decisions made by a jury, regaled with his previous convictions in this deeply disturbing area of criminal activity, will not be - albeit subconsciously - affected by this knowledge. Mr Blunkett should think again before he ends a system that helps ensure a fair trial." Magnus Linklater Times, October 27 "Tony Blair ... is proposing a reform that not only shoulders aside a central principle of the judicial system, it also turns a blind eye to the current state of common law. Announcing that judges are to be given the power to tell juries about a defendant's previous convictions is one of those illiberal and populist gestures for which this Labour government is celebrated ... "It ignores the crucial fact that judges already have the right to tell juries about previous convictions, precisely in order to uphold the rights of the victim ... To claim, as some government supporters have done, that juries will weigh equally in the balance any revelation about previous convictions, along with all the other evidence they have been given, is simply naive." Nick Ross Evening Standard, London, October 26 "English criminal law, based on centuries of tradition refined through years of precedent, protects the innocent and curbs the power of the authorities. So when Mr Blunkett proposes to remove a cornerstone of the system ... there are howls of outrage. But in my view, Mr Blunkett is merely tinkering - even though this is a relatively good piece of tinkering ... "In truth, the criminal justice system is both unjust and largely tangential to crime ... Mr Blunkett's reforms are modest and overdue. Don't believe the doom-mongers who predict that English justice will be damaged. In truth, even though it is the only system we have, it is damaged already." John O'Connor Daily Express, October 26 "At a time when more and more juries are made up of bored housewives, the unemployed and the unemployable it is incumbent on the criminal justice system to give them as much information as possible ... The new proposals must not be seen as a substitute for evidence. All defendants are entitled to a fair trial and revealing previous convictions is not appropriate in every case. But where past convictions amount to evidence of similar facts and the offences charged are of a serious nature then it has to be right that the jury are made aware of all the circumstances. "This is a great opportunity to bring respect back to the criminal justice system. The reforms are long overdue and will enable victims to feel that justice has been done. I no longer want to see a smirking yob on the steps of a crown court declaring: 'I was found not guilty, so I couldn't have done it, could I?'"