The police were accused yesterday by home secretary David Blunkett of failing the public with "appallingly low" detection and conviction rates in advance of this week's publication of the white paper on police reform.Mr Blunkett made clear that a detection rate of only 24% and a conviction rate of only 9% was not only demoralising for the police but more importantly totally bewildering for people living in high-crime neighbourhoods. The police reform package to be unveiled on Wednesday has triggered criticism among senior officers who have already proposed an alternative agenda for change. Mr Blunkett is to set up a Home Office police standards unit that will monitor variations in performance between different command units within police forces across England and Wales. In a reform which has delib erate echoes of Mr Blunkett's attempts to tackle failing schools when he was education secretary, those police units not up to scratch could face the prospect of being asked to take remedial action if they are failing to cut crime. The Home Office denied reports yesterday that league tables would be published to allow the public to compare police performance neighbourhood by neighbourhood, although crime and clear-up rates for each individual police division is already published. But the new police bill to implement the overhaul of the service will contain reserve powers for the home secretary to put in outside managers in the very worst cases that senior officers fear could lead to an erosion of their constitutional independence. The home secretary trailed most of his white paper proposals in the summer in an attempt to win police backing for his agenda of fundamental reform. He has promised to provide the funding for a 130,000-strong police force by spring 2003 - the largest ever - in return for major changes in the way the police operate. Those include a rapid increase in the number of special constables and neighbourhood wardens providing a visible presence on the streets and bonus payments for officers prepared to stay on the beat although the Home Office denied yesterday that they would be paid an extra £3,000 a year, saying the sum was still being negotiated. The police have long had their pay and conditions enshrined in statute in return for giving up the right to strike. It has meant that many allowances and Spanish practices have become fossilised over the decades. For example, shift rotas have to be set out a year in advance and any officer asked to change shift can be offered time off in lieu. Mr Blunkett has voiced his determination to tackle unacceptable sickness rates and to reform the medical pension scheme which has seen as many as 77% of officers in one force take early retirement on the grounds that they are medically unfit. Other parts of the package will see new measures to boost the role of the detective in the modern police and the possible use of outside expert investigators. City centre pubs and nightclubs are also expected to be asked to contribute to the cost of policing of their venues at weekends.