Operation Ore has its roots in an investigation conducted by the US Postal Inspection Service. Operation Avalanche began in 1999 following tip-offs received about a website selling child pornography. The site was owned by a company called Landslide Inc with headquarters in Texas.In July 2001, the husband and wife team who owned Landslide were sentenced to life imprisonment and 14 years respectively. Landslide's servers contained the names of around 100,000 people from more than 60 countries who had bought child pornography. The Americans handed to the UK's National Criminal Intelligence Service a list of more than 7,200 people who bought child pornography from Landslide that indicated a UK location. The prospect of 7,200 names arriving in one hit to any intelligence-based environment presents quite a challenge. It prompted a rare, if not unprecedented, request from the police to the Home Office for extra resources to enable them to work their way through the list more speedily, make arrests, seize the suspects' computers, analyse them and so on. The preliminary routine work was calculated to cost around £2m.This special plea from the police received short shrift from the politicians. The Home Office minister, Hilary Benn, implied this was an operational matter for the police to resolve within their existing budgets. In other words, the police cannot bill the government every time they do a bit of overtime. On a narrow reading, Mr Benn was undoubtedly correct, but if Ore was truly unprecedented, then is there not a case for an unprecedented intervention? Of course the police should be able to cope with a "standard volume" of these or other sorts of crimes out of their resource allocations. But the amount of intelligence involved in this case was anything but standard. Moreover, the minister's reasoning presupposes that what was already in place was adequate, sadly we are all coming to the conclusion that it was not. The recently formed National HiTech Crime Unit is already creaking at the seams and we have just not been able to roll out the development of resources locally anything like fast enough.Let us return to what happened to that list of 7,200 suspects.The big list was broken down and despatched to the country's constabularies. Cambridgeshire police received its list of 279 suspects in early July 2002, so it seems likely that other forces received their lists about the same time.But chief constables across the country seem to be taking a range of different views about Ore, giving it varying degrees of priority.A trickle of arrests have been reported, but certainly by late October there were some forces that had still done little, or perhaps nothing at all. The US Postal Inspection Service carried out an in-depth study of everyone it arrested between 1997 and the end of 2001 for child pornography offences, this included people picked up as a result of Operation Avalanche. It found that around 35% of those initially arrested for possessing child pornography were also engaged in sexually abusing a child. If similar proportions are repeated in the UK then that means today there are perhaps 3,000 or more children being abused by people who are, or could be, known to the police. That abuse could be stopped but it isn't being. This is a major scandal demanding a much greater sense of urgency from every corner of the political establishment and the law enforcement community.If you live in London or in one, but not all, of the larger urban areas where we find some of the UK's best-equipped police forces, the chances are your local force will have developed some expertise or knowledge in how to tackle internet crime. The National HiTech Crime Unit provides leadership and resources to help local forces. The National Crime Squad is also on hand but it, like its national counterparts, can only provide help at a local level if asked. But it will only be asked if these sorts of investigations are given a priority at local level; which takes us right back to government and how it sets priorities for local forces.The good news is that in the first ever national policing plan, published later this month, child protection is to be listed as a national policing priority. This means that at last local forces are going to become more accountable not just to the government but also to the public. It will certainly mean that we can ask them to explain to us what resources they are devoting to this area of work in general, and specifically in relation to crimes against children through the internet. It is definitely not before time.· John Carr is the internet adviser for the charity NCH action for children and the Children's Charities Coalition for Internet Safety. He is also a member of the government's internet taskforce on child protection