The similarities between the brutal racist murder of a black Liverpool sixth-former over the weekend and the killing of Stephen Lawrence 12 years ago are painfully poignant. Both were young men full of promise: Anthony Walker, aged 18, was hoping to be a lawyer; Stephen, aged 18, an architect. Both were brought up in strong, caring and supportive families, devastated by the killings of their deeply loved sons. Both murders were carried out by small gangs of racist white men. Anthony died after an axe was embedded in his skull; Stephen was killed in a knife attack. The only motive of the attackers appeared to be the black skin of their victims. Tragically, Anthony, a keen sportsman who had basketball trials for England, tried his best to avoid a confrontation. Subjected to "a torrent of racial abuse" from a man while escorting his white girlfriend to a bus stop, he had walked with his girlfriend and cousin to another stop only to be confronted by a gang.Thankfully, there are some differences. The response from the police was swift and unequivocal. The murder was quickly labelled a racist crime. The response from residents of Huyton, where the murder took place, was one of shock and eagerness to help both the family and the police. This was one reason for the prompt arrests of two suspects. Neither happened in the case of Stephen Lawrence. No one has been convicted even now of his murder. Eltham, where he was killed, retreated behind closed doors. Huyton is benefiting from the Macpherson report into the Lawrence killing. One of the responses of Merseyside police to Macpherson was the introduction of neighbourhood policing, designed to build community trust in the police. The chief constable yesterday praised "a phenomenal public response" but was quick to add "we need that information to keep coming in".Many police forces have made serious efforts since Macpherson reported in 1999 to erase racism from their ranks. But as documented last year in a report for the Commission for Racial Equality, drawn up by Sir David Calvert-Smith, former director of public prosecutions, there were 14 forces still failing to introduce acceptable race-equality schemes. The BBC's Secret Policeman showed this more dramatically by exposing racism among police recruits. Racism among the public is even more widespread, particularly in areas with low levels of ethnic minorities. There could be no better way of Huyton removing the stain of Anthony's murder than by maintaining full-scale support for the police investigation.