Antisocial behaviour orders are ineffective with a hard core of persistent offenders whose behaviour is blighting communities across Britain, according to a report by the government's official spending watchdog published today.Over 55% of those given an Asbo did not comply with its conditions and a hard core of 20% breached them more than five times, the National Audit Office report said. One youngster breached his Asbo 25 times.Edward Leigh, the chairman of the Commons public accounts committee, said the report revealed that, for a hard core of persistent offenders, the measures were not working. "Instead of being startled into bringing their behaviour into check, too often offenders respond to an Asbo by sneering at the authorities and continue to make life miserable for the rest of their community. We are talking about yobs who are making our city centres a no-go area," he said.But the Home Office minister Tony McNulty defended Asbos, saying the report showed strong evidence the government's campaign was bringing relief to neighbourhoods."We need to be clear that the breach of an Asbo is not a failure of the Asbo, but the failure of the individual to abide by its conditions ... For long periods when the orders aren't being breached, communities are spared the bad behaviour that ... in the past couldn't be stopped," he said, adding there were serious consequences for those who breached the orders.The NAO said about 20% of the 893 cases it looked at were responsible for a disproportionate amount of antisocial behaviour and were the target of more than half of Asbos and other official measures. They had an average of 50 previous criminal convictions each.The NAO estimated antisocial behaviour cost Britain £3.4bn a year. It said the government's Respect drive, which includes appointing 373 local coordinators, has reduced the proportion of the population who regard it as a "big" or "fairly big" problem in their neighbourhood from 21% in 2003-04 to 17% in 2005-06.The study confirmed it was the young and those living in the poorest areas who were most likely to suffer.But the auditors said this masked sharp variations around the country. Some 49% of people in Corby, Northamptonshire, and 44% in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, complained they regularly suffered from the effects of antisocial behaviour. This compared with 6% in Wiltshire who said antisocial behaviour was a big problem.Sue Graystone, who runs a course aiming to get 16 to 18 year olds ready for work from an office in Corby's Westgate shopping centre, said: "The problem is an almost complete lack of a future for the kids, many of the factories have closed down and there have now been several generations in this town who have not had much hope and we are living with the consequences of that."The report said the government's package of antisocial behaviour measures, including warning letters, behaviour contracts and Asbos, was effective in most cases. The researchers found that 65% of the offenders in the 893 cases did not reoffend after action was taken.But the auditors found a significant difference between the effectiveness of warning letters and acceptable behaviour contracts and Asbos. The contracts, with 8,660 issued in 2004-05, were successful in 65% of cases, at an average cost of £230 a time. This compared with a success rate of 35% for the 3,500 Asbos issued in 2004-05, at an average cost of £3,100, although many of those given an Asbo had already failed to comply with other interventions.The NAO report said a third of those who breached their Asbo did so on five or more occasions. The report said a lack of experience of some local authority lawyers meant that Asbo breaches were not always dealt with quickly, creating frustration in the local community.The worst 10 asbo areasPercentage of people who felt antisocial behaviour was a "big" or "fairly big" problem: Corby 48.8 Mansfield 44.4 Hackney 42.7 Nottingham City 42.7 Luton 42.4 Slough 42 Ashfield 41.2 Knowsley 39.2 Middlesbrough 39.2Easington 38.9Source: National Audit Office analysis of best value performance indicators