The Chief Inspector of Prisons' reports on Wandsworth and Pentonville reveals that "difficult" prisoners were shifted out of the jails prior to the inspections taking place in a tactic known as "ghosting".The attempt to subvert the inspection process failed lamentably and those responsible for planning the moves are facing disciplinary action. When interviewed, the director general of the prison service conveyed the air of a man surprised, shocked even, by the actions of the managers and staff involved.How can this be, when "ghosting" has been part of the fabric of the penal system for as long as we old lags of prison watchers can remember? I received two phone calls on the issue yesterday, the first from the partner of a serving prisoner who had been ghosted five times in the last three months. As usual in such movements, the prisoner is woken early, long before the rest of the inmates start their day, and told to pack his kit. He is on his way. A number of staff will remain in his cell while he collects his possessions, then he is escorted to the prison reception area – by force, if he objects. Where is he going? He will find out when he gets there. In the meantime, his partner is left to look up train times to the far-flung corners of the penal system.The second call caused poignant memories to flood back. It came from an Essex woman, Pauline Day. In 2002 her son Paul took his own life in Frankland prison, Durham. He had been there a short time and the trip to Frankland, from Wandsworth, was his 35th such move in less than two years. (The former prison governor who conducted the inquiry into his death said Day had been "passed around" by the prison service.) At the inquest into his death in 2005, part of the narrative verdict read: "We believe Paul Day felt abandoned, frustrated, depressed, helpless and defeated and had lost any trust in the system." Afterwards, Pauline Day met with senior officials from the prison service. I have seen the minutes of that meeting, which assured her that the practice of ghosting would stop, especially in the case of vulnerable prisoners, a category her son fell into.Four years on and the still-grieving mother learns that one of the prisoners ghosted from Wandsworth to Pentonville had a history of self-harm and had attempted to hang himself prior to the move. In his underwear and still bleeding he was forcibly removed to the north London jail. All this in a perverted attempt to present a clean bill of health to the prisons inspectorate.Ghosting takes place for many reasons: prisoners perceived as difficult will be shunted around the system on a series of "lie downs" in different establishments (if it's Tuesday, it must be Dartmoor). It's an expensive and resource-sapping method of exerting control which some may see as an admission of failure.When it happens to vulnerable prisoners, it is an exercise in cruelty.Prisons are full of vulnerable and difficult prisoners, and the longer they remain an overspill for a depleted residential mental health estate, the worse the situation will be. It would help if those who run the service at least owned up to the truth and opened up the jails to more public scrutiny. They could start by telling all staff and management that, if they cannot handle vulnerable and difficult people, they should find another job.