If you want a symbol of all that is vindictive and, frankly, dumb about New Labour it is the asbo. Until Alan Johnson became home secretary, this key Blairite response to antisocial behaviour looked as though it was quietly being allowed to die. But as Matt Foot writes in the letters column of the Guardian, Johnson has revived the policy in the run-up to a general election, which if nothing else is evidence of the government's complete lack of new ideas.More than that it is the retreat from reason. Many, but not all, problems of crime and disorder can be laid at the door of individual responsibility. The asbo addresses symptoms but rarely the cause of a problem, and it seeks to control behaviour that should never be the subject of a court order, especially one that is so easily granted. As Foot writes, asbos are extremely difficult for anyone to stop, as the only test for the court is evidence that someone behaved in a way "likely to cause alarm".An asbo hearing is predisposed to grant the order because of the very low requirements of evidence. Hearsay, gossip and rumour are all admissible so it is completely wrong of Johnson to suggest that they are difficult to get.If a police officer or official goes before the court to say something is true, the court is inclined to believe what they are told. The important point is that on the basis of untested evidence a person may eventually be given a jail sentence for breach of an order that is much longer than the maximum sentence available for the offence; sometimes the antisocial behaviour in question does not even fall into the category of a crime. For instance there is no offence of whistling, but if you are forbidden from making loud noises in public and then are caught whistling, as Dean Bailey from Dulwich was, you risk a prison sentence. The asbo undermined the principles of evidence and was the first measure in a legal trend that allowed the authorities to penalise individuals on the basis of a belief, or their own determination to sort out a problem – for instance the order granted against a pensioner in New Malden who could not stop her dogs barking.The asbo is a weapon of a petty-minded regime which seems long ago to have given up any concern about the causes of crime. It has become a means of persecuting those who inconvenience society as Foot says, the mentally ill, the elderly, drunks, drugs addicts, beggars and streetwalkers. The young are penalised for hanging about on street corners, drinking in public and rowdy behaviour, all of which are undesirable but which are also the result of deep social problems. It seems extraordinary that the Sentencing Guidelines Council is considering proposals that would jail a first offender for breaching an abso and send young people to a detention centre for four months.Yes, there are a lot of appalling people out there are who behave in appalling ways; yes personal responsibility needs to be encouraged but the asbo does very little to achieve a change of heart or behaviour in the individual, which is why so many are breached.With his less-than-brave response to the unpopular ID card and his reinvigoration of the asbo, Alan Johnson is proving himself to be an unimaginative Blairite foot soldier content to finesse New Labour laws rather than challenge their basis.