Mark Hobson, the man police suspect of killing twin sisters and an elderly couple in North Yorkshire, remained at large last night as police revealed "a tissue of spurious stories" used to hide his movements at the time of four brutal murders.The miner's son tricked his mother into driving him to hospital late at night from a village flat where his girlfriend's naked and decomposing remains were found hours later, stuffed in binbags next to the murdered and sexually assaulted body of her twin sister. Detectives also gave details for the first time of how two defenceless pensioners were stabbed in the back with one of their own kitchen knives, in a killing linked forensically to the twins' murders. Jim Britton, 80, and his wife Joan, 82, lived three miles from York district hospital, where Mr Hobson was last caught on security film at 2am on Sunday. Police are trying to fill gaps in the jigsaw of the divorced father-of-three's movements after July 11, when his girlfriend, Claire Sanderson, 27, was last seen with him at the Comus pub, round the corner from their flat in Camblesforth near Selby. Detective Superintendent Javad Ali, who heads the multiple murder inquiry, said Claire had failed to turn up for work at a local cardboard factory on July 2. Mr Hobson later telephoned the firm and her family with lies about her being sick. Forensic tests have not yet established when Claire died, but her twin, Diane, was killed on Saturday evening after driving to Mr Hobson's flat to check up on her sister. Mr Ali said that a hammer had been recovered from the scene and that both twins had been the subject of vicious assaults. Mr Hobson called after midnight at his mother, Sandra's, 300 metres from the flat and persuaded her to drive him to York. Mr Ali said: "Sandra dropped him at the hospital, but, after a forensic search of her vehicle, we believe he was not injured. He provided an account [of why he needed hospital treatment] to his mother which we believe was spurious and which she was taken in by." Mr Hobson had also phoned Diane's boyfriend late on Saturday evening with another lie about the twins having to go to hospital to visit a sick relative. Police played a taped message yesterday from Mrs Hobson to her son. She said: "Mark, the best thing you can do is to contact the police. If not the police, then a solicitor, or someone who can help you. "Please slow down and please don't hurt anyone. There are people who can help you. Please do this for yourself and for me and the family." Mr Ali said that the next reported sightings of Mr Hobson were at Strensall, three miles from the hospital, shortly after 9.05am on Sunday when neighbours had called at the Brittons and found them well. Another neighbour checked on the couple at 11.26am and discovered the deaths. Mr Ali said that the pensioners would have been unable to put up any resistance. There were signs of a partial search of their home but police are not yet sure whether anything was taken. More details of Mr Hobson's character emerged during the day, particularly the way that his heavy drinking had made his behaviour unpredictable. Mr Ali said that Claire Sanderson's relationship with her family had been "dysfunctional" and had worsened since she started seeing Mr Hobson several months ago. A former colleague of Mr Hobson, Malcolm Pajo, said that the ex-bouncer had once been a generous friend, but had changed after starting to drink heavily. He said that he was concerned that the fugitive might harm himself.