Haringey council today expressed its "deepest sorrow" for the death of a 17-month-old baby who suffered months of abuse and neglect, despite being seen 60 times by authorities.Ed Balls, the children's secretary, said today officials would be held to account for any mistakes uncovered by the inquiry into the care of children in the  north London borough where 17-month-old Baby P died. The infant's mother, her boyfriend and another man have been found guilty of involvement in his death.Haringey council was criticised after yesterday's verdicts for failing to apologise to Baby P's father. In a statement on the council website today, Liz Santry, the cabinet member for children and young people, who has faced calls for her resignation, said the authority had been "devastated" by the death of Baby P.Santry welcomed the review, saying the council had "moved swiftly after the death of Baby P to check our child protection procedures, and strengthen them where necessary". "We are truly sorry that we did not do more to protect him," she told Sky News.She said the council was commissioning an independent expert "to review the actions taken by our staff and the member oversight of child protection in the borough. If any further recommendations arise over the coming weeks we will not hesitate to act on them. We want our child protection to be the very best possible."Balls said in an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme this morning that he would not prejudge the work of inspectors, who would report on the care of children in Haringey by December 1. But he was prepared to act if they identified problems."These are really difficult jobs but, in the end, if there are management systemic failures, then yes, there has got to be accountability and also there has to be action to make sure things are put right," Balls said."I have the powers to act but I am not going to do the easy political thing and seek a headline with an action today. I want to do it properly and that's why the inspectors are doing it. In the end, if there are failures, there has got to be accountability."In extreme circumstances Balls could impose new managers to take over the running of the council's children's services department.He announced the inquiry last night after a furious row in the Commons between Gordon Brown and David Cameron over the case, in which the Speaker had to intervene repeatedly.The children's secretary said that the review of the case already conducted by the council indicated major failures, poor management and inappropriate actions on the part of the agencies involved in the north London borough. In a damning summary of the review, Balls said that "each agency has singly and collectively failed to adhere to the procedures for the proper management of child protection cases".As a result, he said, he was ordering an inquiry under the Children Act into the safeguarding of children in Haringey. It will be conducted by Ofsted, the Commission for Healthcare Audit and Inspection and the Chief Inspector of Constabulary."The review will need to undertake an urgent and thorough inspection of the quality of practice and management of all services which contribute to the effective safeguarding of children in the local area," he said. He added that the staff concerned had failed to follow the correct practices set out in the government guide for such cases.Balls said that there might be other areas where, if proper procedures had been followed, Baby P's life could have been saved. "The death of Baby P in Haringey is a very tragic case that will have shocked and appalled the country. It makes all of us question how someone could do such a terrible thing to a child and set out to deceive the very people trying to help."In the Commons, Brown and Cameron clashed furiously over the case. The prime minister said the death "raises serious questions that we have to address". But when Cameron said the local review should not be undertaken by the council's own children's services director, Brown reacted angrily."I do regret [his] making a party political issue of this issue, because I think the whole country shares the outrage, the whole country wants to see action, and the whole country will support the action that is taken nationally and in relation to Haringey," said Brown.Cameron called Brown's remark "cheap ... I asked some reasonable questions about a process that is wrong and I would ask the prime minister to withdraw the attack that [the remark] was about politics."Fresh protests from the Labour benches brought the Speaker to his feet again. "I appeal to the house again," Michael Martin said. "It is not a good thing at this time when we have heard this news about a little child ... that we should be shouting across the chamber. Let the leader of the opposition speak ... and also the prime minister."Phillip Noyes, the director of public policy for the children's charity NSPCC, welcomed the review of children's services in Haringey. "This terrible case has shocked our political leaders into action," he said.There were calls for the resignations of Haringey council's leader and the lead councillor for children's services.On Tuesday, Sharon Shoesmith, chair of Haringey's local safeguarding children board, said that three people had received written warnings about their conduct in the case, but there had been no sackings.Key questions• Why did all the children's services in Haringey fail to stick to approved procedures for managing child protection cases?• Why did Shoesmith chair the serious case review into the handling of Baby P, rather than an independent expert?• Is it a coincidence that a death happened in Haringey again, eight years after the death of Victoria Climbié, or is there a specific problem in the north London borough?• Did police urge social workers not to return Baby P to the family home? If so, why was this ignored?• Why did Haringey fail to pass on all relevant documents to police and prosecutors until the case reached trial?• Why did NHS staff fail to follow the correct procedures when there was evidence that Baby P suffered non-accidental injuries?• Was the management and supervision of staff involved in the case up to scratch?• Why did the local authority not abide by the fostering regulations when it used family friends as temporary carers for Baby P?