Mark Saunders was shot dead by police when they feared that he would kill or seriously injure an officer or member of the public if he was not stopped, the Guardian has learned.Details of the reasoning by police when faced by the barrister who began firing indiscriminately after drinking came on the day an inquest heard he had been shot at least five times, and by more than one officer.Sources familiar with police decision-making say people had been still trapped in their homes in Markham Square, west London, when the 32-year-old opened fire on Tuesday afternoon. Officers considered trying to evacuate all the residents in the vicinity, but decided there was a risk that Saunders would open fire on anyone he could see from his window overlooking the square. They believed he would shoot any officer trying to get people out, and any of his neighbours.Saunders came across as drunk, the sources said, and he displayed a highly volatile mood while talking to police who were trying to convince him to lay down his shotgun and surrender.Experts say that three of the five shots - to Saunders's head, heart and liver - would have incapacitated him, and would have almost certainly proved lethal. These shots were fired as he and police were engaged in an exchange of fire for the third time, with Saunders holed up in his flat where he had fired from his second floor window three times over a 4½-hour period.The sources say the plan had been to wait Saunders out, after he first opened fire in the direction of his neighbours, and then again at armed police called to the scene just before 5pm.But that plan was scrapped when the former Territorial Army soldier fired at police from his window after 9pm.A senior source told the Guardian: "It was the strong belief that he would shoot someone, either a police officer or resident who was trapped and emerged from their house or flat."On Thursday his father, Rodney Saunders, questioned whether police had been obliged to use lethal force.A senior police source said that storming the flat and trying to take him alive would have been highly dangerous to the officers involved. After he took the fatal shots the flat was stormed by armed officers using stun grenades.Nine officers believe they opened fire during the siege; in keeping with police procedure the nine have been removed temporarily from firearms duties.Yesterday an inquest into Saunders's death opened at City of Westminster coroner's court. Coroner's officer Lynda Morris told the hearing that Saunders did not use his shotgun on himself: "The multiple gunshot wounds present are associated with severe internal damage to the brain, the heart, the liver and the main vein of the lower body. The external and internal gunshot-related damage is consistent with a minimum of five shots having hit the deceased." She was reading a preliminary report by pathologist Nathaniel Cary.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the incident. Investigators said they were looking at various lines of inquiry, and refused to rule out the possibility he was trying to commit so-called "suicide by cop". The court heard Saunders's body had been identified by his wife, Elizabeth. The inquest was adjourned.Last night the barrister's parents and sisters issued a statement: "Everyone who knew and loved Mark appreciated his warmth, generosity and sheer energy for life. He was a very talented and sociable person whose enthusiasm and charm touched so many people. We will always remember him as our caring, considerate and loving son and brother. We are devastated at our tragic loss and would like to be left alone to grieve at this time."TimelineLunchtime Mark Saunders leaves work4.50pm Gunfire. Residents call policeJust before 5pm Armed response vehicle arrives and is fired at; officers shoot back5pm to 9pm CO19 officers take position, officers assess intelligence. Wife Elizabeth stopped at siege cordon. Negotiator talks to Saunders9pm Second exchange of fire9.30pm Saunders again fires from window - is hit by five police bulletsJust before 10pm Armed police storm flat and take him outside for attempted treatment by paramedics10pm Scotland Yard refer killing to Police Complaints Commission