The father accused of murdering his 15-year-old daughter in a so-called honour killing said today that his older brother had urged him to kill her for bringing shame on the family name.Mehmet Goren told an Old Bailey jury he refused to carry out the instructions to make Tulay Goren and her 30-year-old boyfriend, Halil Unal, "disappear". He said his brother Ali had branded Tulay a "prostitute and a slut" and had told him to kill her "as if he was asking me to buy a kilo of rice".Mehmet said he was to invite the lovers over for dinner at the family home and then "do what's necessary".Speaking through an interpreter, he said: "I would need to be a sadist to harm my own child. Only people that have something wrong with their heads or minds are capable of harming their own children, those that live Islam totally, the sharia law completely, they are capable of harming their own children."The prosecution alleges Tulay, who disappeared in January 1999, was murdered by her father with the help of his brothers Ali and Cuma, 42, after a family meeting.Giving evidence, Mehmet, 49, a Turkish Kurd, said Ali ordered the killing after his daughter's marriage fell through. The schoolgirl ran away from home to stay with Unal, 30, in December 1998. It was later agreed that they should marry in a register office but the ceremony did not go ahead because Tulay was under-age.Yesterday, Mehmet told the court Ali had told him: "It is best you make them disappear."He added: "He was telling me to kill them. I said 'are you a maniac?' I thought perhaps there was some sense in relation to Halil because Halil had used Tulay. Asking me to kill Tulay, I didn't understand at all."Mehmet said he told his brother he would not harm his own daughter. Ali was someone with "no love, no affection" for his own children or those of his brothers.The day before the alleged murder, Mehmet said, he went to see Tulay, found she was living with her boyfriend in a house with other men, and brought her home to Woodford Green, north-east London. His wife, Hanim, has told the court she returned home that day to find Tulay tied up and face-down on the floor, her hands and feet bruised black from being bound.Mehmet rejected his wife's claims that he had tied Tulay up and drugged her coffee, and blamed his wife.He told the court that Hanim would beat the children regularly and had branded Tulay a "dirty faggot" during a row the day she vanished. "Whenever the children made a mistake she would either beat them with slippers or swear." Asked by his barrister, Michael Turner QC, if he had any objection to the relationship between Tulay and Unal on the basis that he was a Sunni Muslim while the Gorens were of the Alevi branch of the faith, he said: "No. It wasn't even discussed."Mehmet denies murdering his daughter and the attempted murder of Unal. Ali and Cuma Goren, both of Walthamstow, deny murdering Tulay Goren. The trial continues.