A full inquiry was under way today after Rangers fans clashed with riot police in Manchester last night after their team's defeat by Zenit St Petersburg in the Uefa Cup final.Police chiefs said they were "sickened and disappointed" with the behaviour of some fans. One person was stabbed and police arrested 42 others during and after the match at Manchester City's Eastlands stadium.Greater Manchester police released CCTV footage of the violence including one incident in which police allege an officer's arm was broken after he was tripped up and attacked by a gang as he lay on the floor.Assistant Chief Constable Justine Curran, of Greater Manchester police, said: "A minority of thugs have overshadowed what should have been a great occasion. I've watched them commit damage, assault my officers and I'm really sickened and disappointed." Violence broke out after a giant screen in Piccadilly Gardens failed to work, leaving thousands of fans in the centre of the city unable to watch the match. Police said that most fans were well-behaved, but a "significant minority" reacted angrily, pelting the screen with beer bottles.Fifteen police officers and a police dog were injured in running battles with supporters as Glasgow Rangers were defeated by their Russian opponents.One senior officer was hit so hard that his electronic earpiece was embedded in his head and had to be removed by doctors. Another policeman lost his front teeth after being head-butted by a Rangers supporter. Speaking at a press conference today, Sir Richard Leese, the leader of Manchester city council, said he was "very, very disappointed" and that a "full inquiry" into the event would be held."Yesterday we had an unprecedented number of people coming to Manchester," he said. "The vast majority of fans spent a peaceful evening in our city centre in a spirit of friendship and respect. "But this has been spoiled by the bad behaviour of a minority. We cannot tolerate missiles and bottles being thrown."More than 100,000 fans gathered in the city from early yesterday morning, hoping to witness the first European trophy for 25 years being won by a team from Scotland. Rangers lost the match 2-0.A spokesman for Scotland's first minister, Alex Salmond, said today: "Clearly we are very disappointed with the actions of a clear minority of the 100,000-plus fans who travelled to Manchester for the final. "The vast majority of fans created and enjoyed a carnival atmosphere. But sadly the actions of a few have spoilt what was a very positive occasion." Last night, five men were arrested for wounding with intent on suspicion of stabbing a Russian fan. They have since been released and it appears the knifeman has escaped. Sixteen men have been detained for public order offences, four for assault and four for violent disorder and affray. There were further arrests for throwing missiles, possessing an offensive weapon and criminal damage. Some of those detained may appear in court this afternoon.Across the city centre this morning council workers began clearing up beer cans and broken glass. One hundred tonnes of rubbish had already been removed by 11am.A spokesman for the Greater Manchester Ambulance Service said that they dealt with 52 assaults during the match.The Rangers chief executive, Martin Bain, said today: "We are deeply disappointed that a small minority soured what was great carnival atmosphere."Eddie Smith, managing director of Lightmedia Display, which provided the Piccadilly Gardens screen, said: "We deeply regret and are very disappointed at the failure of the signal to the screen in Piccadilly Gardens last night — it was due to a technical signalling problem that we are still investigating."