Belongings of a French student were fished from the Thames yesterday, seven miles from where she was murdered while taking a shortcut home.Items believed to include a keyring and a purse owned by Amélie Delagrange, 22, were recovered in the water near Walton-on-Thames in Surrey. Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy said last night: "This really is a significant breakthrough." Police are still hunting for her brown handbag and Sony Ericsson mobile phone, which were missing when her body was found by a passerby on Twickenham Green in south-west London last Thursday. Yesterday's finds, following information given by a member of the public, came after police spent the day searching a car park in Walton-on-Thames. Two forensic science tents were erected behind Wilkinson's store in the town as officers searched the area. A section of the bridge across the Thames close to the town centre was shut as a search continued there. Ms Delagrange's death may be linked to a number of other attacks on blond women in south-west London. The student had been in England for three months. A postmortem examination concluded that she died of a blow or blows to the back of her head. Police have yet to find the murder weapon - they believe it could be a bar, pole or brick. She had been with friends in the Cristalz wine bar in Twickenham and left at 9.30pm to catch her bus. Her final moments were traced on CCTV camera footage. The last image, caught by a bus-lane camera at 9.59pm, showed her approaching a cricket pavilion on the corner of Twickenham Green. It is believed she then cut across the grass in the direction of her flat. Officers think the killer could have hid behind a cricket sightscreen on the green before jumping out and attacking. The police hunt is all the more intense because they have declined to rule out a link between Ms Delagrange's murder and four other attacks in south-west London, including the killing three miles away of Marsha McDonnell, 19, in February last year. Both were killed by blows to the head as they walked home in the dark. Officers have taken the step of ensuring that the pathologist examining Ms Delagrange's body is the same one who performed the postmortem on Ms McDonnell. Three almost identical attacks on pedestrians in the same area, the most recent on Twickenham Green in April, may also be linked to the murderer.