He is, the duty solicitor in court one of Stratford magistrates court explains: "deeply remorseful and deeply embarrassed". The defendant in question, a 36-year-old Lithuanian accountant called Petras Lescinskas, with a bald head and a biker beard, is making Olympic history as the first person convicted of a racially aggravated offence at the Games. The court has heard from prosecutor, Becky Owen, that Lescinskas had been one of a group of rowdy and offensive Lithuanian basketball fans who made monkey chants during their country's match against Nigeria.He had also stood up and made a Nazi salute while placing his fingers across his lips. His defence is that "it is common practice in his country to celebrate in this way and it is something he has been doing for some time."There is little sympathy for him from the bench. District judge (DJ) Sonia Sims tells him that "the Olympic games is a wondrous event not only for Great Britain but for all nations ... Your behaviour was despicable". His gesture was "a direct insult to all those who lost their lives in the Holocaust." The Lithuanian woman translating for him, as he stands in the dock in his green Lithuanian basketball team tank top, explains to him that he is being fined £2500 or 28 days in jail if he fails to pay. He is led back to the cells to look for his credit card.If there is one Olympic legacy the authorities would rather avoid it is a long backlog of criminal offences connected to the Games. Thus a number of courts throughout London were put on stand-by by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) to fast-track any dysfunctional members of the wider Olympics family.The Metropolitan police definition of an Olympic offence is "any crime that has or may have an impact upon the effective delivery or image of the Games." A narrower classification, produced by the criminal justice service's Olympics working group, extends this to encompass any offences committed on an Olympic site or "in which the complainant or defendant is connected with the games as a spectator, competitor, official, employee, or media representative covering the games."Next up is a young man from Los Angeles, wearing a replica US team tracksuit top. He has been arrested in a cafe with 54 tickets valued at £4000 for a variety of sports. He has told the police that the tickets came to him through a relative and that he is in London with 23 of his uncles and aunts but they had not wanted to go to any events.The tickets may have been for judo and weight-lifting but he is clearly for the high jump. DJ Sims tells him: "the Olympics is really a very special event." There have been too many empty seats, she tells him, and people wanting to see the games "do not deserve to be exploited by ticket touts". He is fined £1000 and has to forfeit his mobile phone, about which he complains - "I have a lot of important contacts" - to no effect as he led away.The court has already seen a young man from Cameroon who had allegedly tried to use a false passport to get a job on the Olympic site and who now faces deportation but the main traffic is of ticket touts. A German salesman from Dortmund has been caught pocketing a £50 note from a man in exchange for a basketball ticket. He had £650 on him and initially told the police that he was just in London to see the Games and was merely giving the man some change but he is now pleading guilty. He has already spent the night behind bars, as evidenced by his crumpled shirt and unshaven chin, so he is fined £300 with £50 costs and a "£15 victim surcharge."While it has so far mostly been foreign touts who have been among the medals - the defendant is the second German up before the beak and Canada has also been represented - Great Britain fight their way into contention through a tattooed 55-year-old from Tunbridge Wells who has a long-distance record of offences that stretches back to 1973. His explanation for being caught trying to sell four basketball tickets is that his three friends had irritatingly failed to turn up and he merely wanted to get his money back. DJ Sims is not impressed: "I'm afraid your account just doesn't bear any credence. I'm satisfied you were clearly ticket-touting." And it's another £350 fine.Some non-Olympic events are slipped into the court's proceedings as mass arrests at the games have not yet materialised. A couple of young Lithuanian shoplifters - one in a red Nike T-shirt but obviously not sponsored by them in any way - plead guilty to stealing bottles of aftershave lotion from a shop in the nearby Westfield centre. Both are jailed for up to 16 weeks. And who knew you could spend £37.99 on a bottle of aftershave?