The Soham murder trial jury was sent home tonight after failing to reach verdicts on Ian Huntley and Maxine Carr.At 4.15pm today, Judge Justice Moses adjourned the trial until Monday morning, after the jury had deliberated for just over five hours. Before dismissing them, the judge warned the jurors not to discuss the case with each other or anybody else until proceedings resumed on Monday. The jury of seven women and five men retired at 11.08am today after the judge completed his summing-up of the 27-day case. He said that their verdicts in relation to all charges against the two defendants "must be unanimous". Unless they were all agreed on their verdicts, "there are no verdicts at all", he added.Less than two hours after the jurors retired, they were allowed back into the courtroom after requesting another chance to study the bath in which Holly Wells allegedly drowned.Mr Justice Moses ordered that the historic courtroom number one be cleared and the bath brought in so that jurors could inspect it in private. They had asked to see the bath and to be provided with a tape measure and "straight edge" to judge its depth. The bath was previously brought into court during the prosecution case, and was measured in front of them. Mr Huntley's legal team initially told the jury that there had been around 18 inches of water in the bath when Holly fell into it. Pathologist Dr Nat Cary then said that the bath's overflow was 11 inches high. In his evidence, Mr Huntley said that he had run six to eight inches of water so he could bathe his dog, Sadie. But the jury has heard that Holly would have displaced water as she fell into it, meaning that the water level would have risen.Earlier, as the judge completed his detailed summary of Ms Carr's evidence, he advised the jury that any speculation over Mr Huntley's relationship with her would be "unfair" to him.The judge said: "We are not going to have a trial about what their relationship was like. Don't go into that, it would be unfair on Ian Huntley." But he said that Ms Carr, who angrily referred to her former lover as "that thing" when she took the stand, obviously felt "very different" about him now. Mr Huntley, 29, a former caretaker at Soham Village College, denies murdering Holly and her friend Jessica Chapman on Sunday August 4 last year, but has admitted a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The jury has heard he admits that Holly died accidentally in his bath and that he killed Jessica as he tried to silence her screams, although he insists he did not mean to kill her. He bundled their bodies into his car, dumped them in a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, where they were found 13 days later, cut off their clothes and set fire to them.His former girlfriend Ms Carr, 26, an ex-classroom assistant at the two 10-year-olds' primary school, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two counts of assisting an offender. She has told the jury that she lied to protect Mr Huntley, giving him a false alibi, but insisted she never suspected that he could be involved in the girls' disappearance.In his summing up today, which was carried over from yesterday, the judge focused on Ms Carr's evidence. He reminded the jury that she said she had not wanted the police to "look at Ian" and that she had lied to achieve that end. But she had told them she did not lie to protect him as a murderer. She told the jury that she had slept in the same bed as Mr Huntley until their arrest, but would not have done so - and would not have stayed in the same house - if she thought that he had murdered the girls.