Police hunting the killer of a mother and her three children found battered to death in a south Manchester suburb arrested a man and a woman yesterday on suspicion of murder. But detectives declined to name them, indicate whether they are a couple or suggest how they are connected to the victims.Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, leading the inquiry, said he was still searching for taxi driver Rahan Arshad, 36, whose wife, Uzma Rahan, 32, sons Adam, 11, and Abbas, eight, and daughter Henna, six, were found at their end-terrace home in Cheadle Hulme, Greater Manchester, on Sunday evening.Police broke into the house after neighbours complained of flies and a "stomach-churning" smell.It is thought the bodies had lain in the house for at least a month. Postmortem examinations showed all four had died from head injuries.Mr Arshad's silver BMW 320 sports car was found on Tuesday in a car park at Heathrow.He is thought to have left the country at the end of July.Mr Bottomley said: "At 7am [yesterday], we arrested a 35-year-old woman from Burnage in Manchester. A short time ago, we arrested a 40-year-old man from the same area."We are still looking for Rahan Arshad and I now believe that he left the country around July 29. We will be liaising with our colleagues in international police forces to help us to trace him. We ask that anyone who has seen him or made contact with him since July 29 should contact the police immediately."Forensic teams moved into the home of the arrested woman, four miles north of Cheadle Hulme, which has been for sale for £215,000 since June.A neighbour, Lily Duffy, said she did not know much about the woman. "I only really knew her to say hello to. When she was getting into the car she would always wave and smile," she said. "They are a nice family, they have four children. They are very nice kids and I used to speak to them and support them with things they were doing at school like fairs and collections. She was always very well dressed, often in Asian dress."The house is beautiful inside - they have a big extension around the back. They are very nice people, although I never really saw them together."She said the woman's husband travelled regularly to Germany and had also visited Pakistan several times after his father died. Another neighbour, who asked not to be named, added: "I don't think she worked - I think she stayed at home with the children. They always seemed very nice and kept themselves to themselves. He seemed to be going away a lot. They just seemed like a normal nice family. It's come as a shock."Two officers stood outside the three-bedroom semi yesterday.