The mother of Tania Nicol, the first of five murdered young women to go missing in Ipswich last year, told a jury yesterday of the changes that marked her only daughter's descent into a heroin addiction that drove her to prostitution.Giving evidence from behind a screen, Kerry Nicol said she had no idea of her 19-year-old's daughter's double life and had thought she was working as a hairdresser or in a bar.At the trial of Steve Wright, the man accused of the murders of Nicol, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24, Paula Clenell, 24, and Annette Nicholls, 29, Kerry Nicol told the court that, in the six months before her disappearance, Tania had lost weight and had developed a spotty complexion, which made her believe she was once again using drugs.Wright, 49, denies killing the women.Nicol said that her daughter had done well at school, but at the age of 16 left home and started taking heroin.Following an attempt to help her off drugs, Tania returned home to live with her mother and her younger brother in December 2005, Nicol said. But she noticed her daughter's appearance had changed and that she started going out late. She found two syringes in her room, which Tania claimed belonged to a friend.Earlier, the jury heard how each of the murdered women had resorted to prostitution to fund their addiction, making them vulnerable to their killer or killers.Around the time she went missing, Tania was spending between £30 and £50 a night on heroin, the court was told.There were other clues to the double-life she was leading. On one occasion Nicol received a call at her house asking for "Chantelle", she said. When she dialled 1471 the call was from massage parlour Cleopatra's. She also found a letter in her daughter's bedroom addressed to "Chantelle", and twice men she did not know called the house.Nicol told the court her last contact with her daughter was on October 30, after Tania said she was going out with friends. She called Tania on her mobile phone at 10.57pm, to make sure she had caught the bus into town.Five and a half weeks later Tania's naked body was found trapped in debris in Belstead brook, south-west of Ipswich. Although the first to go missing, she was the second victim to be found. But her body could have been spotted as early November 8. In a statement read out in court, a student, Ruqshanna Quddus, said she caught a glimpse of what she thought was a naked body in the brook on that day, but did not report it until a month later.Kerry Nicol told the court that, shortly after her daughter vanished, she received a number of phone calls from a man she did not know calling himself Tom Stephens.Two days after Tania went missing she called the telephone numbers that her daughter had called the evening of her disappearance. One of them was Tom Stephens, she told the court.During one call, on November 10, Stephens asked her a "strange" question: whether the women would still go out and work the streets if one of them was murdered. She told Ipswich crown court: "I did stop and think it was a strange thing to say but I didn't ask him what he meant".Gemma's mother, Gail Dawn Adams, told the court that she had not seen her daughter for months before she went missing. She, too, did not know her daughter was working as a prostitute.The trial continues.