They have been branded the "terror triplets" and vilified as among the "worst child thugs in Britain". When magistrates allowed the 13-year-olds to be identified after they broke an anti-social behaviour order, it was open season on the Morris triplets. The Sun, Daily Mail and Times called them "terror triplets" while the News of the World printed their photographs in a rogues' gallery of "teenage yobs" under the strapline: "News of the World reveals the worst child thugs in Britain".With youth crime topping the political agenda, Shane, Sarah and Natalie were highlighted as prime examples of teenage tearaways. Details of their misbehaviour and photographs of the three were published along with extensive quotes from shopkeepers and residents in Gillingham, Kent, where the triplets live, calling for them to be locked up. Local politicians demanded firm action. But after magistrates imposed a two-year supervision order on the Morris triplets yesterday, a rather different picture of the three can be revealed. Though those closest to the triplets accept they are no angels, it has emerged that the girls had no previous convictions and Shane had just one. Concerns that the way the children have been portrayed could lead to long-term harm were raised by the trio's solicitor, by a member of the local youth offending team, and by a senior police officer. One source close to the case said: "They have been depicted as monsters. They are not that but the fear is that being notorious now could send them on a downward spiral. They are, to some extent, victims of politics." The saga began when shopkeepers in Gillingham High Street, fed up with being targeted by troublemakers, started to log incidents involving a gang of up to 20 youngsters. The shopkeepers accused gang members, including the triplets, of being abusive, of stealing and of sometimes carrying out physical attacks. They persuaded Medway council to push for an anti-social behaviour order (Asbo) to be taken out against the gang. The Abso system was introduced under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 - one of the planks of the government's attempt to tackle crime, especially youth crime. An order was imposed on the triplets and five other youngsters in February last year. They were banned from shops and forbidden from "activities that cause alarm, distress or harassment to shop owners in Gillingham". Accused But in October the triplets were accused of swearing and threatening staff as a boy was being arrested for shoplifting. Witnesses said they punched and kicked shop doors. One security guard claimed the siblings threatened to petrol bomb his home. Earlier this month the triplets were convicted of breaking the Asbo and the magistrates agreed to allow them to be named. In the words of the triplets' solicitor, Paul Ruse, "media hysteria" followed. It was also widely reported that the triplets could be detained for up to five years. That was incorrect. For a 13-year-old to be detained for breaking a Asbo, they must be classified a "persistent offender". The triplets are not persistent offenders. Mr Ruse said: "Identifying them did not help. Yes, if you are talking about a 15-year-old who has committed 100 offences but these three are not like that. Youth crime is high on the agenda now so the timing of their case has been bad for these three." Privately, police officers expressed concern. A senior Kent police officer said: "The fear is it will make what they have done glamorous." Colin Patterson, a social worker on the youth offending team, agreed the publicity could harm the children. He said: "I know a lot of young people who would have loved it." The children have had a difficult life. They were born six weeks early in September 1988. Their parents, Shirley, who was then 22, and Patrick, 21, already had two sons and they struggled to cope. Patrick was unemployed at the time and the family lived in a small flat. They continue to this day to rely on state benefit. In their 13 years, the triplets have moved home at least four times, making it difficult for them to settle. They have been a handful at school. On their first day at St Mary's school in Strood, Sarah cheekily said "the holidays" were what she liked most. Their first head teacher said they could be "terrors".  Thrown out By the time he was 10 Shane had been thrown out of four schools. The girls' education has been patchy. It became clear that the triplets had problems. All three were diagnosed as having attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which can leave children distracted and impulsive. Sarah and Shane are also epileptic and Natalie has a speech impediment. Mrs Morris always stuck up for her children. "Whenever anything went wrong they were automatically blamed," she says. The Guardian has seen a report drawn up by the youth offending team which criticises the help the family was given. It claims: "Until recently support has been episodic rather than consistent." The report's author, an experienced social worker, goes on to say: "I have no evidence that there has ever been a multi-agency plan for this family." The trio appeared in the youth court in Chatham yesterday, as usual dressed in tracksuits. They sat alongside their mother but their father stayed away. In front of 20 journalists, Joseph Anoom, prosecuting, told the magistrates there was a "lot of government interest" in the case. He told the court about Shane's previous conviction - for taking a vehicle without consent. The girls have no previous convictions but have been cautioned for shoplifting. The magistrates took two hours and 25 minutes to decide on what to do. They read reports suggesting that if the triplets were given careful guidance they did respond. Chair of the bench, Ann Echlin, said: "When you have too much time on your hands with nothing in particular to do, then you start behaving badly. When you have activities you can behave properly and stick to the rules." She also described the children's education provision as "totally inadequate". The children agreed to abide by the supervision order. The magistrates suggested £15 towards the costs of the case should be taken out of the triplets' pocket money. Their decision did not satisfy the Gillingham shopkeepers. Tim Woodlock, owner of Bikes Bikes Bikes said: "I'm disgusted. This is a sign to all the kids that they can do what they like and get away with it."