The knife crime row has all the hallmarks of one of Michael Gove's "special ops": a populist issue bigging up the Tories, panning the Liberal Democrats and trapping Labour. There was an ambush at a home affairs cabinet committee chaired by Nick Clegg where Gove and other grandees made an unusual appearance even though the item was not on the agenda.Then there were orchestrated leaks to the Sun and the Daily Mail: Clegg blocks tougher knife sentences. The degree of annoyance can be measured by the Observer story about Gove's emergency funding for free schools paid from the school places budget. It looked like payback.The justice secretary, Chris Grayling, wants a mandatory prison sentence of six months, regardless of circumstances, for anyone convicted for a second time of possessing a knife. It is a Tory classic. Shortly after the horrific stabbing of the Leeds teacher Ann Maguire, it says: "We are getting tough on crime." Who could be in favour of knives?The plan speaks to swing voters who crave simple solutions, which is why Labour is tiptoeing around this issue, and may do the wrong thing if there is a vote this week on the rebel Tory amendment to the criminal justice and courts bill. It makes Nick Clegg and the Liberal Democrats look weak and defensive.Nevertheless, Grayling and Gove are posturing. In Grayling's cabinet write-round letter, he gave no evidence for his proposal. In Scotland, prison seems to have worsened reoffending. Few people would be affected, but that is no reason for injustice. What of the young gang members put under pressure to carry knives for their elders? What of the fearful person carrying a knife in self-defence? Why employ judges if not to fit sentences to crimes?All parties become prone to pre-election simplicities (look at Labour's energy price freeze and rent controls). Yes, the usually sensible Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Met commissioner, supported Grayling's notion. But no senior serving police officer has ever publicly called for lighter sentences. Tougher sentences are always the police's answer because they are responsible for the difficult but more effective alternative – catching and convicting more people. They have a dog in this fight.Meanwhile, Grayling, Jeremy Hunt and Theresa May – let's name names here – are failing to implement properly the "Cardiff model" of violence prevention, a policy that cuts knife crime dramatically. There is real evidence that this works, unlike Grayling's burp. Three Tory ministers have been too slow in delivering a clear coalition commitment that will save young lives. Policy should be about delivery, not just design.Before Labour subcontracts its thinking to a committee of tabloid newspaper editors, it should remember that the evidence for the Cardiff model was first gathered for its health secretary Alan Johnson. The study found that the policy cut violent crime by 35%. The latest evidence shows even better results: hospital admissions owing to violence are down by 42% where the model is applied.The Cardiff model is the brainchild of Jonathan Shepherd, a professor of oral and maxillofacial surgery who was fed up with stitching together slashed faces on a Friday and Saturday night. He gave police anonymised accident and emergency data that allowed them to target violent hotspots. He went on to explore the impact of CCTV and plastic glass.The Cardiff model not only reduces violence, but it also gives us the real picture of the problem. Many fights and injuries, including serious ones, are not reported to the police: astonishingly 13% of shootings in Atlanta, Georgia, are estimated to go unreported.The data allows police to go on tracking changing hotspots, and to identify the instruments used in violence so they can tailor prevention (such as metal detectors for knives). Shepherd's data collection in Cardiff costs about £5,000 a year but leads to £800,000 in NHS and justice savings alone (disregarding the benefits to victims). There are few better cost-benefit ratios: less crime for less public spending.The scheme has attracted attention as far afield as Amsterdam, Milwaukee and Cape Town. It so clearly made sense that the coalition backed it in the 2010 agreement, promising to "make hospitals share non-confidential information with police so they know where gun and knife crime is happening and can target stop-and-search in gun and knife crime hotspots".Its UK rollout probably helps account for the fall in violence. Nevertheless, an audit in 2012 found that only a third of A&E departments were implementing the Cardiff model. The next audit is due later this year. Practitioners believe there is still a long way to go – perhaps half of all emergency departments are applying it now.How do we account for this failure by two governments to deliver a non- ideological policy with clear advantages? Prevention is less sexy than punishment. The policy also suffers from a time-honoured Whitehall problem: one department (health) has to deliver changes that serve other departments' objectives (home and justice).Joining up government is what cabinet committees are meant to do. But Grayling appears to be more interested in blaming others for a problem than solving it. Hotspot policing prevents crime: no arrests, no blame-game accusations, no cuts and bruises, no deaths, no punishment. How boring! If poor Grayling proposed to legislate for that, he would never get his headlines in the Sun or the Daily Mail.