David Blunkett yesterday revealed his plans to end crime in this country.As soon as the home secretary has arranged for a silicon chip to be implanted in every child's skull at birth, Britain will return to a state of innocence, a Nirvana, a place that will make, say, Ambridge look like a sink estate near Nottingham.I exaggerate. But not a lot. Mr Blunkett really does believe that crime can be almost abolished. To this end he has deployed a massive force of cliches, jargon and verbiage. He promises us targets, intervention programmes, units, sure starts, community justice centres, best practice, mentoring, active engagements, and something he called a "first traunch" of community support officers. To be fair, Mr Blunkett has trouble reading out some of this blather. For us listening, the concepts are difficult to follow. For him, trying to read them in braille, it can be near impossible, and as the Tories jeered at the language, he often stumbled over his text. (A friend of Mr Blunkett's tells me that, at some level, he doesn't know he is blind. For example, yesterday he mocked his Tory shadow, David Davis, who has been away for two weeks. "I've almost forgotten what he looks like," Mr Blunkett said. Irony? A subtle joke at his own as well as Mr Davis's expense? Who can say? Anyhow, it made some of the Tories squirm with bottom-clenching embarrassment, so it did serve a purpose.) Mr Blunkett doesn't usually communicate in New Labour-speak, preferring old-fashioned English, so it sounded all the odder when he used it. "By investing in communities," he said, "we are encouraging a new spirit of civic engagement." The Tories began to twitter gently. "We have put the sense back into sentencing!" and they laughed out loud. "Gun crime and domestic violence too often lead to serious injury and fear," he went on, reminding us of those good old days when gun crime rarely led to either injury or fear. By this time he was on a roll. Ministers would "direct resources" into "sustaining families" and would go on to "audit" what they had done. They would "complement the intelligence model". He spoke about "standards of customer service" with a new "non-emergency call number" by 2008, through which, we inferred, it might just be possible to speak to a policeman if your bike is stolen or your mother murdered. The schemes and plans and programmes poured out, like nutty slack down a coal hole. "The 'no witness, no justice programme' is already making a difference," he said. We heard tidings of a new "incentivisation programme designed to return resources to the community ..." "In instances where a fixed penalty notice is available, a fixed penalty notice will be available ... I can announce today an expansion of the youth inclusion and early intervention programme!"And, we heard, "learning mentors will provide a route out of inter-generational disadvantage".By this time the Tories were groaning and rolling their backsides round in mock despair.When Mr Blunkett spoke of the need to "build respect and overcome alienation", I thought Eric Forth would pop with rage and frustration.Luckily for the home secretary, James Paice, standing in for Mr Davis, was awful, blaming Roy Jenkins and the 1960s for everything bad that had happened since."They told us the criminal was the victim. Shouldn't they now apologise?"I heard a scoffing voice shout "shut up, oh please shut up," until I realised it was mine.