No one reading today's report, Giving Victims a Voice, into Jimmy Savile's sexually violent behaviour can fail to be distressed by reports of his abuse of a child as young as eight and a dying patient in a hospice. Savile's abuse spanned decades and took place in numerous institutions – showing that it is not just policies and practices that need to change but a culture which colludes with and facilitates abusive men.The report lifts the lid on the number of adults in this country, mostly women and girls, who are living with the legacy of past abuse. It is heartbreaking to learn how some victims reported Savile's abuse at the time and were failed by agencies that should have protected them, while others were silenced by a culture of secrecy and shame and only felt able to speak out after Savile's death. These people were badly let down by public services in the past and now deserve proper support.Yesterday's statistics on sexual offending show that we are still grappling with this kind of problem as a society. They paint a shocking picture of a problem that affects hundreds of thousands of people each year. About 473,000 people are victims of sexual offending each year including sexual assaults, indecent exposure, and unwanted touching, including approximately 85,000 victims of rape. These are well-known figures, but staggering nonetheless.Look abroad and we are witnessing global outrage at crimes against women that have for too long gone under the radar. From the recent brutal gang rape and murder of Jyoti Singh Pandey in Delhi to the alleged rape of a comatose 16-year-old girl at a series of parties in Steubenville, Ohio last August, we need no further proof that sexual and other violence against women is a major global problem that costs lives and harms communities.Feminist activists are linking arms around the world in protest. Last week a protest took place outside the Indian High Commission in London in solidarity with anti-rape protests in India and further meetings are planned. Indeed a global study published last year found that feminist movements are the single most important factor in creating change when it comes to violence against women. Governments must raise their game.In fact UK policy has shifted on these issues in recent years. There are now strategies to end violence against women and girls in Scotland, Westminster and Wales, as well as some local authorities in England. The rest of the UK could look to Wales in particular where there is a government consultation on a bill to require work to end violence against women and domestic abuse including classes for young people on healthy relationships.This is critical if we are to change the cultures and attitudes that allow abusive behaviour to flourish. We must embed in every school proper sex and relationship education to deal with issues such as sexual consent and deliver ongoing training for teachers and other professionals to be able to respond adequately to abuse. Tackling sexualised and sexist representations of women in the media and investing in long-term public awareness campaigns to change harmful behaviours (similar to the investment we've seen over decades in road safety) is also essential.We know that sexual and other violence against women and girls is happening in our homes, communities, workplaces and schools. We have the building blocks in place to make a real change. The Savile report and sexual offending statistics should mark a turning point.