The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, will today unveil the Conservatives' "big new idea" on law and order - and make a break with the "prison works" policies of the past.In a speech tonight, Mr Letwin, who was himself robbed when he allowed a stranger to use his toilet at 5.15am, will say that some individuals need help acquiring "virtuous habits" in order to escape the "conveyor belt" of criminality. His address to the right-leaning think tank the Centre for Policy Studies marks a turning point because it suggests that society has a role in shaping criminal behaviour. The move will spell the Conservatives' final abandonment of Margaret Thatcher's old mantra that there was no such thing as society. Mr Letwin will also call for the creation of a "neighbourly society" to engage potential criminals and stop them starting on the route to crime. Senior Tory sources insisted it did not mean that the party was going "soft" on crime and that he would stress the need for both tougher sentences for persistent offenders and a strong police presence to deter criminals. Mr Letwin, who, ironically, is giving the CPS's annual memorial lecture in honour of Baroness Thatcher's old mentor Sir Keith Joseph, will make clear that Labour's policy of "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" was not enough. He will say every individual has a clear choice while at the same time acknowledging that some people need help making the right decisions to avoid getting trapped on the "conveyor belt" which leads to a life of crime. "Each one of us has a choice, but for some, the help needed to acquire virtuous habits is less present," he was expected to say. "At each stage the individual has the option of stepping off the conveyor belt but it cannot be expected that this choice will be made unless society finds ways of providing a hand to help the individual take those exits." In order to do this, he will argue that young people need the chance to participate in what he describes as the "neighbourly society". "It is this participation that keeps our young people off the conveyor belt of criminality or gets them off if their earlier choices were destructive ones," he was expected to say. Mr Letwin said it was not enough to simply look for the causes of crime, adding: "Just as we should not just be looking for the cause of poverty but for wealth, so we have to look not for the causes of crime but it's opposite." That did not mean taking a soft stance on those caught breaking the law, the shadow home secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "That is particularly a matter of being very tough on the persistent criminals and the gangsters who try to wreck neighbourhoods, taking them off the streets and locking them up for long prison terms," he said. However, it was also about making people feel safer in order to build that sense of community, according to Mr Letwin. He drew on his recent experience of being duped into allowing a man into his home as an example of what had gone wrong. "I would like to have a society in which it was not naive to take someone in to your house and offer them the ability to go to the loo," he said. However, Home Office minister John Denham said spending cuts such as the £20bn proposed by the shadow home secretary during the election would undermine attempts to build such a society. "Of course it is right that we have to build strong and active communities as part of the fight against crime but we can't just say we must have these things," he said. "You have to will the means as well and that means doing the sort of things we are doing - investing in parents and young children through Sure Start."