As five men await sentencing today for their part in Britain's biggest cash robbery, attention turns to the money and the men still missing.The Times believes £32m of £53m Securitas haul is now beyond reach in northern Cyprus, where there is no extradition treaty with Britain."The missing millions are thought to have been laundered through the purchase and resale of villas," the paper says. It also reckons "Mr Bigs" involved in the raid have "escaped to the Mediterranean, North Africa and the West Indies".It names one as Sean Lupton, who was arrested after the raid but disappeared in December 2006 after being released without charge. The Evening Standard says a "huge manhunt" has begun for Lupton, a 47-year-old builder, and quotes Detective Chief Inspector Mick Judge as saying: "We do believe some of the money has gone with Lupton to Cyprus."Much attention is focused on Michelle Hogg, the woman who "shopped" the five convicted men. As a make-up artist, she made masks for the raiders and originally stood trial with them. She admitted to using her bra straps to pin back one man's eyes to make them more slanted. The charges against Hogg were dropped after she agreed to be a prosecution witness and name the men involved. "She risked her life by turning Queen's evidence in order to testify against the gang," says the Times - a curiously English phrase in a piece otherwise littered with phrases from US crime fiction. "She can never sleep," says the Mirror, which quotes a detective as saying "people will pay literally millions to bump her off". The Times imagines her life in hiding. "As Michelle Hogg prepares herself for a life forever looking over her shoulder, she may reflect this morning with mixed blessings on her chosen occupation. "The skills as a make-up artist that first drew her to the attentions of the Securitas robbers could save her life as she prepares to adopt a new identity under the witness protection scheme."* This is an extract from the Wrap, our digest of the daily papers.