Eight police officers seeking to overturn an inquest verdict that the death of a black man in custody was unlawful killing will have their battle funded from the public purse.Following a highly controversial vote, members of the Metropolitan Police Authority have agreed to fund the judicial review being sought by officers involved in the case of Roger Sylvester, who died in 1999, seven days after being handcuffed by officers outside his home in north London. The move has been condemned by the dead man's family and some civil rights campaigners, not least because when the judicial review begins, Mr Sylvester's elderly relatives will be forced to pay their own bills because they have been refused legal aid. However the Police Federation, which represents the officers, insists the MPA had a duty to pay the legal costs. The Guardian understands that the MPA's decision, taken behind closed doors on Monday, has sparked fierce internal disagreement. The likely cost of the officers' legal challenge is between £30,000 and £40,000. But the cost to the public purse will be more because the Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, is also joined to the action as an "interested party" and he is likely to have separate legal representation. Costs will increase significantly if they lose because the officers would be liable for fees incurred by others, including the family, the coroner Dr Andrew Reid and a health trust. The inquest jury returned the unlawful killing verdict last October after hearing how Mr Sylvester, a council worker, was held down for 20 minutes in a padded room. Announcing the verdict, the jury forewoman said: "He was held in restraint too long, there was a lack of medical attention and no attempt was made to alter the position of restraint." Before the month-long inquest, the Crown Prosecution Service had decided not to charge any of the officers involved. But all of them were suspended after the inquest. Their legal representation at the inquest was funded by the Police Federation which is to seek reimbursement. Raju Butt, solicitor for the Sylvester family, said: "In any democracy we like to think there is a level playing field between the citizen and the public authorities. "Having achieved some vindication in the inquest, my clients now find that the public funds denied to them will be used to undermine the outcome of that inquest." Deborah Coles of the pressure group Inquest said she accepts that the officers would want to challenge the verdict. But she added: "The Police Federation has unlimited funds to do that. It is reprehensible that our money is being used to support that challenge." The application for funding was made to an MPA sub-committee - which has delegated powers. It is understood that two black members of the committee abstained in protest. But Toby Harris, who chairs the sub-committee and the MPA itself, went further and voted against. Five members voted in favour and prevailed. They were told that the officers believe the coroner misdirected the jury. But the six officers are also expected to make the case that the restraint procedures used were best practice at the time. They will have to prove that on the available evidence, the verdict reached was perverse. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation said the MPA's decision was right because the force considers the officers acted properly. He said barristers believe a legal challenge to be justified as did the judge who granted leave to appeal. He said: "The barristers say the summing up was deeply flawed while the verdict was irrational and against the weight of evidence. In those circumstances it is hard to see how the MPA could do anything other than support the officers." Mr Smyth said the federation has been funding actions which should have been paid for by police authorities. "Authorities up and down the country have been subsidised to the tune of millions of pounds. It is time it stopped." Mr Sylvester's death became a cause celebre in London and elsewhere. He died from brain damage and cardiac arrest because of breathing difficulties caused by the restraint. The jury also found he suffered from cannabis-induced delirium which also contributed to his death. Mr Sylvester had suffered manic depression and drug problems but his family said he had made significant progress in the 15 months before the tragedy. In May 2001, the high court blocked an attempt by his family to challenge the refusal of the CPS to bring charges.