The delicate moments after suspected victims of human trafficking are rescued are so important they are known by care workers as "the golden hour".The first step on the road to freedom comes as soon the authorities come into contact with someone they suspect has been trafficked: a highly sensitive interview to try and determine broadly what has happened. Since July 2011 about 1,200 men and women have entered into the care of the authorities in England and Wales telling stories of sexual abuse in brothels, forced labour in fields and restaurants, and grinding domestic servitude.The Salvation Army holds the government contract to help trafficking victims for the first 45 days of their release and organises an interview room in a church, council office or other under-used building. According to Ann Reed, the charity's anti-trafficking response co-ordinator, here the victim can shower, eat, see a doctor, put on some new clothes and speak to a non-uniformed police officer for an hour or two to give an overview of their experience.Sometimes they don't want to talk, perhaps because they fear the authorities, but either way, the charity tries to create "a soft edge to the operation", perhaps playing cards or chatting about sport to put the suspected victim at ease."Everything is done to help them feel they are not in trouble," said Reed. "You can't imagine how difficult it is to recover from some of these situations. Part of the process is helping them believe they can make decisions. Many of these people won't have made a decision for themselves for a long time."The next step is to get to one of 15 safe houses across England and Wales, always well away from where they were victimised. The safe houses are run by sub-contractors and are often residential homes – sometimes with meals laid on – that attempt to disguise their purpose even from their immediate neighbours. Here case workers oversee a "recovery and reflection" period in which psychologists, doctors, lawyers and language teachers are made available.Sorting out identity documents and passports with embassies and government departments is often a headache. Within a couple of weeks the Home Office agencies will decide whether they actually are victims of trafficking. Preparing them for the outcome of this is one of the case workers' most important jobs. After the 45 days are up, the funding for state support runs out.Christine Beddoe, an adviser to the parliamentary committee on human trafficking, said the 45-day limit was far too short . But in that time, it was the first hour that was the most important: "It is the first moment, the golden hour, when the professionals making the decisions and the phone calls can make a huge difference to someone's life,"she said. "And they can do huge damage too."