There are no prizes for guessing the most-read international story on ­theguardian.com in 2008. Yes, it's Barack Obama, and the Guardian's revelation that Hillary Clinton had accepted his invitation to become ­secretary of state.Elsewhere, the top 10 is a mixture of the year's major global news (Zimbabwe, Mumbai), more sensational items (Josef Fritzl, Somali pirates), exclusives (Israeli plans to bomb Iran), and quirkier stories that took on a life of their own.Here is the top 10:1. Hillary Clinton to accept Obama's offer of secretary of state jobHeavily linked to by influential US ­blogger Drudge. Ewen MacAskill learns Clinton has accepted her former rival's overtures to take the top foreign policy position.2. Horror in a cellar: woman tells of 24 years of imprisonment and rape by her fatherKate Connolly outlines the first, appalling details of how Josef Fritzl kept his daughter in a cellar, repeatedly raping her and then fathering seven children.3. Israel asked US for green light to bomb nuclear sites in IranIn another exclusive, Jonathan Steele hears from diplomatic sources that President George Bush had to dissuade Israel from attacking Iran's nuclear facilities.4. Pirates anchor hijacked supertanker off Somalia coastThe first news of one of the most astonishing world stories: how pirates seized a 300,000-tonne supertanker.5. China riveted by stolen sex photos of Hong Kong starsThis had been gripping Hong Kong's often scurrilous press for some time, and it's no surprise Jonathan Watts's version proved a hit, too. The elements? One of the Chinese territory's most famous actors, and stolen photos allegedly showing him in compromising positions with no fewer than eight leading actresses and ­singers. The story also notes the vast scale of mainland China's web audience, with one online debate on the affair generating 140,000 comments.6. Gypsy girls' corpses on beach in Italy fail to put off sunbathersJohn Hooper's report highlights a series of difficult questions about Italy's attitude towards the minority group.7. Barack Obama to be America's first black presidentTears, drunken celebrations and a lot of shouting as Obama makes history.8. The party's over for Iceland, the island that tried to buy the worldTracy McVeigh joins the press hordes in Reykjavik and learns how one nation's credit-fuelled boom has come at a price.9. Zimbabwe election: The stolen ballotsAn exclusive video showing how Robert Mugabe's allies stole an election.10. Mumbai attacks: 'It's war' declares Indian pressThe only blog on the list. A roundup of the Indian media's reaction to the Mumbai attacks prompts a vigorous debate.Closer to home, the top 10 most-read UK stories fall into two main categories: offbeat tales with traffic boosted by links from sites such as the Drudge Report, plus major breaking stories sought out more directly, for example by Google searches.The exception seems to be the top story: the police threat to prosecute a teenager who demonstrated against the Church of Scientology. Readers came from many sources, including a third from the online bookmarker Digg.1. Teenager faces prosecution for calling Scientology 'cult'The City of London police summons to an unnamed 15-year-old caused a big fuss.2. Army probes tabloid leak over HarryA follow-up on how Prince Harry's cover in Afghanistan was blown. More than 75% of readers came via Drudge, the website that broke the media embargo.3. BNP membership list posted online by former 'hardliner'A popular Google search as readers quietly checked up on their neighbours, the tale of how the entire far-right British National party membership list ended up on the web.4. CCTV boom has failed to slash crime, say policeOwen Bowcott hears from the police that the big investment in CCTV cameras might not be the crime panacea many believed.5. FBI wants instant access to British identity dataAnother police special from the same writer: how US law enforcement officials want to gather biometric details from the UK and other countries.6. Third body found in wreckage of burned-out mansionFinal confirmation of what was widely suspected: that businessman Christopher Foster murdered his 15-year-old daughter, as well as his wife, before torching his Shropshire mansion and killing himself.7. British woman facing jail after allegedly having sex on Dubai beachDangerous combination of a boozy hotel brunch and conservative social mores gets a British man and woman into a lot of trouble.8. Rooney wedding: Wayne and Coleen tie the knotHardly a surprise – or even, arguably, a significant story – but many wanted to learn more about the football wedding of the year.9. Shannon Matthews found alive 'inside divan bed'The outcome no one had dared hope for, three weeks after the nine-year-old went missing. The story soon took another dramatic turn as police learned Shannon's mother, Karen, had organised the disappearance to earn reward money.10. Plane crash-lands at HeathrowA narrow escape for 152 passengers and crew as a British Airways flight lands at Heathrow with a bump. The co-pilot, John Coward, was later hailed as a hero for guiding the Boeing 777 over a perimeter fence to safety after a fuel supply problem caused the jet to lose power and fall short of the runway.