Michael Howard yesterday turned the clock back to the Tories' 'prison works' policy of the 1990s when he pledged to end Labour's cap on the number of inmates, in a move which could cost up to £2.4bn.In an attempt to seize back the Tories' reputation as the party of law and order, he lambasted Labour for adopting a "dangerous approach" to crime by capping the number of prisoners at 80,000. "Labour have set an arbitrary limit on the prison population in the UK," Mr Howard said in a speech in Middlesbrough flanked by the town's mayor and former "Robocop", Ray Mallon. "This is an extremely dangerous approach which will only store up problems for the future." In a sign of his determination to remind voters of his reputation as Britain's most hardline home secretary, Mr Howard also promised to scrap the early release scheme. "Labour have downgraded prison as a punishment with the introduction of their early release scheme," he said in language which echoed his 1990s rhetoric. "Since it was introduced in 1999, more than 3,500 crimes have been committed by prisoners on early release scheme - including nine serious sexual crimes." Mr Howard's pledge on prisons was designed to set "clear blue lines" between the two main parties on what will be one of the most important issues in next year's general election. Ending the 80,000 cap on prison numbers and the early release scheme will mean building up to 22 prisons. At £110m a prison, this could cost well over £2bn.Mr Howard, who has been stung by Tony Blair's recent claim that the Tories would cut the law and order budget, was unabashed about the cost."Yes, prisons cost money. But it is the first duty of government to protect the public," the Tory leader said.His insisted that yesterday's speech was not a panic measure in the wake of the prime minister's attempt to steal the Conservatives' thunder by pledging to end the 1960s consensus on law and order. They said that Mr Howard had long planned to return to the crime issue after using his first few months as party leader to highlight his commitment to public services. The Howard camp believes the Tory lead on crime - they claim to be 12 points ahead of Labour - will place them in a strong position in one of the four issues for the general election: the economy, public services, security and the nation.In what may be seen as the most controversial aspect of Mr Howard's speech, he said that a future Tory government would ignore a key recommendation of the Macpherson report into the death of the black teenager Stephen Law-rence - that police should keep a record of every stop they make and show this to everyone who is stopped. Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's mother, told Channel 4 last night: "All he is doing is going back 10 years, after all the hard work that has been done. He was home secretary when Stephen was murdered. He refused to have a public inquiry [then] around the racism in the police service." The government dismissed Mr Howard's speech because of his failure to guarantee that the Home Office budget would not be cut - a claim the Tories dispute.