The Prison Service today launched a review of Ian Huntley's supervision after the child murderer was found unconscious in his cell following a suspected overdose.Sources said Huntley, 32, was in intensive care and having his stomach pumped after being discovered at 1.19am at Wakefield high security prison in West Yorkshire. Today's incident has again raised concerns about the Prison Service's supervision of one of Britain's highest-profile killers. A community leader in Soham - where Huntley killed the 10-year-old girls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman four years ago - immediately criticised the prison authorities for being "lax" and said Huntley must serve his sentence.Questions may also be raised about procedures at Wakefield prison, where the serial killer Harold Shipman committed suicide in January 2004.The Prison Service said staff tried to resuscitate the Soham killer, who has taken an overdose before, and he was taken by ambulance to hospital, believed to be Pinderfields in Wakefield. The former school caretaker is now under heavy sedation.A spokeswoman said a review of the "management strategy" for Huntley had been launched and would be carried out by the head of the service's standards audit unit, Rob Kellett. John Powley, Soham's county councillor and a governor at Huntley's former workplace, Soham Village College, said: "I am very concerned that this is the second time he has managed to attempt suicide while in prison. It may be third time lucky next time. "The prison authorities need to keep a much closer watch than they have previously been doing. The prison authorities appear to be lax." He added: "I am sure that there are some people in Soham who would wish him to die and say good riddance to bad rubbish. My view is that he committed a heinous crime. He was properly convicted and now he should serve his sentence. If that means he spends the rest of his life in prison so be it." The general secretary of the Prison Officers Association, Brian Caton, said he understood Huntley's suicide-watch status had been downgraded three weeks ago, "based on the fact that the assessment of him changed".He also renewed calls for prisoners to be given any medication in liquid form - despite additional cost - to prevent pills being hoarded for suicide bids. Mr Caton added: "We are convinced that our colleagues at Wakefield have done what they are expected to do. But some suicidal prisoners spend hours just studying where there may be loopholes in the system."We have been calling for a return to liquid medication for 15 years - if you give people tablets they can mix them, hoard them and hide them."Huntley tried to commit suicide in June 2003 when he was awaiting trial for the schoolgirls' murders. He saved up 29 anti-depressant pills in a box of teabags and was found suffering a fit on the floor of his cell at Woodhill Prison, near Milton Keynes. An official report into the previous suicide attempt uncovered a number of "serious systems failures". The report criticised management and staff briefings as "not robust enough" and made 15 recommendations, including a review of the jail's cell search strategy and an independent review of security intelligence in the prison, including CCTV. Today it emerged that the inquiry into Huntley's first suicide bid warned that he presented an "ongoing significant risk" of self-harm.The full report into the June 2003 incident was released by the Home Office less than eight weeks ago after a Freedom of Information request, but received no publicity at the time. The report concluded: "In managing him, the safest strategy is to assume he will commit another act of self-harm if given the opportunity." The warning will intensify speculation about how Huntley, who is serving two life sentences for killing Holly and Jessica in August 2002, came to take another overdose. The review was written by the same man now tasked to investigate the latest suicide bid, Mr Kellett.