The family of a mother and son shot dead by the woman's estranged husband yesterday claimed police failed to offer her adequate protection even after she expressed fears that he would kill her.Relatives of Julie Pemberton alleged police officers had failed to take responsibility for her case though she had been abused by her husband, Alan, for years. Mrs Pemberton's brother, Frank Mullane, also criticised the police for taking more than six hours to get an armed response unit to the scene of the attack after her panicked call to an emergency operator when she said she had "about one minute before I die". An inquest at Reading heard that Alan Pemberton, 48, a financial adviser, became obsessed with exacting revenge over his wife after their bitter separation. On the night of the attack, on November 18 last year, Pemberton arrived at the £1m family home in Hermitage, Berkshire, armed with a 12-bore shotgun, of the sort used for clay pigeon shooting. He shot his son, William, 17, in the chest and back five times, as Mrs Pemberton, 47, hid in a cupboard, from where she dialled 999. During Mrs Pemberton's harrowing 16-minute call, the operator told her that police officers were on the way. But Pemberton found her. Her last words were: "He's coming now." The operator then heard the sound of a door opening and a man's voice saying: "You fucking whore." She was found with four shotgun wounds to the chest and lower back. After killing his wife and son, Pemberton turned the gun on himself. The inquest was told that police found a note in Pemberton's BMW addressed to "Dear All" which read: "My anger for what she has done and the callous way in which she has done it left me with no alternative but to take my revenge." The note added: "I have paid a substantial amount of cash to have her [Mrs Pemberton] killed if I fail myself". The police, however, have found no evidence that he had hired a hitman. Also found in his car was £36,000 in cash and a bottle of Jack Daniel's whiskey. The inquest was told that Mrs Pemberton had become so afraid of her husband that she had handed in guns belonging to him to the police as well as kitchen knives. She had taken out an injunction against him and agreed to have a panic button installed. But after the hearing Mr Mullane claimed that Thames Valley police appeared to have "a somewhat limited understanding of domestic violence". He claimed that his sister received "next to nothing, if not nothing" in terms of support from the police. Mr Mullane said the way police kept records of abuse was so disorganised that someone looking at the case could not take an overall view of it. It emerged during the hearing that there had been a delay between the emergency call being logged and the police getting to the house. Mrs Pemberton dialled 999 at 7.11pm and officers approached the property at 7.50pm after struggling to locate the house. It was past 1am when police finally entered the house, after waiting for an armed response vehicle to reach the scene, which came from Oxford. Detective Inspector Steven Reschwamm, the investigating officer, said Mrs Pemberton's details of her complaints against her husband were stored on the police computer and would have been flagged up after the 999 call. But he said the house had been difficult to find in the dark. Superintendent Jim Trotman, of Thames Valley police, added: "We understand the concerns regarding the police response on the night of the shooting." He said that since the incident the force had doubled the number of armed response vehicles in an effort to improve its response to such incidents. Mr Trotman said he was "confident" officers had offered Mrs Pemberton "advice and support which we felt was appropriate at the time". Mr and Mrs Pemberton's daughter, Laura, 20, who was at Cambridge University at the time of the shootings, said: "It has been a very difficult time for me since the tragic loss of my family. Now that the inquest is over I would like to try to get on with my life."