It was David Cameron's busy day. He started at Wormwood Scrubs prison, ostensibly to kick off his new law 'n' order campaign, though he may also have been checking out the accommodation for News International friends who might one day live there. It's a kindness.At lunchtime he made a speech about the criminal justice system. This is to become "tough but intelligent".In keeping with my theory that if the opposite of a remark is plainly ludicrous, then the thing was not worth saying in the first place, this means very little. Does he mean that the previous policy was "limp but stupid"? Feeble but demented?Possibly. The prime minister was at the Centre for Social Justice. Its managing director, Christian Guy, said: "The CSJ was established to put social justice at the heart of British politics!"I thought, it's never been exactly at the heart of Conservative politics. "It's very good to see you at our annual dinner dance and raffle, Major. What brings you?""A passionate desire for social justice, Mrs Prendergast and, failing that, a return to flogging and the death penalty."As always with a Cameron speech, it starts off with good, concrete ideas – teach prisoners a trade so they're less likely to reoffend, less bail-skipping etc – then spirals into vagueness: "strengthening families, strengthening marriages, encouraging commitment … " He loves orotund phrases: a "rehabilitation revolution" in our "aspiration nation".He was asked about Andrew Mitchell and, you might say, he really got his bike caught in the pedestrian gate. He had demanded more respect for the police, yet had let the ex-chief whip stay for four weeks. What message did that send?"The message is that if someone does something wrong, they should apologise." It would have been "easy" to sack Mitchell straight away. But, "government is about taking the right decision, not the easy decision". So his indecision was actually a sign that he was tough. Whether this was also intelligent he did not say.Time for a quick lunch then into the Commons for a report on the latest European summit. These days that means being abused in stereo by Ed Miliband and the Tory Eurosceptics.The Labour leader, freshly effective after his conference, used a mixture of sarcasm and scorn. Even our friends in Finland were ruefully reflecting that the UK was leaving Europe. "Hear, hear!" some Tory shouted, to Miliband's delight. 'Even he can't be happy about losing Finland – the land of the Helsinki accord, reindeer and the [cartoon] Moomins!"He goes to Europe and picks a fight in an empty room, which is just as well, because he normally finds himself in an empty room!"Various Tories gave notice that a referendum had better not fudge the issue. There should, said the über-sceptic Philip Davies, be no "in or in" choice. With supporters like him, who needs traitors?Then Labour's Chris Bryant resumed his demand that Cameron release his private communications with Rebekah Wade – some were "salacious" Mr Bryant said. But Dave had skipped off, perhaps to examine more possible prison accommodation for his dear friends.