There was something about Gon Ren Zhou. Perhaps it was the tenacity with which he peddled his illegal DVDs, on the street, in clubs and in pubs. Or his willingness to please the customer, even those wanting hard-core porn.He was the DVD pirate the authorities could not rein in. Until they reached for an Asbo.In a case which signals a new approach in the multi-million pound fight against the illegal manufacture and sales of illegal DVDs, Zhou has seen his activities curtailed through the application of an Asbo, or anti-social behaviour order.The order bans him from selling in London and from entering the east London borough of Newham, his main location. The order is thought to be the first of its kind, as applied, in England and follows the use of a similar tactic against a pirate seller in Wales.The fate of Zhou is being held up as a warning to others that the authorities can, and will, take action. Stratford magistrates, after confiscating 1,000 DVDs from Zhou, learning of his previous 15 bail hearings and his violent reaction to officers arresting him, also sent him to jail for six months.Raymond Leinster, director general of the Federation Against Copyright Theft, said: "The conviction of Gon Ren Zhou is a graphic illustration of the type of character involved in the sale of illegal film products. Can the public really be content with supporting the criminal lifestyle of such individuals?"The awarding of an Asbo is an additional initiative, which I welcome."Nigel Mould, manager of Newham's street scene enforcement team, said that the crackdown on DVD pirates was a priority. But he emphasised the importance of knowing how the trade worked. "We are not too sure that Zhou is actually producing the DVDs. In fact, it's more likely that he is at the end of the chain."Zhou is one of many. It is thought there are more than 7,000 Chinese street sellers in London alone. Others work in cities such as Manchester, Birmingham and in Scotland. They often set up static pitches but also work door to door.Virtually all are either asylum seekers or migrants without proper documents. They obtain films for sale from illicit manufacturers, many of whom are believed to be British Malaysians known as piantou or "head of films".Many sellers previously worked in restaurants and in factories but following the government's clampdown on the employment of immigrants without work permits, took to the streets. On a good day many make less than £50. On a slack day or when it rains they may make nothing.Mr Xue, a diffident middle-aged man working in Leyton, east London, claimed he had been harassed by wardens and troubled by security guards. Teenagers had tried to rob him and he said a gang had assaulted a fellow trader, bloodying his nose."I don't want to be leading a life like this," he said. "But I have no choice. There's nowhere to go. There are no jobs for us. In the old days we could get work in a kitchen but now even that is closed to us. What I else am I supposed to do?"Ms Xue, a friendly outgoing girl in her 20s, said they all knew the perils. "Everyday I am aware of the risk of being arrested and deported,"Mr Guo, a man in his 30s, travelling with her, said the proliferation of sellers and DVDs had made life more difficult. "On a lucky day, we used to be able to earn up to £90, [getting] £4 to £5 for each copy. Now sales have declined. Mass production means the quality isn't great, and so we're losing customers. We pay £2 per copy to the producers, so we're only making £2 to £3 profit per copy."Another seller in east London, Mr Chan, missed his previous life as a kitchen porter. "It was long working hours but at least a regular job," he said. "Every time I work in a pub, I always have to look out for the police. If they appear, we have to run, as fast as we can."For Jabez Lam, organiser of Min Quan, the Chinese rights group, the plight of these people is comparable to that of the Chinese cockle pickers who drowned at Morecambe Bay last year. "The tightening of immigration rules has pushed people into high-risk jobs. It is sheer desperation."Back in Leyton, Mr Xue had all the latest titles, The Island, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, War of The Worlds, and Unleashed, but with the unwelcome attention he was struggling to sell. With Zhou's fate in his mind he suddenly decided to gather up his stock. "Gotta leave," he said breathlessly and was gone.