Two paedophile lovers have been jailed for life after being convicted of murdering a woman lodger 13 years ago after she threatened to reveal that they were abusing a young boy.Charles O'Neill, 47, and William Lauchlan, 33, were found guilty by a majority verdict of strangling Allison McGarrigle as she slept and then dumping her body in a wheelie bin or similar container in the Firth of Clyde off Largs after hiding it on a nearby beach in 1997.To calls of "beasts" from the public gallery at the high court in Glasgow, where McGarrigle's family and former husband had gathered for the verdict, O'Neill was sentenced to a minimum of 30 years and Lauchlan to at least 26 years.The pair, who had often claimed to be cousins and have earlier convictions for raping, drugging and abusing children, were also jailed for 10 years each for the grooming and sexual abuse of two boys aged six and 14 following an earlier trial that could not be reported until now.The judge, Lord Pentland, said the murder was "despicable". He told the two men: "It is clear that you are both dangerous and determined predatory paedophiles and that you now represent a high risk to the safety of the public."When you became aware that Mrs McGarrigle intended to report you to the authorities for sexually abusing [the boy], you conceived a callous and depraved plan to murder her and to dispose of her body. You then put this plan into effect with chilling composure. You went to great lengths to cover your tracks.  Allison McGarrigle. Photograph: PA"The consistent theme which permeated the evidence in both trials was your calculating and devious manipulation of vulnerable individuals in order to further your appetites for sexually abusing young men and boys."The men were convicted after a trial lasting nearly four weeks. The jury heard that McGarrigle, whose body has not been found, met O'Neill and Lauchlan in 1994 after moving to Rothesay, on the Isle of Bute, after she separated from her husband, Robert.She had been introduced to the men by the boy they groomed and abused for the next three years. Years later the boy was found hiding in their cupboard. The boy grew to "love" the two men but McGarrigle was terrified of them and warned she was going to report them for abuse.The prosecution alleged the pair then murdered her in her bed, hid the body under rocks on Largs beach and dumped it at sea. She was reported missing by her estranged husband in 1998. Her body has never been found and she was declared dead in 2005.Both men denied the charges and their defence lawyers argued that the failure to find a body, the failure to prove she had been murdered and the lack of any forensic or eyewitness evidence raised significant doubts about the prosecution. O'Neill lodged a special defence of incrimination, arguing that if a murder had been committed it was carried out by another man.The jury heard that O'Neill told one witness that McGarrigle was "feeding the fishes" and pointed to the Firth of Clyde.John Molseed, an inmate at Barlinnie prison with O'Neill in 1998, said he claimed she had been "done away with". Launchlan told a plasterer, Keith Denenny, whom the pair met in Spain in 2004, that McGarrigle had been "got rid of" and repeated that she had been "fed to the fishes".In the parallel child abuse case, which ended last month, O'Neill was found guilty of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old boy after drugging him in 2003. Both men were convicted of sexually abusing a 14-year-old boy, locking him in a wardrobe and urinating on him in a motor home in Spain in 2004; and intentionally meeting a six-year-old boy intending to engage in unlawful sexual activity with him between December 2007 and March 2008.First arrested for killing McGarrigle in 2005, the two men were charged in 2008 with her murder after an operation involving four Scottish and English police forces.Assistant Chief Constable Ruaraidh Nicolson of Strathclyde police, who was in overall command of the inquiry, said: "O'Neill and Lauchlan were devious, manipulative and highly dangerous. They were willing to kill to ensure their activities did not come to the attention of the authorities."Speaking after their conviction, Robert McGarrigle, Allison's son, said she had been "a bubbly, happy woman with a heart of gold. She loved children and she was taken away from us trying to protect a young boy from abuse. [If] she was still alive she would not have left her three kids and missed out on watching her four grandchildren growing up. We miss her terribly and wish that we could lay her to rest."