All home office hostels for ex-prisoners are to be converted into high-security premises for sex offenders and ultra-violent men at 'high or very high' risk of attacking children or women.A government document leaked to The Observer's hows that there are now so many people on the sex-offender register judged to be a threat to the public that the probation service has no option but to use existing hostel accommodation to house them. Britain's 101 probation hostels have traditionally been used for a range of ex-prisoners at risk of reoffending, with persistent petty criminals living alongside sex offenders and rapists. They are also used for suspects on bail believed to be at risk of harm to the public or in need of protection. The Home Office strategy paper on Public Protection and Community Safety states: 'In the interests of protecting children, victims and other members of the public, this strategy is focused on high and very-high risk of harm offenders. It is based on the conclusion that at present, housing resources are often not well configured in respect of public-protection objectives.' The National Probation Directorate says 42 per cent of hostel space is now taken up by sex offenders. In 1991, 69 per cent of hostel space was allocated to bail places, but by 2002, it had fallen to 36 per cent. Around 2,000 people live in the hostels, located mainly in anonymous urban areas. Two years ago, the UK's only treatment centre for paedophiles, at Wolvercote near Epsom, Surrey, was forced to close by a local campaign. A bid to open a similar facility at Chertsey, in the same county, was abandoned before completion. The first centre will now be built in the grounds of Rampton high security hospital in Nottinghamshire. Paul Cavadino of the crime reduction charity Nacro said there were strong reasons for using probation hostels only for the most dangerous offenders. Research showed that around 96 per cent of sex offenders do not commit new crimes while housed in probation hostels. 'It makes sense to concentrate on higher-risk offenders as hostels do reduce risk to the public,' he added. 'But they also reduce offending for burglars, petty thieves and people who commit chequebook fraud. We need to make available a range of accommodation for other offenders.' Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation union Napo gave a cautious welcome to the move: 'It is a good idea to have high-risk offenders, particularly those who have been convicted of sexual offences, in one place. However, if it is to work, the Home Office must find resources for hostel security, extra staff and training. Public protection cannot be done on the cheap.' The number of convicted paedophiles rocketed after Operation Ore, the crackdown on users of internet child porn. Although most of the 1,600 people caught using their credit cards on American child porn websites were cautioned or convicted of minor offences, a significant number were found to be linked to the serious abuse of children. The criminal justice system has struggled to deal with the vast numbers of suspects and offenders thrown up by the operation. A recent survey carried out for Scotland Yard indicated that there are an estimated 250,000 paedophiles in Britain.