Things fall apart, Ozymandias crumbles to bits, and the level of disorder in a system always increases unless some force intervenes to put it back into shape. In recent weeks, fortunately, such a force has been at work – and it is the police force of Croydon. Having recovered a haul of around 450 memorial plaques that were stolen from cemeteries, broken into fragments and sold to a scrap metal yard, they are now painstakingly reassembling the memorials as a giant jigsaw on the floor.A small team of police and support officers works through the scraps, a bucketful at a time, finding a part of a name here, an "In loving memory" there, and slotting each one into place. Their heroic efforts recall the "puzzle women" of Nuremberg, who reassembled shredded Stasi files after the end of communism in East Germany. The women did it so the relatives of missing victims would have peace of mind, and the demands of posterity could be satisfied. Concern for families motivates the Croydon project too, but the rest of us benefit in less obvious ways. The project reassures us that greed and destruction are not always the final word; that these tiny, valuable traces of lost human lives can take their places again in cemeteries and gardens, to weather time's assaults in a more leisurely way.The trade in metal pillaged from memorials and artworks is booming. It is not new, of course. Late Romans melted down ancient statues to use their bronze for coins and weapons. Medieval scribes scraped ink off old manuscripts to recycle the vellum. During the second world war, historic gates and railings were torn out for Britain's war effort.But the last five years have seen a doubling in cases of metal looting, driven partly by economic hardship and partly by a thriving Chinese scrap market. Campaigners want an update to the 1964 Scrap Metal Dealers Act, to ban cash transactions and introduce strict dealer registration. This would also make a point about what we value.For it is not that easy to state the value of public plaques, memorials or art, so strangely do they combine social and historical meaning, beauty of form and brute material substance. In 2005 thieves chopped up a two-tonne sculpture by Henry Moore, managing to reduce its value from £3m to about £1,500 in scrap bronze. Yet it would seem odd to say that £2,998,500 somehow fell out of the metal and vaporised when the axes cut into it. A small part of its value does survive in images and memories of the lost work. Conversely, the attack damaged something not precisely located in the work itself: our confidence in the safety of large public sculptures.In fact, the loss can hardly be quantified, for works of art – and memorials – are magnificently useless and belong more to a gift economy than a trading one. Memorials constitute an act of generosity towards the past (those we commemorate) and the future (those visitors who will one day seek out a plaque or grave, or wander past it and be enlightened, intrigued or moved).This gift quality is particularly evident in another recent story. The villagers of Garveston in Norfolk have just unveiled a memorial to 10 American airmen and two firefighters who died when a US bomber, on a pre-D Day mission, crashed there on 4 June 1944. The memorial cost £4,000, which the residents raised themselves; they also researched the victims and traced their families. Yet no one in the village knew the airmen, and only a few people even remember the crash. It is a beautiful act of generosity.Perhaps in the end it is not only impossible to define the value of art and memorials, but very nearly impossible to distinguish between them. Both show daring, because through them we carve our cultural values into the world around us. Both are expressions of faith in the future, and both give something for nothing. Both can be torn apart all too casually. But both, just occasionally, can be put back together again.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree