A hit-and-run driver who killed a mother and two young children while drunk and high on drugs was jailed for 11 years yesterday and banned from driving for life.After a night of taking ecstasy and drinking, Dean Martin, 23, took his mother's car and careered through a quiet housing estate in Glenrothes, Fife, at speeds estimated at up to 75mph. As the passengers in the car screamed at him to stop, he lost control of the vehicle, mounted the pavement and ploughed into a group of women and children walking home from a Sunday morning dance class. Anne Martin, 39 (no relation), and her eight-year-old daughter, Ashley, were killed instantly, as was five-year-old Ross Sneddon. His mother, Michelle Sneddon, managed to push her two-year-old daughter out of the way, but was herself hit and seriously injured. Yesterday, relatives of the victims condemned the length of the sentence and said they had been badly let down by the justice system. "I am Ross's father," said Andrew Sneddon, 28, fighting back tears outside the high court in Edinburgh. "It is disgraceful that it is only 11 years. Is that what my son's life amounted to, and the other two lives? Eleven years is nothing." He said Martin would probably serve only five or six years. "There's no way I feel he got his just deserts. I had set my sights low, but I wasn't expecting that low. I would have expected that [11 years] for each individual life he has taken." Sentencing Martin, the judge, Lord Brodie, said the jail term would have been greater had he not admitted his guilt. The gravity of the offence meant that Martin was charged with culpable homicide rather than causing death by dangerous driving. Edgar Prais QC, for Martin, said his client, who fled the scene of the accident, had attempted suicide, telling the police who came to arrest him: "I just want to do myself in, I just killed two bairns. I would rather die than know I have killed two children." Mr Prais said Martin planned to leave Scotland after he had served his sentence. "He owes a debt to society that can never be met," he said. It was just before 11am on Sunday February 15 that Anne Martin and Michelle Sneddon were walking back from a disco dancing class with their children. Ross Sneddon was desperate to get home to show off the new moves he had learned. The group had thought about going to nearby shops and crossed the road, but changed their minds and crossed back over. All had reached the pavement when Martin's car appeared and ploughed into them, carrying Mrs Martin along on the bonnet. She died instantly, as did the two children. Police estimated that Martin had been travelling at between 61mph and 75mph at the time of the crash. After hitting the women and children, he veered across the road, slammed into a wall and then drove away, leaving a trail of liquid from his damaged vehicle. He dumped the car in a parking space yards from the Sneddons' home. The court had heard how Mr Sneddon was telephoning police to report the damaged car when he heard that his wife had been involved in an accident. He rushed to the scene to find that his son was dead, and noticed a radiator badge from Martin's Vauxhall in the road. "I knew at that point that I had just witnessed, walking away, the man who killed my son," he said. The court was told that Martin had been drinking whisky and lager until after midnight the previous night and told people he had taken "eccies". Despite pleas from several people not to drive, he had taken his mother's car and met up with two friends, who later told how he drove through Glenrothes with the accelerator "right to the floor". Ron Jessop, of the Campaign Against Drinking and Driving, said the 11-year sentence was longer than many that were handed down. "It is never enough, of course," said Mr Jessop. "One always feels under these circumstances they should be locked up and the key thrown away."