By the time the court doors opened at 9am the first batch of defendants was patiently queuing to be let in. Within half an hour the modest waiting area of the magistrates court was heaving with men and women, young and old, waiting to be brought before a judge in one of the UK's biggest – at least in terms of people allegedly involved – conspiracy cases.Eighty-six people, mainly from two valleys in south Wales, are accused of taking part in a "crash for cash" fraud centred on a repair garage in the former coal-mining town of Blackwood.Gwent police and the Insurance Fraud Bureau (IFB) have been investigating the alleged scam for more than two years and announced last week that the 86 had been charged. Then began the complex and painstaking task of processing them all through court.On Thursday, Cwmbran magistrates court, a modern building on the edge of a shopping centre, was closed to all business apart from the first appearances of those charged following the police operation, codenamed Dino. The waiting areas and dock would not have been able to cope had they all appeared at the same time, so a shift system was used.The youngest of the defendants was a woman aged 23, the oldest, 71. The largest number were from Blackwood, not far from the garage that was the focus of the case, St David's Crash Repair, also known as Easifix. There were also many from further up the Sirhowy valley and the neighbouring one, the Rhymney. Another sizable group – including the 71-year-old – were from Cardiff, 20 miles from Blackwood. Friends, neighbours and relatives were called into the court to face the district judge Richard Williams.Some are charged with single counts of conspiring to defraud insurance companies. Others are also accused of conspiring to steal, to receive stolen goods and to launder money. No details of the offences were detailed in court.According to the IFB, in "crash for cash" scams perpetrators stage or fake accidents then make fraudulent insurance claims. The IFB says the annual cost of such scams (pdf) in the UK is £392m. Faced with so many defendants, Williams kept his remarks brief.Each defendant had to identify him or herself and provide their date of birth and address. Williams then told them that the offence of conspiracy had to be dealt with in the crown court, dismissed them and ordered the next group to be called.The Crown Prosecution Service in Wales said its officials could not think of a case where more people had appeared in court accused of the same set of linked offences or when a whole court building had been set aside in this way.Sometimes a single court is used to deal with a string of people accused of not paying fines, or a court is opened specifically to deal with the aftermath of a riot or disturbance, but it is very rare for a whole court building to be turned over to so many defendants in the same alleged set of crimes.Williams bailed the defendants to Newport next month, where they will be make their initial crown court appearances – but in more manageable clusters over several days.