There was a time when prosecutors didn't comment on their cases, whether they won or lost. The police, on the other hand, were normally more than willing to confirm the names of people they had questioned. But things have changed; and not necessarily for the better.Let's start with the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). Prosecutors now feel the need to comment on their successes and even their failures, if only to justify their work to taxpayers. That approach comes from the top: we see it in the enthusiasm with which the attorney general and his deputy pop up on television when the court of appeal increases sentences that judges have found to be unduly lenient.To purists who remember a time when prosecutors regarded themselves as dispassionate "ministers of justice", this may seem distasteful. But public figures who do not trumpet their successes risk being trampled by less reticent players in the public forum, as senior judges found recently when they were unable to stop the government cutting their pensions. And it is always in the public interest for officials to speak publicly about their responsibilities.But it has to be done properly. Reacting to the jury's verdicts in the phone-hacking case last week, Greg McGill, a senior lawyer at the CPS, said: "This has been a lengthy and complex trial which was required to explore a culture of invading privacy."I think I know what he was trying to say. During the course of a lengthy and complex trial, the court had to consider whether invasion of people's privacy was part of the culture of the News of the World.But most people didn't read it like that. They thought McGill was saying that a particular newspaper had a culture of invading privacy and a trial was needed in order to explore it – in much the same way as the Leveson inquiry did. Take Libby Purves, for example, who rightly pointed out that exploring cultures was not the role of the CPS:Its job is to prosecute and prove criminality: literal, factually verifiable breaches of the law. It is not a vehicle for activism. Pushing idealistically for the betterment of society is a noble pursuit, but not a job for the CPS. Law must be steady, dispassionate, literal, far above opinion and preference.Alison Saunders, the director of public prosecutions (DPP) and head of the CPS, had her chance to respond on the Today programme. And she fluffed it. After she had explained, laboriously, that the CPS had to decide in every case whether there was a realistic prospect of a conviction and whether a prosecution would be in the public interest, John Humphrys asked her, for ​about the third time, why her lawyer was talking about exploring culture. This was her reply:I think he, his context, the context that he was explaining, or it was slightly taken out of context, his statement, 'cause what he was saying was: this was a matter for the court to decide, we've got the evidence, we think, that proves there's a realistic prospect of conviction, so we'll put it before the jury to decide whether or not this actually happened; the jury quite rightly considered all the evidence and they came back with a verdict which we respect and which, you know, absolutely is right.Wouldn't it have been simpler to say that McGill didn't mean what he had apparently said?Humphrys asked Saunders how there had been just two convictions resulting from 17 arrests in Operation Yewtree, the Scotland Yard inquiry into sexual offences launched after the crimes of Jimmy Savile came to light. Saunders immediately tried to change the subject. But a glance at the Guardian would have told her that, in addition to the convictions of Rolf Harris and Max Clifford, five men have been charged and several more are still under investigation – an entirely reasonable outcome given the difficulties of building cases decades after the alleged events.The best Saunders could say was: "Well, I think actually when you look at the, sort of, overarching, sort of, looking at everything in total, we prosecute lots of non-recent abuse cases across the country and we gain convictions every day in similar cases." Only then did she explain that some of the Yewtree cases had been dropped because the police had been unable to obtain sufficient evidence.Asked about the inappropriate use of the word "victims" in cases where a defendant was acquitted, Saunders should have said straight away that the two were not necessarily inconsistent: you can be a victim of crime even if the person who committed it is never arrested or convicted. She did make that point later on, but only after she appeared to concede that "complainants" would have been a better term.Saunders has much to be proud of. She is the first DPP to have come up through the ranks of the civil service, rather than from the practising bar, since Sir Thomas Hetherington was appointed in 1977. But she should learn that loyalty to her staff is less important than sounding as if you are in control.Finally, the police. As others have pointed out, the Rolf Harris case shows how important it is for the police to name suspects once they have been arrested, despite arguments to the contrary in Sir Brian Leveson's report. Naming a defendant not only encourages other ​victims to come forward, but makes it easier for a defendant to obtain alibi evidence ​in an appropriate case.I would also support the naming of police suspects, however damaging allegations ​against them may be in the short term. If the press had not been allowed to name Ben Sullivan, the Oxford Union president who was wrongly suspected of rape, reporters would not have been able to identify him when he was later cleared of all allegations against him.In matters of criminal justice, openness should be the default position. Nobody – not even the prime minister – should say anything that might seriously prejudice a current or future trial. Subject to that, if you'll forgive the cliche, sunlight is the best disinfectant.