Would-be prison officers are no longer interviewed if they want to join the service, BBC documentary-makers claimed today after following four new recruits through their training. Applicants now only have to pass aptitude, fitness and health tests in order to work as prison officers in the service - which is facing a recruitment crisis - television viewers will be told tomorrow evening.The Prison Officers Association (POA) said it was unaware that the personal interview had been dropped from the selection process and demanded a meeting with the prison service director general.Chairman of the POA, Colin Moses, said: "I wasn't aware that this was happening, and it's not something that we have been consulted about."We would be totally opposed if this is happening because applicants need to have a proper in-depth interview to discover what their views are and whether they are suitable for the job and that they have good communication skills. There has to be a proper screening process." Mr Moses said it was also unacceptable if the Prison Service had decided to drop the interview in an attempt to speed up the selection process and boost recruitment."I know there are staff shortages, but that is not a viable excuse to drop the interview," he said.The POA estimates that the service needs around an extra 2,000 officers.The BBC documentary, Screws: Inside Belmarsh, which tracks the progress of new prison officer recruits, also quotes an inmate at Brixton prison in south London who claims prisoners are often used by prison officers to "mind" other prisoners because of staff shortages.The POA said it was not aware this was happening, and it was not common practice.A spokesman for the BBC said the only requirement to become a prison officer today is a clean criminal record. He said: "Prior to joining new recruits are not interviewed. The only requirement for a job behind bars is a clean criminal record. Today's recruits are fast-tracked into uniform, and hurled through an intense training regime." The Home Office confirmed that the traditional personal interview before a three-person panel for would-be prison officers was abolished in 1996, and replaced by a "more structured" process where candidates attend a "job simulation assessment centre" if they first pass a literacy and numeracy exam. A Home Office spokesman said: "The assessment measures a range of personal skills and attitudes." If candidates pass the assessment they then have to pass a physical fitness test before being allowed into the service.The Home Office also denied that prisoners were used as "minders" at Brixton prison. The spokesman said: "The prison operates within safe manning levels, and those manning levels are agreed with the trade union."· Screws: Inside Belmarsh is to be broadcast on BBC2 on Thursday at 9pm.