Black teenagers urgently need a new generation of professional role models to divert them from a world of gangs and criminality, a year long government study will say today.The author of the research will call for a shift of focus "from rap stars, sports personalities and celebrities, to successful businessmen, lawyers and doctors", arguing that there is clear evidence that a deep-seated culture of low aspirations among black urban teenagers has contributed to them dropping out of school and being drawn into trouble.Key recommendations, which ministers are promising to act upon, call for the replacement of role models such as the rappers 50 Cent and Megaman with black barristers, scientists and politicians to help encourage young black men away from knives, drug crime and gang violence, and guide them into mainstream careers.The study will call on successful black professionals to offer themselves as mentors, as part of a national role model programme. Parents are also urged to take more responsibility for their children.The report says the cost of young black men getting involved in gangs and crime is huge in terms of the money spent on prison, the criminal justice system and social support, and therefore it is in the interests of the whole of society to act. Tackling underachievement could boost the economy by £24bn in the next 50 years, it says.An academic who carried out separate, and previously unpublished, research on gang culture in London told the Guardian that up to 40% of youngsters were "reluctant gangsters" who were under pressure from their peers.The government report, commissioned by the Department for Communities and Local Government, will be unveiled this morning by the secretary of state, Hazel Blears, amid growing concerns that young black men are more likely than their white peers to be excluded from school, become victims of crime, or be jailed for committing offences."What we need to do is reach the generations who are coming up behind today's young people," said Clive Lewis, who chaired the research. "There is an urgent need for a change of thinking about some of the role models that our young people are drawn to. We need to shift focus from rap stars, sports personalities and celebrities to successful businessmen, lawyers and doctors and show that these are professions that young black men can enter and do well in."Mr Lewis and his team interviewed 400 teenagers and young men in five cities: Nottingham, London, Bristol, Manchester and Birmingham. They found a link between low aspirations and the magnetism of gang culture. "Where there is a lack of positive role models, a lack of positive aspirations, they can be drawn into crime and gangs, the things the media writes about all the time," he said."So it is extremely important to address this. The government, parents and the community must act now. Unless we do something to raise aspirations and provide positive role models the results will be gang culture and gun crime."Ms Blears will unveil the findings during a visit to Manchester, which, like London, has suffered a spate of gang-related killings in the last three months and where 15-year-old Jessie James was murdered last September.After 11 months facing a wall of silence from young people in Moss Side too terrified to come forward, detectives yesterday announced a breakthrough which had come directly from publicity surrounding an inquest in Jessie's death. The coroner immediately adjourned the hearing when police said they were set to make two arrests after receiving new information.John Pitts, professor of socio-legal studies at the University of Bedfordshire whose recent research into gang culture in London found that 30-40% of youngsters were "reluctant gangsters" forced to join local groups out of fear for themselves or their families, said the idea that they had a choice was a fallacy.Mr Pitts said the experience of Jessie James, who according to his mother, Barbara Reid, was shot dead for refusing to join a Manchester gang, was mirrored across the country."These young people are stuck on their estates, they can't get out because the waiting lists for social housing are so long there is nowhere for them to go. When young people resist gang involvement they can be attacked or their families can be. I found that on one estate in London when a brother and sister - she was 14 and he was 15 - refused to join a gang they were both attacked. He was badly beaten up and she was raped. There is a culture of silence because if you are seen to grass you are in big trouble," he said.Mr Pitts said the drug business, which fuelled gang culture in the UK, needed to be addressed. "In south London 75% of gangs involved kids who were not in school and were working as runners for drugs gangs. This is when their aspirations start to become unconventional, success for them is moving up the ladder within that gang until they take over and run their own young people. "A spokeswoman for the Department for Communities and Local Government said Ms Blears was broadly adopting today's report. "This is very important work. It has recommendations for across government and for the black community itself, for parents and for schools. We take the findings very seriously."