The career criminal shot and injured by Tony Martin as he led the raid on his remote farmhouse was yesterday given the go-ahead to sue the jailed farmer for damages.A judge ruled Brendon Fearon's human rights could be infringed if he was not allowed to take Martin to court. The case, which will be heard at the high court in London, partly because of the public interest in the Martin saga, will have to consider what rights a householder has to protect his property and whether a burglar can be deemed to be outside the law. Fearon, 33, who is serving an 18-month sentence for supplying heroin, argues that the leg injury he suffered has stopped him from working, affected his sex life, and means he can no longer enjoy his hobby of martial arts. He also insists that following the shooting in which his accomplice, 16-year-old Fred Barras, was killed, he suffered from a post-traumatic stress disorder and is now too frightened to watch fireworks or gunfights on television. Fearon is hoping to win up to £15,000. Friends and supporters of Martin, and Tory politicians, are furious that Fearon has been given the right to sue the farmer and has received legal aid for the fight while Martin is expected to have to fund his defence himself. Malcolm Starr, a friend of and campaigner for Martin, said: "Tony expected this to happen, because of flaws in the law that must now be addressed. How can the law allow this to go on? It means a burglar who was injured trespassing on another man's property and is sent to prison can then have the cheek to sue him for damages." Conservative home affairs spokesman Dominic Grieve said: "There is clearly an imbalance in the law between householders and burglars. We strongly disagree with the fact that burglars can sue for damage done to them in the course of committing a crime." Martin's MP, Henry Bellingham, a Tory, said: "No criminal should have any rights after he has broken into a property - all legal rights should be left outside the property that was burgled." The home secretary, David Blunkett, has indicated he intends to change the law allowing burglars to sue their victims. At yesterday's hearing at Nottingham county court the district judge, Brian Oliver, said: "There are important issues here that need to be determined." He said that to refuse Fearon' a hearing could contravene his rights under section 6 of the European convention on human rights. The case would be sent to the high court because of the amount of public interest and because of the complex issues to be decided. Shami Chakrabarti, barrister for the human rights campaign group Liberty, said: "Brendon Fearon is a convicted criminal, and is, quite rightly, serving time in prison. That does not take away his right to seek compensation for the injuries he suffered. It is for the courts to decide on the validity of his claim." Fearon, who has more than 30 convictions, was wounded during a break-in at Martin's home in Emneth Hungate, in Norfolk, in August 1999. In February this year Fearon, of Newark, Nottinghamshire, was jailed for supplying heroin outside a police station. This month it emerged that he would be told where the farmer lives after he leaves jail, ruining a scheme to give Martin, who fears revenge attacks, a new identity. Martin is nearing the end of a five-year sentence for manslaughter. His bid for early release on parole was turned down.