The man accused of murdering Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman told a friend that the girls were dead 10 days before their bodies were found, the Old Bailey heard today.Salesman Martin Mahoney told the court he went to see Ian Huntley on Wednesday August 7 last year, to demonstrate some floor polishing materials that the then school caretaker had bought from him. Mr Mahoney said they spoke about the missing 10-year-olds, who had disappeared on Sunday August 4. He told Mr Huntley: "This is an awful business," adding: "I suppose they will find them." He said Mr Huntley replied: "No, they'll be dead." Mr Mahoney said he then told Mr Huntley: "I have got three daughters of my own and if one of my daughters went missing, you wouldn't give up after a couple of days." He said Mr Huntley again replied: "No, they're dead."Stephen Coward QC, representing Mr Huntley, said to Mr Mahoney: "I suggest on that topic that what Mr Huntley said to you was 'As time goes on, you start fearing the worst, or words to that effect." Mr Mahoney replied: "He didn't say that to me." The witness, who had earlier told the jury he was a self-employed salesman dealing in cleaning materials and had supplied Soham Village college for six years, also said he had commented on how tired Mr Huntley looked, when they met on the school site. He said Mr Huntley told him he had been up for 24 hours. Mr Mahoney said they then went into Mr Huntley's house and had coffee with Ms Carr, Mr Huntley's then girlfriend, who showed him a card the girls had made her. The witness said Ms Carr told him the card arrived on either Saturday or Sunday, the day the girls vanished. Mr Huntley then described how he heard the letter box on Sunday and saw the card lying on the floor, he added. Mr Huntley told him he saw the girls walking away as he picked up the card, adding: "I think I was the last person to see them."The court later heard from special constable Sharon Gilbert, who told of a conversation she had had with the accused on Wednesday August 7. During their talk, she said, she asked Mr Huntley why the school was being searched and he joked: "If I told you I'd have to kill you." She said she believed Huntley's remark was "a turn of phrase".Ms Gilbert added that Mr Huntley used the past tense throughout their conversation when referring to the girls. "All the time in this conversation that was ringing alarm bells," she said. She said she was sitting in the passenger seat of a police van on Wednesday August 7, three days after the girls went missing, and had a conversation with Mr Huntley lasting 20 or 25 minutes. She said he was initiating the conversation and they spoke about a number of topics, including how long DNA would last. Earlier today, the court heard from other police officers involved in the search for Holly and Jessica.Sergeant Mark Barker, the team leader for the search of Soham Village College on the evening of Tuesday August 6, said that police officers had discovered that the hangar where Holly and Jessica's clothes were eventually found, and which Mr Huntley had told officers he did not have keys for, was in fact unlocked. Another witness, Special Constable Sarah Lee, said Mr Huntley took her on a "convoluted" route around the hangar while she and a colleague were carrying out a high visibility foot patrol in Soham on August 6. Also today, a hitchhiker, who was given a lift by Mr Huntley and Ms Carr on Tuesday August 6, told the Old Bailey that Mr Huntley had said he was the last person to see the girls alive.Robert Jeynes said that the couple had stopped to give him a lift on an A-road near Grimsby two days after the schoolgirls had gone missing. During their journey they had all talked about the missing girls, the witness said. Ms Carr told him she used to be their classroom assistant but he thought her manner "cold", he said. "She was very cold - there was no emotion there, which I would have expected," he told the court.He said that Mr Huntley mentioned a woman who had been on television the previous night and had "supposedly" seen the girls, adding that, before that woman, he was the last person to see them alive. Mr Jeynes said he remembered the phrase because it had set off alarm bells for him. He said he had considered warning Mr Huntley not to say such a thing, adding: "He definitely said those words, because I thought about saying something to him along the lines of, according to when you watch films, it's always the last one who sees them alive that gets done for murder." Mr Jeynes added that the back seat of the car, where he sat, was covered with a light-coloured blanket that was wedged over the back of the seat and under the parcel shelf.The prosecution claims that Mr Huntley murdered the girls on August 4 and put their bodies in the boot of his car before driving them to a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, and dumping them. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the two friends but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, 26, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges she gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for August 4, the day the girls went missing. Their bodies were found on August 17, 13 days later.The trial continues.