A police officer who was captured on video apparently attacking a defenceless man was today withdrawn from duties which may bring him into contact with the public.The officer, who has not been named, was captured on video kicking 26-year-old Chris Wilson in the groin and then repeatedly punching him in the face outside his home in Wakefield, West Yorkshire. A neighbour of Mr Wilson, 21-year-old music student Mark Goodwin, secretly filmed the incident from his bedroom. In the film, Mr Wilson is seen to be handcuffed by the policeman, who then allegedly knees him in the back and pulls him by his hair to a patrol car. Mr Wilson, an unemployed joiner, was held overnight in a police cell and charged with being drunk and disorderly following the incident, which happened last month. The charge was dropped a few days later. A spokesman for West Yorkshire police said today: "A formal complaint has been received about this incident. It is being investigated by our discipline and complaints department, who have voluntarily referred the matter to the Police Complaints Authority and inquiries are underway." Mr Wilson, who says he has convictions for burglary and theft but none for violence, said: "He had no reason to attack me. I've never seen him before. I'd done nothing wrong and I wasn't under arrest. I wasn't resisting arrest or showing any violence."He told the Daily Mail newspaper he had been drinking with friends at home when the police knocked at the door, apparently seeking another man in connection with a disturbance. He conceded there was a verbal exchange with officers in the street but insisted he had never posed a physical threat. Mr Goodwin said he was shocked by the "unprovoked attack". He said: "I remember hearing the crack of the first punch. I can remember feeling it for the lad, I kind of said 'ouch' for him."The video does not show events leading up to the alleged attack but the second officer can be seen looking on. He has also been withdrawn from public duties.Mr Wilson now says he is suing West Yorkshire police for assault, false arrest, wrongful imprisonment and malicious prosecution. He is also demanding the officer be charged with assault. Mr Goodwin said that he was left physically "shaking" by what he had seen and had decided to make the video public in order for "justice to be done". He said: "I was in shock for about two hours. My fingers were still shaking. I just couldn't believe what I was watching or that I was managing to get it on film. "When it stopped I hid back from the window so they couldn't see me. I was just being careful to make sure that I kept out of sight. I just kept thinking about the best thing to do. "I was keen for the police officer to be held accountable and for disciplinary action to take place. And I was also keen to get the video into the public eye so that people can see just what the police are like. He added: "They are not all rosy red, there are a few bad apples as they say."  Related articles19.07.2001: Police crime detection rates fall to new low18.07.2001: First the shooting, now the questions17.07.01: Mother denies shot son was threat17.07.01: Appeal for calm after police shoot man dead in BrixtonUseful linksVideo of alleged attack - Sky newsWest Yorkshire policeAssociation of Chief Police Officers 