Police were last night examining the possibility of a motorcycle club feud as they hunted for the gunman who shot dead a member of the Hells Angels on the M40 on Sunday afternoon. The man was killed with a single shot from a handgun as he was returning home on his motorcycle from the Bulldog Bash festival, attended by bikers from across the world.The police have ruled out road rage as a motive, but are looking at other potential motives, including the possibility of a row between members of different groups. Six years ago, another biker leaving the festival was also shot on the motorway, but not fatally.Although Warwickshire police have yet to confirm his identity, the dead man is understood to be Gerry Tobin, 35, who worked for a Harley-Davidson dealer in south London.After a postmortem yesterday afternoon by a Home Office pathologist, Dr Edwin Tapp, a police spokesperson said the victim had died from a single shot to the back of the head.He was hit as he and two companions, both understood to be Polish, travelled south on the M40 between junctions 12 and 13, near Leamington Spa. He was certified dead at the scene by paramedics.No one at the Hells Angels premises in Hackney, east London, would comment on the murder yesterday and there was no reference to the victim on the In Memoriam section of the club's website. A spokeswoman for Harley-Davidson also said the company had no comment.Police investigating the murder appealed to the public for information as about 50 specialist officers searched for evidence on a stretch of motorway either side of the crime scene. The motorway was finally reopened to traffic yesterday afternoon.Detectives are also seeking information about a green Rover 620 car which was seen travelling close to the motorcyclist at the time of the shooting. They would like to hear from any motorists travelling on the A46 near to junction 15 with the M40, and anyone travelling on the M40, who may have seen the car and who could describe the driver and any of the passengers.Detective Superintendent Ken Lawrence, who is heading the inquiry, said: "We are not aware of any incidents at the Bulldog Bash event which could be directly linked to the death."The Bulldog Bash, which was celebrating its 21st anniversary with music from Status Quo, the Damned, the Sensational Alex Harvey Band and the Wurzels, bills itself as "the safest festival in the land". Apart from the music, there were also motorcycle stunts, exhibitions, competitions and topless bike washes. There was no evidence of any clashes at the event.BackstoryA squadron of world war one fighter pilots is credited with coining the Hells Angels name, but a breakaway group from the Pissed Off Bastards of San Bernadino, California, formed the first club in 1948. Now there are more than 100 chapters in more than 30 countries, including Croatia, Liechtenstein and South Africa.In Britain, the club has a fairly low-key reputation and raises money for charity. In the US, members became notorious after a fatal stabbing during a Rolling Stones concert in 1969 at Altamont, where they had been hired to handle security. They were responsible for more drug trafficking than any other gang in the US, according to a 2005 FBI report.The 4,000-strong Mongols biker gang has chapters in California, Nevada, Oklahoma, Colorado, Arizona and Montana, while the Bandidos is now reputedly the fastest growing US gang.Eight people are awaiting trial for one of Canada's worst mass killings - in 2006 eight Bandidos members were shot dead, allegedly part of "an internal cleansing" of the gang.In Australia, groups such as the Nomads, Outlaws, Hells Angels, Rebels, Comancheros and Bandidos are heavily involved in organised crime. In Europe, three dominant groups, Hells Angels, Bandidos and the Outlaws, are said to be involved in crimes ranging from drug smuggling to contract killings. They are particularly prominent in Nordic countries and in Germany and Belgium.In Sweden, conflict between the Hells Angels and the Bandidos from 1994 to 1997 resulted in 11 people being killed.