Survivors of the Soho bombing are still awaiting compensation more than six years after the nailbomb blast, The Observer can reveal.Although victims of last July's London bombings began receiving money within three months from the government's compensation agency, some of those caught up in the homophobic attack on the Admiral Duncan pub in April 1999 have still not seen their claims met. Among those yet to receive their full entitlement by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) are victims who lost both legs and sustained horrendous burns.Gay rights groups said they were 'alarmed' by the disclosure. Ministers recently expressed concern that it took three months before badly hurt survivors of the 7 July bombings received money from the state compensation fund.Lawyers representing survivors of the Soho bombing said it was inexplicable that victims of terrorist atrocities should be treated differently. Three died and 117 were injured after a nailbomb was detonated in the London pub by homophobic racist David Copeland.Tracey Storey, assistant solicitor for Irwin Mitchell, said that a survivor of the Admiral Duncan blast she was representing had not even received 'an initial decision' from the CICA more than six years on. She claimed victims of the attack had been 'short-changed'. Her client was badly injured in the attack, losing his legs, and has had to have prosthetic limbs fitted.Storey said: 'Why has my case not been given special treatment? He was the victim of a horrendous crime and yet they have not even made a first decision.'By contrast a number of those caught up in the July London bombings have received sizeable interim payments following a campaign led by Martine Wright, who lost both legs above the knee in the Aldgate blast. She complained of not receiving adequate compensation after nearly three months. Yesterday lawyers said they were perturbed that payments to victims of terrorist attacks appeared to have been prioritised according to the amount of media coverage dedicated to the 7 July terrorist attacks. Last month Tony Blair promised to personally investigate the delaysDavid Standard, spokesman for Irwin Mitchell, said the distinction between the survivors of the homophobic attack and that on 7 July was 'inexplicable'. He said: 'No one terrorism is worse than the other. The fall-out of a terrorist attack is horrendous regardless.'Storey said her client had mentioned other survivors that were still awaiting compensation even though some recently had started to receive initial payments.A spokesman for the CICA said delays had arisen due to resolving complex 'loss of earnings' issues. He said that he knew of two cases involving survivors of the Soho bomb where an assessment was still being made.The delay provoked fresh accusations that the CICA is incapable of dealing with its workload. There is also concern that its £500,000 maximum payout was set nine years ago. Senior officials at the CICA have privately conceded that the structure of relying on extensive medical and police checks before payment is not suited to meeting the immediate needs of people with serious injuries. Far-reaching reforms to the CICA are expected to be unveiled at the start of December.