Tory politicians and some media are suddenly demanding that the Stephen Lawrence inquiry's recommendation on double jeopardy must be implemented at once. Yet these same people made virulent attacks on this recommendation when our report was launched a year ago.Of the 70 recommendations we made in the Lawrence report, 63 were firm statements, beginning: "We recommend that..." The recommendation on double jeopardy is one of seven that start "We recommend that consideration be given to..." This one goes on: "to the Court of Appeal being given power to permit prosecution after acquittal where fresh and viable evidence is presented". We had no doubt about the 63 firm recommendations. On prosecution after acquittal, our recommendation is tentative. This is because Sir William Macpherson, the former High Court judge who chaired the inquiry, was well aware of the long-standing rule in English law that after acquittal there should be no risk of people being hounded by the threat of further charges for the same offence. However, we could not ignore the situation left at the end of our inquiry. It seems very possible that one at least of the three men acquitted of Lawrence's murder is the murderer. His freedom can be attributed to the collective failure of the Metropolitan Police murder investigation. We could anticipate the likelihood of fresh evidence appearing that was strong enough to secure a conviction. We could not ignore the gross injustice of leaving him beyond the law. Take the case of the black doctor Joan Francisco. During the original investigation into her murder, police overlooked a small spot of blood on her red jumper. Her family thought her former boyfriend was the killer, but there was insufficient evidence to justify his prosecution. A second police investigation a year later found the spot and DNA testing matched it to her ex-boyfriend. He was convicted of the murder. Had he been prosecuted after the first investigation, he would have been acquitted. It seems unthinkable that he could not have been re-tried after the blood was found. Our tentative recommendation recognises the difficulties in changing a long-established right under English law. However, the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, implemented our recommendation swiftly by referring it to the Law Commission. To our critics' surprise, the Commission suggested the law be changed in line with our recommendation. This is now out for consultation. What is likely to happen is that, in carefully selected cases and on one occasion only, the High Court will be able to refer cases like this for re-trial. There will be a right of appeal for the previously acquitted person. Why the unreasoning dismissal of the whole Stephen Lawrence inquiry, based on one or two tentative recommendations arising from the special facts we faced? Many have good reason to feel defensive about the conclusions we drew from the evidence presented to us. Could it be that underpinning the attacks was an unwillingness to address institutional racism? Was it really the inquiry which caused the recent loss of morale within the police and a loss of trust by the public in the police? Or was it the facts of the Lawrence police investigation which six years later were laid bare for the public to see?Most people who read and saw in the media what we heard and saw recognised that two serious injustices were done to Neville and Doreen Lawrence. The appalling racist murder of their son was one. The collective failure of the police to investigate the murder professionally was the other. Both injustices are connected to the fact that the family is black. This connection is the first step in understanding what institutional racism means. It is to the Lawrences' credit that they have educated the British public to recognise this.