Detectives are to re-interview the serial killer Robert Napper over a number of unsolved cases, following his admission that he was responsible for stabbing Rachel Nickell to death.The police team which worked for four years to finally bring Napper to justice for killing Nickell on Wimbledon common in 1992 have a number of other crimes they wish to talk to him about. The team, who were praised by senior officers for their determination to find Nickell's killer after a string of failures by an earlier inquiry, are hoping now that Napper, 42, has accepted his responsibility he may talk about other crimes. There is speculation that officers may examine three murders which bear similarities to Napper's attacks: the killings of 16-year-old Claire Tiltman, who was stabbed 40 times in Greenhithe, Kent in 1993; Penny Bell, 43, who was knifed 50 times as she got into her Jaguar at a swimming pool car park in Greenford, west London in 1991; and Jean Bradley, 47, who was stabbed getting into her car near Acton tube station, west London. All the killings involved frantic, random, motiveless knife attacks and remain unsolved.Napper, who suffers from paranoid schizophrenia and was obsessed with knives, was sentenced on Thursday to indefinite detention at Broadmoor high security hospital for the killing of Nickell, 23. He was already being held in Broadmoor for stabbing to death Samantha Bissett, 27, whom he stabbed 70 times, and her four-year-old daughter Jazmine in 1993. He has also admitted three knifepoint sex attacks along the Green Chain walk in Greenwich, south-east London. He is suspected of involvement in 83 other sex attacks along the footpath, but there is no forensic evidence to link him to the crimes.Commander Simon Foy, head of homicide at Scotland Yard, said: "We will be going to talk to him again."Officers are focusing on a gap in Napper's offending between 1989, when he committed his first rape in south-east London, and 1992, when he committed three rapes in two months and went on to stab Nickell 49 times on Wimbledon common. Detectives will talk to Napper about the unsolved sex attacks along the Green Chain route, which up to 1992 was his hunting ground for several years.Since his admission to Broadmoor in 1995 he has admitted responsibility for a fourth Green Chain rape, which took place in 1989, in a handwritten note.Detectives on the successful Nickell inquiry spent several days interviewing Napper under difficult conditions in Broadmoor. They took advice from psychiatrists before they began their questioning. They hope that apologies Napper made in court this week to Colin Stagg, who was wrongly accused of Nickell's murder, and to the dead woman's parents, may indicate that he is ready to talk. Dr Natalie Pyszora, Napper's psychiatrist at Broadmoor, told the court his condition had improved and he now had insight into his illness, giving police some hope that he might talk to them.He has previously told detectives he would only admit those offences for which there was forensic evidence.Of the unsolved murders, the killing of Claire Tiltman is the one most similar to Napper's other stabbings. Tiltman was killed in an alley in Greenhithe, Kent, less than 10 miles from Napper's home in Plumstead, south-east London, as she took a short cut to visit friends in January 1993. Her murder was six months after Nickell was killed and 10 months before Napper murdered Bissett and her daughter. It was at a time when psychiatrists believe Napper was at his most dangerous. In 1998, Operation Enigma, a review of 207 unsolved murders of women, suggested the Nickell and Tiltman killers may have been the same man.Changes to the way murders are investigated by the Met since the Nickell killing have improved procedures and structures in an attempt to ensure that similar mistakes are not made again, Foy said.Homicide detectives now also examine serious sex attacks to see if there are patterns or connections when they are investigating a murder. In Napper's case his rapes and killings overlapped, but detectives on three different inquiries did not make the connections.