The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday claimed that a "drip, drip" ad-hoc publication of crime figures by individual police forces was driving up the fear of crime.At the same time he warned police officers that they would be setting a bad example to young thugs and tearaways if they give him a hostile reception at their annual conference tomorrow. Mr Blunkett announced yesterday that in future official Home Office crime figures would be published every three months instead of every year, in an attempt to present "a more realistic picture" of crime in England and Wales. Mr Blunkett cannot prevent police forces publishing their own figures but he hoped to persuade chief constables that separate publication would no longer be necessary. The announcement came as Mr Blunkett betrayed some anxiety at addressing the annual conference of the Police Federation, which represents rank and file police officers, despite reaching a settlement in their dispute over pay and conditions.Saying he expected a rough ride tomorrow, Mr Blunkett warned police delegates to the Bournemouth conference that they would be setting a bad example to young thugs and tearaways if they jeered him. His predecessor, Jack Straw, was booed and slow-handclapped during this speech to last year's conference. Mr Blunkett's anxiety is surprising, given that he was regularly given a rough ride as education secretary at teachers' conferences, including one year being locked in a room for his own safety. The change to the way the crime figures are released is designed to tackle the paradox that fear of crime has continued to rise despite the underlying fall in the figures. Mr Blunkett told the Association of Chief Constables in Birmingham yesterday that he was calling on forces to tackle the fear of crime by "presenting a more realistic picture". A protocol is to be drawn up between the Home Office and the police to enable the police force figures to be published quarterly by Whitehall. At present practice varies between police forces. The Metropolitan police publishes its figures every month, while other forces publish once a year. "The drip, drip effect of crime statistics at the moment released by different forces at different times helps no one. I want to make these figures more transparent and more accurate, through revised accounting practices and reg ular reporting. Far from hiding anything, we are actually going to be providing a much clearer picture," Mr Blunkett said. He said he did not want to rely on ad hoc figures that did not compare like with like and that often increased the fear of crime. A Home Office spokesman confirmed that it wanted to rationalise the numbers of statistics coming out. "We will be discussing with the police and police authorities whether or not they need to publish their own figures as well. We cannot stop them, of course, but there is no point everybody publishing the same statistics a couple of times or more a year." It is not so long ago that the Home Office published its police-recorded crime statistics every six months. The move to annual publication was introduced last July alongside a shake-up of the way crime is recorded by the police. When the annual crime figures are published this July the headline total is expected to rise by between 15% and 20% as police change their recording practices. In future all allegations made by victims will be recorded as crimes, and incidents in which there are multiple victims, for example a series of break-ins into 10 cars in a car park, will be counted as 10 separate crimes.