Randeep Ramesh on welfare Under the new Liberal-Conservative coalition government the welfare agenda could be a battlefield or a field of dreams. With Iain Duncan Smith as secretary of state for work and pensions, Philippa Stroud, co-founder with Duncan Smith of the Centre for Social Justice, a special adviser, and Labour's Frank Field advising David Cameron on poverty, the sector is likely to be viewed through a moral lens with Victorian emphasis on the family and hard work. The Conservatives will undoubtedly be backed up by Chris Grayling, a Tory high flyer brought down to earth for privately backing apparent homophobia. However, this pair is likely to be balanced by Steve Webb as pensions minister, a Liberal Democrat and clever economist who has a grip on policy details, having shadowed the brief. Webb is seen as socially liberal, but rightwing on economics.Expect fireworks. Webb described a £3.6bn proposal from Duncan Smith's Centre for Social Justice thinktank to replace 51 complex benefits with just two – which would be withdrawn slowly if a claimant found work – as "absurd". Webb agrees that something needs to be done about the labyrinthine nature of the system but thinks such a big bang solution is not required.Unemployment is a time bomb for the department – on the day the government was formed it was revealed that the number of people out of work had risen by 53,000 to 2.51 million, the highest level for more than 15 years. The Lib-Cons will probably have to implement more substantial cuts in social security spending than anyone has admitted. The Institute for Fiscal Studies forecast departmental spending falling by 11.9% by 2014-15, but social security spending growing by 4.4% over the same period. The Department for Work and Pensions is the government's biggest spending team with a budget of £136bn – although nearly half of that is state pensions. In opposition, Webb, with a sharp eye for figures, harried the last government for making cuts.Incapacity benefits, which cost the taxpayer £12bn, highlight another difference. Duncan Smith is thought to be keen on taking forward the last government's scheme under which tough new tests would winnow out those unable to work permanently from those with some chance of re-entering the labour market. Webb's view was that this was just "shunting large numbers of ill or disabled people on to a lower level of support by deeming them 'fit to work'."David Brindle on social care As leaders of 22 organisations said in a joint letter to the Guardian on Monday, the great fear of all those working with elderly and disabled people is that "in a tough economic climate, social care will be sidelined". So far, the signals are at best mixed.The coalition government's initial policy agreement makes no mention whatsoever of social care. This may conceivably be because social care was not seen as an issue of difference between the two parties, but that would imply a substantial degree of movement on one or both parts.In their manifesto, the Conservatives proposed a voluntary scheme of insurance for long-term care costs. In theirs, the Lib Dems called for an independent commission to look again at all the options with a view to achieving all-party agreement. Before the election, Norman Lamb, the then Lib Dem health spokesman, was highly critical of the viability of a voluntary scheme, pointing out that a similar approach in France had a mere 20% take-up.Labour's planned free personal care at home for people with the greatest needs, as a first building block of a national care service, looks dead in the water. Though legislated for in principle, the measure requires a further vote in parliament to be implemented next April. The £420m annual cost to the Department of Health will no doubt be offered up as a juicy saving.On the positive side, health secretary Andrew Lansley has promised to set out the government's plans "soon" and the sector is pleased at the appointment of Lib Dem Paul Burstow as care services minister. He has a longstanding interest in social care and a keen grasp of detail. He says the coalition offers "the best chance in a generation to start fixing the system".The health ministerial team is by no means heavyweight, however. For social care to get a fair hearing and a fair deal in the brutal horse-trading to come, it will need influential friends elsewhere in government.Alan Travis on criminal justice The coalition is expected to take the first steps in rolling back the spread of the "surveillance society", with early decisions expected to scrap the national identity cards project, to halt the state-sponsored storage of personal email, text and net use, and to regulate the public use of CCTV cameras.  Police numbers have probably reached a historical peak at more than 141,000 uniformed officers. Photograph: Steve Phillips/Alamy/AlamyPolice numbers have probably now reached a historic peak at more than 141,000 uniformed officers. The Lib Dems went into the election pledging to put 3,000 more officers on the beat but the impending deficit reduction programme makes that unlikely. The Conservatives, perhaps wisely, sidestepped pressure to make a commitment to provide the funding to maintain police numbers.The new home secretary, Theresa May, has been careful to talk about boosting the number of police officers "on the beat" and not to talk about overall numbers. Cuts of £70m in the police overtime bill are already in the pipeline and further demands can be expected as part of the deficit reduction programme.The two coalition partners are fairly close on police accountability with May strongly backing elected police commissioners and the Lib Dems wanting elected police authorities. A spirited clash with the chief constables over the issue can be expected sooner rather than later.The appointment of Ken Clarke as the new justice secretary is likely to ensure that the repeal of the Human Rights Act is off the agenda. He also has to reconcile a fundamental coalition clash of policy over prisons. In the campaign, Cameron talked of the need for longer prison sentences while Lib Dems want to introduce a presumption against sentences of less than six months. I would expect to see Tory rhetoric about tougher sentencing while the Lib Dem policy is quietly implemented in practice.Immigration minister Damian Green hopes to implement the coalition pledge to end the detention of children in immigration centres, "within months". But the rejection of the Lib Dem amnesty on illegal immigrants signals little change in asylum policy overall.Peter Hetherington on local government Eric Pickles told SocietyGuardian two years ago that a Tory government would herald devolution from Whitehall to town halls: "We need to pass power downwards in order, first, to revive democracy, second, to break up the overbearing state and, third, to deliver diversity to communities."Now as secretary of state for communities and local government, Pickles, former leader of Bradford council from 1988-90, has the chance to put these principles into practice – in the knowledge that Lib Dem partners in the coalition government share these sentiments. Previous ministers have failed to deliver. Will Pickles be different?Certainly, the coalition agreement promises a radical devolution of power and greater financial autonomy to local government and community groups. But first, yet another full review of local government finance has to be undertaken. Privately, everyone recognises that the council tax – which gives councils roughly a fifth of their revenue – needs reforming. As a property-based tax, it needs regular updating to reflect rising house prices. Yet there has been no revaluation since it was introduced in 1993 to replace the shortlived poll tax. To complicate matters further, Tories were pledged to implement a two-year council tax freeze; Lib Dem, as well as Conservative council leaders, believe this could prove unsustainable.Other policy differences need ironing out, too. In opposition, Tories flagged up a new local government, housing and planning bill to, among other things, scrap the former government's relatively new planning regime that entrusted strategic planning to unelected regional development agencies (RDAs). Tories disliked the broader regional agenda and, at the very least, were suspicious of the nine RDAs, which have a collective budget of about £2bn. Lib Dems, on the other hand, are far more regionally inclined.This is not to suggest that Pickles, and his two ministers of state – housing minister Grant Shapps and local government minister Greg Clark – will necessarily hold back from early reforms. In opposition, the combative Shapps, former shadow housing minister, promised to scrap Labour's "Stalinist" housing targets because they had simply failed to deliver.For his part, Clark will have the task of delivering decentralisation, while Bob Neill, former shadow planning minister, will deliver a new planning framework. It could prove a challenging political balancing act.Alison Benjamin on civil society What's in a name? Any vestiges of the term "third sector" have been obliterated from government websites since the coalition took power, and ministers have gone quiet on "big society", which we know from education secretary Michael Gove did not "play well on the doorstep" during the election campaign. Yet ideas of getting the "little platoons" of civil society to deliver more of their own public services at neighbourhood level will be central to this government as it looks to slash public spending.Organisations – once collectively known as the third sector and now seen as part of the broader civil society – will still be among the main players. The Conservatives said before the election that they would rename the Office of the Third Sector the Office of Civil Society to reflect the growing role communities would play. It will be up to Tory Nick Hurd, the minister heading the office after spending 18 months as shadow charities minister, to ensure financial support is there to allow charities, social enterprises and community groups to take over the running of services across the public services. The funding will come from dormant bank accounts and is expected to be more than the £75m pledged by the previous government.It's significant that Hurd's shadow predecessor, Greg Clark – an advocate of strengthening civil society – is now local government minister responsible for devolving power away from Whitehall. Other secretaries of state and ministers who are charity-friendly include Iain Duncan Smith, so expect more welfare-to-work contracts going to not-for-profit organisations on a payments-by-results basis, and Nick Herbert, police and crime minister, which could signal more opportunities for charities to run prisons and rehabilitation programmes.In health, NHS organisations will no longer enjoy "preferred provider" status to run services, opening up the field to mutuals, co-operatives and social enterprises. Don't expect the Lib Dems to stand in the way of any of this, although it is not clear if Cameron's proposed National Citizens Service played well with the party.Denis Campbell on health If anyone thought the Conservatives' success in opposition in detoxifying their image on health would mean a steady-as-she-goes approach to this politically sensitive area, events in the coalition government's short life already tell us otherwise. The NHS's "efficiency" savings will have to be bigger than the £20bn already expected, says health secretary Andrew Lansley. Some £2bn is being put aside to cover the cost of changes, including job losses. Hospitals are preparing to make thousands of posts redundant. The expansion of the workforce, funded by Labour's huge year-on-year budget increases, is over.  Will ministers be identified with the closure of much-loved maternity units? Photograph: Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesWorking in the NHS is always demanding, but the tough decisions to be taken amid serious belt-tightening – on spending priorities, provision (or not) of services and staff numbers – mean the next few years will be very bumpy. The Tories' belief in increased competition within the NHS to drive up standards is as important as the financial climate. Are they privately hoping that competition will boost high-performing hospitals, and end up leaving the average unviable, and so achieve the reconfiguration of services that most medical leaders say is needed, while saving ministers from being identified with the closure of much-loved A&E departments and maternity units?Improving productivity will be vital, of course. But the NHS has resisted that before, and there is no glut of good ideas that have not been previously explored. Mutual Lib-Con enthusiasm for "cutting NHS bureaucracy" and the creation of the independent NHS Board means yet another restructuring is inevitable, with the future of England's strategic health authorities and primary care trusts at risk. Scrapping targets could produce a return to the long waiting lists of the previous Tory era. Most intriguing is the promised emphasis on public health. The Tories have identified the big challenges of obesity and alcohol, but not yet demonstrated fresh thinking equal to the task. Likewise, prioritising the improvement of poorer people's health outcomes is laudable, but very hard to achieve.Patrick Butler on children's services Does the coalition consider children's services and child protection a priority? Tim Loughton is the junior minister with responsibility for children's social care at the Department of Education. He knows the area well, having shadowed the brief for some time; but there is concern that his "junior" status is a sign that the overwhelming focus of the department will be on schools and academic performance.His to-do list will both encourage and dismay the children's social care world. His past pronouncements so far suggest he has listened to the profession's broad concerns. Loughton has promised to address soaring workloads, boost training and practice, and restore the confidence and professional autonomy of frontline staff (bringing in the respected London School of Economics professor Eileen Munro to advise on this work).The new government may create a chief social worker post to give national leadership to the profession, resurrect the idea of semi-independent GP-style "chambers" of social workers, and create consultant social worker posts to encourage high-performing, experienced professionals to progress their career in frontline practice without having to go into management.Stripping out bureaucracy and ending the over-reliance on structures and protocols has been a rhetorical staple in the Tories' approach, and there is nothing to suggest their Lib Dems partners will oppose this (the Lib Dems manifesto had a commitment to "enhance" child protection). Although opposed to structural tinkering, the new government may look again at children's trusts, and the role and approach of Ofsted in inspecting children's services.Loughton may have to work harder to persuade children's services professionals of the wisdom of two other key policy commitments (both of which are ardently supported by the Lib Dems): the publication in full of serious case reviews into child deaths, and the scrapping of the £220m ContactPoint children's database.The biggest issue will be finance: the coalition will be dealing with the hugely inflationary consequences of the post-Baby P "no risk" approach to child protection at a time when the Treasury is about to embark on savage cuts. As council budgets shrink there will be fears that funding will continue to be diverted from early intervention projects and youth services to safeguarding.