I was appalled to read (Report, 13 August) that the prime minister is inviting Bill Bratton, former police chief in New York and Los Angeles to advise on policing in the UK. I wonder how much David Cameron knows about crime in large US cities and the problems of law enforcement. From my own experience of living in the US, they are entirely different from the UK; Los Angeles as a city bears no resemblance to London. I consider inviting Bill Bratton an insult to the British police forces, particularly the Met. Bratton knows nothing about policing in the UK and nothing about our crime scene.Perhaps if the prime minister does meet Mr Bratton, the first thing he should ask him is how many people were shot and killed by policemen in New York City and Los Angeles during his terms of office. Mr Cameron, since his return from holiday, has made several pronouncements on policing and dealing with crime, many of which have offended the police, and yet he has failed to ask the fundamental questions as to why these riots took place.Professor emeritus Anthony MiltonWhaddon, Cambridgeshire • Why does David Cameron automatically turn to the US for advice on policing. The US has a larger proportion of its population in prison, higher levels of mental illness, greater rates of teenage pregnancy, a lower level of child wellbeing, and higher levels of poverty and social exclusion than most other developed countries. Why not get advice from socially more cohesive countries such as Japan, Sweden or Germany?Michael MillerSheffield• The home secretary appears to be taking credit for the increased numbers of police on the streets by ordering police leave to be cancelled. However, Hugh Orde, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, contradicted this saying Theresa May had "no power whatsoever" to make such an order and that the police provided more numbers by bringing in officers from other forces into the areas affected. Although it is important to establish whether the police did respond too slowly to the rioting, it is even more important to know whether they eventually got it right – or were told what to do by the politicians.Trevor FisherStafford• What a snub to our British police who are already suffering from funding cuts. If David Cameron would tackle bankers' bonuses and tax evasion there would be plenty of money available to enable our police force, properly funded, to deal with the criminal gangs.Dorothy TurnerCirencester, Gloucestershire