Ten years ago Harry Woolf suggested in a lecture that if the "unthinkable" happened and parliament passed a law abolishing judicial review, the judges could dig their heels in and refuse to obey it.He was a law lord then, one of the 12 judges in the House of Lords. Derry Irvine, who was shadow lord chancellor, ticked him off for judicial activism and threatening to usurp the role of parliament. Two years later Woolf, by now master of the rolls - the number two judicial job - told the Guardian: "I was postulating a situation I can't really see happening in this country. In a democracy, the rule of law is central." Eight years on Lord Irvine is history and the 1,400-year-old job of lord chancellor is about to go the same way. Woolf is lord chief justice, the top judge in England and Wales. And the unthinkable is on the verge of becoming reality. The rule of law is under threat to an extent unprecedented in recent times, the judges believe. The government is intent on pushing through a bill handing asylum and immigration decisions to a new tribunal and abolishing judicial review in the high court for failed asylum seekers and unsuccessful immigration applicants. Lawyers and judges are outraged. Governments have tried so-called "ouster clauses" limiting the role of the courts before, but never on so comprehensive a scale. Even if the tribunal makes errors of law, acts outside its jurisdiction, or denies the asylum seeker natural justice, the courts will have no power to intervene. Woolf has been busy behind the scenes trying to persuade Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary and last lord chancellor, to drop the clause. The judges picked holes in the draft clause, warning Falconer it would not work. But the lord chancellor pulled a fast one, using their criticisms to eliminate the loopholes they pointed out, to seal every crack, and judge-proof the clause. The bill was passed by the Commons this week, with 35 Labour MPs voting against it, but the government's refusal to back down left Woolf with no option, as he saw it, but to go public. He chose his time carefully: next week the bill goes to the Lords, where opposition from the Tories, who want curbs on immigration but think the clause goes too far, could secure a compromise. The Home Office is talking tough, but in the department of constitutional affairs the realisation is dawning that the judges have a potential weapon of mass destruction. The fear is that they could invoke what the Liberal Democrat peer and QC Lord Goodhart called the "nuclear option"- refusing to enforce the clause and allowing cases to go the high court nevertheless. "Some judges have been talking about it," he told BBC Radio 4's World at One yesterday. Lord Falconer looked disconcerted when I mentioned that a leading judicial- review expert had produced a legal opinion to that effect. Some public law specialists, including those who often appear on the government side in court, are speculating that the time may have come when the courts can simply refuse to enforce such a ban as an affront to the rule of law and a breach of our unwritten constitution. "The clause won't work," a senior judge told me this week. He and his brethren would simply find a way round it. For judges to defy the will of parliament would provoke an unprecedented constitutional crisis. But the warning is there in Woolf's 1994 lecture: "Both parliament and the courts derive their authority from the rule of law, so both are subject to it and cannot act in a manner which involves its repudiation." An example would be "removing or substantially impairing the entire reviewing role of the high court on judicial review". If parliament did that, he argued, the judges would be required to act in an unprecedented way. Woolf's career at the bar and on the bench spans the rise of judicial review in the past 40 years as a protection for the citizen against arbitrary decisions and abuse of state power. As a judge he has been a leading player in extending the powers of the courts to check officialdom. In 1993, when he was a law lord, he told the Observer: "The new higher judges are used to intervening in political areas. Once you've done it once, it's easier to do it again. I for one have gone through an education. I am more prepared to see a role for the judiciary in areas where once I would not have - I do believe we need to extend a little further." Before becoming a high court judge in 1979 at the early age of 46, he spent five years as the "Treasury devil" - the government's chief mouthpiece in the civil courts. Ministerial tricks and power ploys are, therefore, familiar ground. Hence, perhaps, his fear, spelled out in his Cambridge lecture this week, that the Constitutional Affairs Department, with the lord chancellor swept away, could become a subsidiary of the Home Office, putting David Blunkett and his successors in a position to dictate the agenda for the courts. He has already fought off an attempt by the home secretary to take over responsibility for the court service. Last June far-reaching constitutional reforms abolishing the lord chancellor - the judges' traditional protector - turning the law lords into a supreme court and setting up a judicial appointments commission were sprung on him only minutes before the rest of the country was told. He postponed his imminent retirement - he turned 70 last May - and negotiated a "concordat" with Falconer, insisting that protection for the judges' independence, traditionally taken for granted, must be spelled out in plain words in the legislation. His description this week of Falconer as "that engagingly friendly and cheerful chappie", speculates Jeffrey Jowell, a close friend and professor of public law at University College London, where Woolf took his law degree, was probably not intended, as some thought, to dismiss Falconer as lightweight but to chide him for making too little of the difficulties of combin ing the "wholly inconsistent" roles of lord chancellor and secretary of state. Britain,Woolf pointed out in his Cambridge lecture, has traditionally managed without a written constitution, aided by "mutual respect, restraint and cooperation between the three arms of government" - legislature, executive and judiciary - and the "glacial" pace of constitutional change. With the "torrent" of reform coming from the current government, he suggested, it might be time to get the constitution as a whole in writing. Friendly, accessible, and by nature unconfrontational, Woolf has "an aura of trust", says Jowell, who has co-written a hefty tome on judicial review with the lord chief justice. "If he has a fault, it's that he can't see any fault in anyone." Michael Zander, emeritus professor of law at the LSE, describes him as "an extremely decent, thoughtful, articulate person," adding: "He's put into a very difficult situation here. He is doing an outstanding job of trying to see his way through to an acceptable solution to a problem I'm sure he didn't want and that I'm sure he thinks the government is completely mistaken and misguided about." Born into a comfortably-off family in the building trade and educated at Fettes public school in Edinburgh, later Tony Blair's alma mater, he has a natural sympathy for the underdog which friends say may lie in his Jewish roots. The Liberal Democrat peer and human rights lawyer Lord Lester describes Woolf, a longstanding friend, as "a warm, generous and kind man", and "a pragmatist who has a great sense of what you can achieve - the art of the possible". He is also "a very determined man", Lester adds. "It's unfortunate that he's had to develop this pugilistic style in order to take on Blunkett and Blair, the bruisers." Woolf's relations with the home secretary reached a low point last summer when he savaged Blunkett's sentencing reforms in the House of Lords. The pair called a truce, the home secretary promising to consult the judges before publishing major new criminal justice legislation. The new battle over immigration and asylum promises to be no less tense. Woolf once said that when he died the word "Tameside" would be found engraved on his heart: a reference to a case he lost as a barrister representing a Labour education minister trying to force a Conservative education authority to go comprehensive. When David Blunkett expires the inscription on his heart may well read "Woolf".Life in shortBorn: May 2 1933, Newcastle Education: Fettes College, Edinburgh, University College, LondonFamily: Married with three childrenCareer: Called to the bar, Inner Temple, 1954, crown court recorder 1972-79, junior counsel Inland Revenue 1973-74, first Treasury junior counsel in common law 1974-79, high court judge (Queen's bench div) 1979-86, lord justice of appeal 1986-92, lord of appeal in ordinary 1992-96, master of the rolls 1996-2000, lord chief justice 2000-Member: Senate of bar and bench 1981-85, Bowman committee 1996-97, World Bank's international advisory council on law and justice 2001-Chairman: Butler Trust 1992-96, Advisory Council on Public Records 1996-2000.President: Law Teachers Association 1985-90, joint committee for Jewish social services 1988-, pro-chancellor University of London 1994. Held inquiry on access to justice 1994-96.