Two police detectives have been jailed for theft after being caught in a sting operation mounted by their bosses.Detective Sergeant Stephen Phillips and Detective Constable Jason Evans, who were part of a South Wales police team that investigated organised crime, were told to search a house supposedly linked to a series of burglaries.But the house in Neath had been rigged with cameras and microphones, and a police officer, whom they did not know, was posing as a resident.Phillips, 45, was jailed for 22 weeks after being caught taking £240 from a coat pocket and £10 from a bedside table while Evans, 43, was sentenced to 12 weeks for stealing two pens.The district judge, Bodfan Jenkins, told the court: "The public expect and is entitled to expect the highest level of trust in police officers. Both of you fell seriously short of that expectation."Your behaviour was breathtakingly arrogant. You thought your rank, experience and authority would protect you. The amounts were not large. In the case of you, Evans, it was infinitesimal but the significance of the act far outweighs the cost. You and any police officer has to understand that offending in these circumstances means custody." Both men also face dismissal proceedings.A team of officers from South Wales police, including Evans and Phillips, were sent to a house that the pair believed was linked to a series of burglaries and was filled with "evidence" including mobile phones, watches and Viagra. In fact, it was an "integrity test" set up by their own force.Andrew Kendall, prosecuting, said: "Phillips was filmed putting his hand inside a coat pocket and finding £240. He removes his hand and leaves the scene – but then returns 20 seconds later when he removes the cash and places it in his pocket."The court heard Phillips also took £10 from a bedside table, not realising all the notes had been marked with invisible ink and the serial numbers recorded. Evans was filmed going into a bedroom and taking two pens.The pair drove to a motorway service station, where Phillips spent £60 playing a Monopoly-themed gambling machine. They were pulled over on the motorway by a marked police car and arrested by members of their force's professional standards department.Both men, based in Neath, admitted theft. Evans had served for 19 years and Phillips for 26 years. Both had been commended in the past.  