Stabbing victim Abigail Witchalls said today that sensation was returning to most of her body, she was in less pain and could now speak in short bursts.There were fears that Mrs Witchalls, 26, would not survive when she first arrived in hospital last month after being knifed in the neck near her home in Little Bookham, Surrey, while she was out walking with her 21-month-old son, Joseph.The attack on April 20 left her paralysed but since then she has reported some sensation in her shoulders, arms and legs. In a statement released today by the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital in Stanmore, Middlesex, she said she could now "breathe and speak on my own for short periods".In the aftermath of the attack she could not speak at all and had been communicating by mouthing words and blinking. Today she said in the statement: "The staff here are wonderful and I am making progress every day. I have sensation over most of my body and the pain is less now. I can move my head, but as yet I cannot move my arms and legs." Mrs Witchalls, who is a devout Catholic, added: "Please pass on my thanks to everyone for their support and prayers. God is doing beautiful things."Earlier today her husband spoke publicly for the first time about his "remarkable wife" and described his pride at her determination not to let the attack ruin her life.Benoit Witchalls said: "She is a remarkable character ... I think I've had a crash course in spinal injury, and you just can't tell anything for the first month, so it's a case of wait and see, really. But she has still got her smile, which is very comforting to see." The 26-year-old engineer told the BBC programme Crimewatch, which will tonight broadcast a reconstruction of the attack: "We feel very lucky and very blessed because she is fully present as herself. It's just great to see and it's a great joy you can see in her face when she sees Joseph."The man who attacked Mrs Witchalls first threatened Joseph with a knife after following the pair down a quiet, private lane. Mr Witchalls said the first word his wife spelled out in hospital was "happy" because "she was so relieved that he [Joseph] came out of it unscathed, physically". It emerged last night that bloodstains could hold the key to identifying the attacker. Detectives hope they will find a match within days with samples taken from Mrs Witchalls.DNA tests are being carried out on bloodstains on trousers belonging to Richard Cazaly, 23, who left Little Bookham five days after the attack and committed suicide in Scotland by overdosing on painkillers. Tests are also being processed on material taken from Mr Cazaly's body and from a bag of knives recovered from his car. Mr Cazaly left short suicide notes to Vanessa McKenzie, his Australian girlfriend, and his mother, in which he said: "I'm terribly sorry. I must be two people. I can't remember. I must have done it." It also emerged last night that Ms McKenzie told police he had told her he "might have done it", possibly in reference to the attack. Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper of Surrey police said that he had been delighted with the response to appeals for information, but hoped the Crimewatch reconstruction and appeal by Mr Witchalls may "prompt someone to come forward with the final piece of the puzzle". Det Supt Harper said the incident room had received more than 700 calls, some of which had generated significant lines of inquiry. "We do have at least two people whom we regard as suspects in this case and another 38 names that we are also following up. However, we are not yet in a position where we can prove beyond all reasonable doubt who was responsible for this attack, which left Abigail with such dreadful injuries." He said the case had presented "complex forensic and identity issues" that were being tackled as quickly as possible. · Crimewatch is on BBC1 at 9pm.