A sobbing Kate McCann begged friends and supporters 'to pray like mad' for her lost daughter during an impromptu speech in her local church yesterday, before collapsing into the arms of her husband Gerry.The mother of Madeleine McCann unexpectedly stood up in front of a congregation gathered at an anniversary service to remember her daughter and pleaded, barely audibly, for them to 'Please stay with us, stay with Madeleine and keep praying. Pray like mad.'Kate and Gerry, who have said they fear this anniversary could be their last opportunity to find their daughter, wept and clung to each other in front of a collage of pictures of Madeleine and other missing children.Among the photographs placed at the altar of the church in Rothley, Leicestershire, was one of a smiling Madeleine sitting on a black Shetland pony. It was taken just a few weeks before she vanished from her bed in a holiday apartment in Praia da Luz, Portugal, a year ago yesterday.Kate and Gerry McCann are campaigning for the creation of a pan-European system to track missing children, and urged people not to forget other missing youngsters: 'There are lots of children who do not have the support that Gerry and I have,' she said. 'Please remember them.'In a separate interview, Kate explained why she had appeared cold in televised appeals at the time of her daughter's disappearance. 'Behavioural experts advised me not to show emotion in case the abductor got a kick from it,' she said. 'It's only recently, with the anniversary, that they've started showing footage from the early days. I don't recognise the person they asked me to be at that time, but to all the people out there who criticised me I say, would they want to swap places, really?' The McCanns used the anniversary of Madeleine's abduction to launch their own investigation to find their daughter. 'We're doing now what we should have done in the beginning,' said Gerry. The couple said they had been forced to start their own inquiry from scratch because the Portuguese police are refusing to reveal any details from the official investigation.'We'd like to know who's been eliminated and on what grounds they've been eliminated; who hasn't been eliminated and what leads are still being followed,' said Gerry. 'Because the police won't tell us this, we have been forced to compile all the evidence again ourselves. We are begging all witnesses to come forward, even if they have already spoken to police,' he said.Thousands of people called police hotlines last year, but Kate and Gerry have not been told if there were new leads. 'We don't know any of the information that came in, so we're asking people who have rung in before to kindly do it again,' said Kate. 'This could be our last chance to get all that information in,' she said. 'We are appealing for that one bit of information from the night, then it could all be over.'Kate has also asked that a family photograph released by the couple is publicised. She hopes that Madeleine will see the picture and recognise her family.'Madeleine is almost five years old now. She's going to remember us and the twins, and if she ever sees this photograph she's going to say "that's Mummy and Daddy and Sean and Amelie".' Kate said it was impossible that her daughter had simply vanished into thin air. She said that her kidnapper must come into contact with people every day, and begged the public to make it impossible for him to hide. 'The information is out there,' she said. 'No person can exist and not be seen or known by anyone. Even the strange bloke down the road who doesn't particularly have a social network, someone knows his name.' Kate, who still carries Madeleine's favourite toy, Cuddle Cat, said she fears her abductor may try to snatch another child. 'The abductor may have struck previously and will probably strike again,' she said. 'Time is of the essence, even now.'Everton, Madeleine's favourite football team, joined the campaign to 'light the way home' for Madeleine by switching on the floodlights at its Goodison Park ground last night between 9.30pm and 10pm, the period when she went missing. Members of the public also showed their support by lighting candles, shining torches or turning on a porch lamp.The anniversary was marked in Portugal with a special church service, during which a message from Kate was read out. The McCanns were advised not to attend because they remain arguidos, or formal suspects, in their daughter's disappearance. Instead a number of relatives travelled to Praia da Luz on their behalf.