Police firearms officers will be allowed to use electronic stun guns as a safer alternative, the government said yesterday.The hand-held Taser device fires twin needle-tipped darts up to 21ft; they deliver an electric shock that temporarily incapacitates the subject by cramping their muscles, with allegedly little serious or lasting injury. Five forces have been trying out Tasers during the past year. David Blunkett, the home secretary, has now decided to extend their use throughout England and Wales. Scotland's chief constables are also considering whether to use Tasers. One of the most striking findings of the pilot study was that, although officers deployed Tasers at 60 incidents and aimed them at 40, they were fired on only 13 occasions, because their presence alone was enough to obtain compliance. Mr Blunkett claimed that scientific evaluations showed that the US-made M26 Tasers, which can penetrate clothing 2in thick, had a "very low" risk of causing death. Policing organisations gave a broad welcome to the introduction of the stun guns, which follows criticism over the number of people shot dead by armed officers. Michael Tonge is the Gwent chief constable and conflict management spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, which worked closely with the Home Office on the trials. He said Tasers provided officers with a valuable tool. "It can only further improve public safety," he said. "Taser reduces the risk to officers called to deal with violent offenders, because it can be fired from a distance. It is also a strategic option in helping to resolve incidents before the risk of harm is heightened." But he said the police must retain the option to use guns. "Taser cannot be a replacement for firearms, and where officers face a threat from firearms they will meet the threat with firearms." The Independent Police Complaints Commission also welcomed the decision, but warned that officers must be properly trained in Taser use, and that it would reprimand forces for any misuse. "The year-long trial, and experience from police firearms incidents over many years, show that it is wise to extend the Taser's use to all firearms units that seek it," said Nick Hardwick, the commission's chairman. "We will expect the police service to refer all incidents to us in which Tasers are discharged. We are conscious that Tasers could be misused and we will scrutinise any misuse. The key to their successful deployment lies in continuing to provide clear guidance and adequate training." Barry Hugill, of the rights group Liberty, also said he was largely in favour of Tasers, providing those using them were properly trained and exercised sensible caution in their use. "There have been incidents in the US where people have been badly injured as a result of their use," he claimed. "But as they are preferable to live bullets, we have never had any serious objection to Tasers, as long as officers receive adequate training and it is made absolutely clear that they can maim or kill if misused." Taser barbs, fired from a compressed nitrogen cartridge, deliver a 50,000-volt shock, but its power is only 26 watts. The Arizona manufacturer said the device had been used in the US and Canada for 20 years and that no fatalities could be directly attributed to it: the only side-effect was a short-term skin irritation, although the company did concede that there was a danger of eye injury if the barbs were fired into someone's face. Tasers cost £350 each, and will only be used by authorised firearms officers who have had a day's training. A survey of public opinion by PricewaterhouseCoopers found that 90% of 1,164 respondents said that only firearm and other specially trained officers should use the Tasers.