Sir Ian Blair's call for a fresh national debate on policing in his Dimbleby Lecture last night could hardly be more timely or more necessary. Not for the first time, social and political change are making ever-increasing demands on the police, thrusting them into myriad situations for which they are not always best prepared or suited and in which their actions, whether innocent or guilty, can become matters of lasting and high-profile controversy.Much of this is avoidable, though some of it is not. The most dramatic example of this changing challenge in recent times comes from the indiscriminate terrorism embodied by July 7; but, at the other end of the scale, modern policing also confronts, as Sir Ian said in a striking phrase, "the degradation of communal life" - noisy neighbours, vandalism, public aggression and the rest of what has come to be known as antisocial behaviour. Policing may once have been marginal to much ordinary life, but today it is closer to the centre. These demands and others (the policing of the motor car and the computer must not be overlooked here) oblige the wider society to play its part in answering the question that formed the title of the Dimbleby lecture: What kind of police service do we want? As Sir Ian says: policing is too important to leave to police chiefs. Case made.Yet civil society has a poor record and little developed habit of discussing policing in the round. Political parties have almost nothing to say about policing except to offer the mantras of extra police and bobbies on the beat. Political debate about policing is rarely concerned with problem-solving. Most of it shows little advance from Margaret Thatcher's ineffable statement after the Brixton riots that "what the police need is support and not criticism." That is neither desirable nor true. But the other side of the coin is that police, Sir Ian included, need to be careful not to cross the line into general political controversy. A vigorous transparent public debate about policing, yes. Chief constables on Any Questions? Hmm.Historically, the police were a silent service, rarely heard because rarely challenged. That changed forever in the 1970s when Sir Robert Mark, the pivotal figure in modern police history, blazed a trail for a generation of often provocatively political police chiefs to follow. Today, largely thanks to improved training, the quality and diversity of police chiefs and officers alike has improved. Over the past 20 years, there have been important debates and useful reforms, not to be underestimated, stretching from Scarman to Macpherson, and covering issues from accountability, complaints and racism to firearms, interrogation and patrolling. But the essential cultural contrast drawn by Sir Ian between a public issue like medicine - where difficult micro and macro issues are well debated in professional and lay forums alike, as well as in parliament and the media - and a public issue like policing, where there is little of this civic richness, is a telling one. Clearly, we need to do better.So what is the answer to the challenge posed by Sir Ian? It must start with a recognition that there is a problem and a need for solutions. Policing needs to be taken more seriously and discussed in a grown-up way at all levels. Sir Ian rejects a royal commission as too cumbersome, but there is a need for institutions that reflect on and feed into what is happening on the front-line: parliament, the universities and, in particular, the voluntary sector all have roles to play. This country needs an institute of policing equivalent to the King's Fund in health.Sir Ian has so far only sketched the outlines of the policing agenda he wants this debate to produce. He is right that the hi-tech, glamorous end of policing must not be detached from the patrolling and neighbourhood end, and that the latter must be at the heart of the effort to enhance rather than degrade communal life. But he will have to explain more clearly how that localism sits alongside a trend, which he also supports, towards fewer and larger police forces. Overall, though, Sir Ian's Dimbleby lecture deserves to be as influential as that of the last police chief to give such an address - Sir Robert Mark more than 30 years ago.