At least 3,000 passports a year could be falling into the hands of terrorists, people traffickers and organised criminals after getting 'lost' in the post.Royal Mail sorting offices are being targeted by counterfeiters and black market passport racketeers in a multi-million-pound trade in false documents. Special Branch raids on radical Islamist cells in Britain since 11 September have discovered sophisticated identity theft operations suspected of funding terrorist activities or providing cover for operatives. Opposition MPs last night accused the Government of complacency in failing to crack down on one of the most powerful weapons in the terrorist armoury. Last month Baghdad Meziane and Brahim Benmerzouga were jailed for 11 years for running an al-Qaeda support cell in Leicester after police discovered that the two men possessed false passports and visas for use in terrorist activities. Parliamentary answers from Home Office Minister Beverley Hughes to Liberal Democrat MP Paul Burstow show that losses of new passports sent out by the Passport Agency soared by 17 per cent to 2,982 last year, with a total of 11,733 lost over the past four years. A fresh passport, newly stolen from the post, fetches between £500 and £1,000 on the black market. The price rockets to £5,000 when it has been adapted by the counterfeiters to fit the new identity. Burstow said: 'Either there is incompetence on the part of Royal Mail sorting offices when they are delivering passports back to customers, or there is a black market trade in stolen identities. Either way, an inquiry must be launched into why so many official documents are disappearing without a trace. 'In these times of heightened security and risk from terrorist threat, it is scandalous that so many passports could be falling into the wrong hands and potentially being used fraudulently.' These figures do not include passports that go missing while being handled by the Passport Agency or passports lost in the mail sent to the agency for amendments or renewal. The Government has so far failed to provide details of the number of passports that go missing en route to and from the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency. This month the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, announced changes to the law on passport and driving licence fraud to treat them as 'gateway offences' to organised crime and terrorism rather than a minor offence of not having your documents in order. Amendments to the Criminal Justice Bill will allow police to detain terrorist suspects without charge for up to 14 days. The Home Office is now so concerned about the roaring trade in fake identities as a result of passport thefts that it has ordered the Royal Mail to introduce a fail-safe system by the end of the year. Senior Post Office executives have held crisis meeting with the Passport Agency to develop a system that will guarantee safe delivery by winter 2003, The Observer has discovered. The move will necessitate a further hike in the price of a passport, which will have to be sent by registered mail in future. After the introduction of the new high-security service, it is estimated that the costs of new passports for a family of four will rise to over £100. Jack Straw was accused of 'persecuting ordinary people' when, as Home Secretary, he raised the price of an adult passport to £28 to fund a recovery programme for the passport service after the near-collapse of the system in the summer of 1999. A Home Office spokeswoman said: 'The Government takes very seriously the security and integrity of UK passports. These are very small numbers compared to the 5.5 million passports sent through the post every year.' The Royal Mail confirmed that it was now working on a system to send out all passports by special delivery after meetings with officials from the Passport Agency. Figures for special delivery show that more than 99 per cent of mail is delivered the next day. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: 'The Metropolitan Police Specialist Crime Unit is aware that passports are occasionally intercepted in the post and used fraudulently, and the Met works closely with the Passport Agency and the Royal Mail to bring those guilty to justice.'