Life has stood still for Stephen Miller since he was arrested more than 20 years ago and charged with the murder of a young woman in Cardiff. "Not one day goes past without me thinking about the case," he said. "My life is stuck in 1988."Last week, it was announced that 13 former and serving South Wales police officers were to face charges of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice in connection with the investigation into the murder of Lynette White in 1988. Five innocent men were charged with the murder and three - Miller and two others, together known as the Cardiff Three - were jailed for life. They were freed on appeal in 1992 and the real murderer, Jeffrey Gafoor, pleaded guilty in 2003.Now 42, Miller is living in south London where he grew up, but his life has changed. "I was very sociable before," he said, speaking at the office of his lawyer, Matthew Gold. "Now I find it too stressful to go out. I don't go to bars, or anything. I stay in my room and watch TV. My missus, Olivia, has been like a rock but we hardly ever go out - perhaps four or five times in the last eight years. I don't like to go out in case I get into any confrontation and get angry and emotional."In Wormwood Scrubs, he had considered killing himself and found it hard that anyone could imagine that he would have carried out such a horrific crime. White was stabbed more than 50 times. "What Lynette went through there are no words to describe it," he said. "I would like to see Gafoor and ask him why."Before the case he had hoped for a career in the building trade with his brother but he has been unable to work since. Like the others he has received some compensation but all are still involved in a civil case against the police. "It's been difficult," said another of the three, Tony Paris, now 51, who still lives in Cardiff. "When you first come out, you can't trust anybody, you can't go anywhere. Some people look at you funny, they can't accept that they were wrong." He said that, although their families and close friends always knew they were innocent, others remained suspicious. "If they were strangers and they said, 'I thought the police were right but I was wrong' and they shake your hand, I can accept that but the ones who knew us before, I find it hard to forgive them." He barely goes out as he is weary of being approached by people who only knew him through the case."It's depressing, so I don't go to the pubs and clubs," said Paris, who has two young daughters. He said his son, now 23, was often approached by people who said: "Oh, your father was one of the boys."The damage has been great. "My father died six weeks before I was released but he knew I would be out." His marriage broke up while he was in prison. "When it's all back in the news again you tend to sit on your own in a room for an hour or so."He said he occasionally saw another of the three, Yusef Abdullahi, and John Actie, who was acquitted at the original trial. "We weren't friends before but we have a bond through what we've been through," he said. He welcomed the plans being put forward by the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation for a residential trauma centre for victims of such cases. "If you're not strong, you commit suicide."Actie, who was acquitted, very nearly did not live to see Gafoor convicted. "Lynette White's father came to my house with a shotgun. It turned everything upside down," said Actie, now 47. "Me and my wife split up, my mum fell ill. It affected the whole family."Abdullahi, the third of the three, was bright enough to have gone to university, said Roger Backhouse QC, who represented him. His relationship with his common-law wife broke down and he lost the chance to be a father to his children, who are now adults.