James Lloyd was a rapist who terrorised women in the Rotherham area of South Yorkshire between 1983 and 1986. After sexually assaulting his victims he would steal their shoes. Hence his nickname, the shoe rapist. For more than 15 years, Lloyd evaded justice until developments in forensics linked his DNA to his crimes. Last year, Lloyd was jailed for 15 years for rape, a sentence later cut to seven.Such cases as Lloyd's make irresistible reading: a technology that can pinpoint offenders from the invisible traces they left behind decades earlier. And soon, according to the Home Office, we can expect to hear of many such stories following a decision to review DNA evidence from a further 4,000 unsolved sex crimes.But experts last week warned that although DNA evidence is a weapon of extraordinary potency and can lead police to offenders who have evaded justice for decades, it is also bedevilled by a myriad legal problems. Only a handful of convictions are likely to result from these re-investigations.'No one doubts we should do them - we owe that to the victims - but the public must realise just how much work is needed and how hard it is to make forensic evidence stick,' said one senior expert.A perfect example of the problem was demonstrated last Monday when the prosecution case, based mostly on DNA profiling evidence, against Angus Sinclair for the murders of 17-year-olds Christine Eadie and Helen Scott in Edinburgh in 1977 was thrown out by trial judge Lord Clarke.DNA may link individuals to crime scenes but it is not always able to convince courts of a person's guilt. 'The DNA evidence in the case of Angus Sinclair was extremely strong yet we failed to get a conviction,' said Detective Chief Inspector Allan Jones, who led the investigation into the murders. 'And that is a worry. If we want to follow up other cold cases and use DNA to track down killers and rapists then we are going to have do better than this.'It is a point backed by Jonathan Whitaker, one of the world's leading forensic scientists. In an exclusive interview with The Observer, Whitaker, who uncovered the key DNA evidence that brought Sinclair to court, stressed the difficulties encountered in cold-case forensics. 'For a start, we can only work with the samples that are with us. Often you find items have been destroyed or damaged and no matter what technology we have, it is no good if you have nothing to test against.'And even if samples are well-preserved, forensics experts face a constant battle to prevent contamination of samples and to provide assurances in court that none could have affected their evidence. This is not easy, for juries are now made up of members of the public sated on a diet of forensic TV drama. Like most forensic experts, Whitaker is driven to distraction by CSI and Waking the Dead.As he points out, on these programmes, DNA profiles are provided in minutes when days are needed in reality; scientists are depicted eating food or dropping sweat over samples, a process that would cause ruinous contamination; while in court, experts give opinions of unqualified assertiveness.This last problem is now a special worry said Whitaker, who has given crucial evidence in major cases, including that of Bradley Murdoch, murderer of British backpacker Peter Falconio. Juries today expect confident opinions from experts because that's what they see on CSI. But certainty is impossible in real life, particularly in a British courtroom. Exact matches between offenders and crime scene samples may be universal on TV but partial matches from degraded samples are the reality in true-life forensics. 'It has become a real problem,' said Whitaker.Whitaker's involvement in the case of Sinclair demonstrates many of these problems. This began in 2001 when Whitaker helped solve the 1973 murders of 16-year-olds Geraldine Hughes and Pauline Floyd near Llandarcy, South Wales. Like Helen Scott and Christine Eadie, they had been bound, raped and murdered. Their killer had never been found, however.Then DNA profiling was developed, dramatically opening up the Llandarcy murders. After testing crime samples, Whitaker produced a full genetic profile of an unknown individual. The national DNA database - where millions of profiles, mainly those of known offenders, are stored - provided no match, however. So Whitaker hunted in the database for a relative who might share some of the killer's DNA profile. He came up with the name of Paul Kappen, a car thief whose father Joseph had once been a Llandarcy case suspect but had since died. An exhumation provided DNA that matched the crime scene DNA. Thirty years after their deaths, the girl's killer had been unmasked.So could this success be repeated with the World's End murders (as the Edinburgh killings became known, after the pub the girls had been drinking in before their deaths)? Crime scene samples had fortunately been kept in good condition, and Whitaker's team was able to produce a full genetic profile of an unknown person from semen found in the girls. But once more no match could be made from the database. Whitaker again looked for a relative's profile. However, first he needed to find fresh DNA samples for his work. So his team examined the girls' clothing and found a tiny semen stain on Helen's coat. To their surprise, this produced a profile of a second individual.Whitaker then went to the database with the second profile - and hit pay dirt. It matched Angus Sinclair's. 'We told DCI Jones and he went apoplectic,' Whitaker recalls. Sinclair was serving a life sentence for raping and murdering 17-year-old Glasgow girl Mary Gallagher in 1978 and had previous convictions for rapes and for another killing. Sinclair also had a sidekick, his brother-in-law Gordon Hamilton who had died, aged 41, in 1997. Again, by going through a complex series of tests of relatives, and of Hamilton's decorating work, they produced DNA that strongly but not exclusively matched the crime scene DNA. The two profiles were enough to bring Sinclair to court.Unfortunately, prosecutors chose not introduce other key items of forensic evidence provided by Whitaker. These showed that DNA from underwear used to tie up the girls produced profiles similar to Hamilton's and partially matched Sinclair's. Such a link would indicate Sinclair - who claimed he had had consensual intercourse with the girls - had also helped tie them up, implicating him in their murder.Without this evidence, Sinclair's counsel was able to argue nothing had been presented in court to show his client had tied up or murdered the girls. The case was thrown out, causing consternation in Scottish legal circles. Scotland's Lord Advocate Elish Angiolini has robustly defended her Crown Office prosecutors but most police and forensic experts remain dumbfounded that this key evidence was withheld.So far, no satisfactory explanation for this omission has been provided. The Crown Office might have worried that the partial matches from the ligatures would have introduced doubts, rather than strengthen the case against Sinclair. So this evidence was never used and the case fell. DNA forensics may look easy in Waking the Dead but, in reality, it is hard, exacting work. DNA profiling: the factsDNA profiling was invented by Alec Jeffreys, the Leicester University geneticist who first used the technique to help solve the murders of Leicestershire schoolgirls Dawn Ashworth and Lynda Mann in 1988. In those days, large amounts of biological material were needed to create profiles. Since then scientists have perfected the technology so that only a few cells, invisible to the naked eye, can create a DNA profile.The technology exploits the fact that small sections of our DNA repeat themselves and that different people have different numbers of repeats. These genetic 'stutters' can be counted, producing a digital readout (pictured above). Current tests - 'LCN' (low copy number) tests - produce a highly specific sequence of 20 numbers. The chances that a DNA sample from anyone except your identical twin will exactly match each of the 20 numbers of your profile are about a billion to one. The ability to turn a person's DNA into a series of numbers means DNA profiles can be stored in computers. Britain has more than four million profiles on its National DNA Database, used to link crime scene samples with known offenders. But in cases where samples have degraded over time, it is not always possible to get a 20-strong sequence of digits; sometimes only small number are generated. Scientists then have to interpret these findings in court.