The spectre of Harold Shipman returned to haunt a small town near Manchester yesterday as the news spread that he could have been responsible for at least 236 deaths. Pensioners shopping on a bitterly cold morning at the thrice-weekly open air market in Market Square, Hyde, shook their head in disgust as his name was mentioned.Beneath the yellow, red and green corrugated iron roof of the market, small groups of shoppers huddled together to talk about the world's most prolific serial killer in hushed voices. Ella Butt, 72, asked simply: "Why did he do it? He is the world's biggest serial killer isn't he? It is something that keeps cropping up in conversation and every time I go past his surgery I can't help but look at it and think what happened there." Shipman's former surgery in Market Street, just around the corner from the market, was packed with patients waiting to see their family doctor. They ranged in age from babies and small children to frail pensioners. It is hoped that the practice will eventually move from its present site, where Shipman is believed to have killed at least five patients. Many people said they felt numb by the latest revelations about Shipman. Ian Vellender, a market trader, said the atmosphere among his customers had been very subdued yesterday. "Many people living here have got friends or relations who have been a patient of Shipman's," he said. "He has caused so much hurt and upset in this community. So many lives have been wrecked." In Bossun's fish restaurant and takeaway nearby, Barbara Harnett said: "It is shocking that he got away with it for so many years and that so many people have died. I feel so sorry for the people who lost relatives who still had many years to live. "He has taken away so much from so many people and I just don't know how he can live with himself. A lot of people around here feel devastated by what he has done and very let down." Jane Ashton Hibbert, whose grandmother Hilda Hibbert died in January 1996, said it was like living under a dark cloud. An inquest into her grandmother's death will be held by the South Manchester coroner John Pollard at Tameside magistrates court next Tuesday. Horrendous "This has been with me since September 1998 when we were first interviewed by the police," she said. "The last two years have been absolutely horrendous for us. What sickens me is that this one individual has caused so much chaos and unhappiness for so many people in such a small place. "It has been very hard at times. We have had to fight for a public inquiry and we have had to fight for everything. My grandmother was a very independent woman who used to go on CND marches. Murder is murder and I have got to continue fighting for her." She said if Shipman had admitted his guilt it would have been a lot better for the families, many of whom still felt very raw with emotion. Peter Wagstaff, whose mother Kathleen, 81, was one of the 15 women whom Shipman was convicted of murdering in December 1997, said he was disturbed by the way the figures were released. "We knew about the clinical audit, but we didn't realise these numbers would be coming out in the audit," he said. "We thought it would be restricted to looking at Shipman's access to drugs and medical records. This was yet another revelation which was a bolt out of the blue for us." He said many of the families felt they had been excluded from the judicial process, as Shipman had not been charged with the murder of their loved ones or inquests were not being held into their deaths. "I feel sorry for the families whose relatives died suddenly and were patients of Shipman who don't know what happened to them. This news will cause them a lot of trauma." Jayne Gaskell, whose mother Bertha Moss is a suspected victim of the serial killer, shook her head in disgust as she watched the lunchtime television news and heard the director of public prosecutions say Shipman would be unable to receive a fair trial. An inquest into her mother's death will be held at on February 8 at Tameside magistrates court. "She was supposed to be one of the people Shipman was charged with murdering," said Mrs Gaskell. "We were devastated when we learnt that she was not the 16th person on the charge sheet. Our family felt cheated by this decision. When she died, we were a bit suspicious at the time, but we thought that was part of the natural grieving process." Her mother, who was 68, died of an apparent massive heart attack while lying on a treatment bed in Shipman's surgery in June 1995. "Mum was bubbly, she was a caring mother and she loved dancing. She really liked Shipman because she thought he was so caring." Tameside councillor Joe Kitchen, whose mother Alice, 70, was unlawfully killed by Shipman, sympathised with the families who were unsure whether their relatives had been murdered. "Our family, along with two others, have already been through an inquest when the coroner clearly said my mother had been unlawfully killed. A lot of families are not in that position and it is going to be extremely difficult for them. Obviously we are not going to know until Shipman admits to committing these crimes." Other relatives believe that the revelations of the new figures will cause panic among the community in Hyde. Andrea Robinson, whose 54-year-old mother Eileen died suddenly in December 1993, said she was living in a state of limbo because no inquest had been planned into her mother's death. "We don't really know what happened to my mother," she said. "I do not suppose we ever will, but she was in good health when she supposedly died of a coronary thrombosis. Christmas used to be such a happy time for me, but now it is just memories and it makes me so angry thinking what he might have done to my mother. It makes me want to scream."