One of the country's top female officers has been suspended over allegations involving a pensioner's gifts, which she returned, it emerged yesterday.The bizarre set of allegations against Detective Chief Superintendent Ellie Baker led the West Midlands force to suspend her last week. Yesterday the Police Superintendents' Association attacked the decision to remove Ms Baker from her post, saying it was bewildered by the decision. She was head of the West Midlands crime support unit and supporters say she turned it around to the extent that it became a model for other forces. Ms Baker was also put forward as a spokesperson by the force when it faced high profile incidents, such as last year's Real IRA attempted bombing of Birmingham city centre. The allegations are unconnected to her duties as an officer, a source with knowledge of the investigation confirmed to the Guardian. Ms Baker, 50, gave support to a widower who attended her church after his wife died. The 86-year-old man sent her gifts, which she returned. The Guardian understands the man's family were party to the complaint, and among the gifts were family heirlooms, such as jewellery. Chief Superintendent Kevin Morris, chairman of the Police Superintendents' Association which is supporting Ms Baker, said: "[The man] sent Ellie a series of gifts, which she returned because she felt it was inappropriate. He ended up posting them through her letterbox. He thought they had a mutually exclusive relationship. He thought she was his, but she didn't see it that way, which is why she returned the presents and ended the relationship. "It seems he then made a complaint to the police that she had conned him into buying these presents." Mr Morris said the association was providing Ms Baker with legal representation as well as a special mentor to provide moral support. He added that the officer was devastated by her suspension last Monday. Mr Morris said: "This is a woman who has given her whole professional life to the force. It is hard for a woman to get to the top, even if things have changed and there is a bit more equality." Ms Baker has 31 years' service in the police and is entitled to retire on a full police pension after 30 years. Chief Superintendent Phil Aspey, deputy national secretary of the PSA, said: "On the limited information we have, it is difficult to see how there could be any criminality or serious breach of the disciplinary code by Ellie Baker. "Suspending a senior police officer is a devastating thing to do. I can't think of anyone suspended at Ellie Baker's level who has been able to go back to their job afterwards. It destroys your reputation." A spokesman for the police complaints authority said it was supervising the investigation, which would be conducted by an outside force, yet to be chosen. West Midlands police merely confirmed Ms Baker had been suspended.