A teenage pupil repeatedly threatened to kill a teacher before raping her in a "sustained and violent sexual attack", the Old Bailey heard yesterday.The woman, in only her second day in the job, was head-butted and bitten by the 15-year-old during the assault, which lasted more than 10 minutes. Yesterday the youth, who is now 16, admitted raping the woman in September last year. Two other charges alleging sexual assault were ordered to lie on the file. Brendan Kelly, prosecuting, said the teacher was marking books in a classroom at a school in south London when she was grabbed from behind. Mr Kelly told the court: "He was telling her to be quiet and dragged her the length of the classroom. He is a large boy. He had no trouble dragging her, while continuing to tell her to be quiet." The 28-year-old, who described teaching as her vocation, tried to fend off the teenager by stabbing him with a pen. "He had his hands clamped round her neck during most of the time, but she tried to throw furniture at him, he was not deterred," Mr Kelly said. "He made it quite clear he would kill her and repeated the threat throughout. It was clear to her that he intended to rape her vaginally and did all she could to resist. He then head-butted her." Following the attack, the court heard, the teacher's face was so badly cut and bruised that her colleagues were unable to recognise her. It emerged yesterday that the youth, who had not met the teacher before the attack, had been implicated in two other allegations of serious sexual assault but was not prosecuted for either. It is now believed that he may have been responsible for an attack where the case fell apart when the alleged victim went abroad and stopped cooperating with police. The crown prosecution service advised the Met to take no further action. The schoolboy was not a suspect at the time but is now believed to be a possible perpetrator. After an alleged attack on a 24-year-old in Kennington Park, south London, the youth was arrested but the woman withdrew the allegation. In a joint statement yesterday, Westminster council and the school condemned "all violence committed against staff or pupils". A spokesman added: "The school regards this abhorrent crime as a completely unacceptable, but isolated incident. We will continue to offer full support and guidance to the teacher, the headteacher and all other staff at the school." The court heard that the teacher had not returned to work. After the hearing Detective Chief Inspector Andy Rowell said: "The victim in this matter had shown immense courage and bravery throughout the ordeal and during the police investigation. She now wishes to embark upon a period of rebuilding her life." Mr Rowell said security at the school had been stepped up with enhanced CCTV, security staff at entrances and the appointment of a police liaison officer. "It is extremely rare and unheard of for an attack to happen in a school in such a way with such a level of violence. The school had an exemplary record. It is not one which would be considered to be a catalyst for this type of behaviour." Last weekend delegates at the National Association of Head Teachers' conference revealed that the organisation had dealt with 18 violent incidents in the last month, including four cases where its members had been physically attacked. Earlier in the year, the National Union of Teachers highlighted the growing threat posed by violent pupils. Last night Chris Keates, general secretary of the National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers, said of the rape: "Fortunately such incidents are extremely rare but nevertheless they highlight the vulnerability of teachers and the need for constant vigilance to ensure that everything possible is done to protect them from violent assault." The teenager was remanded in custody for reports and will be sentenced on June 17.