It was a dark, freezing February night this year when police officers stopped a black Ford Focus on the Forest Hill Road, near Peckham, south London. Inside were three occupants. A search revealed a loaded semi-automatic Browning gun with a bullet in the breach, the safety off and six rounds in the magazine. In the front passenger seat was the UK gangsta rapper Giggs, or Hollowman, whose real name is Nathaniel Thompson.All three were charged with possession with intent to endanger life. They were all found not guilty on Friday. One young man seated behind Giggs, in the back, pleaded guilty to having the gun.The case raises questions about how challenging it is for young men to escape their roots on the streets. Giggs grew up in deprived "Pecknam" (as in Vietnam), was involved in gangs and drugs in his teens and early 20s, and went to prison in 2003 for firearms offences. After prison he resolved to succeed as a rapper. His lyrics from that time are full of rage, threats and chaos: the life he knew on the streets.Nine years later, now a father, he's signed to XL Recordings, the label of best-selling artists such as Adele, Radiohead and the White Stripes. He won a best UK hip-hop act award in the US in 2008. His lyrics, still hard-hitting and threatening, include more mature commentary about teenage pregnancy, inner-city blight and despair. In February (when the arrest happened), his second XL album was about to come out and he was booked to perform at one of the country's largest live events, Radio 1's Hackney Weekend, headlined by Obama White House favourite Jay-Z.That night, with six points on his driving licence, after a couple of drinks Giggs asked for a lift home from the Huxbear Street music studio in Brockley, where he was working. Huxbear is a new community project Giggs part-funded, with inner-city charity XLP, to give kids something to do and keep them off the streets. Given how much he stood to lose, his defence barrister argued, would Giggs, 31, drive around Peckham firing out of the window, risking 10 years in jail under an indeterminate public protection (IPP) sentence? The jury acquitted him.Many view rap music as frightening, and put guns, gangs and grime in the same bracket. Street gangs have become the latest bogeyman. The crown quoted excerpts from Giggs's songs in 2003 and 2007 to the jury at Woolwich crown court to prove he was still gang-affiliated in 2012. Was this an attempt to scare the jury? The songs are unsettling because they offer a window into a world of inner-city violence many would rather not know about. As evidence it is questionable, especially given our history of gritty, confrontational youth culture. Dizzee Rascal headlined the Olympics opening ceremony, even though his early lyrics are equally intimidating.Young men go off the rails in their teens; an early introduction to the criminal justice system can stigmatise them for life. Ex-offenders are often the only ones kids on the streets respect. As a result, they make powerful mentors. One former gang member I know works full-time in Lewisham turning young lives around. SOS Gangs project in Southwark has achieved good outcomes using ex-offenders to prevent young men returning to jail. Young kids in Belmarsh prison visiting hall recognised Giggs as he awaited trial, remanded in custody. But he testified that it now made him feel ashamed.As another poet, Larkin, wrote: "An only life can take so long to climb / Clear of its wrong beginnings, and may never."