Police have started to sift through tonnes of debris at the gutted estate of the millionaire Christopher Foster, who remains missing with his family amid increasing speculation about his business dealings.Forensic science specialists carried out autopsies yesterday on the bodies of three horses found close to the burnt-out shells of four luxury cars in a stable block separate from Foster's main mansion but set ablaze at the same time.The head of the inquiry, Superintendent Gary Higgins, of West Mercia police, said detectives were sure the fire had been started deliberately but would not confirm that gun cartridges and pools of blood had been found outside the buildings on the family's four hectare (10 acre) estate at Maesbrook, near Oswestry, Shropshire.He repeated appeals for any sightings since the start of the bank holiday weekend of Foster, 50, his wife, Jill, 49, and their daughter Kirstie, 15, who was on holiday from her boarding school at nearby Ellesmere. All three returned to the house on Monday night, hours before the blazes erupted at 5am. They had spent the evening at a barbecue given by a Shropshire car dealer, and were said to have been in good spirits.Police maintained a cordon round fields and woods at the estate, Osbaston House, which dates from the 17th century. Through the trees, a cherrypicker platform could be seen, with men removing tiles from a teetering roof and scanning the smouldering wreckage below.A search team was given the all-clear by structural experts to enter the roofless main house last night, where a search will start for human remains. But a watch remains in place on ports and airports for Foster, who was described by an appeal court judge in May as an asset-stripper who was "not to be trusted".Neighbours said he was rarely seen except in one of his fleet of cars, often heading for shooting parties with businessmen who had bought similar properties on the picturesque border with Wales. Terence Baines, a former accountant at Foster's thermal insulation firm Ulva Ltd, which went into liquidation a year ago, said: "He liked to live life big, with holidays and cars."Foster's complex financial dealings had become an increasing matter of comment after court hearings that questioned his business morality. The high court and later Lord Justice Rimmer in the appeal court condemned a series of manoeuvres by Foster in a prolonged attempt to avoid £800,000 damages from a breach of contract with a distribution company.But friends and business contacts described Foster as congenial and a family man, devoted to his daughter. The £1.2m mansion had been equipped with every luxury, and two of the horses were bought at high prices earlier this year for Foster and Kirstie to ride.Police attempted to quash rumours about the cause of the fire and would not comment on reports that a horsebox with deflated tyres had been left behind the mansion's electronic gates to delay rescuers. Higgins said the task of searching the sprawling building would take time. "Fire crews have been damping down hotspots to bring the temperature low enough for structural work to begin. It is a large property and there is a lot of debris inside which will have to be painstakingly sifted through and examined. This is not something which can be done quickly. Once we have access to the house, we will find out whether the family was inside at the time of the fire."The family had lavished money on the estate, constructing a lake, planting trees and raising sheep, ducks and hens, as well as keeping the horses. Four dogs are also missing and the gutted remains of Mrs Foster's 4x4, whose personalised number plate JILL40 was familiar locally, stand on the gravel drive.Internet messages from friends paid tribute to Kirstie and hoped for her speedy appearance. The headteacher of Ellesmere College, Brendan Wignall, said: "We are very concerned for the safety of Kirstie and her family, who are in our thoughts and prayers. She is a charming, popular and hard-working girl with many friends, all of whom are hoping that she and her family will be found safe and well."