A British soldier who had served in Kosovo and Iraq has been shot dead just four hours after returning to the UK to celebrate his mother's birthday in what appeared to be a bungled robbery.Neral Sharpe, of the Queen's Royal Hussars, bled to death after being hit once in the stomach in the early hours of Saturday in a car park near his family's home in Smethwick, West Midlands. The 20-year-old had taken leave from his base in Germany to celebrate his 21st birthday and his mother's 40th. As he parked his car at around 4.30am witnesses say another man approached him and tried to grab the soldier's gold chain. After a struggle both men fell to the floor and a single shot was heard. While Private Sharpe lay bleeding, his attacker is believed to have removed the soldier's chain and walked off. Private Sharpe was taken to hospital where he later died. Last night Private Sharpe's mother, Gail, said her son had never been in trouble before. "He was a polite and family-loving boy and he served his country with bravery," she said. "He put his life on the line in so many dangerous places, it is just terrible to think something like this could happen so close to home." Mrs Sharpe added: "I have been told that his gold chain that he used to wear around his neck was missing when police officers arrived at the scene. Three people who saw what went on have come forward to the police. One said they actually saw the man make a grab for the chain. Neral put his hands up to try and protect himself, a small struggle began and then he was shot." Private Sharpe had served in some of the world's most dangerous regions during his army career. He was in Kosovo between 2001 and 2002 and subsequently in Basra in southern Iraq from November 2003 to April this year.Detective Chief Inspector Andy Hough of the West Midlands police, said that although he could not confirm that theft was the motive, a man in his early 20s had been arrested. "If he has been shot as the result of a robbery going wrong, a shooting of this kind would be both unusual and worrying," he told the Times. Detectives are now examining CCTV footage to piece together Private Sharpe's exact movements. "The circumstances are quite bizarre in that Mr Sharpe had literally just arrived in the country," said Detective Chief Inspector Hough.