The Home Office must draw up a proper, national strategy to support victims of crime, an influential group of MPs said today.In a report on the work of the charity Victim Support, the public accounts committee said variations in funding meant victims in some high-crime areas had access to a less adequate service.Ministers should devise a national standard for the services available to victims and witnesses, the MPs said. They should also decide on the proper balance within Victim Support between public funding, private cash and fund-raising. Today's report comes as the charity claims that it is being subjected to "hugely increased pressures" from government, but that no additional funding has been made available.The committee's chairman, Edward Leigh MP, said: "The Home Office's reliance on voluntary efforts means that victim and witness support varies across the country, with less comprehensive support in some high crime areas. "Those affected by crime deserve to have the same services wherever they live and this, in turn, is vital in encouraging people to report crime. "The Home Office must therefore devise a proper national strategy, deciding on the proper balance between public, private and charitable funding." The number of victims referred to the charity by police varies significantly across the country, the MPs found. For example, the proportion of people who have been burgled who are offered help varies from 47% and 75% of reported incidents.The Home Office gave Victim Support £28m in funding this year. The charity's chief executive, Dame Helen Reeves, said: "Victim Support is currently facing hugely increased pressures from government and elsewhere. "Despite this, we have been told by the Home Office that we will receive no additional resources for the next three years and have just received a real-term cut of around 3% in our funding for 2003-2004. "This is having an immediate impact on services with a number of local branch closures already announced and the possibility of redundancies in our affiliated charities, which deliver our frontline services. She added: "Without more core funding and greater clarity over what exactly our central government grant pays for, it is difficult for us to persuade different local authorities to fund our work consistently. A Home Office spokesman said: "We will study the report's recommendations carefully. Working to improve the service given to victims is at the heart of the government agenda for reforming the criminal justice system." The spokesman added: "It is not true that the Home Office has cut funding to Victim Support. "Total Home Office funding to Victim Support in 2002-3 came to £29.3m. For 2003-4 we have provided a total of £30m. This represents an increase in Home Office funding for 2003-4 of 2.4%, not a cut. "The Home Office will shortly be publishing its national strategy for victims and witnesses. We are also in the process of reviewing our relationship with Victim Support. This review will, among other things, consider what services Victim Support is currently able to provide and help to identify any gaps in service provision."