One of two men arrested in connection with the theft of a woman's remains from a graveyard is a prominent animal rights protester, it emerged today.The Coventry Animal Alliance said that John Curtin, 41, was arrested by Staffordshire Police this morning at his home in the Hillfields area of Coventry. A second man, aged 34, was taken into custody in Wolverhampton at about 6.30am, as part of the inquiry into the desecration of the grave in Yoxall of Gladys Hammond, who died aged 82.Officers have suggested that animal rights extremists may be responsible for digging up the remains. Mrs Hammond's son-in-law helps to run a farm breeding guinea pigs for medical research and her family has been repeatedly targeted by animal rights activists.The damage to Mrs Hammond's burial plot was discovered last week at St Peter's Church in the Staffordshire town. The area was cordoned off for a forensic investigation and police later announced that most of her remains had been removed. It is thought that at least two people were involved in digging up the grave, under cover of darkness between last Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Alliance member Nancy Phipps, whose daughter Jill was crushed to death under a lorry during a protest against live animal exports at Coventry airport in 1995, confirmed that Mr Curtin, a former surveyor, was arrested early today. But she accused officers of conducting a "fishing expedition". Mrs Phipps, who is in her 60s, told the Press Association: "John's door was knocked down this morning despite the fact he has had nothing to do with the Newchurch protest. The police are just on a fishing trip. It's pretty obvious they have not got a clue who is doing these things. "John is well known in the movement and he's a campaigner and a good speaker, but I can assure you he won't be charged because he's not involved. "He has converted to Buddhism and he's a gentle person. He's a close friend of all my family and he has not got anything to do with what happened."Mrs Hammond, who died in 1997, was the mother-in-law of Chris Hall, one of two brothers who run Darley Oaks farm in Newchurch, Staffordshire. The Hall family have been subjected to a long-running campaign by animal rights activists, suffering hate mail, malicious phone calls, hoax bombs, a paedophile smear campaign and arson attacks. Detective Chief Inspector Nicholas Baker, describing the incident as "a quite despicable act", said on Tuesday he was keeping an open mind about whether the desecration was the work of animal rights protesters. A police spokesman said: "In a pre-planned operation between Staffordshire Police and West Midlands Police this morning, officers have arrested two men. Warrants were executed in Wolverhampton and Coventry, resulting in the arrest of a 41-year-old man in Coventry and a 34-year-old man in Wolverhampton. The men were taken to police stations in Staffordshire, where they will be interviewed. Officers are currently conducting searches and forensic tests at the addresses."