A former soldier who has been hailed as a hero for dragging a winded and isolated policeman away from a mob of football hooligans yesterday described the attacking Rangers fans as being 'like a pack of wolves who had not been fed for days'.Tom Bardsley stepped in to help when PC Mick Regan tumbled to the ground after 200 supporters rushed at riot police amid the street violence that marred last Wednesday's Uefa Cup final between the Scottish team and Zenit St Petersburg.The policeman was struggling to his feet when a supporter ran forward to kick him. Bardsley, 23, pushed the fan away and dragged PC Regan around the corner, where he helped him into a police van. PC Regan said on Friday that he owed his life to a stranger who stepped forward to help him, identifying himself only as a former army medic.Yesterday, Greater Manchester police arranged a press conference to thank Bardsley, of Openshaw, Greater Manchester. Inspector Dave Sacks paid tribute to the former soldier's quick thinking.'He has to be commended for his actions in saving the officer from potentially serious harm, while also putting himself at risk. He is obviously a very level-headed fellow and had the sharpness of mind and instinct to step forward to help.'The ex-soldier said that at one point on Wednesday he had feared the police officer 'wasn't going to make it'.Bardsley who had received riot training when serving in the 26 Engineer Regiment, had been leaving an internet cafe when he saw Regan was being singled out for attack after the initial charge.'I saw the man running towards him who was aiming to give him a kick and I gave [that man] a hard nudge and clobbered him,' said Bardsley, a trainee manager at Domino's Pizza. 'I knew that if no one was going to get [PC Regan], he wasn't going to make it. I thought "sod it". I did not care that bottles and bricks were being thrown at me. The adrenaline just kicked in.'The policeman's eyes were opening and closing as he tried to get visibility again. He was dazed and staggering. As I ran, another policeman might have thought I was a fan and hit me over the head with a baton, but I just carried on. 'The fans were trying to pull me off him and I was struggling to break free from the crowd. I had about five or six close encounters as the fans tried to pull me into the crowd. 'I have had riot control training in the army but this was the first time I have seen anything like this first hand. I grabbed the policeman by his collar and dragged him away and threw him into a police van. As I pulled him away I told him that I was a British Army medic to reassure him.'Bardsley suffered minor injuries after being hit by bottles, including one which cut him on the right side of his face after smashing against PC Regan's body armour.CCTV footage showed PC Regan, of Offerton, Stockport, trying to flee a mob, who surrounded him and landed blows as he tried to escape.Speaking on Friday about Bardsley's actions, he said: 'If he had not come along at that point I'd have been in big trouble. I'd have been seriously injured. Whoever that Army lad was, he wants a medal. I cannot thank him enough. He was like a knight in shining armour - a real life superhero.'After aiding the policeman, Bardsley helped a water rescue team save a Rangers fan who had fallen into the canal. Later he discovered a man lying unconscious amid the debris and carried him 150 metres to an ambulance. He also drove away two supporters who were looting equipment from a police van.Violence broke out among the 100,000 Rangers fans who descended upon Manchester when a big screen due to broadcast the game to 20,000 fans in Piccadilly Gardens failed shortly before kick-off.