Yesterday's terse announcement from Prison Service headquarters, that the convicted mass murderer Dr Shipman had hanged himself in his cell at Wakefield prison, prompts many more questions than the simple one of "How could it happen?" We have been told that, at the time, the authorities at Wakefield did not believe there was any risk that he might commit suicide. Instead of being put under special suicide watch every 15 minutes, he remained at the standard one-hour's watch for all high-risk category A prisoners. No prison in the system is more experienced at looking after high-risk prisoners than Wakefield. Therefore, it must be presumed that staff acted in good faith, and on the best available advice.Coming on top of the suicide of Fred West and the near suicide of Ian Huntley before they were brought to trial, Shipman's death is bound to come as an embarrassment to the Prison Service. Inevitably, it will conduct its own internal inquiry to determine whether any indication may have been missed. However, from the point of view of the public as a whole, it is wholly good that the government has announced that, in future, the prisons and probation ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, will conduct independent inquiries into all deaths in custody. People are naturally suspicious of closed inquiries in which no one is held to blame, because it makes it appear that there is something to hide. The number of issues around the suicide of such a notorious prisoner as Shipman demand that the public is told the whole truth. All those who acted in good faith can have nothing to fear. Already the voices of those who feel that there is no reason why someone like Shipman, determined to take his own life, should not be allowed to do so, have been raised. So have the voices of those who feel cheated that he has died before he was able to answer many unanswered questions about his motive. But it is the Prison Service's duty to keep safe all prisoners committed to its care. However, while that is easy to say, it must acknowledge the additional problems posed by one group in particular, namely those, like Shipman, sentenced to remain in prison for the remainder of their natural life. This is an issue to which the authorities should devote immediate attention. Only some 20 of the 74,000-plus currently in prison are serving natural life sentences. All the others will, in theory, come out. They are encouraged to undergo training and undertake programmes designed to help them to live useful and law-abiding lives on release. Hope of release is the light in their tunnel of imprisonment. The key determinant of assessing suicide risk is a prisoner's mental state. I was very interested to find that one of the critical ingredients of the successful efforts of the US prison service to reduce its suicide rate was to train all officers to be able to describe observed mental states in terms that a psychiatric nurse could understand. This enabled appropriate action to be quickly taken. The other was to train selected prisoners to do the same. In these days of short staffing, I believe that the lessons of this success should be examined once again. If you really want to keep all your charges safe, you cannot afford to ignore any pointers, from whatever source. But the mental state of someone without hope of release must be almost impossible to predict. There can be nothing more soul-destroying than total and utter hopelessness. In many respects, a natural life tariff is little more than a living death sentence. In considering the difficulties of assessing the mental state of someone without hope, it is important to remember the problems they pose to those charged with keeping them safe. Good staff/prisoner relationships are the basis of the smooth running of every prison. Proactive staff, seen to be helping prisoners, are the best possible good relationship agents. But how easy is it to be proactive with someone with only endless days in prison to look forward to? My distinguished predecessor, the late Sir Stephen Tumim, once raised the issue of the care of women prisoners sentenced to natural life in a report on Durham prison. His suggestion that they might be given more normal living conditions was seized upon as being "soft" on Myra Hindley. Any suggestion that the same should be applied to current natural lifers is likely to receive the same reaction from those who will focus on the crime committed rather than the future life of a fellow human being. But might it not be better, instead of sentencing anyone to natural life imprisonment, to sentence them to indefinite imprisonment at Her Majesty's pleasure? While they might never be released, they would always have hope that it might happen. That hope might not only prevent them from taking their own lives, but make their management easier for hard-pressed staff and mental health assessors. · Sir David Ramsbotham is a former chief inspector of prisons davidram@globalnet.co.uk