The terrible catalogue of blunders that led police to pursue the prosecution of Colin Stagg for the murder of Rachel Nickell and left her real killer free to strike again was finally made public yesterday. On the face of it there is no connection between that and the home secretary's decision to abandon plans to put directly elected members on police authorities. But police reluctance to admit failure and an institutional dislike of transparency have played a large part in the damaging sense of distance between them and the communities they serve, and it is undermining the trust on which policing a democracy depends.Politicians from all parties agree about the problem; they also agree that democratic accountability, a sort of enforced responsiveness, could be the answer. Democracy, of course, is a good thing, but it is not invariably the right solution. In the form suggested by Labour and the Conservatives, it is not. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, was right to pull back. The police occupy a unique position in public opinion. People might disparage the NHS or the education system to pollsters, but they generally think their own doctor or hospital or school is unusually good. But when they have direct experience of the police, their opinion of them falls. The police, facing larger, more organised challenges and more mobile populations, have lost the local ties and the local focus of earlier generations, a tendency exacerbated by the demands of successive home secretaries who thought trust could be restored by targets to improve performance.Part of the problem is, literally, terminological inexactitude. There has been too little attention paid to the meaning of accountability and politicisation. And, when every intervention by government in public services is necessarily political, there has not been enough discussion of how to have one without the other. Demanding that the police answer either to a directly elected commissioner (the Tory plan) or police authority members (Labour's) would unavoidably mean more politicisation, which might mean national strategy being subordinated to the pursuit of populist objectives as random as abolishing speed cameras or hunting down paedophiles. Yet in the right framework, accountability should be a subtle and valuable tool. It would involve better communication, greater transparency and the presentation of information in a way that helped people understand what was going on and why. Neighbourhood policing has, despite rapid change imposed from above, begun to do some of this. The £20m which will now not be spent on elections would go a long way towards making the blunter instrument of democracy redundant.