The system used to decide how much money police forces receive is to be overhauled, the government has announced. Ministers say they want to replace the “out-of-date” funding model with a simplified version. They will consult on proposals to tie the sums given to forces in England and Wales to factors such as the size of an area’s population.The new system will also take into account “underlying characteristics” of the local population and “environmental” factors – such as whether there is a busy town centre.It follows a review of the current method – the police allocation formula – which is nearly 10 years old.The Guardian view on police budget cuts: reform needed with a morale vision | Editorial The policing minister, Mike Penning, said: “The current model for allocating police funding is complex, opaque and out of date. This consultation sets out proposals to deliver a police funding model for the future which is fair, robust and transparent.”The current system divides the police workload into 11 categories, including seven crime types and four other areas such as “providing reassurance to the public”. Money for each category is shared among forces by predicting the relative workload based on socio-economic and demographic factors.The core government grant for police is set at £7.8bn for the current financial year. Money reserved for counter-terrorism will not be covered by the consultation as it is ring-fenced.The Home Office wants to bring in the new formula “as soon as it is appropriate”. It is seeking views on what “transitional arrangements” would be needed to put the reform in place in the next financial year.The proposal comes amid fierce debate over how to organise the police in the face of continuing budget cuts. The last government slashed the police budget by around 26% in five years, at a cost of 35,000 officers. More cuts are expected as the new government seeks to balance the country’s books.In March, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, warned that police will have to refuse demands to take on extra priorities. He said the public would need to learn to take better care of their own safety, in the same way they must look after their health. Police would have to be more open about the “rationing” of officers, Hogan-Howe said, much as the health service weighs up the benefits of drugs against their cost.His warning came days after Sir Hugh Orde, the retiring president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said Tory plans to continue trimming back the police would cause an exponential increase to the risk to citizens. Last month, the National Audit Office warned that the government had “insufficient information” on how much further police funding could be cut without “degrading services”. 