Up to half a million young people aged between 11 and 15 fell victim to a mobile phone theft last year, according to an official Home Office research report to be published today. The study also estimates that the overall number of stolen mobiles is more than double the 330,000 officially recorded by the police.While about 1% of all adults had a mobile stolen last year, the chance of becoming a victim rises more than fivefold for those aged 11-16, with 5% of Britain's younger teenagers reporting that they had their phone stolen at least once. For those aged under 16 and living in deprived areas in big cities, the figure rises to 12%. The report is also sceptical about possible methods of curbing the problem, to be canvassed today by Home Office ministers. And it found that the mobile phone manufacturers have so far failed to come up with a way of disabling a stolen handset at a cost which they are prepared to pay. The researchers also cast doubt on the value of a technique known as "bombing", whereby the police bombard stolen mobiles with a continuous flow of text messages. Members of a group of young offenders were said by researchers to be "bemused" by this proposal: "In their view, avoiding it would simply be a matter of stealing another phone on the expectation that its loss would not be reported, or that the police would not be able to keep up."  Crime trends The Home Office study by Victoria Harrington and Pat Mayhew confirms it is the sharp rise in mobile phone thefts in the past two years that is mainly fuelling an alarming rise in street robbery, at a time when other types of crime - including violent crime - are going down. The researchers suggest that street robberies would have "levelled off" were it not for the explosion in mobile thefts. The researchers qualify this by saying that the high number of mobile phone thefts may simply reflect the fact that mobiles are now prominent among the smaller, higher value "stealable" items that people carry. When incidents in which only a mobile phone was taken are excluded from robbery trend figures, the robbery rate over the past two years has risen by 8%, compared with the 13% increase recorded by the police. In addition, the proportion of robberies involving mobiles has soared from 8% three years ago to 28% last year. Such robberies now make up 36% of all robberies in London and 41% of those in Birmingham.  Robber profiles  The official study says that the most likely phone robber is male, younger than most other kinds of robbers, with most aged only 14 to 17, and - in five out of the seven police areas studied - most probably black, and operating in a gang. Fewer than 10% of mobile phone thefts are carried out by teenage girls. While the majority of those accused of being phone robbers are black (rising to 71% in London) there is some variation around the country. In Birmingham 34% of suspects were Asian and 54% black, and in Stockport 76% of suspects were white. The research also shows mobile phone robbery is predominantly a male-on-male and black-on-white teenage crime in the four city centres studied. "Young male phone users have cause to be the most wary. Probably, though, women and girls are more vulnerable to theft from the person, which often involves thefts from bags. Risks of unattended phones are likely to be fairly equal. "A third of incidents against women involved female offenders or mixed groups although this was rare when men were targeted. Women, then, have cause to be more wary than men about the groups in which girls or women act suspiciously. They still, though, should be more wary about men." For adults the street robbery risk is lower, and they are as likely to lose a mobile when it is left in the car, when their home is broken into or when they leave the phone elsewhere. The researchers speculate that the street robbery risk facing teenagers is much higher because they are more likely to be out and about, and are less careful with their phones. The researchers point out that this explosion in mobile thefts is mainly down to the fact that they are "small, fairly valuable items for which ready resale markets exist among those without a phone, or with an old model. One market will be dubious outlets at which phones can be reprogrammed and possibly sent abroad to countries with growing demand." It is easy for potential thieves to spot someone with a phone in the street, with a quarter of all phone robberies involving somebody using their mobile or having it on display. For the group of convicted thieves in Feltham young offenders institution, mobile phones were viewed as an indispensable and a technologically fascinating crutch. They claimed the loss of a mobile was one of the worst elements of imprisonment. The Feltham offenders also testified that the value of the handset was more important than the free phone calls, and said the phones could be sold for between £10 and £60, depending on the model. "The fact that new Sim cards can be got easily and cheaply was also important for those wanting to keep or pass on a 'flashy' phone." But some police officers believed that the phones are stolen less for their value than as a system by which gangs of teenage boys establish territorial rights and "show who's who" by penalising other street users, especially other teenagers, by "taxing" them through phone thefts. Finally the authors ask whether the tide has already turned in mobile phone thefts, due to the greater care being taken by phone owners, and because mobiles are so commonplace that they are now less of a "must have" item. But they conclude that any new generation of phones could well generate a crime harvest such as the one that occurred each time a new car stereo model came on to the market. They suggest the main moral to date is that the phone manufacturers should have thought more in advance about the crime potential. "Hindsight then tells us that better security needs to be a key issue for the next generation of phones."