One of the best TV sketches I can remember, had me grinning broadly, would have had me chuckling or even chortling if I was in a Harry Potter book or presenting a compilation of BBC out-takes, was on the old Not The Nine O'Clock News, and had one of the chaps, Mel, or Griff, going into a super-trendy hi-fi shop and asking for a gramophone.'A gramophone, grandad?' came the snotty reply the other, from Griff, or Mel. 'How many amperes on the sub-woofer Dolby ring-complex you wanting, then?' And Mel, or possibly Griff, stammered and flapped and answered 'Five?', and all in the shop dampened themselves with laughter; and so he flapped and stammered and tried again. 'Um ... five million?'I'm not quite sure at which point in the intervening couple of decades it was decided, wittily, to use this one sketch as the entire legislative basis for Britain's prison sentencing policy, but my hasn't it paid off, and isn't it giving us a lot of fun? How much time, as they're debating in Scotland at the moment, should a man serve for raping a baby? Five years? Fifty years? Five minutes alone in a small stone-flagged room with a drooling encephalous madman possessed of a small spiky stick and a massive erection? What's a fitting punishment for Maxine Carr? Three-and-a half-years? Three-and-a-half eternities, until the very last tiny days of the sun, or the very last tiny days of the Sun, whichever comes sooner? Or even, terrifyingly, her own chosen punishment, which would appear to be freed now and allowed to move back to, and spend the rest of her life in, Grimsby? It all started a few years ago when Michael Howard - not the new thinking one-nation humanitarian Michael Howard; more, I suppose in hindsight, the old exploitative fascist bastard Michael Howard - quite illegally increased the sentences for the 10-year-old killers of James Bulger, and it's getting progressively worse. The public shouldn't be allowed to choose how long prison sentences last. Partly, I suppose, because the kind of people who respond to phone-votes in the tabloids and call in to local radio chat shows to discuss these things are, in general, what my more PC friends insist I must call 'ill-educated pikey scaffer scum'. But, also, there is a reason we pay our judges such shiveringly large amounts of money, and that's not just to let them visit the best brothels, and sometimes have their pictures taken there for the newspapers, and sometimes even have their pictures taken there, in a dungeon, fellating pigs, simply so the pics can be stored in a bank-vault and used as successful leverage should the judge ever find himself chairing, say, a public inquiry to find out whether the Government lied. Surely we need some people, removed at some distance from the sticky carpets of saloon-bar justice, to keep something approaching perspective, and stick to their decisions: and even if they come with the silly wigs, and the pigs, and suchlike, I think I'd still prefer that to the rough justice of some new kind of Family Fortunes, where 75 per cent of the population said 20 years, 10 per cent called for the noose, 14.9 per cent wondered if we could repeat the question and 0.1 per cent - coincidentally, all the senior executives of our red-top newspapers - said they didn't frankly care, as long as some money could be made from cadavers, and grief, and the baying of the mob.