The traditional party of Laura Norder is having a go at the thin blue line. And newspapers, left, right and centre, today express astonishment that the prime minister and his coalition colleagues should be engaged in a public dispute with the police."After the recent lawlessness in London and other cities the last thing the country needs or expects is for the politicians and the police to squabble," says the Daily Telegraph."It beggars belief that the focus of post-riot political debate is now a distasteful power spat between ministers and the police. This squabble is letting the people down. It needs to stop," says The Guardian."A blame-game between politicians and police over what went wrong is as unedifying as it is futile. Each side needs to examine why its initial response left so much to be desired and work out how to avoid a repetition," says The Independent.A Daily Mail article refers to an "increasingly acrimonious relationship between politicians and police."Running in parallel with this argument is another about the wisdom, or otherwise, of David Cameron inviting US police chief Bill Bratton to be an adviser, itself linked to the prime minister's call for zero tolerance policing.A Times news story cites an unnamed "senior British police officer" as saying that Bratton "comes from a tradition of armed cops who use much higher levels of force than is acceptable to the public here."It goes on to talk about "a series of hostile exchanges" between government ministers and senior police officers over Bratton.The Daily Mirror reports that Bratton's appointment has "enraged police officers already smarting at Cameron's criticism of their handling of the riots." The Financial Times carries two articles mentioning the same claims, here and here.A Daily Mail spread, headlined "Police round on PM's 'supercop'", refers to "a new low for relations between the police and politicians" as "senior officers ridiculed" Bratton's appointment.Times columnist Libby Purves lends her support to Bratton - he "talks calm good sense" about "combining firm tactics with a great deal of community outreach" - but Telegraph columnist Boris Johnson (aka mayor of London) fails to mention Bratton at all in his contribution today.Instead, he reflects on the dilemma about what society requires from its police force. He writes:"At the moment we politicians speak with forked tongue to the police. They are servants of the law, and the law provides very little protection for any police officer who may — in the heat of the moment — cause injury to a member of the public...We can give the police water cannon, or else we can reassure parents that they indeed have the right to discipline their children... We can issue the police with baton rounds, or we can insist that young people will be prosecuted for swearing at an officer... We can be less squeamish about police violence, or we can be less squeamish about the realities of young people's needs. Of course, we could do both — and I certainly believe that robust policing is essential — but I know which is the best long-term answer." Meanwhile, The Independent is concerned about zero tolerance policing - "a siren song that must not be heeded". Therefore, it worries about Bratton's entrance on to the British scene. The papers says:"The lure of US-style 'zero tolerance' for frightened British politicians is that statistics suggest it can work. But the police are right to be wary. There are vast cultural and social differences between there and here, not least the fact that US police are armed. To give him his due, Mr Bratton says his advice will be limited to dealing with inner-city gangs. But the most useful lesson Britain might learn could be the 'broken window' strategy: the notion that one apparently trivial violation that goes unpunished only encourages another."And The Sun? It argues that if Cameron is serious about zero tolerance, he should start "by showing zero tolerance of Ken Clarke." But its editorial also says: "The PM's zero tolerance must also extend to Lib-Dem dimwits, Brussels busybodies and posturing police chiefs."Riots may come and go, but The Sun's loathing for the European Union and Liberal Democrats goes on for ever.