A Carlisle woman who worked as a local politician before developing an addiction to online gambling was jailed today for stealing almost £40,000 to pay her debts.Jayne Yeomans, 49, who served as Carlisle mayor for a year in the 1990s, even forged her husband's signature to obtain a second mortgage of £25,000 against the family home to repay some of the money she had stolen from Carlisle South End Constitutional club.After she was discovered, Yeomans tried to kill herself, Carlisle crown court heard. She was jailed for 12 months for theft of £38,726 and falsifying a mortgage document.Kenneth Hay, prosecuting, said Yeomans developed the "extreme gambling problem" in August 2007. She was nearly caught when a new club secretary noticed money was being banked late and there "were difficulties reconciling the accounts".She assured him that money was being banked and there was money in the club's safe, but in fact she had stolen £30,000 and lost it during late-night internet gambling sessions. She repaid most of the cash after taking out the second mortgage in October 2007, but plundered the club's coffers again to fund her gambling obsession.The judge, Paul Batty QC, said he regretted that Yeomans would have to be jailed immediately, but said her "persistent and deliberate dishonesty over a considerable period of time" made it inevitable.He told her: "I take into account your fall from grace, which is now absolute and complete. I accept you are a broken woman and in poor health and, when about to be discovered, made a determined effort to end your own life."Yeomans' barrister, Gregory Hoare, said it was "a very sorry case" and presented several letters of support to the court – one from Carlisle's Labour MP, Eric Martlew. The barrister said: "She selflessly represented others for years as a councillor and in other aspects of her life. She got into online betting and wasn't able to help herself in the way she helped so many other people."Speaking before the hearing, Yeomans wept as she warned others against internet gambling. "I just feel so ashamed," she said. "I have let so many people down. It's no excuse but I was having a difficult time and it was like a crutch. It was a buzz and I got totally sucked in by it. I'm so sorry."