A former BNP candidate who is accused of possessing explosives told a court yesterday that he thought the UK was on the brink of civil war and he had purchased crossbows and airguns to protect his family from attack.Robert Cottage, 49, told Manchester crown court that police would be unable to control the civil unrest that would break out. He stockpiled food, petrol and chemicals to make gunpowder. Cottage claimed he had planned only to manufacture a device to make a loud bang and flashes to frighten off intruders and insisted he had not wanted to hurt anybody. He bought gas mask filters to be used with hydrogen peroxide in case of an outbreak of avian flu.Cottage was arrested after police searched his home in Colne, Lancashire, on September 28 last year and found 21 chemicals including ammonia, hydrogen peroxide and hydrochloric acid and ball bearings. They also discovered a document on making explosives called the Anarchist's Cookbook on his computer.Cottage, who had stood in three local elections without success, has pleaded guilty to possession of explosives but denies conspiracy to cause an explosion. He told the court he had collected iodine tables and crystals to use should he or his family suffer symptoms of radiation sickness. He bought potassium permanganate to purify water and said he would have used hydrogen peroxide to clean his false teeth.Cottage claimed that if civil war broke out the authorities would be unable to control the public as the armed forces were fighting in the Middle East and the police were insufficiently trained. "I believe it is everybody's God-given right to protect themselves and their families if they are attacked," he said. "The breakdown of the financial system will inevitably put an unbearable strain on the social structures of this country."He said the air pistols and crossbows were bought for self-defence but he hoped he would never have to use them.He said immigration was a luxury this country could not afford but that he drove a bus for children with disabilities and had a good relationship with Asian children among them.The court had previously heard that he wanted to shoot the prime minister and Liberal Democrat peer Lord Greaves. His wife, Kerena, had said in a police statement that he was a religious man.A second man, David Jackson, 62, a dentist from Nelson, Lancashire, denies possessing explosives and conspiracy to cause an explosion.The trial continues.