Once again, the law 'n' order department was found in breach of the law yesterday. The high court rightly ruled that children in prison are entitled, like all other children, to benefit from laws designed to protect young people from harm. In a landmark ruling, Mr Justice Mundy said the Home Office's claims that the 1989 Children Act did not apply to them were "wrong in law". Yet, true to its tradition, even after losing, the department still wrangled over paying the cost of the case, brought by the small pressure group, the Howard League for Penal Reform, which the judge noted had "performed a most useful service in bringing to public attention matters which... ought to shock the conscience of every citizen."The judge had heard a grim catalogue of unacceptable levels of violence, bullying, self-harm, suicide and solitary confinement. In a 75-page judgment, graphic and disturbing pictures drawn from 15 inspections of young offender institutions were set out. The judge noted that improvements had already begun and were continuing "but much still needs to be done". Child protection policies were not being implemented properly; transport conditions from court to prison were degrading, offensive and totally un acceptable; YOIs were still failing to meet Children Act standards. Stand by for further actions, as the judge forecast, under the Human Rights Act.Welcome though the victory was, it leaves the law in a mess. As the Howard League noted, we have a nonsensical situation under which social services have a statutory duty to safeguard the welfare of the child in prison, but there is still no similar obligation on the prison service. At the very least we need an amendment to the Children Act. More fundamentally, we should look again at whether the prison service is the appropriate agency to be running children's prisons. No matter how hard the prison department tries, it fails to achieve an appropriate regime. It is as though the adult prison culture is built into the bricks. Even more fundamentally, it is time a ceiling was placed on total custody places - for adults as well as children - forcing courts to adjust their sentences to the places available. This would seem to be the only way of stopping our custody-obsessed sentencers, who despite the drop in crime, keep sending increasing proportions of offenders to prison. Child inmates have almost doubled in a decade. Here is a task for the Treasury.