Like the felonies of mystery cat Macavity, crime statistics can be hard to fathom. Yesterday's battery of data showed murder down, gun robbery up and two different measures of total crime moving in opposite directions. It seems hard to know whether to feel safer or not. There is no such difficulty in understanding what has happened to the prison population, for its growth has been unambiguous, rapid and sustained. The result is overcrowding, which this week reached such crisis proportions that Norwich jail's A wing was reopened, despite being officially unfit for human habitation.For a dozen years now, ever more imprisonment has been used to tackle what has been - despite the fluctuations - a dwindling rate of crime. That might be defensible if the one had caused the other, but that is not the case. The prime minister's own strategy unit recently concluded that 80% of the crime reduction since 1997 was down to economic factors, not criminal justice policies. Yesterday's modest increase in the most reliable measure of the overall crime rate is further evidence of the lack of causal connection, for it comes as prison numbers are shattering all records. Instead of cutting crime, overcrowded jails can actually contribute to it. The former prisons chief Martin Narey told MPs this month that overcrowding lay behind increasing rates of reoffending on release: it left an overstretched system offering so little rehabilitation that prisons were left resembling hospitals in which patients received no treatment.The desperate situation could get still worse, despite plans for 8,000 new prison places. For these will come on stream over several years, and they are being filled more quickly than they can be built. On Tuesday the home secretary finally bowed to the logic confronting him, and asked the courts to make more sparing use of custody for less serious offenders. Yet his words might not be heeded. John Reid's predecessors at the Home Office all interspersed their own tough talk with exactly this message, and yet it failed to be heard by the courts in the broader culture that the government had engendered. In 1993 there were typically 29 shoplifters in jail; by 2003 that figure had reached 1,500.What is needed is a consistent message, challenging wholesale the stale mantra that prison works. Yet when the only attack from the Conservatives - who are yet to breathe any new life into their own fossilised thinking on crime - is about the failure to build more cells, it would take courage to provide that. Mr Reid has not so far shown himself to be up to the task. It is to be hoped that this will change. If it does not, he will remain saddled with a prison system that is, in words he might use himself, very far from being fit for purpose.