Thirty years ago, Norman Mailer successfully campaigned for a convicted killer, Jack Abbott, to be given parole – only for Abbott to stab a young waiter to death just six weeks after being released. Mailer was duly castigated for having been conned and taken in. And the story is often cited as proof that a) murderers are too dangerous ever to let out of prison and b) that those who believe them capable of reform (as Lord Longford also did, with Myra Hindley) are at best naive and at worse dangerous meddlers.Is Jon Venables a Jack Abbott? A leopard who will never change his spots? In the broadsheet press the reaction to his two-year sentence for downloading and distributing child pornography has been fairly low-key, as if acknowledging that, however ugly his offence, it wouldn't have made headlines at all had he not committed a terrible crime as a 10-year-old. In the tabloids, though, there has been outrage, with Venables described in the same terms as were used about him 17 years ago. To the Sun he is "evil", "depraved", a "monster" and "beast", who "could have been caged for a maximum of 10 years" and deserved to be. And to the Sunday Mirror – quoting a source in the prison where he is being held – Venables's expression of remorse last week was a cynical ploy: "Grinning broadly, with his feet up in his special secure cell, James Bulger's killer toasted his sentence of just two years for child porn crimes and gloated: 'Great! Just the result I wanted.'"The tabloid script requires this image of irredeemable evil – the monster cackling over his wicked crimes – so that it can continue to vilify the Bulger killers: whether in prison or not, they will always serve a life sentence in the media. But the picture of Venables that emerged last week doesn't suggest a Iago or Macbeth but a sad loner, immature and out of his depth, struggling to cope with adult life.According to his barrister, Edward Fitzgerald, he is almost relieved to be back in prison, having realised that he was getting out of control. Institutionalised life is what he knows best, after all. And though he stayed clear of trouble for the best part of a decade after his release, he then seems to have cracked. Heavy drinking, fighting, cocaine use – these aren't uncommon offences among young men (or even journalists). Nor is looking at images of naked children tantamount to murder. But they are signs of something having gone wrong.Some observers have expressed surprise that it should have been Venables, not Thompson, who has ended up back in prison. That's because Venables seemed the more vulnerable when they were tried as 10-year-olds – nervous, tearful, an accomplice in murder rather than the main player. But that was an impression based on his manner in court, not on the facts of the case. In reality he was the more volatile and damaged of the two, and at least as likely to have precipitated the attack. When the psychologist Susan Bailey came to his secure unit before the trial, she found a boy deep in denial – he had lined his bed with furry animals "to keep the bad things away".Four years later, Bailey wrote that Venables had come to terms with what he'd done, having "moved through the normal sequence of psychological reactions: denial-disbelief, avoidance, sense of loss, experience of grief, ownership for his part in the murder . . . shame and remorse". He was said to be artistic and, as supervision in the unit was relaxed, to have enjoyed trips to those twin citadels of British cultural life, Stratford-upon-Avon and Old Trafford. Staff at Red Bank, the secure unit where he was held after his conviction for the Bulger murder, considered he posed no risk to the public, and he was released in June 2001. But the support that was in place during his imprisonment and immediately after his release seems to have weakened as time passed. The child and adolescent psychiatrist Arnon Bentovim, who saw Venables as a child and teenager, admits: "There is extensive therapeutic input for teenage offenders in special units. But afterwards the support is more patchy – with the result that the offender sometimes drifts back to old haunts and reoffends."The inquiry into the probation service's handling of Venables might want to consider whether placing him in Cheshire, 20 miles from where he grew up, was the right way to start a new life. It's also questionable whether the close ties he maintained with his family were altogether beneficial.As a child, Jon was deeply attached to his mother, Susan, but also terrified of her temper; fond of his father Neil (who lived apart from Susan) but exposed to violent films while staying at his house; and hugely ambivalent towards his two siblings, who had special needs. Whatever his professed love for his family, it's clear he remained unhealthily dependent on them (when he realised he might be outed for downloading child porn, for instance, he told his probation officer and the police that he would rather his parents came and picked up the computer rather than take it with him to the safe house). A complete break from his family might have done him more good than harm.There was also the pressure of the new identity he had been given and his need to keep his past a secret – unless he got into a relationship with a girl, in which case (so he was told) he must inform her who he really was. For an already unstable personality, the constant concealment – and fear of vigilante revenge – must have been a further source of instability. Had he been allowed to remain Boy B, as he was referred to during the trial of Regina versus T&V, the problem wouldn't have arisen. But when the judge, Michael Morland, succumbed to media applications for his real name to be made public after the verdict, he was stripped of the privacy accorded to every other juvenile offender.Online last year he assumed a further identity, posing as a 35-year- old mother called Dawn Smith. Cross-gender pseudonyms are a commonplace strategy among internet paedophiles, but with Venables this was part of a deeper identity crisis. By the time of his arrest earlier this year, he was said to be confessing who he was to total strangers.The Sentencing Advisory Panel (SAP) has a scale whereby indecent images of children are graded in terms of severity, from one to five. Of the images Venables downloaded, the vast majority, 44, were at level one (nudity or erotic posing), but eight were at level four (penetrative sexual activity between children and adults); one featured a two-year-old holding a man's erect penis, and another a very young child being anally raped. By looking at images, Venables told the police, he was "breaking the last taboo" – a puzzling remark given that he'd already broken it by killing a two-year-old. But perhaps in his own mind he was breaking it, since he was sexually arousing himself by looking at images of children being violated, just as he had violated James Bulger.The murder, it's sometimes forgotten, did have a sexual component. The toddler's trousers had been removed and batteries were found beside his body; the coroner's report failed to confirm it, but the police believed that James had been abused before being killed and that the batteries were inserted in his anus – details skimmed over at the trial in order to spare the Bulger family further suffering. The obvious inference was that the boys had themselves been sexually abused at some point and were doing to James what had been done to them.Does Venables's use of child pornography confirm that theory? Not necessarily, according to Arnon Bentovim, who carried out important research in this area while working at Great Ormond Street. "Studies of sexually inappropriate behaviour in adolescents and adults have shown that exposure to violence during childhood is a key factor. We saw a number of boys behaving abusively who had no history of themselves being sexually abused. But they did all have a history of being victims of, or of witnessing, violent acts. It's a complex business. There are genetic factors, too. But the overriding story is that exposure to violence will have a significant impact on behaviour and mental health."Bentovim adds that the violence might be something actively perpetrated, not merely endured: "The impact of violence can be just as shocking to the person who committed it as to the victim. We find this with war trauma – that there are people haunted by violent acts they have themselves perpetrated."Valerie Sinason, director of the Clinic for Dissociative Studies in London, agrees that past abuse is invariably the trigger for consumers of child porn: "One of the reasons for using child porn is to connect with your childhood self. If your sense of self has been fashioned through abuse, then you are orphaned without making that connection. In the image you might be identifying with the child or with the person who's abusing the child. Either way, it's a search for identity. And any excitement is a defence against terror."Sinason emphasises the time it can take for therapy to be effective – "as long as eight to 10 years to even get near the offence" – and the limitations of the "confrontational forensic psychiatry" that's dominant in the prison service. Bentovim, too, acknowledges the huge amount of therapeutic help required with serious juvenile offenders: "It would be nice to think that, once released, the people we work with lead blameless lives. And in general we are reasonably successful. But there is always going to be the risk of further harmful behaviour."A psychiatric report on Venables prepared before last week's court case found no evidence of a mental disorder or a tendency towards self-harm. But the need to keep his identity secret, the fear of attacks on himself and his family, the restrictions placed on his movement (no trips abroad), the circumscribed life he has led even when free – all this has been damaging, on top of the damage inflicted in childhood. He's a disturbed young man in need of further therapy, and his release next year or the year after can't be taken for granted.Not a pretty tale, then. Nor the success story some of us hoped for when he completed his eight-year sentence. But not an occasion to renew the vilification, either. Or to rant against the money spent rehabilitating criminals. Or to conclude that Jon Venables (who will be 28 in two weeks' time) is already beyond redemption.