The guilty  Kamar Jamil1 Kamar Jamil, 27, of Summertown, Oxford, denied four rapes, three charges of conspiracy to rape, two of arranging or facilitating child prostitution, and one of trafficking for sexual exploitation.He was found guilty on all countsAlso known as: K Dog or K DawgJamil is a married father of three and Tesco security guard. He and five siblings were born to Pakistani parents, and raised a few doors away from the Dogar brothers.Jamil was working as a car salesman when he met his wife Natalie. When she fell pregnant with their first child he started working at Domino's Pizza, where he met Assad Hussain.He denied raping Girl A when she was aged between 12 and 15, and denied trafficking and selling her for sex. He also denied raping Girl B when she was 14.Girl A said he was part of a gang who drove her to the woods, threatened her life and forced her to perform oral sex on them all.He said the girls must have mistaken him for someone else. "I never knew them but I'd seen them around," he said.He also said he knew nothing about the 24 wraps of cocaine found in his home.His barrister said he had "limited intellectual ability".  Akhtar Dogar2 Akhtar Dogar, 32, of east Oxford, denied six rapes, three charges of conspiracy to rape, three of arranging or facilitating child prostitution, and trafficking for sexual exploitation.He was found guilty on all countsAlso known as: Actor or Akter or SpiderAkhtar Dogar was married at the time the allegations were said to have taken place and told police it would be "disgusting" to have sex with an underage girl.In interviews he said the complaint made against him by Girl A was false, but that she was a good friend and he felt sorry for her.He told police: "I haven't raped her. All I have treated her as is a good friend. She is confused or something. She has been around everywhere. She has seen a lot of coloured people and a lot of Asian people. I feel sorry for her. It's confusion in Oxford. There's a lot of Asian people in Oxford."He put forward no evidence in court for his defence.  Anjum DogarAnjum Dogar, 31, of east Oxford, denied four rapes, three charges of conspiracy to rape, three of arranging or facilitating child prostitution, and trafficking for sexual exploitation.He was found guilty on all countsAlso known as: JammyIn police interviews he admitted knowing Girl A and Girl D but denied sexual contact. He denied knowing Girl C. He told police the girls were troubled and "influenced by drugs". "The way I see it is troubled kids making up allegations. I can get people to talk about their characters here. They are well known, some of these girls," he said.He put forward no evidence in court for his defence.  Assad HussainAssad Hussain, 32, of Rose Hill, Oxford, denied two charges of conspiracy to rape and three of sexual activity with a child.He was found guilty on all countsAlso known as: Ash or Avey or Ali  Mohammed KarrarMohammed Karrar, 38, of Cowley, denied seven rapes, four charges of conspiracy to rape, an alternative charge of conspiracy to commit sexual activity with a child, two of trafficking for sexual exploitation, two of arranging or facilitating child prostitution, assault, conspiracy to assault, using an instrument to procure a miscarriage and supplying a class A drug.He was found guilty on all countsAlso known as: Mo or Jeezy  Bassam KarrarBassam Karrar, 33, of Cowley, denied three rapes, three charges of conspiracy to rape, two charges of arranging or facilitating child prostitution, trafficking for sexual exploitation, and conspiracy to assault.He was found guilty on all countsIn police interviews he said he had met Girl D years ago with her friends, but had not seen her since and had never had any sexual contact with her. He denied being involved in prostitution.In an interview from November 2006 – after Girl C claimed he had raped her – he said she had wanted to have sex with him and he expressed shock that she was only 14. He said: "I'm shocked. I feel betrayed. I feel stupid now."  Zeeshan AhmedZeeshan Ahmed, 27, of Wood Farm, Oxford, denied two charges of conspiracy to engage in sexual activity with a child and two charges of sexual activity with a child.He was found guilty on all countsNot guiltyMohammed Hussain, 24, of Cowley, Oxford, denied rape, conspiracy to engage in sexual activity with a child and two charges of sexual activity with a child.He was found not guilty on all countsAlso known as: Tayub or TibzyIn police interviews he accepted that he had had sex with Girl E, but said he believed she was over 16 at the time.In court he said she looked fully developed and never went to school, and had told him she had been kicked out of sixth form. "Also, she was always out late at night and I assumed that she was over 16, as if she was younger then I would have thought her parents would have made her stay home," he said.He said he was never violent towards her and never gave her drugs or alcohol so she would have sex with him.Another man, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denied conspiracy to engage in sexual activity with a child and sexual activity with a child.He was found not guilty on all counts.In police interviews he denied knowing any of the girls and denied any sexual offending.