The uncle of four-year-old John-Paul Massey, who was mauled to death by an illegal pitbull terrier, was today arrested by police on suspicion of manslaughter.Christian Foulkes, 21, was arrested in Liverpool following the death of his nephew, who was attacked by a banned pitbull dog called Uno. He was taken to a police station on Merseyside and remanded in custody.Until recently Christian had lived with his 63-year-old mother Helen Foulkes at the address in Ash Grove, Wavertree, where the attack happened. He had moved away to join the army but has been allowed compassionate leave following the fatal dog attack on his nephew.His pitbull terrier remained in Liverpool with his mother, who was herself badly bitten in the attack when she tried to get the animal away from her grandson. She was hospitalised with bite injuries which were not life-threatening. A postmortem examination found that John-Paul suffered fatal injuries to his head and neck and died inside the house.John-Paul's death is the fifth fatal dog attack involving children since 2006. It echoes the death of five-year-old Ellie Lawrenson in St Helens, Merseyside, on New Year's Day 2007, when she was bitten 72 times by her uncle's pitbull. In the aftermath of the death Merseyside police held a dangerous dogs amnesty and rounded up 80 illegally held dogs.A statement from Merseyside police said: "We can confirm that a 21-year-old man from the Wavertree area of Liverpool has this morning been arrested on suspicion of manslaughter by detectives investigating the death of four-year-old John-Paul Massey."No other arrests have been made."In February police received a call from a housing officer reporting illegal dog breeding was taking place at the house where Christian lived on Ash Grove. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the lack of response to the call from a housing officer.The official was told it was not a police matter and the information was not acted upon. Temporary Deputy Chief Constable Patricia Gallan, of Merseyside police, said: "It has taken some time to complete the examinations to confirm that it is an illegal type of dog. I am deeply concerned and very disappointed that our policy was not followed in February when we received a call alerting us to the possible breeding of pitbull terriers at the house. This is clearly unacceptable, and we are sorry that Merseyside police did not take the appropriate course of action at that time."The Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 bans the breeding and sale or exchange of four kinds of dogs – pitbull terriers, Japanes tosas, dogos argentinos and fila brasilerios. Other dogs "appearing … to be bred for fighting or to have the characteristics of a type bred for that purpose" are also banned. Paying tribute to her son, John-Paul's mother Angela McGlynn and father John said in a statement: "John-Paul was the light in all of our lives and when that light went out it took a piece of us with it forever."He was full of energy, never still for a minute. He was a born performer and recently got a certificate for singing on his own at nursery. He was a real chatterbox who had an answer for everything and his favourite word was 'why'."