Detectives were facing the prospect last night that a serial killer was preying on prostitutes in Ipswich after the body of a third sex worker was discovered.Police advised prostitutes in the Suffolk town to take extra care and other women stayed off the streets after dark as concern grew that the killer could also be behind a string of other murders and disappearances across East Anglia.Officers confirmed they were linking the deaths of Tania Nicol, 19, and Gemma Adams, 25, whose naked bodies were found in the same stream two miles apart. Police said the deaths bore "striking similarities".The body of the third woman, believed to be a prostitute in her 20s, was discovered in woodland by a woman walking her dog in Nacton, near Ipswich, shortly before 3.30pm yesterday. The area was cordoned off by police last night while forensic experts examined the scene.Suffolk detectives are also working with other forces, including neighbouring Norfolk, which has investigated the murders and unexplained disappearances of four prostitutes in recent years.Detective Chief Inspector John Quinton said the results of the initial postmortem examinations were inconclusive but there was no evidence that either woman had been sexually assaulted and there were no obvious signs of injury.Ms Nicol vanished from the red light area by Ipswich Town FC's Portman Road ground on October 31. She was reported missing by her mother, Kerry, who did not know she was a prostitute. On Friday the teenager's body was found in Belstead Brook l, five miles from Portman Road.Ms Adams vanished early on November 15. Her boyfriend reported her missing after she failed to respond to his text messages. Her body was discovered by a fishery warden on December 2.Police appealed for clients of the women to come forward and are trying to find the women's clothing.The murders have terrified prostitutes in the town. Only four were touting for business on the streets in the early hours of Saturday compared with 15 on an average weekend night. One of them, Debbie, 25, said: "We think the killer is going to strike again. A lot of the girls are just too terrified to come out. The number of punters has also slumped since Gemma and Tania went missing. I have only had three tonight. Normally it would be five or six. I will not relax until he is caught."Debbie said speculation was rife in the red light area about the killer's identity.She added: "I know Gemma had a regular who was impotent. She persuaded him to take out a £6,000 loan and she blagged it all off him."Debbie said she was also suspicious about another man who had a habit of trying to befriend them."He says he believes in God and likes to give girls a Christian talk. I think he is a bit of a weirdo and gets a bit of a kick from it."People living in and around the red light district said it was a frightening place. "It's made me think twice about going out after dark," said one woman.Ms Adams' parents told of how she turned from a "bright and bubbly" girl who played the piano and loved horse-riding into a drug addict using heroin and crack cocaine.Her father, a businessman who asked not to be named, said: "We never knew she was working as a prostitute until she went missing. If we had known we would have done everything in our power to stop her but I don't want people to think of her only as a prostitute. The Gemma we want to remember was a loving, beautiful and wonderful girl. It is the nightmare of drug addiction which drove her to work on the streets."Four other sex workers have been killed or vanished in East Anglia in recent years.Among the missing are Mandy Duncan, of Woodbridge, near Ipswich, who vanished in 1993, and Kellie Pratt, who went missing in 2000 from the red light district of Norwich, 40 miles away. Both were mothers of two children.Michelle Bettles, 22, was found strangled in March 2002 a few days after being seen touting for clients in Norwich. Ten years earlier, Natalie Pearman, 16, who also worked in the Norwich red light area, was found strangled in woodland.Natalie's mother, Lin, said yesterday the discovery of the bodies in Ipswich had been hard to deal with."I'm hoping it turns out to be the same person in all these cases - so many murders would be solved in one go. For the past 14 years I've been on edge, waiting for the police to call and say they've got him and I can think: 'Closure'."A bouquet was left yesterday on a bridge over the stream where the bodies were found in tribute to Ms Nicol. The message said: "Dear Tania, God bless and sleep well sweetheart."Other flowers were left outside the car dealership where Ms Adams was last seen. One, from a former schoolfriend called Laura, said: "I can't believe you've gone Gem - God it hurts sooo much!!! I thought you'd be having such a good life - a life you deserved. How blind was I."