Trials giving parents access to information about convicted paedophiles will be extended from today, the Home Office said. The pilot schemes, set up in response to demands for a "Sarah's Law", have been running since September in four police forces.They allow parents, guardians and carers to ask police whether people who have access to their child have committed child sexual offences. Officers then have the option to reveal the information or take further action if they believe children may be at risk.Some public protection experts and children's charities, including the NSPCC, have questioned the value of the projects, which some fear may prompt vigilante actions. The NSPCC warned that such a law could create a false sense of security as not all paedophiles are on the sex offenders register.Police involved in the trials today insisted they had not prompted any vigilante action.The forces in the trials have so far made 10 disclosures after requests for information, the Home Office said today. The forces in Warwickshire, Cleveland, Hampshire and Cambridgeshire have dealt with 153 inquiries about the scheme, and 79 applications for information.So far, Warwickshire has been the only force in which the scheme has been running across its entire area but the three smaller pilots will be expanded from today to cover the whole of Cleveland, Hampshire and Cambridgeshire.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, called the early results "extremely encouraging" and said a decision on whether the pilots will be rolled out nationwide will be made at the end of the year. "Protecting children and families from sex offenders is one of my top priorities and the UK has one of the most robust systems of managing sex offenders in the world," she said."Today's results are extremely encouraging – this pilot has provided crucial protection for children who might otherwise be at risk."The development of this scheme in consultation with Sara Payne, the police and children's charities has been a major step forward in our ability to protect children from sex offenders but also to empower parents and guardians to understand how to best protect their children."Keith Bristow, the chief constable of Warwickshire police, said extending the pilots had successfully raised public awareness of child protection issues. "For those parents and carers who have made inquiries, we trust that it has helped give them confidence that their children are safe," he said.Critics feared the disclosure of sensitive information could lead to mob rule and drive paedophiles underground, making them more difficult to track.But Detective Superintendent John Raine, who has overseen the trial in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, said there had been no evidence of this during the pilot. Nine applications for disclosure were made in Cambridgeshire but police had not disclosed any information in any of those cases and no arrests had been made."I think more than anything it has given people a window into our world and provided reassurance. It's helped people understand that we do all we can to protect children and that we are aware of people who may pose a risk," he added.In America, "Megan's Law", named after the child victim of a repeat sex offender, allows the publication of names, addresses and pictures of paedophiles in some states. Campaigners in the UK have lobbied for similar powers for parents after the murder of eight-year-old Sarah Payne by convicted sex offender Roy Whiting.Sara Payne, mother of Sarah and the government's victims' champion, said: "I would say we are giving families a better deal by including them in child protection. They should be, and need to be, involved. By next year I hope any problems will have been ironed out. I want to be able to answer anyone who has a downside to the scheme."But Diana Sutton, head of policy at the NSPCC, said the charity was still concerned that the programmes could create a false sense of security. "We strongly urge people to remain alert to the fact that not all child abusers have criminal records because many are not caught and charged with an offence," she said. "Someone might be given a clean bill of health by police because they do not have a criminal record but may still pose a threat to children."She added: "Disclosing information to specific parties is just one strand of a wider management system which still lacks sufficient funding and manpower and often struggles to cope with the workload."