A government admission that the new licensing laws may lead to an increase in alcohol related offences plunged the measure into fresh controversy yesterday, just 24 hours before they come into effect.As pubs, clubs and supermarkets prepared for midnight tonight, when the new era of potential round-the-clock drinking begins, critics seized on comments by Home Office minister Paul Goggins who said there may be more arrests and fixed penalty notices.The minister said any increase would result from the fact that more police will be deployed to fine those who are drunk and disorderly. There will also be a tougher enforcement regime. Around 5,500 "sting" operations will take place in the run-up to Christmas in a bid to catch retailers who sell alcohol to minors."If we spend £2.5m increasing the strength of enforcement and funding police to do it, it is likely that the number of arrests and fixed penalty notices will go up," the minister said.But Theresa May, the shadow secretary of state for culture, media and sport, said the admission highlights folly. "According to Mr Purnell's logic [the licensing minister James Purnell], the drunker and more violent people get on Thursday night, the better a job he will have done. It is clear that the government have finally realised that longer drinking will mean more crime and disorder. No matter how many panicked initiatives they announce, it will be the police and the public who will have to deal with the consequences of the government's mistakes."The police and medical experts also re-iterated their concern about the repercussions of more liberalised drinking. Jan Berry, chair of the Police Federation, said there are already too many people getting "tanked up" before they leave for a pub or club and too many venues serving alcohol to people who are already drunk."Whether extending licensing hours will deliver responsible drinking, we remain to be convinced," she said. "If we find, in a few months, that police are facing more violence because of excess alcohol, then we will need to go back and ask the government to reverse the decision."Police concerns were heightened by events in Bournemouth, where magistrates overturned the council's decision to reject a licence application from a notorious nightspot. The Walkabout bar will open until 2am six nights a week even though police have logged more than 90 incidents related to the venue this year. In April a teenager lost an eye after being attacked there.Officials representing hospital accident and emergency departments across the country also expressed misgivings about the new regime. Martin Shalley, president of the British Association for Emergency Medicine (BAEM), said: "We do think that there will be an increase in alcohol-related attendances in A&Es. This is likely to not just be at nights but also in the day due to the effects of withdrawal and hangovers."We already see people who have been injured because they have drunk too much. I think this is now going to occur a lot more frequently." He warned that the service available to other patients, whose ailments are not as a result of drinking, could be affected. "It is going to put increasing pressure on our targets," he said."I have seen in our local area the impact when some pubs stay open until 12.30 and 1am. While A&E is likely to bear the brunt of more binge drinking, there will also be effects throughout the hospital."Even officials close to policy admit that the next few days will represent "a leap in the dark". Yesterday Superintendent Simon Leach of the Home Office's police standards unit, told a conference of drinks retailers that there was a question mark over whether the necessary transport, including taxis, will be available to disperse late night drinkers as they leave over the new staggered drinking hours.He also voiced concerns about whether there were sufficient street marshalls to help disperse late night crowds and pubs and questioned whether clubs had sufficient cooling off periods between last orders and the premises shutting."A Met police circular, seen by the Guardian, urges pubs and clubs to turn down music and turn up lights while providing patrons with tea and coffee to avoid drunken confrontations in the street.Home Office officials say that the changes will be judged by their impact on the serious assault rate in the violent crime figures. They hope that a 9% fall recorded in areas targeted in a summer alcohol campaign will be replicated across the country. The success or failure of the changes to the drinks laws will be assessed by analysing 10 "scrutiny councils"; these being Birmingham, Blackpool, Brighton, Bristol, Cardiff, Havering, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne, Nottingham and Taunton Deane.Mr Purnell said that the 11pm "curfew" on drinking that had existed since the beginning of the 20th century is inappropriate in a time of changing lifestyles: "It is time that people were treated as grown-ups so they can go for a glass of wine after the cinema or a pint of beer when they come off their work shift." He said the experience of all-day opening in England and Wales had led to lower alcohol consumption as had the introduction of flexible opening hours in Scotland.The minister said that local councils were already using their new licensing powers robustly. But many of the local authorities themselves, even those who applaud the thinking behind the new regime, remain nervous about what the new era will bring.The Local Government Association, though broadly supportive, is keen to stop too many cases being settled on appeal to magistrates because that would frustrate the idea of giving power to residents and their elected representatives.What will happen· The new regime begins at midnight in England and Wales. A few premises will stop serving alcohol at 11pm and begin again at 00.01 on the 24th, the "second appointed day"· 184,000 or 98% of licensed premises have applied for new licences· 700 premises, mostly supermarkets, have applied for 24-hour licences, including 240 pubs· 40% of premises have applied to change their opening hours, including 60% of pubs· One in four of those applying to vary their hours have met objections from residents or police· Two-thirds of these disputes have been resolved by negotiated agreement· Of the rest, 95% of applications have been turned down or granted with conditions attachedSource: DCMS, based on returns from 270 local authorities