The detective: Assistant Commissioner John Yates, Scotland YardAs the Acpo (Association of Chief Police Officers) lead for rape I am often invited to speak on the subject. I normally start by asking the audience several questions, such as: why is rape different; why is rape the only offence where we seriously assess the credibility of the victim first; why is rape a priority in some forces but not others; how do we ensure that victims get the best deal and is this available consistently across the service; why is the conviction rate so appallingly low? These are some of the many challenges that face a police service that is regularly, and quite properly, harangued for its performance in relation to this most serious crime.Let's be clear: rape is a difficult crime to investigate. Most cases involve people who know each other, where consent is the issue. The fact that it's difficult means we need to up our game, not complain about the problems.We don't need big changes in the law. We certainly don't need any reduction in the burden of proof. We have best practice. We have some of the best training in the world available. Every inspection and review in recent years has said so. But they have also said that delivery is inconsistent and that advice and best practice is too often ignored. We have much to do. My task is ensure colleagues across the country recognise the challenges and devote the proper resources to meeting them. Recent evidence would suggest that at long last chief constables are doing just that.The victim: Toni Cole, 45, from KentI was raped in 1991 by a client when I was working for an escort agency. It was completely premeditated: he had the rope ready to tie me with, and the implements on hand to torture me with.When I finally got free, after a 4½ hour ordeal, I phoned the police. The policewoman I spoke to said it was "unfortunate", but as it was my word against his - and I was a sex worker - no one would believe me.I insisted on making a statement because I was sure he would strike again. Nothing was done, and nine months later the same man raped another escort girl. The police decided to believe me then, but the CPS (Crown Prosecution Service) wouldn't take the case to court, supposedly because of "insufficient evidence"- even though there were two of us that he'd attacked the same way.I refused to give up, and eventually brought a private prosecution with the help of the English Collective of Prostitutes, Legal Action for Women and Women Against Rape. They found a solicitor and barrister who agreed to work pro bono as it was the first private prosecution for rape in England and, in 1995, my attacker was found guilty, on the same evidence that the CPS had said was insufficient. He was sentenced to 14 years, reduced to 11 on appeal. He eventually served just seven.I was the one given the life sentence. He destroyed my life: because of the instruments he used to torture me, I had to have a total hysterectomy, and couldn't work or look after my children, and my marriage eventually broke down. The trial was a terrible ordeal, but was made bearable by the fact our legal team prepared and presented the case extremely well. Everyone's heart was in the case, our lawyers believed in us and treated us in a non-judgmental manner. The evidence was meticulously presented and both our husbands were called as witnesses. All prejudices were confronted at the start of the trial and the jury was encouraged not to give in to them. Why can't CPS barristers do that?I am disappointed so little appears to have changed in the 12 years since. It is good most police stations now interview victims in dedicated rape suites, but I would like to see more convictions and harsher sentencing for convicted rapists. Victims should be able to challenge a CPS decision to drop their case. I would like to see all victims having the chance to speak to the prosecutor before the trial, enabling them to become a human being, not just a written statement. At the moment, women are raped twice: once by their attacker and the second time by the courts.(The victim's name has been changed)The campaigner: Ruth Hall of Women Against RapeThe main problem is that the existing law is not being applied, because the people who are supposed to bring rapists to justice - police officers, crown prosecutors and judges - are not doing their jobs. Many strong cases are dropped before court because of prejudice or a superficial weakness which could have been explained. The police don't gather the evidence, lose it, or misinterpret it. In court, the prosecutor is often ill-prepared, has never met the woman before, and is unwilling to defend her. The prosecution should be able to prepare the case with the victim. The law still allows the defence to bring in evidence about her sexual history with other men if the defendant claims he believed she consented. The authorities blame juries for the low conviction rate, but juries can only go on the evidence presented. The worst sexism comes from police, prosecutors and judges. When they are made to apply the law properly - and disciplined when they do not - the conviction rate will soon go up.The lawyer: Miranda Moore QC, barrister with wide experience of prosecuting and defending in rape casesRape as an offence is given far less importance than it used to be. I want it treated as the serious crime it is, with enough funding to attract the highest quality counsel, for both the prosecution and defence. Twenty years ago it was not unknown to have a QC prosecuting. These days it's exceptional. Rape cases need people who have been doing it longer and have a feel for how a case should be prosecuted. I can walk into a case and give the CPS a list of 20 things that should have been done. Experience shows that in many cases they will have not. The other thing is meeting the victim. As a prosecutor, 99.9% of the time you only meet on the day of the trial. Victims go on an orientation visit to court in advance with a police officer but there's no funding to meet the barrister. You couldn't discuss the case, but it would be reassuring for the victim during the trial to see somebody ask her questions she knew rather than a stranger.