A woman was shot dead on her doorstep following a year-long feud with a neighbour, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Krystal Hart, 22, was shot twice in the head on April 6 last year after neighbour Angela Brewer complained to her boyfriend, Thomas Hughes, about an incident earlier in the day. Hart and Brewer, 53, who lived in separate flats in the same terrace house in Battersea, south London, had been involved in a long-running dispute.Things were so bad between them that Brewer was about to be made the subject of an antisocial behaviour order. The two women were due to return to court six days later, said Aftab Jafferjee, prosecuting.Although the women's boyfriends had largely kept out of the feud, Hughes took great offence after Hart's boyfriend, David Siveter, wrote down the registration number of his car, which he had parked outside the house."David Siveter had dared, after an earlier exchange, to have written down his car number plate and that turned into a dangerous, instant, furious obsession," said Jafferjee."That particular encounter that involved the two men occurred about an hour before the killing and was the catalyst for the catastrophic events which can only be described as an execution. It resulted in this defendant going to his own home nearby, collecting a gun and returning to shoot Krystal Hart at point-blank range in the head as she stood in the doorway and she died instantly." The court was shown CCTV footage of the front of the house, which captured the two gunshots. In it Hughes, 40, is heard calling for Siveter. He then shouts: "Come out, bitch" before two shots ring out. The court heard that Brewer later told police: "Finally Krystal opened the door. He held the gun to her head and she looked at me pleading. "He shot her. He aimed the gun at my stomach and I screamed." Jafferjee said Brewer had been cleared of criminal involvement in the murder but that her "moral responsibility is another matter". He described her as an emotional bully, adding: "She was a woman who sadly had a number of difficulties in her life that clearly has taken a toll on how she behaved with others."He said Brewer had become "obsessive" about noise and had complained to the police, county courts and the housing association. "You may conclude she could be described as the proverbial neighbour from hell, in the meaning she did not hesitate to have recourse to the police or the county courts." Both she and Hart had installed their own CCTV cameras trained on each other's front doors as the "festering" neighbour dispute continued.The court was told that Hughes, who lived with his mother and was fond of guns, had become fixated on Brewer. Although he had described her to other people as "a mad old woman", he had been overheard telling Brewer: "I will do anything for you. I would cut off my arm or leg if I had to." "He did what he did precisely because of the underlying animosity and empathising with his friend," said Jafferjee. "A woman he was not obsessed with, but almost certainly infatuated with, even though he recognised Angela Brewer's failings." Hughes, of Battersea, denies murder and possession of a firearm with intent. The trial continues.