The teenager who is the chief prosecution witness in the Damilola Taylor case took police "for a complete ride" in the months before the trial, running up a £4,100 hotel bill during eight days she and her mother spent in protective custody, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Police bought the 14-year-old girl new clothes, hundreds of pounds of phone cards, a new mobile phone, numerous meals and took her on trips to the seaside, the jury was told. She was moved to a hotel in Croydon, south London, in February last year, as part of a witness protection programme, but had to leave when she and a friend set fire to a toilet in her room. During her stay at the Selsdon Park hotel, the girl made avid use of room service, ordering meals and drinks seemingly at will, and making up to 60 calls a day to her friends, even though she had been asked not to, said Ann Mallalieu QC. One dinner cost £161.80. Laundry for her brother, who went to visit her, came to £66, and a telephone call she made from her mother's room was billed at £226.40. The witness's overall room bill was £2,092.95; her mother's was £2,041. Police moved her to a flat but she was asked to leave after complaints about loud music, the court heard. The police asked the landlord to remove the phone, but the 14-year-old borrowed a handset from her grandmother and made £381.67 of calls during a "short stay", said Lady Mallalieu. Asked why she had made so many calls from the hotel, the 14-year-old said she was bored. "I was stuck there. I had nothing else to do." The girl admitted she had sold a CD Walkman that one officer had lent her. "Do you have any conception of right or wrong, honesty and dishonesty?", Lady Mallalieu continued. The girl replied: "I should not have sold it, but I did." Lady Mallalieu suggested that the teenager, the only person to say she had witnessed the attack on Damilola, had been shown so much kindness that she could not have refused police requests for her to give evidence to the court, even though she had told them "a pack of lies". She had taken the police for a "bunch of mugs", said Lady Mallalieu. "It was never your intention that you should say anything that should be listened to or believed by the jury," she added. "I make no bones about it, you weren't there (at the scene), were you?" "I was there," she said firmly. Four youths are accused of murdering 10-year-old Damilola in Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000. They have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers, one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17, have pleaded not guilty. Earlier in the hearing, the court heard that teachers regarded the teenage witness as disruptive, dishonest and attention-seeking. The jury was told the girl arrived for one lesson late, then chased other pupils around the class with scissors. On another occasion she swore at a school visitor, managed to get on the school public address system, then kicked and punched an electrical contractor who was working there, the court heard. The trial continues.