A young Asian prisoner was bludgeoned to death with a table leg by a racist cellmate who revered the killers of Stephen Lawrence, just hours before he was due to be released, a court heard yesterday.Zahid Mubarak, 19, from Walthamstow, east London, was beaten to death early on March 21 at Feltham young offenders institution, west London. He was sharing a cell with Robert Stewart, 20, who pleads not guilty to his murder. Stewart and Mr Mubarak, who had reached the end of a 90-day sentence of youth custody for dishonesty, had shared a cell for six weeks before the attack. Stewart, who has the letters RIP tattooed on his forehead, was on remand having just completed a custodial sentence. Mr Mubarak suffered massive head injuries after being hit at least seven times, Sir John Nutting QC, prosecuting, told the jury at Kingston crown court. He also received a fractured forearm and finger from attempting to fend off the blows. Mr Mubarak died as a result of his injuries one week later. The jury heard that Stewart had written seven letters containing "the crudest and most flagrant" racist language on the day of the attack and had scratched racist graffiti on his cell walls. As he left the dock at the end of the day's hearing he aimed a V sign at Mr Mubarak's family. Mr Nutting said: "Out of a mixture of motives - frustration at his continued incarceration, racial hatred of the man with whom he shared a cell, and probably envy at Zahid Mubarak's release - the defendant developed the intention to injure his cellmate on the evening before his release. "While his cellmate was lying down, defenceless, asleep, he attacked, cowardly and brutally causing his death." On the night of the attack a patrol officer checked on the pair's cell, number 38 on the Swallow wing, at around 9pm and spoke briefly to them. They appeared bored but otherwise peaceful, the court heard. At around 3.20am a warning buzzer, set off by Stewart, rang in the night patrol room and a guard went to the cell. He opened the hatch in the door and saw Stewart standing by Mr Mubarak's bed holding a table leg snapped from the table in their cell. He pointed at Mr Mubarak's bed and said, "My cellmate's had an accident." The bedclothes and wall round the bed were covered with blood and Mr Mubarak was slipping into unconsciousness. Stewart was then taken to a segregation cell for two hours to await the police. After he had been taken from the cell a swastika was discovered scratched on the wall along with the words "Just killed me pad mate (cellmate)". Stewart admitted the assault but when asked why he'd attacked Mr Mubarak he said: "I don't even know myself, it's hard to explain, I just felt like it." Mr Nutting read from letters found in Stewart's cell dated the day before the attack and addressed to seven different people. These, said Mr Nutting, demonstrated the defendant's racist views. "Me ship out (transfer) to the north west better come soon, see some old friends, white ones," he wrote in one. Another read: "Nice spell up the north west, watched some Granada TV, heard some real accents, saw some white people. Did you watch Romper Stomper the other day? Fat film. I wish dem (sic) blokes were in and dem what killed Stephen Lawrence. The niggers would soon shut up."I'm going to nail bomb the Asian community of Great Norbury. Its all about immigrants getting smuggled into here, Romanians, Pakis, niggers, Chinkies, taking over the country and using us to breed half castes. "Going to nail bomb Bradford, Moss Side and Glodwick and all the non-white areas. I don't like the way these Romanian refugees are coming here begging. I hate foreigners and non-whites." Earlier letters, said Mr Nutting, revealed, "how ingrained into the defendant's personality these racist views had become and how much he resented being in prison with people whose race and origin he so despised and hated." A letter written a month before the attack provided a chilling forecast of the murder of Mr Mubarak, said Mr Nutting. "If I don't get bail on the 7th I'll take extreme measures to get shipped out," it reads. "I'll kill me fucking pad mate if I have to. Bleach me sheets and pillowcases white, make myself a Ku Klux Klan suit and walk out me pad holding a flaming cross." The letter ends with a scrawled swastika. Mr Mubarak's family are represented by solicitor Imran Khan and supported by the National Civil Rights Movement.