Although it is easier to find nuclear weapons in Iraq than coherence in the criminal justice system, we can say with certainty that the punishments for burglary have been set - for the next week at any rate. Lord Woolf's guidance on his guidance made clear that most first-time burglars shouldn't go to prison.In normal circumstances David Blunkett would have knocked the Lord Chief Justice's lights out for such effete liberalism. Ever since Tony Blair robbed the grave of the murdered James Bul ger, and announced that the killing of a child by children, the rarest of crimes, was 'a hammer blow to the sleeping conscience of the nation', New Labour's desire to prove its toughness has known no limits.But Blair has been too successful a poseur. When the Bulger case began the arms race on crime the prison population was 41,000. Today it is 72,500. The old jails are full. Funds are available to build just two new prisons because Gordon Brown has come to the prudent conclusion that Enron was a better manager of money than the Home Office. Populism can't carry on, and Blunkett knows it. He had to confine himself last week to criticising Lord Woolf's communication skills, while doing nothing to change the Lord Chief's policy of diverting minor offenders from jail. Woolf thinks they will be punished in the community instead. He is about to learn that the Probation Service is in a worse state than the Prison Service. The number of criminals on probation rose from 138,000 in 1991 to 207,000 in 2001. Successive governments refused to increase budgets to cope with the boom. In 1991, the average officer had 21 cases on the go at any one time. In 2001 he, or more probably she, had 41. I say 'more probably she' because it's always a sign that an occupation is overstressed and undervalued if men leave. Probation is no exception. In 1991 two-thirds of probation officers were men. Today two-thirds are women. I'm glad to say that they have had enough of the Home Office. On 29 January the Probation Service will go on strike for the first time in 20 years. Harry Fletcher from the probation workers' union NAPO said his members were already telling magistrates that they couldn't take on more cases. Fining offenders is the only other sanction available if prisons and probation aren't working. However, the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee found last year that 40 per cent of offenders don't pay their fines. The Government isn't prepared to slash burglary and gun crime by getting addicts out of the hands of gangsters and supplying them with NHS heroin and cocaine, not least because the tabloids would go wild. It must therefore confront the truth that 10 years after Blair woke the sleeping conscience of the nation, his crime policies have brought a unconscionable breakdown in prisons, probation hostels and courts and made the phrase 'justice system' more oxymoronic than ever.