Police are investigating the death of a prisoner in a maximum security jail who is alleged to have died after his screams of agony were ignored by staff for hours.According to the official account, Arif Hussain collapsed in his cell at Full Sutton, a dispersal prison, near York, at 8am on March 11. Staff tried to revive him but at 8.45am he was pronounced dead. He had been placed in the jail's segregation unit after officers suspected he had been passed drugs during a visit. Detectives have so far taken witness statements from 30 former inmates of the unit. They have also visited the unit and taken statements from the officers at the centre of allegations of mistreatment. Police say they are looking at all aspects of Hussain's death on behalf of the Hull coroner. Detectives said that, owing to the extensive nature of their inquiries, the coroner has given them a further month to complete the investigation. Dean Lowe, who was in the unit at the time of the death, claimed that Hussain's last night was "spent without dignity". Lowe, who has since been moved to Long Lartin jail, alleges that the banging and shouting from Arif's cell became more outrageous as the night went on. "I would describe the noise as being a cross between vomiting and growling or crying," he said. These cries were "ignored by night staff". Lowe has named other prisoners in the segregation unit who wish to give evidence to the coroner. On the day of Hussain's death, another prisoner in the unit contacted the Guardian to allege that Hussain had been screaming for many hours before he died. Three days later, the Guardian received a further account from another inmate. This man claimed that, during his last hours, Hussain had shouted out that his "bag had burst". He also said that, on arrival in the unit, Hussain had been placed in a cell with no running water and in which the toilet had been drained dry. Dean Lowe and Kevin Nevers, who occupied a cell opposite, backed this version of events to the police. Turning off a prisoner's water is understood to be standard practice after an alleged "swallow" to prevent evidence of drugs being flushed away. Nevers also alleged that, two days before his death, Hussain was beaten in his cell by six or seven staff after he had spat on a doctor. He further alleged that Hussain was "begging staff for help" and complaining of being unable to see on the night before he died. Nevers also claims that Hussain rang his alarm bell repeatedly and eventually the night staff switched it off. Staff had been "taunting" Hussain for days, turning his light and his water on and off repeatedly. The Prison Service has confirmed that the segregation unit's log records that Hussain had been behaving in a strange manner, at one point hallucinating about prostitutes in his cell, for several hours before his death. Inmates have also claimed that before police were due to visit the prison to investigate the death, staff filled the cell opposite Hussain's with furniture and "locked it off". Inmates allege that this was done to conceal from police that the cell had been occupied by a potential witness. These allegations have been passed to the police and the coroner. Following Hussain's death, the remaining prisoners in the segregation unit smashed up their cells in protest. Some were then removed to other jails. Hussain's death was the second at Full Sutton this year. On January 7, Paul Gaye, a murderer, was taken from his cell in the vulnerable prisoners' wing to York district hospital where he was later pronounced dead. The initial postmortem examination proved inconclusive and further tests were ordered. The North Yorkshire coroner, Donald Coverdale, has yet to set a date for an inquest. Gaye was sentenced to a minimum of 20 years for the torture and murder of the seven-year-old daughter of his partner in 1998. Immediately after his death, a number of inmates contacted the Guardian alleging he had been in considerable pain in the days before his death and that his pleas for medical attention had gone unanswered. Phil Wheatley, director general of the Prison Service, told the Guardian that it would deal properly with allegations of abuse. "We want to run straight places, we want to run controlled places and we certainly want to make sure that people get their legal rights." All deaths in prisons were subject to investigation, he added, "particularly a death in the segregation unit". Closed circuit television cameras in segregation units meant the service was "in a much better position to know what is going on". Last night, the Prison Service declined to comment on the specific allegations concerning Hussain's death as they were the subject of a police investigation. But in a statement, it pointed out that neither the chief inspector of prisons nor the independent monitoring board had expressed concern about the segregation unit. The most recent chief inspectors' report had found the unit was a "controlled and disciplined environment" while David Goulden, IMB chairman, described the treatment of prisoners as "extremely fair". In recent years, inquest juries have found that neglect contributed to the deaths of three prison inmates. Anthony Everett, 42, who suffered cardiac arrests in Norwich prison in February 2003 had told staff he had a history of heart problems but his medical records had been "unavailable" since he arrived at the prison in April 2002. John Cliff, 36, married with four children, took his life in Holme House prison, Cleveland, in April 2002. Luke Jacobson, 18, who was in Gloucester prison for breaching a probation order, committed suicide in September 2000.