Ian Huntley, the former Soham caretaker accused of the murders of the schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, was not, as previously reported, being held in Woodhill prison's close supervision centre but in a "gated" cell in its healthcare unit when he attempted to take his life this week.Further questions were being asked last night over why Mr Huntley was prescribed Amitriptyline, which is one of the older antidepressants, and not a newer variety such as Prozac, which is difficult to overdose on. The internal inquiry into the incident is likely to look into the prescription. Mr Huntley, 29, returned to Woodhill prison, near Milton Keynes, yesterday after leaving hospital under heavy police guard. His condition was said to be "comfortable" after he swallowed antidepressant tablets he had hoarded and hidden in teabags in his cell. The prison service yesterday defended the decision not to hold him in the specially built close supervision centre at Woodhill, saying he needed to be kept apart from other prisoners. But it is believed there were concerns raised at the highest levels of the prison service over exactly where Mr Huntley should be held in Woodhill, with the decision lying with Peter Atherton, the director of the high security estate and deputy director general of the prison service. It is believed the risk he faced of being attacked by other prisoners in the close supervision centre was a key factor. It is expected that the inquiry will examine whether all parts of the cell in the healthcare unit, including the toilet, are equally visible to prison officers. The gated cell in the healthcare centre, to which he returned yesterday, is slightly bigger than a normal cell but does not have a conventional door. It has bars in the door space, in front of which a 24-hour watch is maintained by a prison officer. It also has an in-cell camera. Mr Huntley, who faces trial in October for the Soham murders, left Milton Keynes general hospital under heavy police guard after being treated for an overdose. He was taken out of a rear entrance in a wheelchair before being driven away in a prison van and returned to Woodhill prison where he is on remand.More than 20 police officers were involved in a security operation at the hospital which involved Mr Huntley being covered in a blanket to avoid media photographs. 