A mother appeared in court yesterday accused of killing her two-year-old son, who died after suffering at least 40 injuries. Heather Boyd cried as details were read out of bruises, abrasions and scratches found on Brandon Muir by medics. The high court in Glasgow also heard that the toddler had a ruptured intestine, which led to his death, and four fractured ribs.Boyd, 23, is accused of the culpable homicide of her son by allegedly failing to get him medical help, a charge she denies. Robert Cunningham, also 23, who was her partner at the time of the toddler's death, denies murdering Brandon by assaulting him in a flat in Dundee in March last year.A consultant paediatric pathologist, Dr Alan Howatson, showed photographs of Brandon's injuries, of which there were at least 40, to the jury.The court heard that Brandon had bruises on his head, abrasions on the inside of his eye, bruised arms and circular groups of bruises on his abdomen. Howatson had also recorded marks on the toddler's shoulder blades and a "complex series of injuries" in his pelvis. There were also bruises on his lower back.The doctor said an internal examination had found additional bruising on the back of the toddler's head and in his abdomen. One bruise had penetrated his scalp.Brandon also had four fractured ribs, which Howatson said were two to three weeks old.Howatson told the court that Brandon died from peritonitis caused by a ruptured intestine. He estimated that this rupture occurred 12 to 24 hours before Brandon died, and that the injury was the result of "blunt force abdominal trauma".Advocate depute James Wolffe QC asked Howatson what nature and degree of force would be needed to cause a ruptured intestine. The pathologist said it would depend on the individual, but added: "It would not be an innocent little fall. The child would be in pain."Under cross-examination, the doctor agreed with Donald Findlay QC, representing Boyd, that there was "no suggestion" in the indictment that Boyd had any part to play in causing her son's fatal injury.The trial continues.