Police and prosecutors in rape cases are set to experiment with controversial techniques designed to make suspects incriminate themselves through phone calls or text messages.The tactic, used by investigators in the United States, involves women sending texts or making calls to their alleged attackers to see if they can extract an admission of guilt.Lawyers and detectives believe the approach could be vital in helping to boost the stubbornly low rape conviction rate in England and Wales, where barely 6% of cases reported to police end in conviction."Police get the victim to send a text saying something like 'how could you do that to me?'" said a senior CPS source. "They sometimes get a text back saying 'I'm really sorry, I know I was out of order, it won't happen again' or something like that."The so-called "pretext" phone call, which is lawful in some US states but not in others, is considered one of the strongest tools in the armoury of the rape investigator. It is widely used in the typical rape case where juries are reluctant to convict, those in which the man and woman know each other and the evidence comes down to his word against hers.There is a question mark over whether the move would contravene codes made under the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (Pace). These require police to caution a suspect before questioning him, that he is entitled to have a solicitor present and that anything he says may be taken down and used in evidence.But senior police are discussing the issue with the Crown Prosecution Service. "We're exploring it," said the source. "We recognise that there are problems around the admissibility of this material, particularly in connection with Pace but we're willing to give it a try and see what the courts say."He said the move would not require legislation or authorisation in advance by a judge. Neither text messages nor phone calls would count as intercept evidence, which is currently inadmissible in court.Judges could throw it out as unfair but it would be more likely to be considered acceptable if it was used early in the investigative process right after the woman reported the rape, rather than further down the line, he added.Police in the UK would probably start by using text messages rather than the phone calls which are more often used in the US.The conviction rate for rape is low largely because so few cases reach court. Of those that do get to court, more than 50% result in convictions -not greatly below rates for other serious crimes. The figures suggest that more sex offenders could be brought to justice by reforms concentrating on the investigation rather than refinements to the trial process.Recent research in Canada concluded that the use of pretext phone calls in sexual assault investigations did not contravene the country's charter of rights. The practice, which had been used sparingly in Canada, is now set to become a more standard tool.Prosecutors in England and Wales have been heartened by the Canadian findings because Canada has a history of strong respect for the rights of the accused and its charter of rights is similar to the European convention on human rights.The use of pretext phone calls is common in California, where defence attorneys' websites warn clients to beware of the practice. Police in the Michael Jackson child molestation case in 2005 tried to get his accuser, Gavin Arvizo, to make a pretext call to Jackson, but the boy refused. Jackson was acquitted.In another California case Enrique Monteya was convicted of serious sexual assaults, including rape, against his partner's underage daughter and jailed for 64 years after a pretext phone call from the girl. She told him she had run away and was thinking about reporting what he had done to her. Monteya replied: "Why? Don't do that ... Why you gonna do all that? They'll put me in jail for the rest of my life. They'll kill me. You want them to kill me?"The move is certain to meet resistance from some judges and lawyers on civil liberties grounds. One circuit judge who sits on rape trials thought it would "almost certainly" contravene Pace."It's an exceedingly dangerous course to adopt," he said.