The head of the new National Crime Agency has urged the home secretary not to strip British police of crucial capabilities for fighting organised crime by withdrawing from the Europe-wide police unit that tackles international gangs.Keith Bristow, who leads the £450m agency, which launches on Monday, faces one of his greatest political battles in persuading Theresa May to keep Britain in Europol. Bristow, who has promised that his 5,000 NCA agents will "instill fear" into organised criminals, faces the prospect of his new FBI-style agency being left in a power vacuum if May goes ahead with the withdrawal.Ministers fear reforms to Europol could undermine national security by requiring Britain to share information with other countries. Police leaders, including Bristow, say that intelligence and information sharing within Europol is crucial to fighting organised crime. But the government refuses to commit to future co-operation with Europol. In addition, it is considering reviewing participation in the European arrest warrant.Rob Wainwright, Europol's director, spoke last week of international concern that Britain appeared to be withdrawing from its commitment to share information just as the criminal threat became more global.Asked if he had lobbied May to stay in Europol, Bristow said: "I have made the case for staying in Europol. When the home secretary has sought my advice I have explained the capabilities that we need to have access to."These are capabilities required for maintaining a crime-fighting organisation where we focus on serious organised crime. One of the key capabilities Europol gives us is the ability to share and assess intelligence. If we did not have that capability through Europol we absolutely would need it through another sort of approach. We must be able to share intelligence. We all know we live in an interconnected world where international borders are much less significant to people involved in serious organised crime."What I have done is told the home secretary very clearly what international requirements and capabilities we need."He said the NCA would also tackle cyber criminals, drug barons, paedophiles and people traffickers. Officers will take on the paedophile gangs who use the "dark web" (which anonymises user identities) to share images of the live abuse of children.The NCA is staffed by police, computer experts, including specialists from industry, and child protection workers. The agents will work undercover and in uniform, and within a specialist intelligence hub to analyse information from every police force, as well as MI5 and MI6.Bristow said the agency would also have access to face-recognition software to tackle suspected criminals' movements.The agency takes over the role of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which was the creation of the last government in its attempt to build a national police unit coordinating the work of the 43 police forces of England and Wales more effectively.Soca was criticised for being too focused on intelligence and not enough on operational activity. The NCA addresses that."We are going to be much more visible," said Bristow. "We want the public to have confidence and trust in the work we conduct and we want criminals to fear us. We are operational crime fighters who are intelligence-led but not an intelligence agency."The NCA will not operate as a police unit in Northern Ireland because of concerns over what some politicians there see as its lack of accountability – it reports directly to the Home Office.Bristow said his officers would still retain the powers of immigration and customs officers in Northern Ireland but not that of police constables.The Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop), which is being amalgamated into the NCA, will also not be able to operate as police investigators. Bristow said his officers would be doing all they could to support investigators in Northern Ireland, but concern is growing in Northern Ireland that children might not be properly protected. Northern Ireland's justice minister, David Ford, said: "When the NCA goes live its investigative remit will be largely restricted to non-devolved issues, such as serious and organised customs and immigration crime."Civil recovery will be limited to non-devolved cases, for example, excise fraud. An obvious concern is that this could play into the hands of those accumulating assets through armed robbery, cash in transit attacks, trafficking and other devolved criminality."Ceop, which is to become part of the NCA but with an enhanced role, cannot participate in the operational arena, and as a result I have serious concerns that there will be a gap in the support [it] can provide here in respect of protection of children."This is an entirely unsatisfactory situation. It leaves obvious gaps in the protection of citizens in Northern Ireland, and I am continuing to work to achieve political agreement."