A man arrested over the shooting of a businessman and his wife at their remote Cornish home broke up with the couple's daughter just a few weeks before the attack, it was claimed yesterday. Relatives of Adam Hustler, who was shot dead, and his wife, Amanda, who suffered gunshot wounds to her back but survived, said their daughter, Danielle, had ended the relationship. Police are still waiting to interview Jonathan Cock, 23, who suffered self-inflicted facial wounds in the incident on Saturday night, in connection with the attack. Mr Hustler's grandfather, Harry Roberts, 87, said a relationship between Cock, a farmer's son, and Danielle, who is thought to be 20 and is believed to have witnessed the shooting, ended about two months ago. Roberts said: "She packed him up. They'd been together for about a year."The shooting took place at the Hustlers' £500,000 home in the hamlet of Porth Kea, near Truro in south Cornwall. A .22 rifle is understood to have been used. Cock was later arrested by armed police at his family's home on remote moorland near Land's End. Roberts said Cock had worked for Adam Hustler's drain clearing company. Neighbours of Cock claimed that his family, like the Hustlers, were Jehovah's Witnesses. The family was in shock, Roberts added. "The family have taken the news terribly," he said. "I was like a zombie, walking around. We're a very close-knit family."Roberts, a retired steel manufacturer, added: "Danielle has taken things terribly. The police were grilling her for four hours."He added: "Adam lived with me for a year from when he was five years old to six years old. He was a son to me." Mr Hustler's mother, Maureen, 64, said: "You can't understand how devastated and heartbroken a mother is to lose a son, a first-born son. "That's all I can say - Adam was a wonderful son, he was a special part of our warm, loving family. We just can't express the pain that we're going through at this time."It also emerged yesterday that Mrs Hustler underwent an operation but refused a blood transfusion because of her faith. Tim Mears, a family friend and a spokesman for the Jehovah's Witnesses in Cornwall, said: "A blood transfusion is her decision about her body. As a Jehovah's Witness it's a personal stand. She was conscious before the operation and was able to make that choice." She was said to be in a "stable" condition last night. Mears said he had spoken to Danielle. He said: "She was very distressed but coping. She has been through the terrible trauma of watching what happened to her parents. "It is likely the full psychological effects will come out later. I understand she saw it all and I think her sister was at the house as well."I met her boyfriend, Jonathan Cock, on a couple of occasions when they were going out and he seemed a very nice young man. I have no reason to believe her family's religious beliefs had anything to do with what has happened." Yesterday Cock's home was being guarded by police. Members of his family run a centre for adults with learning difficulties. Superintendent Michelle Slevin, of Devon and Cornwall police, said: "Searches are continuing to locate any weapon or weapons used and forensic examinations of a number of scenes are taking place."We can confirm one man was arrested on suspicion of murder and is currently in police custody. He has not yet been interviewed. We are not looking for anyone else in connection to the incident."