Jonathan ReesMorgan's partner at Southern Investigations. Married to Sharon, the sister of Glenn and Garry Vian. Rees, 59, counted many police officers as friends, and according to internal Scotland Yard reports from surveillance operations, used corrupt police officers to pass him information which he sold to tabloid newspapers. In 2000 he was jailed for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice for attempting to plant drugs on an innocent woman in a child custody case. He was charged with Morgan's murder.Garry and Glenn VianGarry Vian, 50 and his brother Glenn Vian, 53, knew Rees through their sister Sharon. Rees occasionally employed them as security for his agency. Garry Vian was jailed in 2005 for 14 years for conspiring to supply controlled drugs; he tried to smuggle millions of pounds' worth of Class A drugs into the UK in hollow pianos. When convicted he was described in court as a drug dealer on a "commercial" scale. Both men were charged with Morgan's murder.Sidney FilleryAt the time of Morgan's murder, Fillery, 63, was a detective at Catford CID in south-east London. He was a friend of Rees and one of a number of officers moonlighting at Southern Investigations. As a member of the Catford crime squad Fillery was involved in the first murder inquiry but did not reveal his connection with Rees or the agency. After Morgan's death he left the Met after obtaining a medical discharge and became Rees's partner at Southern Investigations. In 2003 Fillery was convicted of making indecent images of children. Fillery was charged in the Daniel Morgan case with attempting to pervert the course of justice: the allegation was that he threatened a potential witness in relation to the murder. The charge against him was stayed in February 2010 after the judge ruled evidence from a key supergrass was inadmissible.James CookCook was employed by Southern Investigations before to Morgan's death. He was alleged to have been the getaway driver after the axe murder in the pub car park. Cook, 56, was charged with murder but removed from the indictment in November 2010 when evidence from his former girlfriend was ruled inadmissible by the trial judge.