"Gotcha" shrieked the Mirror's headline when Neil Acourt and David Norris, two of the five men suspected of murdering Stephen Lawrence, were convicted last week of a racist attack on a black policeman. The two are in jail awaiting sentencing next month.The prospect of going down for some time is not the only spectre haunting their uneasy dreams. Planned changes to the ancient double jeopardy law could see them brought to trial at last for the 1993 racist murder of the black teenager. Retrospective amendments to the double jeopardy rule - which currently bars a retrial for anyone previously tried and acquitted - could re-open the dock to Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight, the three who were found not guilty on the judge's direction after a private prosecution by Stephen Lawrence's parents collapsed. David Norris and Jamie Acourt could stand there with them - if the crown prosecution service decides the evidence is strong enough to put them on trial. Under the leadership of the recently retired deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve, Scotland Yard began a comprehensive re-investigation of the Stephen Lawrence murder three years ago in the wake of the publication of the Macpherson report.Grieve, one of Scotland Yard's most innovative and experienced detectives, had a team of 40 officers and freedom to use whatever resources he needed. Over the next two years, he uncovered what the Met describes as "the clearest picture yet" of what happened to Stephen in Eltham, southeast London, on April 22, 1993. However, Grieve left his post at the end of April still waiting to hear whether the crown prosecution service was prepared to recommend charges. When he submitted the first file to the CPS last autumn, he could not have imagined that lawyers would still be labouring over what to do 10 months later. Each time the Met has sent material for review, the CPS has sent it back with questions and queries. This cycle continued well into the spring. The CPS is now saying that its lawyers will have made up their minds by the beginning of September, but nobody at the Met will be surprised if the deadline slips again. Neither organisation wants to be the one to admit defeat on the issue, but there is a growing feeling that the CPS will conclude that the police have not got enough for a "realistic prospect of conviction". The weight of nine years of highly prejudicial publicity, combined with the failures of two previous police inquiries and the abortive private prosecution against three of the five original suspects, may prove impossible to budge. For the new double jeopardy rules to apply, the police would have to show compelling new evidence against Dobson, Neil Acourt and Knight, the trio who were acquitted of Stephen's murder in 1996. Scotland Yard sources say the reinvestigation, though meticulous, does not boast the quality of evidence that would meet this test. Grieve knew he was working in a "brownfield site" when he launched his inquiry, but he told his officers to forget the past and start again afresh. They re-interviewed every witness they could and gathered fresh material with the help of aggressive press and TV appeals for information. Though detectives could not find the weapon used to kill Stephen and have no forensic evidence, by reconstructing what happened the night the teenager died, they believed they had cast doubt on the alibis of some of the five prime suspects. The squad believes there is now enough evidence to bring serious charges, possibly conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm, against several members of the white gang that attacked Stephen. Grieve has argued privately that the Met has brought charges against people "with far less that we have got here", and that "without the other stuff, we'd have brought people to trial by now". But he also acknowledges that this is not an ordinary case and cannot be judged by the usual criteria. There are other problems. If the history of the Lawrence case were not enough of a deterrent to the CPS, the prospect of going into court with what they have in front of them now will not be appealing. Some of the witnesses spoken to by Grieve's squad have admitted they were drinking or on drugs on the night of the murder. Duwayne Brooks, a friend of Stephen's who was with him when he was stabbed, has given four different versions of events to the police. It was the unreliability of his evidence which caused the ill-fated private prosecution to fold. Flawed witness testimony was one of the key factors in the failure to secure prosecutions in the Damilola Taylor trial and is probably another reason why the CPS is treating the Lawrence reinvestigation with such caution. While the Met has tried to remain positive about the chances of bringing Stephen's killers to justice, there is a feeling in the hierarchy that Grieve's team has taken the investigation as far as it can go, and that it is time to "move on" and, if necessary, for them to accept defeat. But suppose the CPS decides to go ahead, how likely is it that the five will actually make it to trial? Surely their lawyers will argue that the barrage of damaging media coverage over the years has scuppered any chance of finding 12 unbiased jurors. And surely no judge could disagree. After all, the Daily Mail famously labelled the five men "murderers" and challenged them to sue. The "fade factor" which makes the details of a crime, however horrific, recede as the years pass has hardly operated in the Lawrence case. His parents' crusade for justice and the yobbish activities of the suspects have kept the memory fresh. Richard Ferguson QC, the veteran criminal silk who tried and failed to get the case against Rosemary West thrown out because of prejudicial publicity, is by no means sure the Lawrence suspects would succeed where she failed. He thinks a trial could well go ahead and cites the case of Michael Stone, killer of Lin and Megan Russell, who was retried after his conviction was quashed, despite damning coverage after his first trial. His counsel, William Clegg QC, told the appeal court: "It's difficult to imagine anybody having anything worse published about him than this man." If the case went to retrial, he argued, "then the right of a citizen to have a fair trial not compromised by publicity will in reality be little more than empty words." Lord Justice Kennedy conceded that the media reporting was "sensational, possibly in parts inaccurate, and extended far beyond what a jury in 2001 might normally be told." But, he insisted, "people do forget", pointing out that the new trial would come nearly three years after the earlier one. "Even if they do not forget entirely, the passage of time makes it easier for them to set aside that which they are told to disregard." Ferguson notes: "In the Michael Stone case, the judges ordered a retrial despite what one would have thought quite overwhelming evidence, if they'd wished to accept it, that there was no prospect of an unbiased trial. One could argue that if the courts were prepared to approbate that course of action in a case such as Michael Stone, then the Lawrence case wouldn't be any different." Once the double jeopardy rule goes, he argues, "who is to say that one cannot equally change what has hitherto been regarded, at least by way of lip service, as a fundamental requirement - that there should not be a trial where you cannot at least hope for an unbiased approach by a jury. Sad thought, but that's the way things are going."