A disciplinary hearing, set up at huge expense to investigate claims that a forensic pathologist botched postmortem examinations, has collapsed in embarrassing circumstances.Days before the Home Office tribunal was due to finish, a month after it started, all four of the panel hearing the case against Paula Lannas declared they should step down to avoid a conflict of interest. Dr Lannas is left in limbo while a decision is made over whether there will be further proceedings. She has had little work for two years while the case has been pending. Critics believe the collapse also raises questions about the policy advisory board for forensic pathology, which is responsible for the tribunal. The board is chaired by Gordon Thomas, acting head of the Home Office's science and technology unit. One of its roles is to maintain a list of pathologists approved for working with police and coroners on suspicious deaths. One pathologist, who asked not to be named, said last night: "This is going to call into question the credibility of the board. How can the public, let alone coroners and the police, have confidence in the crucial work it does if it can't run a disciplinary hearing?" Since 1990 Dr Lannas, who qualified as a doctor in 1974, has performed more than 7,300 autopsies, including almost 400 on people who died in suspicious circumstances. She was involved in the cases of Leah Betts, who died after taking an ecstasy tablet on her 18th birthday in 1995, and Joy Gardner, who died in 1993 after police tried to arrest her for deportation. But in 1996 Dr Lannas's work came under scrutiny. After years of investigation by the board's quality assurance and scientific standards committee, the disciplinary tribunal convened - for the first time - at the Holiday Inn in Rotherhithe, south-east London, last month. It heard that two Essex coroners had stopped her from performing autopsies in their areas. In three cases, it was claimed, she failed to carry out a "vital aspect of the autopsy". Also investigated, the tribunal heard, was a postmortem examination on a baby who police believed had been murdered. So "suspect" were her conclusions that at a trial the prosecution told the jury it could not rely on her evidence. Proceedings were being watched by at least one team of lawyers representing a person convicted after a trial at which Dr Lannas gave evidence. However, her team were confident that she would win the tribunal case. In a statement at the start they said: "Dr Lannas maintains that throughout her career she has acted properly and professionally." She was giving evidence when the case collapsed last Friday. Her lawyer, Robert Sumerling, said yesterday the turn of events was "entirely unexpected". Dr Lannas was "very concerned and upset". He said her team had drawn attention to what they believed was a "problem" with one of the panel. Next day the panel announced that they would all be standing down. The Home Office would not discuss details of the case. It said only that the tribunal had been "discontinued" because members had "recused themselves because information came to their attention which could have been viewed as prejudicial". In a legal context, to recuse means to withdraw from a hearing because of a possible conflict of interest or lack of impartiality. One legal source said: "This must be a great embarrassment to the Home Office. It is bound to have cost hundreds of thousands of pounds to bring this case ... This is the first time this tribunal has met, and it will probably now be the only time."