The government's proposals to deal with petty crime outside court could, with safeguards and resources, have much to offer (Plan to do away with court for petty crime, January 16). If, however, Tony Blair is really interested in "bringing the criminal justice system into the 21st century", he should now reflect upon our burgeoning prison population in the light of the SmartJustice and Victim Support poll referred to in your report. He should also ask tough questions about who we are locking up. We recently completed a study, Troubled Inside, which highlights how large numbers of mentally ill people become trapped in a system that neither improves their health nor reduces offending.The supposition that the public is essentially punitive appears to have informed the massive increase in use of custody. England and Wales top the prison league table for western Europe, incarcerating 145 per 100,000 of their population compared with rates of 88 in France and 97 in Germany. The Decision to Imprison, our report on sentencing, shows that this is due to a raft of new legislation and progressively tougher sentencing, with no increase in the numbers appearing before the courts. Our prisons are chronically overcrowded and we have a new record high re-offending rate for adult ex-prisoners.The notion that thousands of very low-risk offenders could be diverted out of the court system was recommended in a review undertaken by Patrick Carter for the prime minister's strategy unit. He proposed a new focus on paying back to the community, and noted that diversion from court is widely used in other European countries. A well-resourced conditional cautioning scheme, along with mental health and drug treatment services, would be essential. Crucially, it should only be used where there is an admission of guilt after legal advice.Carter also recognised that the demise in use of the fine has increased pressures on both prisons and probation. He advocated day fines, where the fine is set as a number of days linked to the offender's ability to pay.Interestingly, this all squares pretty well with what those who have suffered from these same crimes would like to see. The first-ever survey of victims' views about non-violent crime - which we part-funded - challenges the government's reliance on imprisonment. The SmartJustice poll of almost 1,000 crime victims shows a clear majority believe making offenders carry out unpaid work in the community is a better alternative to short prison sentences. Eight out of 10 victims think more constructive activities for young people and better supervision by parents would be effective in stopping re-offending. There is also overwhelming support for more community-based mental health and drug treatment programmes.These results fly in the face of notions that victims are vengeful and vindictive. Most victims are interested in finding ways of preventing the next crime. Asked about crimes such as shoplifting, stealing cars and vandalism, 62% of those interviewed did not think going to prison makes offenders less likely to offend again. Modernising the criminal justice system should focus on reserving prison for serious and violent offenders.· Geoff Dobson is deputy director of the Prison Reform Trust geoff.dobson@prisonreformtrust.org.uk· If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly, email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content