The British public has long demonstrated sincere sympathy for abused or neglected children and those living in poverty. But when these same children break the law we demand punitive responses that ignore their problems and fail to tackle the reasons behind their offences.For this reason five children's charities, including the Children's Society, together with the crime reduction charity Nacro have launched a project called Shape to reshape the public debate about young offenders. In particular, we want to encourage alternatives to custody.Out intention is not to be soft on crime. But a rational debate about young offenders must take account of the hard reality of children and young people's lives. Children and young people are increasingly victims of crime yet as a society we focus on the small minority who are perpetrators. The fear of youth crime has never been greater yet only 2 % of young people are cautioned or convicted each year.The UK has one of the lowest ages of criminal responsibility in Europe. At 10 a child is held to be as accountable in court as an adult. As a result, the number of young people in custody has risen dramatically in the past decade. About 7,000 under-18s were in custody last year, according to the Home Office. Yet more than 88% of children who receive a custodial sentence re-offend within two years, indicating that locking children up does not work.We need to recognise that children and young people are part of our communities and have a role to play in reducing crime. Unfortunately, the government's current emphasis on protecting local communities from young people only fuels public mistrust and undermines social cohesion.The members of Shape believe that children should never be locked up. If it is necessary to detain them, they should always be in small units close to their homes, where they can maintain links with their families. However, we welcome initiatives by the youth justice board, which advises the government on tackling young offending, to provide community-based alternatives to custody. But we need to go beyond that and question whether the criminal justice system is the best way of handling children and young people who are deeply troubled, at risk of abuse and neglect, and living in poverty. We hope the government will recognise that these are children and young people in need of help and understanding not criminals in need of punishment in the forthcoming green paper on children at risk. · Bob Reitemeier is chief executive of the Children's Society. Shape brings together Barnardo's, the Children's Society, the National Children's Bureau, children's charity NCH, and the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty Children to challenge current beliefs about youth crime.