Paul Whitehouse, the chief constable of Sussex, launched a withering attack on the Home Office yesterday after announcing his resignation over a flawed raid that left an unarmed and naked man dead.Mr Whitehouse insisted he had acted properly before and after the operation that killed James Ashley, but said he would be stepping down on September 25. His announcement came 12 hours after the home secretary, David Blunkett, revealed he had written to Sussex police authority urging it to consider sacking Mr Whitehouse to restore public confidence in the force. The unprecedented intervention forced Mr Whitehouse to go and led him to condemn the need to find "scapegoats" for the shooting on January 15 1998. A progressive who supports the legalisation of cannabis, Mr Whitehouse warned that tragedies were inevitable if the Home Office continued to pursue tough anti-drugs policies. "I hope very much Mr Blunkett realises that if he wants us to be firm in our fight against drugs, which he has talked about, that officers will have to make decisions occasionally which may have unfortunate consequences," he said. "It is essential in these circumstances that these officers who make these decisions are supported, providing they have acted with integrity themselves." He added: "Police officers are people. They make mistakes occasionally, things go wrong. It is absolutely imperative that we recognise that, and it doesn't mean that if something goes wrong there must be a scapegoat. That is the way to disaster. It's not right that someone should be hung out to dry just because no one could determine who has misbehaved just because something has gone wrong." Mr Whitehouse also complained that Mr Blunkett had not had the "courtesy" to inform him personally of his concerns. Before the home secretary's move on Monday, Mr Whitehouse had ignored calls to resign over the death of Ashley in St Leonard's on Sea. During the operation - carried out as part of an investigation into drug trafficking in the area - Ashley, 39, was shot dead at point-blank range in front of his 18-year-old girlfriend by a police marksman, PC Christopher Sherwood. Prosecutions against five officers involved in the raid, including Mr Sherwood, were launched but abandoned. At a hearing at Wolverhampton crown court last month, Nigel Sweeney QC said it would be impossible to pursue cases against individual officers because there had been a "corporate failure" in the force. An independent report by Hampshire police on the shooting and its aftermath accused Mr Whitehouse of "wilfully failing to tell the truth" about what he knew of the botched operation. Despite the criticism, Mr Whitehouse has maintained he did nothing wrong. The force has not apologised to Ashley's relatives, who are demanding a public inquiry. The Home Office said yesterday it respected Mr Whitehouse's decision to step down. Mr Blunkett has not ruled out a public inquiry and will meet Ashley's relatives next month. His robust action comes soon after the sidelining of the drug tsar, Keith Hellawell. A spokesman for Tony Blair said the home secretary would not "duck making decisions he believes are necessary to make sure the public continue to have confidence in the police". Graham Alexander, chairman of the Sussex Police Federation, said he hoped the resignation would help the force to move forward after a period of "ghastly publicity". "We need to start the process of closure, and it is not going to happen overnight, it will be a gradual and quite sensitive business. But it needs to start somewhere."  The case against• On January 15 1998 James Ashley was shot dead in a raid on his flat in St Leonard's on Sea, near Hastings.Within hours Paul Whitehouse defended the actions of his officers, declaring he was "satisfied that the operation was properly and professionally planned, that the use of firearms was justified and that my officers acted properly and with due regard to everybody's safety". Whitehouse suggested Ashley was armed and wanted for attempted murder. • A subsequent investigation discovered that, by the time of Whitehouse's comments, he had already been told that Ashley was naked and unarmed when he was killed. He had also been told that the officer who shot him, PC Chris Sherwood, might not have been suited to firearms duty. • An inquiry by Kent police on behalf of the police complaints authority claimed the operation was catastrophically flawed in every phase. Ashley was not armed and not wanted for attempted murder. It concluded the force was riven with incompetence and that there was evidence of "corporate failures" that made the actions of individual officers difficult to criticise. • A subsequent inquiry into Whitehouse's conduct by Sir John Hoddinott, the chief constable of Hampshire, accused him of making statements that were "unsustainable in any rational sense...and plainly perverse." There was evidence Whitehouse had "wilfully failed to tell the truth". • Sussex police authority suspended Whitehouse for three weeks and then issued him with "written advice" - one of the lowest sanctions available. It urged the chief constable to take greater care with his public statements. • Two of the officers involved in the raid, inspectors Kevin French, 47, and Christopher Siggs, 42, were promoted - with Whitehouse's blessing - and had their pay increases backdated to January 1998.