Two disgraced Metropolitan police detectives face hefty jail sentences today after admitting that they helped a known criminal hunt a money launderer over a £600,000 debt.Detective constables Martin Morgan, 39, and Declan Costello, 36, abandoned their normal duties at Barkingside police station in east London, to work for Robert Kean, a builder who has a string of previous convictions, the Old Bailey was told yesterday. Kean was desperate to find a former business associate, Andrew Smith - not his real name - and was prepared to pay his friend Morgan a substantial sum, possibly £50,000. Kean and another criminal, Carl Wood, spoke of torturing Smith, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, and putting his body in a car crusher if he could not hand over the cash, the Old Bailey was told. The scam was exposed by Scotland Yard's elite anti-corruption squad, CIB, which launched a sophisticated sting operation that caught Morgan, Kean, Costello and Wood red-handed, the court heard. Morgan, from South Woodford in north-east London, Kean, 54, from Norwich, and Wood, 45, from Waltham Cross, Hertfordshire, have pleaded guilty to conspiring to unlawfully and injuriously imprison a man and to detain him against his will. Wood, and Costello, from Huntingdon in Cambridgeshire, have pleaded guilty to conspiracy to assault, causing actual bodily harm. At the heart of the scandal was the friendship of Morgan and Kean, a suspected drugs dealer. When Kean had wanted to find Smith, he turned to Morgan, who obliged by, using the resources and intelligence databases available to Met detectives to try to track down and entrap him. Kean said Morgan "was good at his job" and would be paid "50gs"- £50,000 - to act as his bounty hunter. Morgan, who has served in the Met for 21 years, had spells working in Stoke Newington and the south-east regional crime squad - both hit by corruption scandals in the 1980s and 90s - before being stationed at Barkingside. His integrity was not under serious scrutiny, however, until 1997, when CIB began investigating him over the disappearance of files containing details of police informers. Nothing was proved, but two years later Morgan came under further suspicion.  Concern  Designated to deal with burglaries and robberies, he had gone outside the patch to work on a drugs job - an irregularity serious enough to lead a senior detective in east London to warn other officers to have nothing to do with him. With concern about his activities mounting, CIB launched a full-scale operation, codenamed Greyhound. Six weeks later, on February 23 2000, Morgan asked another officer, Claire Fuller, to run a check on a Mercedes owned by Smith, a 40-year-old businessman who ran a car hire firm. Fuller had no idea that Morgan was working on behalf of Kean; neither, at this stage, did CIB. A week later, Costello, searched Edgware Safe Depository Vaults in north London with a warrant he had been granted. The director of the company refused to open box number 3846, which was owned by Smith, but the officer got a locksmith to break into it anyway, on the pretext that he was looking for cocaine. This raised further suspicion within the CIB team, which was led by detective chief inspector Dave Pennant. Why were officers from a burglary and robbery squad running checks on Smith, and why, if they were searching for drugs, had Costello not taken the safety box away for forensic tests? Within 10 days, CIB had realised that the answers lay in the link between Morgan and Kean, a builder with a string of convictions dating back to 1964. They were already aware that the two men knew each other; but the depth of their friendship only emerged during the undercover operation. CIB then discovered that Kean was looking for Smith. Urging immediate extra resources and surveillance, Pennant told a senior officer, Martin Bridger, that Kean was "trying to locate (Smith) and conspire with Martin Morgan to kidnap (Smith)". The CIB operation split swiftly into two. Top priority was to find Smith before Morgan could get to him. Within three days he had been located and swept into protective custody, along with his partner and their four-month-old child. Once Smith was safe, CIB turned to the second and more complex task - getting Morgan and Kean. Pennant turned to an officer with expertise in such operations, detective chief inspector Roger Critchell. On his advice, the team hired three rooms at the Post House hotel in Guildford, Surrey. Room 179 was in the name of Smith. A video camera was hidden in the television and separate bugging devices were put in the light fittings. CIB officers based themselves in the room next door and another that overlooked the car park. Smith's car, a white Seat, was left there and his passport was put in the hotel room. In the meantime, Morgan had met Kean twice - in the Napier Arms in Woodford New Road, east London, and then at the Red Lion pub in Harlow, Essex. Needing to lure the men to Guildford, an undercover officer posing as Smith rang Barkingside police station on two occasions and left a message for Costello.  Traced  He gave the number of a payphone at the hotel, and although he did not give any further details, CIB guessed that the call would be traced by the corrupt officers. Within 12 hours of the second call, Kean and Morgan turned up at the Post House. Morgan was not alone - he sat at the hotel bar with Costello watching the foyer, both being careful not to be caught on the hotel's CCTV camera. Kean and a friend of his, Carl Wood, went up to room 179 and found the passport and other papers that had been left. He rang Morgan downstairs. "If you want to come in here, there's some very interesting things," he said. Morgan joined them minutes later. Probably mindful that he did not want to leave any fingerprints, he pulled on thin rubber gloves as he walked up an outside fire escape to the room. The video camera caught the officer giving Kean a pair of plastic handcuffs and saying: "It'll do the job ... won't get out of them. Once we've got hold of him then we can start thinking about what we are going to do. Put them on him and he ain't going nowhere, is he?" After Morgan left the room, he and Costello waited in the car park and the lobby until 1am. Back in the room, Kean asked Wood what he would do if Smith walked in. He replied: "I'll just go smash, hit him straight in the head. I've got my blade. He ain't going home, don't worry about that." "What we do, is say, where's the money," explained Kean. "And we say, are you sure, 'cos we'll go there. You go there, right, get a hammer and smash him." Morgan returned to the hotel the next day but left at lunchtime. Kean was obviously pleased with the detective's effort, describing him to Wood as "a diamond bloke. He's given me so much help, it's unbelievable". Wood adds: "[He] thinks like us." Kean replies: "That's why he is so good at his job." The bugging devices recorded Wood saying he would gouge Smith's eyes and shoot him in the kneecaps. Another man who joined them said he would "put a cigarette up his nose". Kean and Wood spent another night in the room, but abandoned the vigil after 33 hours. Two days later, CIB paid for the hotel room with one of Smith's credit cards. When Morgan found out about the payment, he asked the hotel for the card number and persuaded a colleague to contact Visa to retrieve details of other recent occasions the card had been used. Fearing that Kean was about to leave the country, officers arrested him and Morgan on April 6. At Kean's home in Norfolk, they found photocopies of witness statements from another case that had nothing to do with Smith. Morgan's fingerprints were on them - suggesting he was the source. The Met does not know whether to regard Operation Greyhound as a success or not. It showed that "bent cops" are being weeded out, but that appalling nests of corruption still exist in the force, despite the warnings made by successive commissioners, and the threat that corrupt activities would be investigated by CIB. There is also frustration that the corrupt officers have been on full pay since their arrest, and that they were able to drag out the court process for two years, trying desperately to have the charges dropped by claiming CIB did not follow procedures laid down for bugging in this type of operation. The arguments were eventually dismissed, but this did not seem to change the demeanour of Mor gan, who remained cool and confident throughout weeks of legal wrangling at the Old Bailey. Turning up to court with a copy of the Daily Telegraph under his arm, he spent much of his time attempting to do the difficult crossword, occasionally turning to the other defendants for advice.