Stephen Lawrence's body was lying in Greenwich mortuary barely cold when an anonymous caller rang Eltham police station. It was just before two on the afternoon of Friday, April 23, 1993, the day after the murder. The man said he did not want to give his name but he knew a gang of youths who went around the area threatening people with knives. He gave two names and an address: Neil Acourt and David Norris of 102 Bournbrook Road, a short walk from where Stephen had been stabbed to death by a gang of white racist youths.It was a thin but interesting lead for the police team which had only that morning set up its incident room. In charge was Detective Chief Superintendant Ian Crampton, with 28 years' experience in the Met.The priority that day was to search the area and start house-to-house inquiries. In the afternoon, a press conference was held to appeal for witnesses. Senior officers, at least, recognised this was a racist murder. "What, what, nigger," one of the youths had shouted before the knife was plunged into his neck. With Stephen's mother, Doreen, under sedation, his father, Neville, said: "This was the senseless murder of a decent young man."At 7.45 that evening a young skinhead walked into the police station. He had information. Detective Constable Christopher Budgen came to the front desk. The informant, who gave his real name, had dramatic news and Budgen immediately went to tell Detective Inspector Benjamin Bullock, second in command of the investigation.The two detectives, it seems, did not get on. "I could have recovered the Crown Jewels," Budgen would say later, "it would not have made any difference." Or as the Lawrence inquiry counsel, Edmund Lawson QC, remarked, the information was treated "with considerable indifference". Bullock simply told Budgen to record it.The record went like this: "Acourts call themselves the Krays. In fact you can only join their gang if you stab someone. They carry knifes and weapons most days. David Norris stabbed Stacey Benefield a month ago in order to prove himself. He then went on to say that a young Pakistani boy was murdered last year in Well Hall Road; that Peter Thompson who is serving life was part of the Acourt gang. That in fact one of the Acourts killed this lad. They also stabbed a young lad at Woolwich town centre called Lee. He had a bag placed over his head and was stabbed in the legs and arms in order to torture him."From the start the police knew their informer, given the pseudonym James Grant, was not just picking up idle gossip. He was much closer to the suspects than that.At the inquiry, as Bullock was roasted for the many failures of the police investigation, he admitted: "If I have one regret it is that I didn't see that man." In fact he was never seen by any officer higher than a sergeant.Grant's information was not entirely ignored. Before the weekend was out the police had discovered that the brothers Neil and Jamie Acourt and David Norris had records of criminal and violent behaviour. And on Sunday Stacey Benefield was traced and volunteered a statement about how he and a friend were confronted in the street by Neil Acourt and Norris, who stabbed him with a miniature sword.But even before that the whispers from the street were becoming a clamour. The claim by the police for four years that there had been a "wall of silence" was a complete fiction.Twice on Friday an anonymous woman rang to tell the police about the Benefield stabbing by "two boys who call themselves the Krays."On Saturday, two anonymous letters arrived. One left in a telephone kiosk said: "The people involved in last night's stabbing are: Neil Acourt, Jamie Acourt, David Norris and Gary Dobson. Those bastards. Approach these shits with care." Another with the same names was left under the windscreen wiper of a police car. There were at least four more calls pointing to the Acourts.Sunday was a critical day, a day when the senior detectives now accept they should have decided to move in for arrests. The Acourts' mother had confirmed they lived there. Both Norris and Dobson - who had given an alibi - were seen outside of the Acourts' house in the evening. By 9pm the Benefield statement was in the bag.But instead of a dawn raid, it was decided to set up a surveillance. On Monday DCS Crampton was replaced by DCS Brian Weeden as senior investigating officer. He went along with the strategy.The reasons given for the failure to arrest on Monday now seem bizarre. The police wanted proof of association when that was already self-evident for four of the suspects; they feared - almost certainly erroneously - that forensic evidence would have been destroyed; and they considered the identification evidence of Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen on the night, was weak. More evidence, they felt was needed. But the most incredible explanation was given at the inquiry by Weeden himself.He admitted he did not know he could arrest simply on "reasonable suspicion.""I have never before in any murder case arrested anyone for murder without evidence as opposed to information," he said.Michael Mansfield, the Lawrence family QC, could not believe his ears: "Do you not find it rather disturbing that it has taken all this time for you to recognise a fairly basic tenet of criminal law?"The humiliated Weeden replied: "I think it is regrettable."Even more regrettable, according to the Police Complaints Authority-supervised inquiry, published last December, was the failure to arrest Neil Acourt and Norris there and then for the Benefield stabbing. It was "a golden opportunity" missed.The surveillance operation on the Acourts' house was an unmitigated disaster. By the time the cameras had been set at 4.15pm - the photographers did not normally work over the weekend - they had missed an unknown man carrying what appeared to be clothes covered in black plastic. The next day Neil Acourt was captured on film taking out a black binbag. But on both occasions the police photographers were unable to call for backup because they had no means of communication. And when Gary Dobson was eventually interviewed by DS Davidson and denied knowing Norris, Davidson had not been told about the pictures that could have shown this to be a lie."I can't remember any surveillance before the arrests," he told the inquiry."It is quite unreal," ventured Mr Mansfield."It is quite unbelievable," he replied.But Tuesday was eventful in other ways. Some of the locals were getting restive. One of the first calls to Eltham police station came from a man: "When are you going to pick up the Acourt brothers? If you don't bring them in soon, they will be done." More people on the estate kept telling the police they were responsible and one young woman, Michelle Casserley, rang to say someone had gone to their house on the night of the murder to find them "looking edgy".That evening Budgen and Davidson met the informer Grant in a pub. He said some black youths were trying to find the Acourts' address, but the person they had approached had been threatened by the brothers. Later that evening Grant was back in touch. The police message read: "Grant then rang to say he thinks he may have found a witness. He said this witness was on a bus and that Neil Acourt did one of the stabbings and David Norris did the other one." Grant gave a name and a street.Witness B, as he became known, was at first unhelpful (although many months later he did agree to make a statement). He was eventually traced by DS Davidson, who formed the view - three weeks later - that he was a suggestible "Walter Mitty" character: he put the incident half a mile away and described a fight outside a pub. But questions were asked at the inquiry about the appropriateness of Davidson, a big assertive Scot, for conducting interviews with nervous, vulnerable young people.Davidson never told his boss, Weeden, that B's identity was known from the start. When told this at the inquiry, Weeden gasped: "I am staggered."And there were other question marks over Davidson. He was Grant's handler but his log and notes of meetings have inexplicably disappeared. Although he and Budgen claimed they registered Grant as an informer, the area controller for informers at Greenwich denied any knowledge of him.The Lawrence family, meanwhile, was becoming increasingly angry and frustrated about the lack of information from the police. They saw the family liaison officers as patronising and more interested in asking questions about Stephen's background and anti-racist campaigners.But the police were plodding on. On Wednesday they had taken a corroborative statement from Benefield's friend, Matty Farman, who had witnessed the attack. They heard about another incident with a black youth. On to the Holmes major incident computer - which few of the officers could use properly - went: "Apparently Dobson threatened Kevin London about two days ago with a knife and told him 'You are next'." London was not seen until May 26 and although he and his girlfirend willingly made statements, the matter was not pursued. Pearson, the man mentioned by Grant within the first 24 hours, also made a statement but refused to sign it. And a new name was added: Lukey Knight.That weekend was the May bank holiday, and many of the officers took two days off. A chronology of these two weeks showed no police activity at all.On Tuesday, the police finally got round to visiting Michelle Casserley, the young woman who had called a week before. She confirmed that a friend had visited the Acourts' house on the night of the murder and had seen the brothers and Gary Dobson with wet hair. At least one had his T-shirt off. This man became known as witness K.He was also dealt with by DS Davidson, and K's parents complained about his brusque approach. At the inquiry Davidson had a blank on these matters. There are police records showing that K was first seen on Sunday, May 9, and that he gave a short, unsigned statement to Davidson on May 17. Thereafter he disappeared. Davidson had no recollection of these events. "I don't remember taking it," he said.As a result of the PCA-Kent police inquiry into the case we now know a good deal more about K. He was the source of the first information offered by the informer, Grant; and, more peculiarly, Grant has claimed he told the police his identity.Although the detail did not emerge at the inquiry, Kent records show that K was in the area on the night of the murder. He was told that someone had been stabbed in Well Hall Road and spoke to witness B who had just got off the bus. The Kent report goes on: "He suspected the Acourts may have been involved in the stabbing so he walked to their house at 102 Bournbrook Road. He apparently had a conversation with the Acourts and Gary Dobson and saw evidence that they had been washing their hair."Two weeks after the murder, the police finally decided to make arrests. Deputy Assistant Commissioner David Osland, the area police chief, admitted the evidence was the same as it had been 48 hours after the killing. But he told the inquiry the reason was partly because of the "intolerable pressure". In short, the murder was becoming a political embarrassment. On Thursday, May 6, Doreen and Neville had had a high-profile meeting with Nelson Mandela. On the Saturday an anti-racist march was planned in nearby Welling, where the British National Party had its headquarters.On the Friday, at 6.30am, Dobson and the Acourts were plucked out of their beds. David Norris, who had gone to ground, presented himself at a police station on May 10 with his lawyer's instructions to say nothing. Luke Knight was arrested on June 3. An assortment of weapons, including knives, was seized.After the CPS decided there was insufficient evidence for a prosecution in July, an internal review by DCS Roderick Baker, which was supposed to give fresh impetus to the hunt for new information, concluded that the investigation "has been progressed satisfactorily and all lines of inquiry correctly pursued".The PCA-Kent report gave the lie to this "highly damaging" nonsense, identifying "serious professional failings", and omissions - witnesses not promptly followed up, ID parades bungled, cack-handed surveillance, no attempt to arrest early and secure forensic evidence, difficulties in handling the computer, lack of resources.After 55 days of hearings the inquiry has been asking the question: what went wrong during those two weeks? The contemptuous, evasive evidence of the five suspects did not help. Incompetence has been proved beyond peradventure. But what of racism?Officers, up to most senior level, have displayed a lack of racial awareness, and most never had any training in dealing with racially motivated crime. A subliminal strand of racial stereotyping kept emerging. Seventeen years after the Brixton riots and the Scarman report, the Met says it is trying the clean up its act. Only now, on the 49th day of the inquiry, has it appointed Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve as director of racial and violent crime.As for the allegations of police collusion and corruption, bitterly denied, the jury is still out, not least because the Yard's current investigation into alleged corruption among senior detectives touches on events before and after Stephen's death.What is clear is that Clifford Norris, father of David Norris, was a well-known south-east London criminal with a reputation for jury nobbling and intimidation of witnesses. Here was a man - now serving eight years for drugs and arms, and suspected of at least one murder - who consorted in the late 1980s with a local Flying Squad detective sergeant. At the time of Stephen's death he had been on the run for six years. But when Det Supt Bill Mellish took over the investigation in 1994 he realised the father could be exercising a malign influence. Within three months he had been arrested.For the Lawrences, these five years have been harrowing. Their private prosecution in 1996 against Neil Acourt, Dobson and Knight collapsed and these three can never stand trial again. The case against Jamie Acourt and Norris was thrown out at committal. "No black person can ever trust the police," said Mrs Lawrence - a statement that will haunt the Met for years.