Police have accused the Home Office of not providing enough resources to allow them to arrest hundreds of probable child abusers.The Observer has learnt that the email addresses and credit card details of more than 7,000 British-based users of illegal child porn have been uncovered by American investigators. But their British counterparts complain they are unable to act on the information because of a chronic lack of resources. More than one year after the information was received, there have been only 80 arrests in Britain. Given the proper resources, police believe that up to 2,000 of the identities passed on by the US authorities would lead to arrests and possible prosecution, senior police figures said. The news also comes as a US study showed that more than a third of those who are arrested for downloading under-age pornographic images are also involved in the actual physical abuse of children. The study was carried out by the US Postal Inspection Service (PIS), the body that passed over the details of 7,272 British men who were accessing illegal US child porn websites. Another US investigation, Operation Candyman, which was organised by the FBI, has turned up a further 201 British-based men whose identities have also been passed to Scotland Yard. Initial investigations in Britain by specialised police officers, including members of the National Crime Squad and the National Criminal Intelligence Squad (NCIS), showed that the American intelligence was extremely productive.Of the first 50 random names sampled and investigated by officers, 36 were arrested. But additional funding for the operation was not provided by the Home Office, despite repeated requests from investigators that began in February. 'We realised at that rate it would take six years for us to look through it all,' said one officer who is close to the investigation. The details of the identities were passed on to regional police forces along with advice on how to investigate. But stretched local police bosses have been unable to divert resources into surveillance or afford the £2,000 it costs to 'forensically examine' the computers of suspected child-porn users. 'The investigation does not fit into current priorities coming from the Home Office,' a senior local police chief said. The Association of Chief Police Officers has now put forward a proposal to the Home Office to get extra cash to tackle child internet porn, but has so far received no response. Neither has it been given an indication of when it can expect one. The request was put forward in June. 'We are considering the proposal. But it has to feed into wider issues of resources,' a Home Office spokesman said. The lack of funding for the investigation has been slammed by opposition MPs who called for the government to release funds needed to act on the information passed over from the US. 'The Home Office is apparently unable to get its act together sufficiently for it to be properly investigated,' said Conservative Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin. A recent report by NCIS identified online child abuse as a key new threat to British law and order. But other experts in the field have criticised the Government for focusing instead on reducing street crime and tackling illegal immigration. 'Protecting children is paramount and Ministers must find the cash to allow these investigations to continue,' said Harry Fletcher, deputy general secretary of the probation union, Napo. Fletcher said emerging evidence that a high percentage of people who downloaded child porn were also involved with physical abuse, or could quickly move on to it, should spur immediate action. 'We now have the evidence that people who start with downloading pictures move on to moving pictures and then on to actual participation in abuse,' he said. The bulk of the information passed on to the police came from Operation Avalanche, a project set up by the PIS, an agency which carries out many investigations into online porn. It has generated so many names and addresses that its effects have spiralled out from Fort Worth in Texas, where it began, to more than 60 nations across the world. In the US, there have now been more than 1,300 arrests. In Ireland, information from Operation Avalanche has led to 100 arrests, including that of a senior district judge. Britain was one of the biggest non-American bases for subscribers. In Cambridgeshire alone there were 279 porn suspects named. 'If there are that many in Cambridgeshire, you can imagine what the figures are like for Manchester and London,' said one police source. Several other police officers have also been arrested and are awaiting trial. Operation Avalanche hit the jackpot when US investigators raided the Fort Worth home of Thomas and Janice Reedy, a married couple who were running a secret online porn empire from their suburban mansion. The pair's subscription porn websites were generating £1 million a month in fees. Their computers held almost 300,000 credit-card details of people who were paying around £21 a month to view child porn. The websites were run by criminals in Russia and Indonesia but the Reedys' site was the only way to access them. Thomas was later jailed for 1,335 years on 89 counts of sexual exploitation of minors, while his wife was given a 14-year sentence.