The obscure American wit Richard Braunstein is remembered for a bon mot which appears in most anthologies of quotations on booze and its consequences. 'The hard part about being a bartender,' he said, 'is figuring out who is drunk and who is just stupid.' Braunstein's problem confronts all who watch the forces of law and order behave like an occupying army. When they pillage eight centuries of English liberty, are they drunk or just stupid? Dangerously stupid is a common response to the assaults on trial by jury, the presumption of innocence and double jeopardy. In fairness to the Home Office we must consider the alternative - which is not quite as far-fetched as it might seem.No one who has been paying attention had the right to be surprised when an incredibly confidential file describing the security surrounding David Blunkett was found outside Woodseats Palace in Sheffield. The pub is opposite a police station whose officers are charged with protecting the Home Secretary when he is in his constituency. Suspicious minds wondered if, after a visit to the bar, a detective may have dropped details of the alarm system in Blunkett's home, the places he visits, the routes he takes, police codes and many more top tips for assassins.I'm not knocking the luckless officer, who is going to be in trouble whether or not he had a beer. The Coach and Horses at the back of The Observer has an impressive collection of abandoned bags, mobiles, purses, divorce papers, blackmail demands and artificial limbs - many of them mine. But the landlord has never found anything as interesting as the briefcase a senior and sozzled civil servant mislaid last year during a ferocious bender in the Adam and Eve, the Home Office's local. It was stuffed with papers describing how the Government was planning to slash the number of jury trials by about 70 per cent. If Jeremy Paxman wanted to try his hand at hard news, he might investigate its contents rather than Charles Kennedy's appreciation of single malts. The mandarins didn't pretend that attacking the democracy of the courtroom would reduce crime. Ian Chisholm, the head of the Criminal Justice Reform Unit, wrote that the Association of Chief Police Officers had described the Home Office's authoritarian programme as a waste of time because of the 'lack of proposals to tackle organised international crime'. Undeterred, the Civil Service and Ministers decided to take out jury trials. The Home Office and Lord Chancellor's Department have loathed juries for years. Past proposals were confined to removing the right to trial by jury from citizens facing the loss of their liberty and reputation, but not charges of the highest seriousness. Blunkett's criminal justice White Paper went along with much of that last week and then added a plan to bar juries from hearing 'serious financial offences'. In other words, money laundering. In other words, the very 'organised international crime' the chief constables said the Home Office would fail to tackle by going for juries. Bob Marshall-Andrews, the magnificently unbiddable Labour MP and QC, points out that the unwitting Blunkett may be the gangster's friend. British courts are less corruptible than their European counterparts because it is easier to nobble one judge than 12 jurors. The Home Office can't grasp this practical truth. Until now I've believed its folly can be explained by the political class's intolerance of commoners. Most jurors, after all, have never shared a glass of claret with Lord Irvine and sniggered sycophantically at his jokes. Many aren't even lawyers. But perhaps I've got it wrong. Perhaps Whitehall isn't driven by suspicion of its subject people. Perhaps it's the booze. As Lord Irvine's name has cropped up, I should add that many who have seen him walk through Westminster with the exaggerated caution of a giant Thunderbirds puppet have concluded that he likes a drop of the hard stuff when his day's work is done. Nothing wrong with that in my book, but his minders have been less tolerant. Dominic Egan, the Lord Chancellor's biographer, records how his first press officer told Alastair Campbell that she was terrified that the press would get a picture of Irvine looking tipsy or worse. The Mail on Sunday confirmed the story a few months ago. And what of the spooks whose relentless demands for secret justice and imprisonment without trial undermine the freedoms of the country they're meant to defend? According to David Shayler, they're often out of their skulls. Among the former spy's revelations was an account of the hard drinking culture in MI5. On his first day at the Security Service a senior officer invited him to the Chesterfield, an MI5 boozer in Mayfair. The officer was 'suave, besuited and the epitome of the old guard', Shayler recalled. He 'downed his first pint and quickly ordered another. I was slightly taken aback but when he ordered another and another I was surprised to say the least. After five pints he finally stopped and we staggered back to the office. He then retired to his private office, closed the door and drifted off to sleep. My colleagues told me it was a daily occurrence.' From the Home Office to Security Service, from the Lord Chancellor's Department to the South Yorkshire Police, alcohol lubricates the criminal justice system. What is it doing to our protectors? In my time as a journalist various brutal editors have forced me to talk to contacts in bars. I have been compelled to study the effects of alcohol in theory and in practice. Alcohol, or ethanol, to give it its chemical name, creates a poisonous substance called acetaldehyde. Most researchers believe that hangovers are created by build ups of acetaldehyde, although others shift the blame from ethanol and its side products to methanol. No one disputes that alcohol is a diuretic, which causes the brain to shrink and slows neural connections. Loss of memory is a temporary effect in occasional drinkers - and a permanent disability in alcoholics. I'm not suggesting that Blunkett hits the bottle. But he is surrounded by the rakes of the Home Office and may be the victim of passive drinking. Only memory loss bordering on amnesia can explain his assertion that he was rectifying an unbalanced justice system which gave too many rights to defendants. His bewildered mind had forgotten that there's been little but the removal of rights from defendants for a good decade now - including the watering down of the right to silence, which was once thought to be sacrosanct. The Home Office went on to show the empty bravado of the saloon-bar braggart when it pretended it could cut the record prison population. It can't, it can only increase it yet further, because Gordon Brown has refused to fund alternatives to custody. The worst effect of alcohol is the fear and intolerance of others a crashing hangover produces. Psychiatrists insist that the misanthropy of alcoholics should be classified as paranoia. On the morning after, sufferers hate themselves and all around them. Yesterday Downing Street ordered an inquiry into alcohol abuse. I don't want to push this too far, but there is at least an arguable case that the PM should examine whether the Home Office and its associates hate the thought of citizens having power in the jury room and don't care if the innocent are incarcerated because they are befuddled and bladdered, out of their prams and out of their trees, seven sheets to the wind and one over the eight. A lot of people are going to wake up one morning and regret what was done in their name the night before. n.cohen@observer.co.uk