Five people, including a teenage girl, have been arrested over the murder of 16-year-old Shakilus Townsend, who was beaten with a baseball bat and stabbed after being chased down a south London street.Four men, aged 16, 17, 18 and 22, and a 16-year-old girl were in custody last night in connection with the attack, which left the teenager, the 18th to die from knife violence in London this year, pleading for his mother as he lay bleeding in a witness's arms.The arrests on Saturday night and yesterday morning came as tributes and pictures posted on the internet suggested the teenager, known as Shak or Bugz, was caught up in London's gang culture. He was repeatedly referred to as a "fallen soldier", and one photograph on the social networking site Bebo shows him posing with a kitchen knife as he leans against a car, with the caption "Dullwichz killer Bugz", while in another he holds a gun. Other images include youths wearing baseball caps and hooded tops with bandanas around their mouths and a group of young men in Dulwich - which they call Duppytown - being talked to by police. Pictures of Townsend appear on the profile of a hooded youth who shows himself gripping a hunting knife. Above the shot is the slogan "My shank does the talking", and a stock image of a knife dripping with blood.Comments online suggested the attack on Townsend, who died in hospital the next day, was related to a girl. One friend wrote: "Da girlz pic daat set up Bugz iz in ma Bebo, wen man catch her she is fuked." Elsewhere, he added: "Chicks are all snakes, coz of wun Shaks ded" and also: "Ride wiv a weapon, neva fist fight". On Saturday a relative visiting the scene of the stabbing in Thornton Heath said a girl had "set him up", adding that Townsend had been in minor trouble when he was younger but had since reformed. A resident has told how she tried to save Townsend after seeing two teenage boys with their faces covered punching, kicking and hitting him with a baseball bat. His stepmother called for violent teenage criminals to be sent to Iraq, saying they behaved badly because there was "no punishment".Townsend's death came less than a week after the stabbing of Ben Kinsella, also 16 and the brother of former EastEnders actress Brooke Kinsella, which sparked a 400-strong protest march and calls for urgent action from police and politicians. Yesterday hundreds of young people gathered in north London for a candlelit vigil at the spot where Kinsella was set upon and knifed repeatedly after leaving a bar at about 2am a week earlier. His sister Brooke was among those who went to North Road, Islington, at the same time yesterday to see wellwishers laying candles and lanterns alongside the flowers left at the scene. Three youths have been charged with Kinsella's murder and remanded in custody until October.Policing minister Tony McNulty yesterday called on judges and magistrates to use their powers to impose tougher sentences on people carrying blades, saying that carrying a knife was so ingrained in some youngsters that it was in the "collective DNA". McNulty told Sky News Sunday Live: "I think the recent tragedies are appalling." But he said people realised the problem was not something the government could solve alone. "It's not a cop-out to say this is something that goes to the heart of our entire society. The last couple of weeks when I've been discussing this, people have accepted that and that's a start." The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, is considering forcing doctors to notify stabbing injuries to the authorities to allow police to gather information about incidents that might otherwise go unreported. McNulty said: "There is a balance between an individual's privacy in turning up at casualty and the National Health Service providing those figures so we all know the full extent of knife use."