The two men accused of the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence were caught by a covert camera uttering repeated racist remarks, discussing violence and torture against black people, and handling a knife, a jury has heard.David Norris was recorded talking about "skinning" black people and setting them alight.Dobson was recorded also uttering racist remarks. The court also heard that he had carried a Stanley knife and threatened to use it against a black man.The covert video was made by police in 1994 at a flat Dobson was renting with another youth called Charlie Martin in Eltham, south London. Police placed a bug in the flat which recorded video and audio.Lawrence was stabbed to death by a gang who attacked him after first shouting racist abuse.The jury at the Old Bailey on Tuesday was told by Mr Justice Treacy that the crown would say the video extracts showed racist behaviour. He warned the jury that they might consider the material "shocking", but they must set emotion aside and decide the case on the facts. Dobson, 36, and Norris, 35, deny murder.According to the transcript of the video produced in court, on 14 December 1994, Norris was caught talking about a fight which involved a black man.Norris said: "I started going on and called him a black cunt and all that, saying he was a fucking coon."He was going 'leave it out mate', so I went smack, punched the nigger like that … "In an extract just after 11pm, Norris said: "If I was going to kill myself do you know what I would do? I would go and kill every black cunt, every Paki, every copper, every mug that I know … "Norris later says: "I would, I would go down Catford and places like that, I am telling you now, with two sub-machine guns and I am telling you I would take one of them, skin the black cunt alive, mate, torture him, set him alight … I would blow their two arms and legs off and say, 'Go on you can swim home now.' They would be bobbing around like that."On 2 December 1994, Dobson is recorded discussing a man, calling him a "nigger" and threatening him with a Stanley knife.On 11 December, at 7.40pm, Dobson is caught by the camera "walking about with the large knife", according to a transcript. Other extracts show him using the terms "Paki" and "nigger".Stephen's parents, Doreen and Neville, were in court to watch the video extracts.The trial continues.