Britain's police forces became embroiled in a crisis over race yesterday after secret footage of new recruits expressing racist opinions showed how little rank and file attitudes had altered despite a raft of initiatives following the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence.The repercussions of the BBC1 documentary, The Secret Policeman, led to extraordinary scenes yesterday with senior police officers giving interviews expressing their shock and disgust about what they had seen in the programme. Many of the officers were unusually forthright and contrite. "The programme has greatly shocked me and made me ashamed to be part of the British police service," said Alan Green, the deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester police. "It saddened me greatly as there still appears much work to be done, despite many of the efforts we have taken to tackle racism since the Stephen Lawrence inquiry." The family of Stephen Lawrence, the murdered black teenager were also unwittingly drawn into the saga. One of the officers in the film, Rob Pulling, who posed in a Ku Klux Klan-style hood, criticised Stephen Lawrence's parents and expressed a view that the teenager had deserved to die. "Racist delinquents," was how Clive Wolfendale, the acting deputy chief constable of North Wales police described some of the recruits in the film. Mr Wolfendale said he had felt "physically sick" as he watched the programme on Tuesday evening. "Pulling has shamed his colleagues, his uniform and his service. He is a disgrace," he said. "The chief constable will be writing to the Lawrence family in the hope that they will somehow be able to accept our apology for the obscene comments made about their son Stephen." He said it was hard to imagine more despicable words. Cheshire police's assistant chief constable David Griffin said racist conduct, whether inside or outside the police service, was abhorrent. "There is great disappointment and anger at all levels within the police service that a small group of officers, including one from Cheshire, have let us all down," he said. Mr Griffin said there had been strenuous efforts to challenge racism and root out racist attitudes, but these efforts had proved insufficient. Police recruitment and selection procedures will be reviewed and local community groups will be invited to help them identify ways of screening racist views. GMP's chief constable, Michael Todd, said: "It is a small number of people who have let us down. However, the impact of their behaviour is extremely damaging to the service we provide and the public's faith in our ability to deliver with equal respect to all." His deputy, Alan Green, described the film as "a wake-up call" for the force and said the chief constable was determined that no stone would be left unturned. He said it was important to send out a strong message to people who may share these views and beliefs that "they will not be tolerated" within the force. The force will be supporting minority ethnic staff "at this difficult time" while making strenuous efforts to recruit minority ethnic officers. Eight trainees from ethnic groups, who are part of GMP's next intake, had already been spoken to at the training centre at Bruche, Cheshire, by senior officers. Mr Green said it was clear the recruitment process was insufficient and action would be taken to improve it. He conceded there were too few ethnic minority officers within the force and they were "absolutely nowhere near" the target of 7%. But he believes the vast majority of officers are hard working and loyal to their oath of allegiance and not prejudiced. The footage was even more damning for the force as it launched Operation Catalyst four years ago in an attempt to tackle institutional racism with GMP. "I can state categorically that there is a will and a determination to succeed," David Wilmot, former chief constable of Greater Manchester, said at the launch of Operation Catalyst in August 1999. "I declare I will do everything in my power to carry through what needs to be done to limit and eradicate racism and discrimination within the Greater Manchester police." However, yesterday Operation Catalyst appeared to be an abject failure, despite all GMP's 11,500 strong workforce receiving diversity training and local ethnic minority communities playing an active role in the programme. Today, a senior officer from the force will be meeting with the Police Complaints Authority to discuss disciplinary proceedings against the suspended officers. The most senior black officer within the Greater Manchester force, Superintendent Martin Harding, said he believes that there are people with extreme views who are trying to infiltrate the police service. "They are cunning and smart and the worst case scenario is that some progress through the ranks to become senior officers who can affect police," he said. "It is not just a police problem, it is a problem for society as a whole." The former home office minister John Denham said he feels in the last five years that social barriers to expressing racism have come down. "I think that is almost entirely due to the type of fairly hysterical coverage we see around the asylum issue and to some extent around very extremist and unrepresentative Muslims who have clearly associated themselves with terrorism," he said. The Asian recruit, who was the target of racist abuse and derisory comments by other recruits, is now serving with the North Wales force. In a statement yesterday, he said he was surprised and saddened by the behaviour of a small number of colleagues towards him. "I am proud to be a North Wales police officer and have received tremendous support from the force and my colleagues." He said he remained committed to being a police officer. When undercover journalist Mark Daly was finally exposed, in August this year, he was arrested by Greater Manchester police and held on suspicion of obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception and criminal damage after he hid a pinhole camera in a police vest. He is due to answer bail next month. GMP could not say whether criminal proceedings against Mark Daly would be halted in the light of the damning material he uncovered.