Winston Silcott has demanded a public inquiry into the miscarriage of justice that saw him wrongly jailed for the murder of PC Keith Blakelock almost 20 years ago. Four months after his release from prison, Mr Silcott says a wide-ranging judicial investigation must be conducted for his sake and for the family of the murdered police officer, who was stabbed 54 times by a rioting mob. Scotland Yard is conducting its third murder inquiry since the killing on Tottenham's Broadwater Farm estate, but with no forensic and scant fresh evidence, it is facing an uphill struggle. Convictions against Mr Silcott, 44, and three other men were quashed when scientific tests of his alleged written confession revealed that the document had been doctored, rendering it worthless. In 1999 the Metropolitan police paid Mr Silcott £50,000 and admitted it had no evidence against him. He served 18 years for another murder, of which he continues to protest his innocence. The demand for an inquiry into the Blakelock affair follows a new investigation by a BBC documentary team. During the programme, to be screened next Tuesday, Mr Silcott says he wanted to join the protests that preceded the riots but did not do so.Police officers describe how they saw their colleague hacked to death and speak of blunders made by the force. Nevertheless, some officers have attacked the BBC for making the programme. Mr Silcott says: "There should be a public inquiry into this from start to finish." He recalls that on the night of the murder he visited Tottenham police station to fulfil a bail requirement. The night before, Cynthia Jarrett, a well-known figure in the black community, had collapsed and died during a police raid. He was unaware of her death but was later told about the protests. "In my heart I wanted to be there, but because of the position I was in I knew it was totally impossible. I knew they would try to take away my bail." Mr Silcott says Pam Maguire, a friend who lived on Broad water Farm, had sent him to her flat. "There were already a few people there and some were talking and watching kung fu movies. I fell asleep. My first knowledge that a police officer had died was when there was cheering. "They thought the police had it coming, for all the harassment and brutality before." The programme, Who Killed PC Blakelock?, says relations between the black communities of Tottenham and the police were strained by confused police tactics. On the day of the riot, teams of riot police were deployed, but by the evening, when disturbances actually started, many had been stood down. When rioting began, the police control room could not cope. The team that included PC Blakelock was deployed to protect fire crews, but they were community officers and probationers and did not know the estate's layout. Retired sergeant Richard Coombes, who was critically injured, recalls "seeing a group of people around what looked like a bunch of rags on the floor. Something told me it was a police officer. I had the impression that it was like vultures pecking at something on the ground". PC Steve Martin, then a probationary constable, said: "It is difficult to describe what you feel when you see one of your colleagues being attacked on the floor; their arms moving up and down and machetes and knives cutting into the body." Retired constable John Macaskill reveals that grief and anger prompted officers to stage an extraordinary protest when the Metropolitan commissioner Sir Kenneth Newman visited the scene the following day. As the commissioner approached, officers climbed into their vehicles and slammed the doors. "There was just the sound, clunk, clunk. No one wanted to speak to the commissioner." In the hours that followed, officers allowed the local council to clear away potentially vital forensic evidence. It is said that a police statement branding everyone on the estate as "a potential murder suspect" deterred witnesses from coming forward. · Who Killed PC Blakelock? BBC2, Tuesday 9pm