James Francis, 52 Sentence: 12 years Crime: conspiracy to import cannabis   I was detained for a long time in Walton jail, Liverpool. I lived in what they call a "drug-free" wing. Extra funding goes with that kind of status, which in real terms demands that 93% of piss tests show up negative. If that percentage were to vary too much, then funding would be threatened and so they maintain the numbers the easy way. Instead of looking for prisoners who wish to live in a drug-free environment, they open their doors to everyone. And all manner of piss-test beating scams go on. That way everybody's happy: the junkies carry on as normal, the prisons get their funding, the Home Office can pretend they're doing something useful, and the public get their numbers. My first cellmate, Tony, was a user. Before he came to prison he'd only tried cannabis, but prison had changed that. I remember him telling me that pot stays in the system too long for the mandatory drugs test "and anyway, smack's cheaper in here". One night, to gain admission into the prison hospital and a chance of sedation, he scratched at his wrists with a dismantled safety razor and rang the alarm bell. He was taken away by officers who derided his pathetic efforts. I never saw him again, but heard he later hung himself in HMP Altcourse. In a way prison has been a salutary lesson. It has tested the loyalty of my friends and shown me a side of life few get to witness. I'll never smuggle again, but there's no hope of coming out a better person. Most of my experiences haven't underscored my remorse, just my anger. Experiences so negative can only have negative effects, and I will never escape the anger of oppression. I was dehumanised in those terrible places, and for the rest of my life, no matter what lies ahead, I will feel tainted. I accept that prisons are necessary and a prison officer's job can be difficult at times; I appreciate their need to establish authority to function effectively. What is patently wrong, though, is the way the prison service old-guard are allowed to corrupt and seduce the incoming recruits with their sadistic ways. From my experiences I see prison as a place where drug barons exchange contacts alongside burglars who are constantly improving their modus operandi; a place where paedophiles extend their networks, and a place where a young pot-smoker can learn to chase the dragon and then hang himself by the neck until dead.