The Moorside estate in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, appears little different from many similar developments across Britain. The land, south of Leeds, was Brontë-endorsed rolling fields until the 1930s, when it was developed as part of the huge expansion in social housing. These were the “homes fit for heroes” that prime minister Lloyd George had promised soldiers and workers at the end of the first world war. It’s small, just two main streets and a few cul-de-sacs; 220 solid red-brick homes, most with gardens front and back, most originally housing employees from the local textile mills. The decades since have not always been kind, but in the mid-2000s, almost £4m was spent on the regeneration of the estate. The centrepiece was a children’s play area with boulders carved with ammonite fossils and bollards styled as penguins.Except Moorside is no longer just an ordinary estate. It is – and for a long time, probably, will be – “the Shannon Matthews estate”. It became notorious in the winter of 2008 when nine-year-old Shannon went missing after leaving school on the afternoon of 19 February. The media moved in en masse straight away: nine months earlier, three-year-old Madeleine McCann had vanished while on holiday in Portugal and they made the most of the similarities with that case. But there were marked differences between the two events and how they were reported. The McCanns were both doctors, well spoken and middle-class; Shannon’s mother, meanwhile, was 32-year-old Karen Matthews, who’d had seven children by five different fathers in nine years. Many people felt that Karen Matthews’s missing daughter wasn’t getting the same kind of publicity as Madeleine McCann had because, as one newspaper put it, “Karen Matthews is not as elegant, nor as eloquent” as the McCanns.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A West Yorkshire Police handout photo of nine-year-old Shannon Matthews. Photograph: West Yorkshire Police/PA Archive/PA ImagesAfter a manhunt that lasted 24 days and cost the police £3.2m, Shannon was found, scarcely believably, alive and unharmed. She was in a flat in Batley Carr, a mile and a half from the Moorside estate. It belonged to Michael Donovan, an uncle of Craig Meehan, Karen’s then partner. Not long after, it emerged that Karen Matthews had been involved in her own daughter’s abduction. At this point, the media coverage, which until then had been broadly sympathetic if at times condescending, turned savage. Matthews was dubbed “Britain’s most hated mum”; when she and Donovan were convicted in December 2008 and sent to prison, the detective in charge of the case stood outside the court and called her “pure evil”.For David Cameron, who was the Conservative leader in opposition at the time, the whole affair was a damning indictment on “our broken society” and its over-dependence on benefits. He went on: “A fragmented family held together by drink, drugs and deception. An estate where decency fights a losing battle against degradation and despair. A community whose pillars are crime, unemployment and addiction.” Until this, with Shannon, I never wanted anywhere else to bring my kids up… it was lovely The message was clear: Karen Matthews and Moorside exemplified what was wrong with Britain. The Sun compared the estate with Beirut. It was a place where no one worked and everyone spent all day in their pyjamas. It was epitomised by Matthews who, when questioned by police, made a mistake over how many children she had. A woman who smoked 60 cigarettes a day, collected £286.60 each week in benefits, but frequently didn’t have food for dinner and used plastic bags instead of nappies. A mother who, it was revealed in court, had drugged her daughter Shannon with the sedative insomnia medication temazepam for at least 20 months before her disappearance.The details behind the abduction created a fuller and even more depressing picture of abuse during her confinement: a strap fixed to a beam in the attic allowed Shannon to move around the flat and a list of handwritten “rules” stipulated what she could and couldn’t do. When she was found hidden in a compartment under a divan bed, there were traces of temazepam and meclizine, a travel sickness drug, in her blood. Asked by police if she wanted to go home to her mother, Shannon replied, simply: “No.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karen Matthews (front) and partner Craig Meehan on Moorside, after Shannon was found, but before Matthews was accused of kidnapping her own daughter. Photograph: News Team International/SWNSWhile Karen Matthews’s actions are impossible to defend, nine years on, the abiding characterisation of Moorside infuriates local residents. “It was a really, really good estate,” insists Natalie Murray, who lived two doors down from the Matthews house. She was close friends with Karen, and her eldest daughter, Callie, was in the same class at primary school as Shannon. Murray continues: “I lived on there for 21 years, from when I was six, and until this, with Shannon, I’d never wanted anywhere else to bring my kids up. Everybody knew everybody else and everybody watched out for everybody else. They watched out for your cars, for your homes, your children. If a new family moved in, they were made to feel welcome. It was just lovely.” When it came out in the press about people wearing their ’jamas, we just thought, ‘We’ll wear them all the time then…' Julie Bushby was chair of the Moorside tenants and residents association at the time of Shannon’s abduction. This position mostly involved looking after the Community House, which she opened to entertain children out of school hours. “People said we were like Shameless,” says Bushby, referring to the TV comedy drama about the feckless Gallagher clan who lived on a Manchester sink estate. “We’re not Shameless. If anything, we’re fucking Emmerdale!” She laughs: “We’re the Dingles!”Murray and Bushby are not alone in the opinion that the estate has been unfairly derided as a place, in Cameron’s withering description, of “degradation and despair”. A couple of years ago, the screenwriter Neil McKay decided he wanted to make a factual drama about the Shannon Matthews disappearance. He has previous in this territory, having written before for TV about publicly reviled criminals, dramas including See No Evil, starring Maxine Peake as Myra Hindley, and the multi-Bafta-winning Appropriate Adult, in which Dominic West played Fred West. But when McKay arrived on Moorside, he found that the local area and the story behind Shannon’s kidnapping was much more complicated than the one he’d imagined and read about.The Moorside review – Sheridan Smith finds a new way into the familiar, awful Shannon Matthews story The resulting piece, The Moorside, which will be shown on BBC1 as two hour-long episodes, is not really about Karen Matthews. Indeed, only the back of Shannon’s head is ever shown. It is, instead, a drama about community and how the residents of Moorside pulled together with unflagging effort to find the missing girl. For 24 days, they scoured the local area looking for clues, printed posters and made T-shirts. Shannon’s smiley, freckled face with cute, wonky teeth and a dark fringe was everywhere. The whole community was involved: Muslim taxi drivers offered free rides to people putting up posters for Shannon; the appeal was translated into Polish and Urdu. Bushby opened the Community House round the clock to orchestrate and plan the search, and to keep spirits up.“Getting behind the headlines, it was a story of people who didn’t have a lot, giving a lot, giving everything,” says Neil McKay. “People from that kind of world don’t necessarily get much of a look in in TV drama, except as victims of things, or as crazy and far-out like in the later series of Shameless. They have to be incredibly eccentric or desperately miserable and unhappy to make it. I hope one of the things we’ve done is to show people as people.”In this telling, Moorside is exceptional and perhaps different from other estates, but in a positive, even heartwarming way. “I don’t think there would have ever been another estate in England where, if a child went missing from that estate, the whole community would rally round like that,” says Natalie Murray. “You’d find a few people that were friends or family, but not a whole community that would come together like we did and go out and search and go through all the stuff we went through.”       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Moorside resident Julie Bushby ran the estate’s Community House which became the ad hoc HQ for the local search efforts. Photograph: Karen Robinson for the ObserverAt the heart of The Moorside are Murray and Bushby, who McKay calls “two very forthright, true Yorkshire women”. Or, as they came to be known, after the 1980s female crime-busting TV duo, Cagney and Lacey.Murray (then Natalie Brown) and Bushby were just on nodding terms before Shannon Matthews went missing. Bushby, now 46, lived 10 doors away from the Matthews house on the Moorside estate, but similarly, she didn’t know Karen Matthews well; her three children are all older than the Matthews brood.Bushby has blond hair, a smoker’s rasp and is played by Sheridan Smith in The Moorside. She is known locally for the eccentric menagerie she keeps: pets have included ducks, geese, a lizard and now a fearsome German shepherd. In years gone by, she would buy two duck eggs every year and hatch them in an incubator. With the help of her children and kids from the estate, she would rear them, teach them to fly in the garden and then finally take them to the pond at the nearby park and release them.Bushby can be almost comically blunt and fierce towards people she doesn’t know or trust, as David Cameron found out when he went to the Moorside estate on a hot summer’s day in 2009 to apologise for his earlier comments. First Cameron did a broadcast interview with Penny Smith on GMTV, for which he wore a suit and tie, before going on to meet with local residents.“He came in and he had the sleeves rolled up, no jacket on, shirt undone to about here,” says Bushby, gesturing to halfway down her chest. “My first reaction was: ‘If I changed my name to Penny, would you have made an effort?’ And he says: ‘I thought it was a casual meeting.’ And I said: ‘Well, who’s lied to you and told you that?’“Then when he sat down, the other people from the estate stood up to shake his hand and I didn’t,” she continues. “I stayed sat down and he said: ‘You must be Julie.’ So I went: ‘Yeah.’ And he sat down and he got his piece of paper out and started reading. I told him to put the piece of paper down: ‘If you’re coming to apologise, I want it to come from your mouth and not someone else’s.’” Now Bushby moves her hand up to her heart: “An apology comes from here.”Murray, meanwhile, is a petite 35-year-old with brown hair, delicate features and saucer eyes. She is warm and wry – played with wonderful, measured scepticism, by Sian Brooke in the drama – and is as unflappable as you have to be if you spend your days picking up after six kids.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Natalie Murray (formerly Brown), a neighbour of Karen Matthews who, together with Julie Bushby, organised the local response to Shannon’s disappearance. Photograph: Antonio Olmos for the Observer“We were all portrayed as chavs, in tracksuits with big loopy earrings and hair on top of my head,” complains Murray. “Fair dos, not every family worked, but there was a lot of hard-working families on there. Everyone’s lives got turned upside down: when the press first turned up, everybody wanted to know what was going on, so people were coming out in their ’jamas and they were just snapping away taking pictures. That’s how we got the [reputation] that we were all on the dole, none of us worked.“That now has become a legend in Dewsbury,” she goes on, with a smile. “Everybody, as soon as it came out in the press about peop le wearing their ’jamas, just thought, ‘We’ll wear them all the time then.’ So you see people going to the shops in their ’jamas. They take their kids to school with their coats on, they’ve still got their ’jamas on. It’s a big joke.”When Shannon went missing, Murray became the “nominated babysitter”. Neighbours would leave their children with her so that they could go out looking. Hundreds were involved in the search – almost the entire estate – until the police raised concerns that their well-meaning efforts might damage evidence. Bushby, meanwhile, relocated to the Community House, sometimes sleeping there, because she believed the lights from the building might act as a beacon for Shannon. It was a cold winter and the kettle was rarely off; residents, media and even Karen Matthews would spend hours there waiting for news. “I think she came down just to get out of the house,” says Bushby. “But the rule was that the press couldn’t approach Karen and ask her any questions. As long as they abided by those rules, they could sit with her all day long.”Bushby and Murray have different, sometimes contradictory memories of the 24 days, but where they do agree is in their impression of Karen Matthews and some of the factors behind her behaviour. “She was childish,” says Bushby. “Everything that she did: childish.” Murray adds, “Ditsy, she was really ditsy. She was very influenced by people around her. When she got with Craig, he was a lot younger than her” – he was 22, a decade her junior – “and him and his friends became a big influence. Her age level kind of dropped when she was with him.”There were many examples of this immaturity. In public, Matthews could be convincing: “If anyone has got my daughter, my beautiful princess daughter, let her come home,” she pleaded, in tears, holding one of Shannon’s teddy bears. Behind the scenes, though, she mainly seemed excited that her daughter was “famous” now. When at last she was told that Shannon had been found safe, her only comment was mind-boggling. “I like your ringtone,” she said to one of the officers, as his personal mobile trilled Crazy by Gnarls Barkley. “You must Bluetooth or text it to me.” On the way finally to see Shannon, Matthews stopped to collect her benefits payments and have a chicken sandwich.As The Moorside suggests, Murray feared soon after Shannon’s disappearance that Karen Matthews might not be telling the truth, but for Bushby, who didn’t know her so well, it took longer for the coin to drop. Bushby admits, too, that she wouldn’t allow herself to think that Shannon would not be found. “You’ve got no choice but to stay optimistic,” she says. “When you’re in that situation, if I’d turned round and said to everybody, ‘Oh, I think she’s dead,’ people wouldn’t have gone out searching would they? People wouldn’t have gone out putting up posters. They’d have thought, ‘If she’s not bothered, neither are we.’” There’s more to this story: Karen was easily influenced. She wasn’t smart enough to come up with a scheme like that When Murray’s suspicions caused a rift between Karen and her, Karen became closer to Bushby. But even as Matthews’s behaviour became increasingly erratic, there was still nothing to connect her with Donovan and thus implicate her in Shannon’s kidnapping – aside from the fact that Karen had sat on his knee at a recent family funeral. The police admitted they had “hit a brick wall”, according to Murray. At this point, detective constable Christine Freeman (played in the BBC drama by Siobhan Finneran), a family liaison officer attached to the case, suggested they break with police convention and bring in “Cagney and Lacey” to try and extract a confession.On 6 April, three weeks after Shannon had been found, Murray and Bushby met with Matthews in Freeman’s police car. Murray went on the offensive: she accused Matthews of devising a plan with Donovan and then “bottling it”.Matthews inhaled for what felt like an age and admitted: “Yes, that’s right.” She then burst into tears and said: “People will hate me for what I’ve done and I’ve disgraced the kids.”“None of us in that car expected her to say anything,” recalls Murray. “I knew there was something more, but I didn’t expect her to confess. Julie knew there was something, but that wasn’t what Julie expected it to be. And Christine Freeman just didn’t have a clue what Karen was going to say, she didn’t know what was going to come out, so she had to scramble to get it all down.”Bushby adds: “When she came out with it? I was relieved and shocked. But more relieved, because that meant it was over.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karen Matthews held her daughter’s favourite teddy bear as she made an emotional appeal for her safe return. Photograph: John Giles/PAOver, perhaps legally, but there remain unanswered questions. Even the motivation behind the scam is still contested. At the time, many of the newspapers claimed the pair was driven by greed. Donovan had a copy of the Sun offering a £50,000 reward folded up in his flat. When the police found Shannon, he immediately implicated Karen, shouting: “We’d got a plan. We’re sharing the money – £50,000.” There was even an episode of Shameless, broadcast not long before the disappearance, which involved a fake kidnap plot where a family hid their child with a friend living a few doors away with the plan to claim the bounty.“I think in the beginning it was about the money,” says Murray. “It was this big plot to get as much money out of the press or whoever as they could. Then when they realised that wasn’t going to happen, it became this big spindle of lies upon lies upon lies upon lies upon lies that she just could not get herself out of.”Bushby – and McKay also – remain unconvinced that it was about money. They favour the version that Karen Matthews told: that she had been desperate to escape from Meehan and cooked up a plan to leave him, but “everything went wrong”. Bushby says, “Money wasn’t at the heart of it, that’s absolute rubbish. Or it wasn’t on Karen’s part. That’s people jumping to conclusions.”Then there’s the pervasive theory that Matthews and Donovan could not have dreamed up this scheme on their own. Donovan was found to have an IQ of 74, which is borderline mentally impaired, while Matthews claimed she was being used by others because she didn’t have a criminal record and, if caught, would be treated more leniently. “I still believe there’s more to this story than what Karen told us in that car,” says Murray. “I’ve stated from day one: Karen was very, very influenced by people around her...She wasn’t smart enough to come up with a scheme like that.”Both women say they rarely think of the events of early 2008 these days. Bushby, though, refused to denounce Karen Matthews in court. She wasn’t malevolent – merely weak and manipulated, especially by a succession of men. Matthews and Donovan were found guilty of kidnap, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice and sentenced to eight years. Both were released in 2012 after serving half their terms. Meehan was cleared of involvement in the case, but was found to possess child pornography on his computer and given a sentence of 20 weeks.After everything that happened, it’s perhaps surprising to learn that Bushby regularly visited Matthews when she was in prison. “You don’t tell somebody you’ll still be mates and then go back on that,” she says. “She did what we asked in the car, came out with the truth, so I had to stick to my end of the agreement that I’ll always be your friend and I did that. Even till this day – I still class myself as a friend to Karen.”The Moorside: why the Shannon Matthews abduction drama is TV at its finest Has Bushby spoken to Matthews recently? “Can’t speak to her now,” she says. “Haven’t been allowed to since a month before she came out of prison.” After her release, Matthews assumed an alias and cut contact with her old life.For McKay, intriguing and complex questions of betrayal and forgiveness lie at the heart of this story. “You read the newspapers and Karen can get put in the same bracket as Rose West and Myra Hindley and that seems a misjudgment,” he says. “And there is a sense in which, if you had a friend who did a bad thing, would you drop them if they were sent to prison? What’s the right thing to do? The Christian thing to do is to not drop them.”Bushby, who is “no Bible basher”, looks appalled. “Christian thing to do!” she splutters. “The human thing to do!”Murray, who had stopped speaking to Matthews before the confrontation in the car, finds it harder to forgive. The year of Shannon’s disappearance turned out to be a life-changing period for her. She separated from her husband and after the court verdict, she moved off Moorside to live in Huddersfield, eight miles away. She only lasted six months before returning, not to the estate, but close by. “When I came back, I actually walked down the estate and it just wasn’t the same,” says Murray. “I walked past people I’d known all my life and they walked past with their heads down. ‘Why have you not said hello? Hello! You know who I am…’”Bushby, who still lives on Moorside and works in a local shop, agrees that it’s not the same. Many families moved away and the council struggled to fill houses because it was “the Shannon Matthews estate”. “It’s a ghost town,” she sighs.“People won’t even admit they’re off that estate, because of it all,” Murray says. “They’ll say they’re from Leeds; they daren’t say that they’re from Dewsbury Moor. Nobody should ever be ashamed of where they grew up. For people who’ve been on there most of their lives to be ashamed because of what one person did, that’s not right.”The Moorside is on BBC1 on Tuesday at 9pm