A young mother who did not speak English and seldom went out has been found hanged at home beside her two infant sons, who had been killed in the same way.The bodies were discovered by the father, a businessman in Birmingham, when he came home from work and had to ask a neighbour to help him break in.Police said they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths at the top flat in a newly restored three-storey semi in the Handsworth area.The family were described by neighbours as "tidy, sociable and nice", but several expressed concern that the mother, a British Asian who wore traditional dress including a burka, had been isolated and unable to mix.She has not yet been named but was in her 20s and her sons were two and one. Witnesses said her husband had emerged from the house on Wednesday night, clutching a child's blanket. He was gently escorted away by police and is understood to be being comforted by relatives. He has not been arrested.Police sealed off the mock-Tudor Edwardian house for forensic tests and a solitary officer stood on guard in front of its new wrought-iron and gilt gates.A spokesman for the West Midlands force said the coroner had been informed.Detective Chief Inspector Gez Moore said: "The two children and the woman were found hanged. We are keeping an open mind at the moment but we are not looking for anyone else in connection with the inquiry."The family's next-door neighbour Bernard Bates, a 60-year-old publisher, said they had moved in six or seven months ago. "He came home at around 9pm and then 10 minutes later I heard police sirens and went to look at what was going on," he said."When the police arrived they led the man out of the house and he looked shocked and distraught. They were a nice family and good neighbours and we used to speak to him a lot."She couldn't speak English so we never had much communication with her. She was polite and she would acknowledge you in a respectful way. But I don't think she had any friends or family in the area."She spent a lot of time on her own as he often worked late, sometimes he comes home at around 2am or 3am. She never had any visitors and her whole life was looking after the kids."A worker at a family care and respite centre further along the tree-lined street said: "Both the couple were in their late 20s but the lady wore a burka so I don't know too well what she looks like." Another neighbour said the husband was "a real gentleman".A woman who lives in the road but did not want to be named said she had almost called the police two weeks ago after hearing screaming coming from the house.She said: "I took the phone upstairs to ring the police but in the end I didn't."Another neighbour said: "The father spoke English well and was friendly. I tried to speak to the mother on a few occasions but I suspect that she could not speak English. The children were at an adorable age - just babies really."Detectives carried out house-to-house inquiries in the street yesterday.Postmortem examinations revealed all three died as a result of hanging.