An old question often comes up: why are cases of wrongful conviction referred to as "miscarriages of justice"?It is a theme that the civil rights lawyer Gareth Peirce, who has worked on countless such cases, explored in her introduction to Michael O'Brien's book on being falsely imprisoned for the murder of a Cardiff newsagent:"I used to find the words "miscarriage of justice" inadequate to describe the horror of wrongful conviction. The phrase implied to me an accident, and wrongful convictions can never be written off as accidental. Later, however, I realised that the description, of course, meant "death", and this is exactly right – a total death of justice."Some feel there should be a simpler, less arcane description. "Wrongful conviction" is a common suggestion. Another is "noble cause corruption" – a phrase that had vogue within the police service in the 1980s and 1990s and was used to refer to cases where the police felt certain that they had caught the guilty person but were short of the evidence to prove it conclusively. A similar phrase – "bent for the job" - was popular for a while. It meant that an officer was prepared to plant a little piece of evidence or a verbal confession if they genuinely believed that they had the guilty man; "bent for yourself" was when a police officer helped himself or herself to money or used extortion for personal gain.The problem with a term like "noble cause corruption" is that it presupposes that all such cases must involve incidents of bending the evidence. This is far from the case. Some miscarriages of justice – there's that phrase again – were genuine accidents. They may have resulted from sloppy detective work or laziness or misunderstanding or from a confession from someone with psychological problems, but they were not necessarily deliberate.I would suggest that this accounts for most of the cases that have become well-known to us: an initial belief that the guilty person has been arrested followed by an honest or dishonest refusal to consider any other possibility. It can happen when the police are under pressure to make an arrest in a high-profile case.So is there another phrase or word apart from "miscarriage of justice" that better expresses what happens to an innocent person convicted of a crime? Any suggestions welcome.