The manager of the security depot raided in the largest cash robbery ever carried out in Britain yesterday told a court of his terror as he was kidnapped by men pretending to be police officers.Colin Dixon was told: "Don't do anything silly and nobody will be hurt" and had a gun pointed at him after he was seized by two individuals wearing police uniforms who pulled him over in a car with blue flashing lights as he drove home from work, a jury heard. Later, he claimed, he was warned he would "get a hole in him" if he did not obey instructions.He told the court he was "afraid and scared" when one of the men pulled out a pistol and said: "We are not fucking about. This is a 9mm."The Old Bailey was told the 52-year-old was taken to an isolated farm in Staplehurst, Kent, where he was interrogated at gunpoint about security arrangements at Securitas in Tonbridge before the gang took £53m from the depot, more than £30m of which has yet to be recovered.The court has heard that other men dressed as policemen arrived at the family home in Herne Bay and told Mr Dixon's wife her husband had been in an accident and they would take her to hospital to see him, but that once she and her child were in the car she was also taken to the farm.Mr Dixon said the men said he had been caught speeding several times over the past few weeks, before bundling him into the vehicle and handcuffing him."I was in the nearside lane doing approximately 70mph," he said. "I looked in my mirror and I saw a car about a car's length behind me. It had got blue lights flashing in the radiator grille, which I took to be a police car."Thinking the occupants wanted him to stop he pulled over, but after he was put in the car and it roared off he began to get suspicious, noticing it had no police equipment and the radio, instead of showing a police frequency, was tuned to Radio 1.The court heard that the driver narrowly missed an oncoming car as the kidnappers sped through the countryside, before he told Mr Dixon: "You'll have guessed that we're not policemen. Don't do anything silly and nobody will be hurt."But when Mr Dixon started fiddling with the handcuffs because they were hurting his wrists, one of the men reached into his pocket and pulled out a pistol."He said: 'We're not fucking about. This is a 9mm'," Mr Dixon told the court."I was afraid, scared. He had got a gun in his hand. He seemed to be agitated."The car pulled up by the side of the road, where a white van was waiting with at least two other gang members.Mr Dixon said: "I was told not to look around or I would get a hole in me." Inside the van he had his legs trussed together by a man he later described to police as The Grunter, the court heard."All the time that I was in the van he didn't speak," said Mr Dixon, a father of three. "He coughed, sniffed and grunted but didn't speak."Seven men and one woman deny charges relating to the hold-up in February last year. The case continues.