A serial killer may have hidden behind a sight screen before murdering a young Frenchwoman on a cricket strip, police revealed yesterday.Refusing to rule out a connection between the murder of Amelie Delagrange and four other attacks in south-west London, officers removed the two cricket screens on Twickenham Green for forensic examination, under which they will undergo light sourcing treatment to see if the murderer left any traces behind. Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy said police were also conducting tests on a glove and other items retrieved from the small, poorly lit park after the 22-year-old was bludgeoned to death with a flat, blunt object as she took a short-cut home on Thursday evening. According to detectives, CCTV footage appears to show that the attacker had not followed Ms Delagrange from a bus depot after she missed her stop on the way home from an evening in Cristalz bar in Twickenham. "He may have been hiding behind the screens and that's certainly something we will explore," Mr Murphy said. Describing the murderer as "unconcerned about being disturbed", he added: "We've got someone that was quite willing to use severe force to attack a young lady - I think that speaks for itself." Four suspects arrested and released in connection with the murder of Marsha McDonnell could now be questioned again as geographical and offender profilers build up a picture of Ms Delagrange's attacker. Like three other women attacked in south-west London since January 2003, the Frenchwoman, who arrived in Britain only two months ago, was blonde. McDonnell, 19, was killed with a blunt object in February last year after getting off a bus near her home in Hampton, three miles from the latest attack. A 16-year-old boy, who remains a suspect in the McDonnell case, has been held in a secure hospital under the Mental Health Act since he was questioned by police, and is not a suspect in the murder of Ms Delagrange or a similar attack in April this year on 34-year-old Edel Harbison in nearby Strawberry Hill. Ms Harbison yesterday appealed for people to come forward with information to help Scotland Yard. "It has been four months since I was attacked and this incident has brought back to me how fortunate I was to have survived," she said. "I am determined to assist the police in every way possible to catch the person responsible." An 18-year-old boy, who could have been mistaken for a woman, was also assaulted with a blunt object in the area, while a 17-year-old girl knocked unconscious with a hammer a month before Ms McDonnell's murder was also blonde. But Mr Murphy said there were "significant differences" between the attacks and, with Ms Delagrange's mustard-coloured handbag and Sony Ericsson mobile phone still missing, the latest murder could be a robbery gone wrong. "There were a significant number either on the green or walking through the green, drinking in bars or passing by. At the moment it would appear nobody has heard what they perceive to be the attack but there are a number of witnesses who have seen significant activity." Detectives are scouring hours of CCTV footage from points near the attack, including images from a moving bus which passed the Frenchwoman moments before she turned into the park. After discovering she had missed her stop, Ms Delagrange got off a number 267 bus at Fulwell bus garage at 9.45pm. Another CCTV image captured her as she walked past the Loch Fyne restaurant six minutes later. A passerby found her on Twickenham Green at 10.26pm and she later died of her injuries in hospital. Police are searching for the murder weapon. "The medical opinion is it was a flat object," Mr Murphy said. "It is not a knife, it is not a machete ... it may well be a bar, pole or brick."