Former bandmates of Ian Watkins, who this week pleaded guilty to a string of sex offences, have said they did not know about the abuse and are "heartbroken, angry and disgusted".The Lostprophets frontman admitted charges including the attempted rape of a baby, in a last-minute change of plea on Tuesday before what would have been his trial at Cardiff crown court.The remaining band members announced in October that they had split up. In a statement to fans on Saturday night, they said: "Many of you understandably want to know if we knew what Ian was doing. To be clear: we did not."We knew that Ian was a difficult character. Our personal relationships with him had deteriorated in recent years to a point that working together was a constant, miserable challenge. But despite his battles with drugs, his egotistic behaviour and the resulting fractures and frustrations within our band, we never imagined him capable of behaviour of the type he has now admitted."The statement went on: "We are heartbroken, angry and disgusted at what has been revealed. This is something that will haunt us for the rest of our lives."Being in a band has always been a labour of love and a platform to inspire people, not to take advantage of them. It's still hard to believe this is happening and that someone we were once so close to has destroyed so many lives, lying every step of the way."Our hearts go out to Ian's family, the fans and friends he betrayed, and most importantly, the victims of his crimes and others like them. We hope for justice, but also that Ian will truly take responsibility for what he's done. We would urge any other victims to contact the authorities."The message was signed by the lead guitarist Lee Gaze, the rhythm guitarist Mike Lewis, the bass player Stuart Richardson, the keyboard player Jamie Oliver and the drummer Luke Johnson.Watkins pleaded guilty to sexually touching a one-year-old and encouraging a fan to abuse her own child during a webcam chat. The 36-year-old, from Pontypridd, south Wales, also admitted possessing and making child porn. He will be sentenced on 18 December.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has announced that it is investigating how South Yorkshire police handled allegations against Watkins made last year.