On a Wednesday afternoon last summer Naomi Bryant was walking along the street near her home hand in hand with a man she had bumped into in the local pub. A trusting, 40-year-old woman, she had invited the man back to her home but felt embarrassed when she caught sight of friends and dropped his hand. It was a deadly error.They carried on to her modest redbrick house on an estate in Winchester, Hampshire. The man, Anthony Rice, hid a kitchen knife in his trousers and went upstairs to check that nobody else was home. He then strangled Ms Bryant with a pair of her tights and stabbed her in the neck, back and chest 15 times. He hid her body under a bed, leaving it to be found by Ms Bryant's teenage daughter and her ex-partner.Later he told police: "There is a determination in me to kill. This urge is inside me and it's really, really deep set and I have to satisfy that anger." He had decided to kill Ms Bryant as soon as she dropped his hand.When Ms Bryant's family learned of Rice's past, they were astounded that he had been free to wander around unchecked and unmonitored. Since the age of 15 he had attacked at least a dozen women, terrorising some at knifepoint and revelling in the power he felt he had.Jailed for lifeHis offending was incessant. He was on home leave from prison when he committed one series of offences. One sex attack was committed 13 days after he was released from another jail term while in a hostel for ex-offenders.When he was jailed for life for a violent attempted rape in 1989, probation officers said he ought to be kept behind bars indefinitely. And yet when Rice, 49, was released from the life term in 2004 he was considered a low enough risk to be given a place at a Christian residential training centre near Winchester. Within months he had killed Ms Bryant.Her mother, Verna, said yesterday: "I don't think he should have been released in the first place. He's obviously very ill. He had been in prison for most of his life. He wanted to go back inside. Committing an offence got him back inside."A report into the case of Rice which was commissioned by the chief inspector of probation, Andrew Bridges, is due to be released within a few days. It will criticise the way Rice was handled at the centre, Elderfield, and examine the workings of the Multi-Agency Public Protection Arrangements (Mappa) system meant to bring together police, probation and centre staff to manage people like him. The Rice case also informed home secretary Charles Clarke's announcement yesterday of new powers to control violent offenders.Dundee-born Rice's criminal career began in 1972. At 15 he was given a supervision order for six assaults on women and three years later was put on probation for four indecent assaults. A year on he was behind bars, having assaulted one woman and indecently assaulted another. When he was 25 Rice attacked a woman at her home, seizing her by the throat, producing a knife and forcing her to remove her clothes before raping her. At Edinburgh high court Rice was convicted of rape and four cases of assault and jailed for seven years.The sentence did not stop him. Five years later, in June 1987, Rice was on home leave from prison, staying with his sister in Surrey. He stole her diary and began phoning her friends, making obscene suggestions and threatening to kill them.Thirteen days after being released from prison for those offences, Rice was staying in a hostel for recently released prisoners in north London. After spending a night in a pub he stopped a 33-year-old woman in the street and asked her for directions. He attacked her, pushed her into a front garden and over the following hour he sexually assaulted her and threatened her with a knife.Rice was easily found and told police: "People say rape is about sex, but this is only part of it. Rape is about power and I had power over her - sex is just an extension of it."In June 1989 for this attack Rice was jailed for life at the Old Bailey. Probation officers who had interviewed him said they believed he should be locked away indefinitely. The common sergeant of London, Judge Thomas Pigot QC, told him: "You are clearly a menace to the community. The public is at risk of serious injury while you are at large." Rice grinned as he was led away.Rice spent the last 18 months before his release at Ford open prison in West Sussex. He was trusted enough to have a regular nine-to-five job outside the jail.In November 2004 he was freed on parole. He was found a place at Elderfield. The centre, in the village of Otterbourne, is run by the Langley House Trust, a Christian charity. It provides places for 19 men, whom it trains in skills such as a horticulture. Villagers tolerate the presence of the former prisoners but they have always been assured that only non-violent men lived there.In April last year Rice sneaked out of the hostel and spent the night eight miles away in Southampton. At 5.30am he hit a woman over the head with a brick and returned to the hostel. He thought police would trace him within a few days. But the woman had not seen him and, apparently, nobody at the hostel knew he had sneaked away.Vulnerable victimHe began to feel untouchable. Those who knew him at the hostel say he was "cocky" and liked to lord it over other residents, believing his status as a lifer made him a cut above them.Then came his meeting with Ms Bryant. When he was arrested two days after the attack in London, Rice told police he had picked on Ms Bryant because he judged she was "vulnerable".In court his barrister said Rice wanted to stay in jail for the rest of his life. The judge, Mr Justice Tugendhat, ordered that Rice be held for at least 25 years before being considered for release. By that time he will be in his mid-70s.