Franz Gsell was Germany's most celebrated plastic surgeon. Tatjana Gsell, his second wife, was his finest creation; a plain, dumpy girl from a backwoods Bavarian town who was so desperate to become a society beauty that she allegedly endured more than 20 operations.Franz enlarged her breasts from A- to C-cups, slimmed her bulbous nose and thickened her lips to a Hollywood pout in a quest to create "the perfect woman". If, that is, your notion of the perfect woman is a Eurotrash babe. And those were only the operations she admitted to. According to a former friend: "Franz also operated on her chin, eyes and cheekbones and used liposuction to get rid of the fat." Tatjana, now 31, was transformed into a silicone doll with chicken-drumstick arms, spherical breasts, taut cheeks and a permanently stupefied gaze. While the surgeon carried on helping Germany's wealthy defy time and nature, she used his credit card to get on with being a Luxus-Frau - literally, a "luxury wife" - embarking on shopping trips to Paris and Milan and an arduous beauty schedule that began when her hair stylist came to call at 8am. "It takes a lot of effort to look this good," she once said. "Being a luxury wife is a 24-hour job." But it was only after her creator's violent demise that Tatjana achieved the nationwide celebrity that had eluded her through a decade of spilling out of her bra at parties, fashion-modelling stints and magazine picture spreads. In January, two masked men burst into Franz's penthouse apartment in Nuremberg's elite residential quarter, Erlenstegen, and attacked him with an axe, shattering his ribcage. Heavily injured, the 76-year-old managed to call the police after the robbers had fled with thousands of euros and his Bulgari wristwatch. Tatjana had separated from him, and was living in Marbella with a luxury-car dealer, Helmut Becker, 60 - the "Car King of Düsseldorf" - but she flew back to sit by his bedside. In hospital, Franz slipped into an 11-week coma, waking only once. "It was the most wonderful moment of my life," she said. "We looked into each other's eyes and then listened to Chopin together." At the end of March, the surgeon succumbed to his wounds. "I am so infinitely sad," his widow told reporters. "I cannot get a grip on the fact that he is no longer there. It's terrible. I have had to let go of the most important person in my life." Tatjana was the sole heiress to Franz's fortune, reckoned in one newspaper report to be more than £7m. "I will never have money worries again," she was quoted as saying. Then, a fortnight ago, she was arrested and held on suspicion of instigating the burglary during which Franz suffered his fatal injuries. According to the Nuremberg state prosecutor's office, there is no suggestion that she intended her husband to die, but she is being held in "investigative custody" while police gather evidence. She has not yet been charged. Tatjana denies the accusation and her lawyer pleaded for her release from prison at a bail hearing yesterday - held at the same imposing Nuremberg courthouse where the war crimes trials took place. Some of the German tabloids appear to have made up their minds already, with lurid profiles painting her as a scheming vixen with a "lust for luxury". But acquaintances of the couple are more sympathetic, suggesting that, like a kind of drag artist, her mind remained that of a naive country girl while her body was given the appearance of a fabulous stranger. Tatjana grew up as Tanja Gick in a middle-class area of the picturesque but sleepy Bavarian town of Bamberg. Her parents split up when she was young and she was brought up by her mother and stepfather. Determined to be somebody, Tanja left Bamberg when she was 21 and moved to nearby Nuremberg; a bigger, but no less bourgeois, Bavarian town, it is a bit like moving from Canterbury to Bath in search of the bright lights (Nuremberg has many virtues but is no one's idea of a funky metropolis). Trained as a beautician, she plied this trade briefly before being hired as a nursing assistant by Franz Gsell, who developed a Pygmalion-like obsession with transforming the chubby girl into a beauty. Franz's surgery is based on the ground floor of his Nuremberg villa, a white concrete cube fringed by pine trees and decorated with fake classical pillars and statues of Greek gods. The penthouse where he lived is on the roof of the villa. Occupying the same block is a beauty parlour where Tatjana's beautician was working yesterday. Christine Nietzschmann, who treated the surgeon's wife for five years, described them as a "gentle couple" with a curious bond. "He had formed her. She was his life's work. For him, I think, it was a father-daughter relationship, more than husband-wife. What he meant to her... I can't say." Franz went through an expensive divorce from his first wife, Forouzandeh, an Iranian woman who had also gone under his scalpel. He then proceeded to tighten Tatjana into supermodel perfection. His new wife launched herself on Nuremberg high society, but was always the object of disdainful curiosity rather than respect or desire. A few years ago, she invited journalists from TV channel RTL and Germany's only national tabloid, Bild, to accompany her for "a day in the life of a luxury wife". Local freelance photographer Christian Heller, who works for the tabloid, recalls how, at the prompting of the woman from RTL, Tatjana proudly bared her enhanced breasts for the cameras while her husband squirmed. "The surgeon didn't want it but she was so enthusiastic. She said it would be fun. She talked about how he had left no scars. I thought - this woman is naive and doesn't know what she's doing." It seemed clear to Heller who was controlling who in the relationship. It was, he says, remarkable to watch the corpulent old surgeon being led around by his petite wife. "She led him by the hand and told him where to go." While stunts such as the breast-baring aroused tawdry interest, Tatjana was stuck on a lowly rung of the German celebrity ladder; more a wannabe than an established face. She made several appearances in Bild, which has a mammoth circulation and the power to create and destroy such would-be socialites. But rather than portraying her as a glamorous society girl in her own right, the paper focused on the age gap between her and her husband and the operations she had undergone. "She had an inferiority complex. Her sole aim was to be beautiful, and she was greedy for luxury and entry into high society," says Ilka Roxin, the tabloid's Nuremberg editor. "Friends of the surgeon told us that they were not happy he had allied himself with this woman, but he had a weakness for young pretty women. He formed her after his ideal picture of a woman." If he was occasionally embarrassed by her antics, Franz displayed no qualms about indulging his Silicone Princess as she acquired 500 pairs of shoes, a wardrobe full of designer clothes and several fur coats, and a Mercedes, Porsche and Ferrari. The couple, who did not have children, were married for nine years and stayed together for eight of them in a seemingly happy relationship, though one friend said recently that Tatjana saw the surgeon more as a father figure than a lover. "She patted him like a little baby," the 29-year-old friend, named only as Sandra, told Bild. "She did really like him but more like a father. Sex and eroticism were not a part of it." Early last year, the marriage fell apart when Tatjana announced her new relationship with car salesman Becker in front of television cameras at a party. Hugging her new beau, she told the world that they were in love. Tatjana and Becker took off for Marbella - the spiritual home of all Eurotrash - while rumours circulated that they had plans to open a "consumer temple for millionaires" or perhaps a "Becker-world", Tatjana's answer to Disneyworld. "She got to know this car dealer Helmut Becker at the start of 2002," Sandra told Bild. "Franz did not deserve her betraying him in public like that. He loved her so much. That was the end of our friendship. "When Franz broke his arm last year and couldn't do anything for himself she stayed in Marbella with this Becker. She didn't bother herself any more about how Franz was doing. She was only concerned with luxury, glamour, society and money." In October she visited Franz on his birthday and he pleaded with her to come home, threatening to cut her off financially if she did not return to Nuremberg by Christmas. He made good on his threat at the end of the year, cancelling her credit card. He is reported to have been pressing for a divorce. On January 5, the raiders broke into his penthouse. The two men, thought to have been Romanians because of a plastic bag found at the scene with Romanian words printed on it, have still not been found. After Tatjana was arrested, Becker was also questioned by police, but he has not been arrested. Police won't say why they became suspicious of Tatjana but a week after the warrant for her arrest was issued, she was pulled over by Nuremberg traffic police for talking on her mobile phone while at the wheel of one of her luxury cars. In prison, she has become a celebrity as never before. Police have denied media reports that she arranged for her private hairdresser to visit her behind bars but the story has been widely believed. Perhaps people want to believe that this beleaguered wannabe glamour kitten remains defiantly unwilling to give up her dream.