Four bodies – those of a man, a woman and two young children – have been discovered in a house in Fordingbridge, Hampshire, police confirmed today.The discovery was made at around 11.20am at a house in the town's Provost Street by the children's grandmother. The deaths are thought to be the result of a domestic dispute that culminated in murders and a suicide.The area around the newly built house was cordoned off by detectives investigating the killings. Scenes of crime officers (Soco) wearing white body suits could be seen entering and leaving the property. The children who died were girls, aged one and two.Both children and the woman had received stab wounds; the man was found hanged. The emergency services were called after neighbours heard screams, according to local reports.Fordingbridge lies on the western edge of the New Forest. The house is set back from terraced homes and detached buildings in the street. Many have views over the nearby river Avon.The mayor of Fordingbridge, Malcolm Connolly, told the local Daily Echo newspaper: "It's absolutely tragic. The loss of young lives is always tragic and it leads to the question why something like this happens. It's a small town. These people will have been known to many and it will have a major impact on the lives of residents."Acting Superintendent Gary Cooper, of Hampshire police, confirmed that a member of the family had found the bodies. "We believe it was a relative who came to the address this morning," he said. "On entering ... they found four people dead. The scene is still being examined as it is a very recent incident."It is a very unusual occurrence, but something we are investigating with scenes of crime officers and the major crime branch."A neighbour, Alayna Brooks, 53, rushed over to the house when the bodies were found. Brooks said the grandmother had come out of the house screaming, "All my babies are dead!".Entering the house, Brooks found the mother, in her 30s, dead in the dining room with a plastic bag over her head. She then went upstairs and found the two little girls dead on a bed.Brooks said she of the family, who had just come back from a week's holiday in Weymouth: "They were so loved up ... In fact, if I had a marriage, I would have loved their marriage – they just loved each other." She said she was "appalled" by what had happened, and described the little girls as "gorgeous".Another neighbour, Jeremy Pentecost, 27, said he had run out of his house, which overlooks the property where the families were discovered."We heard all the screaming, and the woman's mother was outside and she was collapsed on the floor. I think she was on the phone to her husband telling him to come over."I didn't go into the house. Someone stopped me going in, and I'm glad they did, to be honest. I didn't want to see that."I cannot believe it's real. They seemed a nice couple, and I joked with him sometimes outside." His partner, Kerry Kocagol, 37, said she seen the girls feeding a duck a week ago.A spokesman for south central ambulance service said: "The doctor reported back from the scene that one adult female and two children were dead and had been stabbed. One male was found hanging."We then sent two further officers to the scene to provide welfare for our staff because obviously it was a nasty situation."