A doctor accused of spiking his pregnant lover's tea to make her have an abortion has told a court he was unsure the baby was his.Edward Erin, a hospital consultant, said he had taken a DNA test but had not yet been given the result.He told the Old Bailey he had known Bella Prowse, a hospital secretary, for four months before she told him she was pregnant.She had been seeing a man called David when she and Erin went to a hotel after the office Christmas party in December 2007. She had broken off the relationship with David two weeks later, he said.Prowse, 33, gave birth to a healthy boy in September 2008. Asked by Sean Larkin, prosecuting, if he accepted paternity, Erin, a married father of two, said: "There are some issues here."The 44-year-old, from Kensington in west London, denies obtaining and administering drugs to induce abortion, and two charges of attempting to administer them in coffee and orange juice.Prowse says she found a yellow powder in the bottom of her Earl Grey on 1 February last year after drinking the tea, which Erin made for her.Erin went on: "Recently she went to the Child Support Agency and made an application to see if I was in fact the father."I immediately went for a DNA swab test to be done. They informed me that, 15 days after that, I should get the result."But when he rang to get the result, he was told attempts to contact Prowse three times had been unsuccessful, and that the case would be closed by the CSA if she did not make contact.Pressed by Larkin, he added: "I accept it that it's possible – and I also accept that it could be this chap David."Asked if he had ever loved Prowse, Erin replied: "Yes. It depends on how you define love. I had very strong emotions for her."I felt that she was a very nice person. She was supportive to me. I told her about things I do not usually talk about."He said the relationship had been very intense, but denied putting undue pressure on Prowse to have an abortion.Erin said: "I expressed my opinion that I did not want to have a child with her at that time; maybe in the future."A doctor accused of spiking his lover's tea to make her have an abortion has told a court he was uncertain the baby was his.Edward Erin, a hospital consultant, said he had taken a DNA test but had not yet been given the result.He told the Old Bailey he had known Bella Prowse, a hospital secretary, for four months before she told him she was pregnant. She had been seeing a man called David when she and Erin went to a hotel after the office Christmas party in December 2007. She had broken off the relationship with David two weeks later.Prowse, 33, gave birth to a healthy boy in September 2008. Asked by Sean Larkin, prosecuting, whether he accepted paternity, Erin, a married father of two, said: "There are some issues here."Erin, 44, from Kensington in west London, denies obtaining and administering drugs to induce abortion, and two charges of attempting to administer them in coffee and orange juice. Prowse says she found a yellow powder in the bottom of her Earl Grey tea on 1 February last year.Erin said: "Recently she went to the Child Support Agency and made an application to see if I was in fact the father."I immediately went for a DNA swab test to be done. They informed me that 15 days after that I should get the result."But when he rang to get the result he was told attempts to contact Prowse had been unsuccessful, and the case would be closed if she did not make contact. Pressed by Larkin, he added: "I accept that it's possible – and I also accept that it could be this chap David." The trial continues.