Detectives investigating the murder of pregnant teenager Amy Williams yesterday arrested a 42-year-old man.The man, whose name has not been released, is from the Telford area. He is the third person to be arrested in connection with the death of the 14-year-old schoolgirl who was last seen leaving a family party on Boxing Day. Her naked body was found the following morning in a cemetery a mile from her home. Both men arrested earlier in the inquiry have been released without charge. The latest arrest came hours after police released new CCTV footage which showed an unidentified man walking in the opposite direction to Amy soon after she was last seen. They were also seeking to trace a dark-coloured car seen outside the churchyard in the early hours of the morning shortly before her body was discovered. News of the development comes as police launched an investigation into reports that Amy had been the victim of a bullying campaign in the weeks before she had died. A source close to her family told The Observer that she was verbally and physically abused. Detectives are questioning children living in the Sutton Hill area of Telford to see if there is any link between the attacks and her death. 'Amy was really soft-hearted,' said a close family member who asked not to be named. 'A lot of people saw that as a weakness and took advantage of her. We were not aware of this at the time.' The murder has cast a shadow over Sutton Hill, a run-down Seventies estate on the edge of Telford new town. A tight-knit community where 'everyone lives in everyone else's pockets' and home to at least a dozen members of Amy's extended family, the feeling here is that Amy almost certainly knew her killer. Tensions in the area are running high. Tim Jones, the first man to be arrested, is now living with relatives after the door and windows of his home were smashed by vigilantes. The second man arrested, said to be a close friend of Amy's mother who regularly moved in family circles, has also been on the receiving end of a number of threats. Both men were held and questioned for four days before being released.