The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) has more investigators working on overseas bribery investigations than on complex and large-scale probes into suspected white-collar crimes originating in the City, raising concerns that tackling the very biggest UK fraud cases may be slipping as the agency's top priority.The SFO is determined to rebuild its credibility in overseas bribery cases after the messy end to its probe into a defence contract between BAE and Saudi Arabia damaged Britain's reputation for fighting corruption. Its then director had been persuaded by government officials to drop the inquiry because of an unspecified conflict with "national security".The SFO this month took on additional responsibility for the investigation and prosecution of overseas corruption cases under the 2010 Bribery Act, but has received no additional funding for this work. Director Richard Alderman said he already had 82 investigators deployed on existing corruption cases, almost all of them being pursued as potential fraud offences under previous legislation. Just 71 staff are devoted to City investigations.Annual accounts published last week show the agency, in common with almost all public bodies, has been forced to slash the amount it is spending on outside expertise, further weakening its capabilities, say critics. Its annual budget fell 10% to £35.9m for the year to April – about half the amount spent on corporate crime by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), the City-funded regulator – and is projected to fall below £30m within three years.Last year the SFO spent £4.6m on overseas corruption cases, a figure that is expected to rise as offences are committed under the new legislation.The slimming down and reshaping of the SFO comes 25 years after a landmark report from law lord Lord Roskill's fraud tribunals committee, which called for the creation of an elite agency to tackle complex financial crime in the wake of scandals on the Lloyd's insurance market and at Johnson Matthey Bankers."The public no longer believes that the legal system ... is capable of bringing the perpetrators of serious frauds expeditiously and effectively to book," the committee said. "The overwhelming weight of the evidence laid before us suggests that the public is right. While petty frauds, clumsily committed, are likely to be detected and punished, it is all too likely that the largest and most cleverly executed crimes escape unpunished." Within two years the SFO had been created.In recent months, past heads of the SFO and other fraud experts have been growing increasingly concerned that the agency's resources are being stretched so thin that its core purpose is in danger of being lost.Ros Wright, who spent six years as the agency's director, said: "The SFO has got this priority at the moment to tackle these major corruption cases, which does detract from the amount of resources he [Alderman] can devote to mainstream fraud. If it were me, it would be a very grave cause for concern. I don't know how Richard Alderman is carving up the pudding, but you must give priority to the major fraud cases before you do anything else."Alderman's predecessor, Robert Wardle, also said he feared the SFO might chose to "shy away from the bigger, more difficult cases" in the face of stretched resources.Alderman insisted that the cost reductions and additional powers were not compromising the 365-strong white-collar crime unit's ability to tackle the toughest City cases. He said the SFO had a radically new approach that allowed it to take on complex cases in a more focused manner that saves money and gets prosecutions to court quicker.New powers to settle cases in a manner similar to civil settlements are certainly helping speed some cases through, though critics claim they can offer corporate defendants an easy get-out.The agency, Alderman said, had 111 cases on its books – almost double the caseload when he joined three years ago – many of them involving huge sums and unprecedented complexity. "And I think there is scope to take on even more as we get more and more effective," he adds. "There is a lot of big work out there that needs our approach."Alderman acknowledged that the resources available to each case are much thinner than they had been under his predecessors but was adamant that large, complex cases were still coming through. Some, he said, were of such magnitude that previous SFO directors might have sought 'blockbuster funding' from the Treasury before taking them on. Not he."I do not like the blockbuster mentality. There are cases we do that the SFO in the past would have regarded as blockbuster and would have asked for specific Treasury funding for, but I've set my face against that," Alderman said. "These [big] cases are our lifeblood and we need to do them as part of our usual business, not as some kind of add-on."Alderman's bullish remarks come two months after he won a protracted and close-fought battle with the Home Office to ensure the survival of the SFO. The issue went all the way to cabinet before the home secretary, Theresa May, was forced to abandon proposals to split out the SFO's investigatory and prosecutory powers. She had wanted to fold the former into the soon-to-be-created National Crime Agency, and the latter into the Crown Prosecution Service.Uncertainty over the SFO's future had made it almost impossible to attract and retain staff, leaving Alderman now rushing to fill about 50 vacancies. His pitch to prospective candidates is that the money is not great – little over half the equivalent earned at the FSA and less still compared with private law firms – but the work is as exciting as it comes."We're saying to people: 'You're not going to become millionaires but you will get exposure to the cutting edge cases concerning economic crime. You will not get that exposure anywhere else and you will be mixing with colleagues at the top of their game.'"