The Harold Shipman trial has triggered a second police inquiry into a GP over the deaths of two women after they were injected with large doses of diamorphine, the drug used by the Manchester doctor to murder at least 15 patients.Police were contacted after a call to Granada TV's This Morning programme in the middle of a studio debate and phone-in about the Shipman case two days after the guilty verdicts at Preston crown court. Detectives in South Yorkshire confirmed yesterday that a detective chief superintendent is heading initial checks on material in the call, which is understood to have come from the GP's wife. They refused to name the doctor and stressed that patients in the county should continue to see their GPs as normal and that "there is no reason for any member of the public to be afraid". The deaths of the women within hours of receiving 15 and 20mg shots of diamorphine, a painkiller more often given in recommended doses of up to 10mg, have already been investigated by the General Medical Council after complaints from relatives. More than 350 other patients signed a petition of support for the GP, but some members of the families of the two women were resentful and unconvinced after the GMC heard the case without local witnesses. Det Chief Supt Mick Burdis of South Yorkshire police yesterday acknowledged claims of alleged malpractices. "It is early days regarding any inquiry. We have not received any formal allegations. Information has been passed and we need to examine this in detail to determine whether there is any truth in what has been said." Police said that no further information would be released until today, and others involved in the initial call have been asked to keep details to a minimum. A Granada spokeswoman said: "The phone call came in while This Morning was in the middle of the phone-in on Wednesday morning, February 2. It was not broadcast but staff felt that it was genuine and that the police should be informed." Relatives of the patients only learned of the police inquiry this weekend, after detectives had made initial contact with local health authorities to check the GP's background. The doctor, who denied wrongdoing at the GMC inquiry, has not yet been questioned by police.