A psychiatric patient who walked out of a mental health ward and ate the brain of a friend he cooked in a frying pan was given two life sentences yesterday for killing two men. Peter Bryan, 35, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to the manslaughter of Brian Cherry, 43, whose brain was fried in butter, and Richard Loudwell, 59, another psychiatric patient. Bryan admitted he "enjoyed" the "forbidden fruit" of his victim's flesh and planned to kill again in a case described as a "breathtaking" example of failure in the mental health system. The court heard how an array of mental health experts decided Bryan could be returned to community-based treatment less than 10 years after he was sent to a secure hospital in 1994 for using a hammer to beat to death Nisha Sheth, a 20-year-old shop assistant, in Chelsea. Despite attacking prison staff and saying he wanted to eat someone's nose after he killed Mr Cherry in February last year, Bryan was able to kill for a third time because he was placed in a medium-risk ward at Broadmoor. In April, he attacked Mr Loudwell, who died of head injuries in June. "The last two killings have taken place when the defendant was under the care of the mental health regime, which has manifestly failed to protect the public," said Aftab Jafferjee, for the prosecution, who called the second failure "breathtaking". Described by his barrister as a "victim" of the mental health system, Bryan admitted to psychiatrists that the "voodoo ritual" of eating human flesh gave him a "quickening" feeling, transferring energy from the people he killed. Mr Jafferjee said Bryan told doctors that cannibalising human beings was like "eating the forbidden fruit" and confessed he "really enjoyed eating Mr Cherry's brain". One psychiatrist said he was probably the most dangerous man he had assessed. But the court heard that Bryan, who had paranoid schizophrenia and a personality disorder, had repeatedly fooled doctors because of his ability to remain calm and appear normal. Bryan was detained for killing Ms Sheth, but his mental state was judged to be stable by 2000. The following year, nursing staff at Rampton high-security hospital in Nottinghamshire judged he had made considerable progress in "behaviour, attitude, maturity, relationships, anger and insight". After applying to a review tribunal in 2002, he was moved to a north London hostel where he could come and go as he pleased. Later that year, his mental health social worker told the Home Office the defendant did not present any major risk. In February 2004 Bryan was transferred to an open psychiatric ward at Newham General Hospital, east London, after allegations he had indecently assaulted a 16-year-old girl. While on the ward, experts noted he "appeared to be settled." "No psychotic symptoms were observed", said Mr Jafferjee. "These expert opinions and observations were to be overwhelmingly confounded in less than 24 hours." Because he was a voluntary patient, Bryan was free to leave the ward and visit Mr Cherry in nearby Walthamstow in February last year. He inflicted more than 24 blows to Mr Cherry's head with a hammer, and used a Stanley knife and kitchen knives to saw off his arms and left leg. Neighbours called the police after hearing screams, but Bryan had already fried Mr Cherry's brain using a tub of Clover and eaten some of it when police entered the blood-soaked flat. Bryan was given two life sentences and told that life would mean life. Judge Giles Forrester said: "You killed on these last two occasions because it gave you a thrill and a feeling of power when you ate flesh. Although substantially impaired, you do of course bear criminal responsibility. The violence on each occasion was extreme and unpredictable, accompanied by bizarre and sexual overtones." Relatives of Bryan and his victims said the mental health system was to blame for the two latest deaths. "The mental health workers were responsible for monitoring Peter, but they failed," said a female relative of Bryan. The parents of Ms Sheth criticised the authorities for releasing Bryan from a secure hospital. "It is terrible. He shouldn't be out," said her mother, Rashmi Sheth. "It's like something out of a horror film," said Mr Cherry's niece Emma, 20, from Falkirk, who described her uncle as "a totally kind and gentle" man. "Both his hands were broken when he tried to defend himself. Parts of his body were not even identifiable. He obviously didn't stand a chance." The East London and the City Mental Health Trust, which was looking after Bryan when he killed Mr Cherry, said the "highly unusual case" would be the subject of an independent inquiry.