The police used their powers to stop members of the public in the street and demand they account for themselves on nearly 2m occasions in the year 2006-07, according to Ministry of Justice figures published yesterday.The statistics, issued for the first time, reveal the scale of police use of "stop and account" powers. They show that black people are two and a half times more likely than white people to be questioned by the police on the street.The use of the powers, and the need for police officers to complete a 30cm-long form on every occasion they stop someone, sparked political controversy earlier this year and led to a pledge from the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, to find new ways of recording each stop.A Home Office green paper on the future of policing, to be published next week, will replace the forms with new radio technology, allowing officers to verbally transmit the details of each stop back to the station. The member of the public involved would be given a card recording the encounter, with a number to call. The scheme has been tested by four police forces.The Ministry of Justice figures published yesterday show that the number of times the police stopped members of the public rose from 1.4m in 2005-06, to 1.87m in 2006-07, an increase of one third.The decision to start recording these police stops, in April 2005, followed a recommendation of Sir William Macpherson's inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. Sir Ronnie Flanagan's recent inquiry into policing reported that recording stops consumed over 48,000 hours of police time. It said stops usually led to suspicion of the police on the part of the member of the public involved. In London, the Metropolitan police has produced a shorter stop and account form, only half the size of the original.The publication of the figures for the first time confirms that police stops involve black people two and half times more often than they do white people. This figure varies around the country, with black people five times more likely to be stopped than white people by the Gwent and West Mercia police, while in Durham and Lincolnshire black people are less likely to be stopped. The figures for Asian people do not show such differences compared to the whole population.The stop and account statistics were disclosed as part of the annual publication of ethnic monitoring data for the whole criminal justice system. It shows that a decade after Jack Straw set up the Lawrence inquiry as home secretary, the black community remains over-represented at nearly every stage of the criminal justice system.The data shows that black people are still seven times more likely to be stopped and searched - as opposed to stop and account; three and a half times more likely to be arrested; and five times more likely to be in prison. In fact, 26% of the prison population is made up of black and other ethnic minority groups. The imprisonment rate for black Britons is 7.4 per 1,000 of the population. This compares with 1.4 per 1,000 for the white population alone. Of gun crime victims, 27% are black.The separate figures for stop and search show that 955,000 such on-street searches were carried out in 2006-07, the highest figure for seven years. The statistics also confirm that criminal justice agencies no longer present an "all white" face to the public. The prison service has met its ethnic monitoring targets and employs 4.8% black and ethnic minority officers. But there has been less progress in the police, where there were 5,511 black or Asian officers by April 2007 - 3.9% against an official target of 7%.All criminal justice agencies were set a new target in April requiring them to have a strategy in place to address racial disparities that cannot be explained or justified.In numbers1.87m Number of 'stop and accounts' carried out by police in 2006-0730cm The length of the form that must be filled in for each stop48,000 The number of hours used by police in filling out stop and account forms