The government blocked demands for a cap on auditors' liability yesterday, despite intense lobbying from the accountancy profession for reforms to protect the "big four" firms from crippling legal bills. Ministers said the profession had failed to make the case that liabilities arising from audit failings should be capped. Accountants hoped provisions for a cap on liabilities would be included in the Companies Bill, which received its second reading in the Commons yesterday. One of the big four, Ernst & Young, said it was disappointed that auditors remained exposed to "potentially crippling legal actions" following a corporate collapse. The firm is fighting a £2.3bn claim for damages from Equitable Life. The mutual insurer alleged that E&Y's auditors were partly to blame for its near demise. Patricia Hewitt, the secretary of state for trade & industry, told MPs that a report by the Office of Fair Trading clearly showed competition for audit work would not improve if a cap were introduced. She said the OFT review was crucial to her decision, though she left the way open for accountants to present proposals for individual contracts with clients to agree proportionate liability. Accountants welcomed the move, which was widely seen as an olive branch that could achieve the same result as a law capping liability. Ms Hewitt said in a statement: "The government remains committed to improving the operation of the audit market and will continue to consider any proposals, including the possibility of limiting liability on a proportionate basis by contract, which can be demonstrated significantly to enhance competition, and to improve quality in the audit market." Proportionate liability, which has been introduced in Canada and Australia, prevents auditors from being sued for more than the loss that a court deems is a result of their alleged negligence. Ms Hewitt was believed to back a cap on liabilities but was prevented from including it in the bill after the intervention of the Treasury. She is believed to fear that a major corporate collapse could result in one of the big four going out of business. Accountants fear a repeat of the collapse of Arthur Andersen after the Enron debacle two years ago. However, it is understood that chancellor Gordon Brown felt it was politically unacceptable to offer auditors further legal protection.