A junior doctor was today found guilty of the manslaughter of a British holidaymaker who died in hospital after falling from a hotel balcony in Rhodes.A Greek court sentenced Stergios Pavlidis to 15 months in prison, suspended for three years, for the manslaughter by neglect of Christopher Rochester. Two surgeons, Georgos Karavolias and Mihalis Sokorelos, were cleared of manslaughter.Rochester fell 12 metres from a balcony while on holiday with his brother and friends at the popular tourist resort of Faliraki in June 2000.The 24-year-old, from Chester-le-Street, County Durham, died from internal bleeding after being left unattended on a trolley for three hours at the island's Andreas Papandreou hospital.After the verdict, Rochester's mother, Pam Cummings, told reporters: "We were all under the impression that the doctors were going to be found not guilty, so yes, I am happy with the outcome. The other two can rot in hell."Cummings has fought a long campaign over her son's case. A first trial found the doctors guilty of manslaughter through negligence, but the conviction was overturned in the appeal court. The Cummings family successfully challenged that ruling and a retrial was ordered.During the latest trial, Pavlidis denied he had been negligent. He said he had done all he could to help Rochester and had sought help from more experienced colleagues.He told Rhodes magistrates court he had twice paged Karavolias but got no reply and instead had Rochester admitted to an orthopaedic ward.Karavolias said he had been asleep in a rest room when Rochester was admitted and had left instructions with colleagues that he should be contacted in an emergency. He maintained in court that no one contacted him.Cummings said her son would have survived if Karavolias had been present to treat him. "If he had been in A&E, a trained specialist doctor, he would have been there to take over from Pavlidis, the junior doctor," she said. "If Karavolias had been [there], Chris would have lived, I am sure of it." The family is reportedly planning to bring a civil case against Pavlidis and the hospital, seeking 5m euros (£3.7m) in damages.An inquest in Britain into Rochester's death recorded a verdict of accidental death contributed to by neglect. The north Durham coroner, Andrew Tweddle, said he had "great concern about the standards of medical care" in Rhodes.When the holidaymaker's body was returned to the UK, a post-mortem examination found one of his kidneys was missing. An organ was later sent to the family, but tests failed to produce a DNA match. A separate investigation into the kidney mix-up is ongoing.