The government was facing an embarrassing defeat in the House of Lords today over its plans to abolish jury trials in certain court cases.A Conservative-led cross-party rebellion this afternoon is likely to reject the measure as the criminal justice bill passes through the upper chamber.Cutting the number of jury trials has been a shibboleth for New Labour home secretaries, but has run into concerted opposition from the judiciary, legal profession and civil rights groups.Rebel Labour peers, including Lady Kennedy QC, were expected to back a call to reject the government's move during the committee stage of the criminal justice bill and throw out part seven of the bill. Lady Kennedy has put her name to a cross-party amendment along with the Conservative frontbench spokesman on the bill, Lord Hunt, Liberal Democrat Lord Thomas, and crossbencher and former lord of appeal Lord Ackner. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said: "Trial by jury involves the participation of the ordinary citizen in the business of law, so preventing the court from becoming a matter of the state and opposing the citizen. "That is critical to the deepest foundations of our liberal democracy. "We believe that, by encroaching on the right to trial by jury in the areas set out in the criminal justice bill, the government may be setting a precedent which could erode the scope for trial by jury in other areas. "We are on a very slippery and dangerous slope." It is the third time that peers have been involved in a row with the government over the right to trial by jury. Former home secretary Jack Straw was defeated twice in 2000 on the issue. Peers firstly passed a wrecking amendment to the criminal justice (mode of trial) bill, but under the procedure rules, because the legislation began in the Lords, the government was unable to use the Parliament Act to steamroller the bill into law. A second government attempt to alter the jury trial rules also ended in failure on September 28 2000 when the Lords threw out the criminal justice (mode of trial) no 2 bill at second reading. Liberal Democrat Lord Dholakia said "Peers of all parties and none have objected strongly and consistently to proposals to abolish jury trial in certain cases. Our position has not changed. "The government really must take on board the importance of this serious and widespread opposition. Peers across the house will make every effort to defeat this proposal. "The government have not convinced the legal bodies or the public of the merit of their proposals. "Countries around the world do look to our system of justice. It is a gold standard. "The abolition of the right to trial by jury would be a tragedy for them as well as for us. What sort of message would it send?" But the home secretary, David Blunkett, denounced the amendment as a "cynical deal" between Tories and Liberal Democrats. It would threaten measures designed to protect jury members from fear and to save the police the millions of pounds and thousands of hours they currently spend protecting jurors and their families from intimidation, he said. The cost to the Metropolitan police alone was £3.2m last year - the equivalent of 75 extra police officers - he said. Mr Blunkett said: "I am totally committed to jury trial being the norm, but the idea that 12 decent men and women should, along with their families, be forced to live in terror in order to satisfy the maintenance of a failed system is a travesty of democracy and justice." Hearing complex fraud cases without a jury would make the conviction of white-collar criminals more likely and would relieve jurors of the "excessive and unreasonable burden" of trials lasting 12 months or more, he said. "We are not saying juries don't understand serious fraud cases, as is claimed."Long, complex fraud and other financial trials can last for months and place an excessive and unreasonable burden on the jury." Mr Blunkett said: "The Tories and Lib Dems have cynically and deliberately tried to obscure the real reasons behind our reforms - to put victims first and ensure that all trials deliver a just and effective outcome. "Jury trial will continue to be the norm for the vast majority of serious cases where the defendant requests it. The criminal justice bill respects and safeguards this central principle." Leading defence lawyer Monty Raphael said there was no reason why juries could not follow complex fraud cases. "My experience going back many decades is that juries pay enormous attention to these serious cases," he said. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, said: "Some of these cases go on for a year and beyond. They are incredibly complex. Sir John said the right to trial by jury needs to be curtailed to combat the problem of jury intimidation. He suggested around 100 cases a year should be tried without a jury, where a judge is presented with clear evidence of intimidation.The prime minister's official spokesman said: "The government remains absolutely committed to this bill. "Of course, as always, we will listen to any constructive suggestions but there will certainly be no concessions on the point of principle and we see this bill very much as a coherent and balanced whole. "It's the government's belief that these are sensible and limited measures that, far from undermining a fundamental principle of the legal system, will protect its integrity and improve public confidence." The spokesman threatened that the government might scrap the whole bill - which provides, for example, for tougher sentences for murder and increased sentences for other violent crimes - if the Lords refused to back down over jury trial. The spokesman added: "We believe this bill stands as an integral whole and we are determined to see it on the statute book."