Young men are shunning work and turning to a life of crime as Britain develops a "get rich or die trying" culture, the country's most senior black MP warns today. David Lammy, the skills minister, says young men are encouraged by a "bling culture" to pursue crime as a short cut to wealth in the face of a rapidly changing economy which no longer places a premium on manual jobs.In an article in this week's New Statesman, Lammy writes: "Young men from poor backgrounds feel they have least to lose. Why, one boy asked me, was I worried about his grades at school, when he might not live long enough to get a job? This is the world of 'get rich or die trying'."Lammy, the MP for Tottenham, says young men run into trouble because the role of men is changing in society.He writes: "Some of the old images and expressions of masculinity are disappearing from society. Most obviously the relationship between men and their work has undergone a revolution. A model of work built on physical endeavour is slowly being replaced by an emphasis on intellectual and emotional labour. Women are beginning to break through the glass ceiling, displacing men as the principal earners for the first time."The decline in demand for manual labour, coupled with the "fetishisation of money", has made crime attractive. "In a 'bling' culture, criminality easily becomes a short cut to symbols of wealth and power that will otherwise take years of hard work to achieve."Lammy says changes in society apply to all races. He agrees with the comments by David Cameron in a recent Guardian interview that absent black fathers need to take greater responsibility, after figures showed that 59% of black Caribbean children were looked after by a lone parent.But he adds: "I winced as another round of banner headlines tarred every father in the black community with the same brush ... The questions that need to be answered for children of all races and social backgrounds are: what can we do when there is no father in a young man's life?"Lammy, who grew up without a father, writes that it is not just black children who are losing out. "While there may be young men on estates missing fathers who left them, there are also children in Middle Britain whose parents become strangers in a culture of long working hours."