It's all very well Jack Straw promising to rush through legislation to give reluctant, frightened witnesses anonymity as a carrot for giving evidence against alleged serious criminals, but it is far from certain that he can keep his promise. He made his comments after Wednesday's House of Lords ruling allowing a convicted killer's appeal, because the evidence against him had been given by three witnesses whose identities were not revealed to him and who spoke from behind a screen, their voices digitally disguised.Straw did not give any details of what the new law would say because he knows how difficult it will be to find a formula that will meet the valid interests on both sides of the argument. Saying that such a law was urgently needed, and that creating it had become his major preoccupation, doesn't mean that he is on the verge of finding a solution. The problem is that two principles, each of them important, each morally and intellectually sound, cannot coexist. It is, as Straw accepted, a fundamental right of an accused in a criminal trial to know the case against him, so that he can properly defend himself. That right is clearly under threat if he doesn't know who is giving the crucial evidence against him - evidence that will persuade a jury to a verdict of guilty. There is equal force in the proposition that violent criminals should not escape justice, to protect the public's safety as well as ensure the integrity of our criminal justice system. It takes brave people to put their lives, and those of their families, at risk for the sake of justice, and their insistence on full anonymity if they do agree to give evidence in court is understandable. So is the prosecution authorities' acceptance of such deals if there is no other way to try to ensure a killer's conviction. The police must be taken seriously when they warn that prohibiting the practice of allowing terrified people to give evidence under the cloak of anonymity will result in a large number of killers, gangsters and other violent criminals remaining free to continue their activities. Yet I cannot see how the law can be strengthened to allow full anonymity of witnesses without adversely affecting the accused's right to a fair trial, which would almost certainly trigger an application citing article 6 of the European convention on human rights, the right to a fair trial. If the accused does not know who is giving the evidence, their barrister cannot mount an effective cross-examination. He or she will not be able to put questions about the witness's criminal record, character, or any extraneous motives he or she might have in fingering the accused. Those are often the kinds of cross-examination that land up negating the credibility of a prosecution witness. Denying an accused such an important path to discrediting the case against him is fatal to the concept of a fair trial and would undoubtedly result in the conviction of innocent men. I do not have an easy answer to Straw's dilemma. But then, I suspect, neither does he.