The first person to face a second murder trial following the removal of the double jeopardy rule was today convicted of battering a woman to death in 1995.Mark Weston, 35, from the Oxfordshire village of Ascott-under-Wychwood, was acquitted of the murder of 30-year-old Vikki Thompson, a married mother of two children, in 1996, but a new trial was held after forensic scientists discovered specks of her blood on Weston's boots when the case was reopened.  Vikki Thompson was attacked while walking the family dog, Daisy. Photograph: Thames Valley police/PAThe law was changed in 2005 to allow for retrials for serious offences in the light of new evidence.Sentencing Weston to a minimum of 13 years following the trial at Reading crown court, Mr Justice David Bean told him: "It has taken 15 years for justice to catch up with you, but it has done so at last today." Thompson was found near a railway line with head injuries inflicted by heavy objects and died six days later. She had been walking the family dog Daisy near the village and the alarm was raised when the dog returned home alone.Weston, described as an odd-job man around the village and a loner, was arrested soon after the murder and tried the following year but acquitted after the jury deliberated for 50 minutes. Later the jury foreman wrote to him urging him to sue the police for wrongful arrest. The foreman told him: "I hope you are all getting on well now and hope you go ahead and get big compensation from the police as they had no evidence of any sort whatsoever."The judge at the original trial did not permit the jury to know about a plastic bag containing two bras stained with Weston's semen, found near the railway embankment where Thompson's body was discovered. Police believe she chanced upon Weston masturbating and he attacked her before hauling her body to the embankment in the hope that it would be thought she had been hit by a train.After reopening the case and re-examining Weston's boots, which had been retained following the original trial, forensic scientists discovered two specks of Thompson's blood, which had been deposited on the footwear when wet but had been previously overlooked.Peter Beirne, a retired detective brought in to investigate the crime, said: "This is the first time using double jeopardy legislation that new forensic evidence has been used to secure a conviction, so it is very significant."Following the original trial Weston, who lived with his parents in the village, was twice convicted of harassing other women, including the daughter of a police officer.Judge Bean told him: "It seems that the reason why you attacked her was that she observed you masturbating. You attacked her in the lane, dragged her across a field and finished her off in a railway embankment."Jonathan Thompson, the victim's husband, said after the hearing: "Vikki's family have been through agony and have been exceptionally patient waiting for this to happen, having to live with the fact that whoever did this to Vikki was not in jail."During that period Mark Weston has been free to live his life. There was no justice in that. He deserves to be punished for what he did and now he will be. Vikki was the perfect wife and mother and should have been able to see Matthew and Jenny turn into the fine young adults they are today. At least now they know that truth and justice have finally been seen."