The pavement 20 metres either side of the bus stop in Surrey Quays in south London is a mosaic of black and grey circles where lumps of discarded chewing gum have hardened to form a pattern. It is broken at frequent intervals by long, thin blobs, where a passing shoe has picked up a fresh deposit and stretched it before scraping it back down again.But the spittle-laden encrustations under foot are better than the ones that you get on the bus, according to Gina Lennard, out shopping with her son's girlfriend, Vicky Toplis. "The kids stick their gum on the bus seats, and you sit down and pull yourself up to find your clothes are covered in it. It's disgusting." Ms Toplis, chewing her gum as we speak, thinks it's all a question of attitudes: "You can easily wrap your gum up and put it in the bin." In fact the bin just behind the bus stop is overflowing, and people are steadily adding to the pile of bottles, cans, fast food boxes, and trail of chips and chicken bones gradually spreading out from its base. Out on the streets, people confirm that the apparently trivial issues of dog dirt, chewing gum, litter and fly-tipping are, as focus groups have already told the Labour party, a top priority. The government may be backtracking on some of its proposals to give greater powers to council staff on the street to impose spot fines for anti-social behaviour, but vot ers think that anything that overcomes the perception that no one cares is worth a try. Alan Clark, who has lived for 14 years in a block of flats on the main road, suffers from people throwing their rubbish into his porch: "It's down to education. And emptying the bins would help." When Gina Lennard gets home she too will have to contemplate piles of rubbish and dog dirt outside her block of flats on the Pepys estate. "People just come and dump it, and now we've got rats and cockroaches. It's got much worse in the last three years." On-the-spot fines for dumping rubbish are worth a go, she says, assuming the council could actually catch people. Allun Clement works in an education project off Canada Street and is worried about the impact of fly-tipping on efforts to regenerate the area. He points to a new but empty warehouse whose car park is already a mountain of illegally tipped builders' earth and broken concrete. Plastic bags are blowing down towards the smart new housing estate and school along the road. A couple of children are playing next to a dumper truck full of spoil from a construction site. The area is on the up and now has good transport but new businesses are put off when they see the rubbish, he says. "We keep getting people appearing overnight and emptying their lorries of rubble. We ring the council and they say it's not their problem." The reaction from councils to the proposals is mixed. Simon Baxter, Southwark's enforcement manager responsible for keeping the streets of Surrey Quays clean, is convinced fixed penalties can have a real impact. Some powers are already available to councils and since June his department has issued 256 fixed penalty notices for offences ranging from discarding a cigarette butt or throwing litter out of a car to more serious dumping of rubbish: "Between 80% and 90% pay up within 14 days." The council has a team of enforcement officers and wardens who work with police to target areas and aim to change people's attitudes. Mr Baxter argues that such fines have worked in pilot areas such as Camberwell, and will work elsewhere. In Barnsley they also have confidence in the "zero tolerance" approach pioneered in New York. Tony Reeves, executive director of housing and property for the council, believes that the new proposals will help take the bureaucracy out of low-level enforcement and enable council officers to use fines as a real deterrent. "In the middle of Manchester they have cleaned up litter by taking a tough stance and handing out fines. The purpose is to change attitudes and behaviour, not just to punish," he says. But Tim Riley, manager of community enforcement in Enfield, north London, thinks the idea of binmen giving fixed penalties and council bans on the sale of chewing gum near schools is "ludicrous. What are we going to have? Prohibition of chewing, a black market in gum?" In his experience penalties for dog fouling or littering, although they already exist, are almost impossible to enforce. He would however welcome any extension of local authority powers to deal with fly-tipping. At the moment the powers to deal with it by demanding businesses and lorries show officially required "waste transfer notes", and to seize vehicles, are vested in the environment agency, even though council officers are more likely to witness offences. The on-the-spot fines outlined by the government in its Living Places consultation document have been the main focus of attention, but the new proposals would also significantly extend local authorities' powers in other areas. Councils could for the first time be given powers to take action on private land where owners refuse to clear up rubbish. Local authorities could also have an enforcement role over utilities and railways. The Local Government As sociation's director of central services, John Rees, believes that by allowing councils to keep the money collected from fines - at the moment it goes to the Treasury - clean-up schemes could become self-financing and provide local authorities with a strong incentive to tackle problems. He is in no doubt that the state of the streets is a key electoral concern. "Our councillors say it is the issue. When they are out canvassing people keep asking them why they don't sort this sort of stuff out."