An official investigation into why the new Criminal Records Bureau nearly collapsed at its launch has revealed that the government never properly looked into how the scheme would operate.A damning report from the National Audit Office reveals that the Home Office took the cheapest quote for the service and assumed, without evidence, that almost everyone applying for access to criminal records - to, for instance, vet people seeking professional jobs with children and vulnerable adults - would do so by phone or online. When nearly everybody applied by post, the service, which had not been designed to cope with such a load, collapsed leaving tens of thousands of people unable to start work because they had not gone through the vetting procedure. Today, the service is still not running at full capacity, and taxpayers will have to bail it out with £68m before, financially, it breaks even next year. Edward Leigh, Tory chairman of the Commons public accounts committee, said yesterday: "The grim familiarity of this story, of the failings of a high-profile government IT project, should not diminish our anger that the Criminal Records Bureau service was appallingly planned and, in consequence, badly implemented. Wishful thinking seemed to lie behind the key assumption, unsupported by any solid market research, that up to 85% of applications for access to criminal records would be made by telephone or online. "The real world did not oblige, with over 80% of applications arriving in paper form, and some half of those riddled with error. Data input systems could not cope, causing huge backlogs of checks on criminal records." The audit office found that the Home Office had an early warning that the project could go wrong. Officials received three bids to run the service - from Capita, E-cres and PricewaterhouseCoopers, under a public private partnership scheme. The Capita bid was by far the cheapest, which should have alerted officials. In addition, E-cres warned the government that it did not believe it was technologically feasible to launch the service within the 12-month deadline; and PricewaterhouseCoopers thought only half the number that Capita predicted would opt for online and telephone applications. The Home Office ignored the warnings and went ahead with the scheme, with the aim of introducing it a year later, in 2001. But it was unable to meet this deadline and had to delay the start until March 2002. The scheme was launched without any market research - and the system was brought to a halt by the time teachers were being recruited for work in schools the following September. Because of this, the scope of the vetting procedures had to be curtailed, and extensions to the service were postponed. Checks on social and healthcare workers, which were due to start at the end of last March, were postponed until October. In addition, new checks against the Department of Health's list of unsuitable people working with vulnerable, elderly people in care homes, have been postponed until June. There are also stumbling blocks in retrieving information on people, including data from Customs and Excise, and the British Transport police. Under a revised deal most people are now being vetted on time, but charges for the service have had to rise from £12 and free vetting for volunteers, to £28 for a standard disclosure and £33 for an advanced disclosure. The Home Office minister Hazel Blears yesterday welcomed the report, and said: "We have always acknowledged that the CRB's initial performance was unacceptable. As the NAO have said, as soon as the initial operating difficulties were identified, the board and Capita initiated a service improvement plan, recruiting extra staff to increase performance and capacity. "We commissioned an independent review of the board's operations. The situation ... has been transformed. Since June 2003, the board has issued 93% of standard and enhanced disclosures within two and four weeks respectively. It now processes over 50,000 disclosure applications a week - over twice as many as under the previous system. "The backlog of applications outstanding for over six weeks has been eliminated and the disclosure service has been extended to existing staff working in care homes and domiciliary agencies."