  Christian Foulkes arrives at Liverpool magistrates court for sentencing for keeping an illegal dog. Photograph: Peter Byrne/PAThe uncle of a four-year-old boy who was mauled to death by his illegal pit bull terrier was jailed for four months today after admitting he owned and bred a dog classed as banned and dangerous.During a hearing before Liverpool magistrates in May, Christian Foulkes, 22, a soldier, pleaded guilty to three charges following the death of his nephew, John-Paul Massey, last November.The boy suffered multiple injuries after the two-year-old dog, Uno, savaged him while he stayed in Liverpool with his grandmother, Helen Foulkes.A district judge had warned Christian Foulkes, of Wavertree, Liverpool, that the convictions under the Dangerous Dogs Act were "extremely serious" and it was likely he could face jail. Foulkes had previously pleaded guilty to two counts of possession of a dangerous dog and one of breeding a dangerous dog.It also emerged that the boy's 63-year-old grandmother has been charged with keeping a dangerous dog, and is to appear before magistrates in Liverpool on 10 June.The court heard that 10 months before John-Paul's death, Merseyside police had received a complaint from a housing officer about dog breeding at the Foulkes's home. But the force's call centre operator wrongly told the caller it was not a police matter and the complaint was never followed up. The matter remains under investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.Foulkes was initially arrested on suspicion of manslaughter, but the charge was dropped following advice from the Crown Prosecution Service.Mark Ellis, defending, said Foulkes wanted to thank the police and the CPS for their sensitive handling of the case. His client was "distraught", he said.Foulkes also admitted owning a pitbull bitch, named Lita, which was being looked after by John-Paul's father. The prosecution said the animals had been separated because the family felt Foulkes' mother was unable to look after both of them while her son was away with the army.Lita was knocked down and killed by a car shortly after John-Paul's death. A post-mortem examination found that she was pregnant with 11 pupsThe prosecution said Foulkes had maintained the dogs were kept as family pets and not bred for fighting or commercial gain. A third dog, Lucky, had also been kept by Foulkes but was killed by the other two, the court heard.Merseyside police have destroyed hundreds of illegal breed dogs since the death of five-year-old Ellie Lawrenson on New Year's day 2007. Her uncle, Kiel Simpson, pleaded guilty to owning a dog banned under the Dangerous Dogs Act and was jailed for eight weeks by Liverpool magistrates three years ago.