Charles Clarke was under intense pressure to resign last night after he admitted that five foreign prisoners released by the Home Office have committed further serious offences, including possession of class A drugs, violent disorder, grievous bodily harm and actual bodily harm.A frantic police trawl concentrating on the 79 wrongly freed prisoners guilty of the most serious offences has also unearthed that two of the released men are now the subject of serious allegations, in one case for serious sexual assault and in another for rape.One of the five already found guilty of reoffending was also tried for rape, but the case was unproven with the offence left on the individual's file pending further investigation.At the end of a torrid week for the government, the home secretary insisted he would brazen out the renewed calls for him to stand aside for failing in his primary duty to protect the public.In an attempt to show he had got a belated grip on his department, Mr Clarke revealed that deportation cases are to start in 63 of the 79 cases. But so far only six of the prisoners have actually been arrested pending deportation.A search has has not even started on the nearly 1,000 foreign prisoners released by the Home Office since 1999 without considering the case for deportation. The government has no idea if they have reoffended or what offences they may have committed. Mr Clarke was unable to disclose the precise whereabouts of any of the 79 serious offenders although he said all had been on the police national computer, including their most recent addresses. Urgent searches are now under way to locate the remaining serious offenders.The home secretary said the offences committed by those who had reoffended were not murder or rape and that "they were not at the top of the danger tree". He added: "It is a bad state of affairs and very regrettable" but insisted he was the man to oversee the Home Office in the process of dramatic change."The truth is that real and profound change does take time and often reveals matters that have been hidden or lay dormant in an organisation. The genuine shortcomings which have been revealed in dealing with foreign prisoners will be repaired and we will learn the lesson to make whatever further changes are necessary."But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, said that Mr Clarke had to quit, a view backed by two opinion polls published last night. Mr Davis said: "This reinforces the need for Mr Clarke to go - the very fact that he knew of this major failure is cause enough. What this has done is exactly a reversal of what the Home Office's job is: to protect the safety of the public. What has happened as a result of this massive failure is to make the risk to the public greater."Labour backbenchers have already warned that Mr Clarke's political career is in a precarious state and the calls for him to stand aside may intensify as Labour battles to stave off sweeping defeats in the local elections next week.Almost two in three voters think Mr Clarke should be sacked over the fiasco, according to a Populus poll which found that 63% thought Tony Blair should fire his home secretary. Mr Clarke received the backing of 32%, even though most sympathised with his plight: 65% said home secretary was a very difficult job that was impossible to get right.The latest developments came at the end of a difficult week for the government, with the health secretary, Patricia Hewitt, heckled by nurses and the deputy prime minister, John Prescott, subject to ridicule after he was revealed to have had a two-year affair with a civil servant. Mr Prescott is said to be in a state of despair and even close to quitting as it emerged that his former lover has hired the services of Max Clifford. Bidding for her story has started at around £100,000. Mr Prescott spent another day with his family in Hull seeking to save his marriage. Ministers at Westminster said he was unlikely to stay on as deputy prime minister.Minister's statementExcerpts from Mr Clarke's letter to Commons Speaker Michael Martin: "So far, six of these [1,023] offenders have been detained pending deportation or removal and further arrests are expected later today and over the weekend. I want to report that a thorough search has been made of police, prison and probation records ..."This search has to date revealed five cases where an individual has been convicted since their release from prison of offences relating to drugs, violent disorder, grievous and actual bodily harm. The search has revealed no cases where individuals have been convicted of other serious offences."