 When John and Anne Darwin stood side by side in the dock of court 11 yesterday afternoon, it was the first time they had seen each other in four months.The couple who together had choreographed a remarkable deception did not make eye contact, and a security guard sandwiched himself between them as they were sentenced to more than six years in prison each. Anne Darwin, white-haired and bespectacled, wept briefly. Her husband kept his head bowed and fidgeted. For five-and-a-half years, Anne Darwin had played the role of a grieving widow, whose husband had been involved in a fatal canoeing accident. They had managed to convince insurance companies, who had paid out £250,000, and even their sons, that he had died at sea.The judge, Mr Justice Wilkie, said the couple had stubbornly lied instead of facing the consequences of their financial folly. He described the case as "virtually unique on the facts but not the sums involved" and rejected their claim that John Darwin had returned to the UK from Panama in December in order to pay back the money owed to the insurance companies. Instead, they "both emigrated to a country which you no doubt thought would put you beyond the law and to that end organised and salted away your ill-gotten gains, and you would have in all likelihood got away with it had you, John Darwin, not returned to the UK and handed yourself in and tried to brazen it out with a further false story".Addressing John Darwin, who had previously pleaded guilty to seven charges of deception, the judge said he accepted "the true reason for your return must have been you belatedly realised you had lost something irreplaceable in betraying your sons ... and you sought to reconcile yourself to them".In mitigation, John Darwin's barrister, Peter Makepeace, said that until his disappearance he had been a good father who had spent time with his sons, Mark and Anthony, and who was devoted to his family and was hard-working."For 51 years of his life, he was in all aspects, a law-abiding decent man," Makepeace added.David Waters, for Anne Darwin, said she had returned voluntarily to the UK when her husband was arrested. This had saved the authorities considerable expense and delay. A compensation hearing will be held to decide how the couple will pay back the £250,000.To the outside world, John and Anne Darwin epitomised respectability and normality - a couple who had been happily married for 30 years and raised two children.He drove a green Range Rover with a personalised number plate, worked hard as a prison officer and they had a portfolio of buy-to-let properties, including bedsits next to their sprawling seafront home in Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool.She was a doctor's receptionist and a regular churchgoer who sang in the choir. Although they didn't have many friends, John enjoyed making money through unusual pursuits such as breeding snails and making garden gnomes.However, all was not what it seemed. The couple were overwhelmed with debt and facing bankruptcy due to a hike in payments on a £245,000 mortgage; they had also been turned down for a £20,000 bank loan.That news came six days before John Darwin, 57, faked his own death in March 2002, paddling out into the North Sea in a homemade canoe.Anne Darwin, 56, called the police to report him missing, sparking an air and sea rescue, despite having already agreed to pick him up from a car park further up the beach, before driving him to Durham train station so he could live rough for a while.When their eldest son Mark, 32, arrived home after his father's disappearance, Anne Darwin flung her arms around him and wouldn't stop crying. "He's gone. I think I have lost him," she told her son.Both brothers gave evidence for the prosecution and spoke of their sense of betrayal - neither looked over at their mother from the witness box. Anthony, 29, had to cut short a trip to Canada and the Niagara Falls in which he was planning to propose to his girlfriend.Unbeknown to the boys, John Darwin was secretly phoning his wife and begging her to pick him up so he could return home. He urged her to get rid of visiting family members, including their son Anthony.After three weeks, Anne drove to Whitehaven, Cumbria, to fetch her husband. At first, she didn't recognise him because he had grown a straggly beard, acquired a limp and a walking stick and was wearing charity shop clothes. The disguise was good enough for him to feel confident of returning to Seaton Carew and live in a bedsit next door to the marital home.He was able to secretly come and go through a hidden door leading directly to his wife's bedroom and in the back of a strategically placed wardrobe. The missing canoeist was an avid reader and he went to join the local library in disguise under the false name of John Jones. The sons attended an inquest at Hartlepool in April 2003, at which the coroner recorded an open verdict, allowing a death certificate to be issued stating that John Darwin had "probably encountered difficulties [during his canoeing trip] as a result of which he died".Anne Darwin received £160,000 in insurance policies and £60,000 from the Prison Service as death in service benefit, plus an £8,000 widow's pension.The deceptions continued. In October 2003, John Darwin acquired a fake passport in the name of John Jones, the name of a baby who had died in infancy. The acquisition of the passport echoed the plot of Frederick Forsyth's Day of the Jackal.Cleveland police did investigate a sighting of John Darwin three years ago, but his wife had claimed it was his cousin. Two prison officers also saw him but one was told to "forget it" by police. She managed to keep up the pretence with dramatic and imaginative relish and lied without compunction. On the first anniversary of his disappearance, she threw roses into the sea and kept a red flower from the bunch next to her bed.Under the assumed identity John Jones, Darwin continued to run the couple's finances and travelled around the world planning a new life for the couple. In October last year Mrs Darwin settled her affairs in the UK, having sold off the family's property portfolio. Cash was transferred via the Channel Islands, and the houses which the couple had been in danger of losing as bankruptcy loomed in 2002, were turned into assets worth £500,000. They bought a flat and land in the Panama countryside which they hoped to transform into a canoeing centre focusing on eco-tourism. Anne Darwin emigrated to Panama, where she joined her husband. But, it seems, he could not keep up the pretence any longer, perhaps because he was desperate to be reconciled with his sons. The lies began to unravel last December when her husband flew back to the UK and walked into a London police station, telling officers: "I think I am a missing person." He claimed to have been suffering from amnesia. Within three days, he was arrested and being questioned about the fraud.Anne Darwin was tracked down by journalists to Panama. She initially protested her innocence, but the facade slipped when a photograph emerged of her and her husband smiling happily at their estate agent's office in Panama. It was date-stamped July 2006. She was forced to admit she knew her husband was alive and said her sons would hate her and would never forgive her. During their time apart, she had communicated with her husband by email and Skype. In an email to friends copied to her husband, she spoke of land in Escobal she had purchased and hoped to turn into a nature reserve for ecological tourism. The $1m (£500,000) market price was an absolute bargain.In court, where she faced charges of fraud and money laundering, she refused to shed light on why he returned, other than to see their sons "and pay back the money". In an unusual defence, she claimed to be the victim of marital coercion, that her will had been overborne by that of her husband. But the jury agreed with the prosecution that she was no shrinking violet.At a previous hearing, Anne Darwin had pulled her hand away as her husband tried to squeeze it. He didn't attempt any physical contact yesterday. She pointedly didn't wear her wedding ring throughout the trial and claimed she no longer loved John Darwin.Their sons left court without speaking to reporters, but their sense of betrayal at their parents' deception, allowing them to think their father was dead for almost six years, was spelled out by Detective Inspector Andy Greenwood, outside court. "They are devastated. If they get over it, it will take some time and some assistance. I just hope that they can go away from the court building today and move on with their lives. They have dealt with it, under the circumstances, extremely well." When he started his investigation, he feared the sons must have known about their parents' plan, he said. "But the more we investigated it, the more we realised they did not know, they had gone through a particularly horrendous sequence of events. "For her to say 'I had to go along with it because John told me', I just don't know how any mother could do that ... she was out and out despicable and I don't have the time of day for her."