A man found guilty of killing by gross negligence a P&O Ferries chef during a sex game has been jailed for five years.Alun Williams, 47, died following a heart attack after allegedly asking to be hooded and swathed from head to toe in clingfilm and PVC sheeting bound with tape.Richard Bowler, 35, was convicted of Williams’ manslaughter by gross negligence, while his co-defendant, David Connor, 23, was cleared of the same charge.Sentencing Bowler at Canterbury crown court, the judge Adele Williams told him: “You lost sight of the fact that day that Alun Williams was a human being and thought of him as your ‘sex buddy’, as you put it.”She said the delay in Bowler getting help for Williams was “reprehensible”, and his failure to monitor or check on him led to his death. The judge said Bowler was responsible for an act of gross negligence by leaving Williams in what was described as a “giant plastic bag”.The trial heard that on 19 August last year the victim turned up at the flat where Bowler and Connor lived in East Street in Dover, Kent, after he exchanged text messages with Bowler.Jurors were told that Williams would often meet men online for sex and had an interest in mummification and bondage. The trial heard that Bowler has cerebral palsy, and Connor was his informal carer.Connor told the police that he left the flat after Bowler told him he had a man coming round for a sex session, the jury heard. He said he returned at 1am and Bowler told him that Williams had wanted to be wrapped in clingfilm.Just before 6am, Bowler dialled the emergency services, telling them Williams had stopped breathing after they had indulged in a “kinky sex game”. Bowler is said to have cut open the clingfilm and plastic sheeting before performing CPR.Bowler told the operator: “It’s a bit embarrassing. It’s my friend, he’s called Alun. I have known him for five years. I’m gay, he’s gay.”Connor could be heard in the background as Bowler added: “We had a bit of a kinky sex game and he’s stopped breathing.”Bowler also told the operator: “I thought he was just sleeping. I am sorry, I should have called before. He takes ketamine and that mongs him out.”He went on: “He’s on my bed, he’s wrapped in a PVC sheet with tape and that. He’s got clingfilm wrapped around his body and I have got a text message on my phone stating that’s what he likes.”Williams was found wrapped tightly from head to toe in clingfilm and plastic sheeting, with just enough space left around his nose and mouth so he could breathe.The court heard that sexual acts had taken place between the three men. A postmortem examination found Williams died following body wrapping while under the influence of drugs.Shortly after 6am, Connor walked to the taxi rank where his mother worked and said “Mum, Richard’s killed someone”, the court was told.Ian Hope, prosecuting, said police found substances including ketamine, cocaine, methamphetamine and amyl nitrate, also known as poppers, in Williams’ rucksack. They also found a gas mask and ties in his bag. Sex toys, masking tape, duct tape, black plastic sheeting and clingfilm were also found in the flat, the jury heard.Bowler and Connor, now both of Canterbury, denied a charge of manslaughter by gross negligence. Following around four hours of deliberation, the jury convicted Bowler and cleared Connor.Bowler’s defence was that he took all reasonable care for Williams. In mitigation, Bowler’s defence counsel John O’Higgins said: “This was consensual sexual activity. Everything that Mr Bowler did was consented to and indeed encouraged by Mr Williams. There was ample evidence that Mr Williams was an enthusiastic participant in these actions and they were at the lesser extreme end of the spectrum.”O’Higgins said there was no evidence that Williams had expected Bowler to watch over him as he was wrapped up. And in further mitigation, he highlighted Bowler’s disability and vulnerability. He said he also suffered from a “complex personality function”, and had suicidal thoughts.Connor claimed that he only acted on the instructions of Williams and Bowler and could not have foreseen his death.DI Richard Vickery, from the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate, said: “This is a tragic death of a man well-liked by his colleagues and friends. Bowler had a responsibility to look after the welfare of Mr Williams when he entered their home and spent the evening with him. Due to the nature in which he was restrained, he should never have left him alone for extended periods of time – but he did.“I’m pleased the courts have recognised this responsibility and found him guilty of manslaughter. I hope this verdict and sentence goes some way to providing those who were close to Mr Williams some closure after what has been a very difficult time.”