The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday promised to create the largest ever police force in England and Wales with at least 130,000 officers in post by the time of the next general election.Mr Blunkett's pledge to fund record police numbers was made immediately after he warned that he intended to make "rapid progress" on his overhaul of police working practices, including tackling unacceptable sickness absentee and medical early retirement rates. A "day in the life" study is also to be commissioned to establish how frontline officers are tied up in routine paperwork and bureaucracy. In his first major Commons speech as home secretary, Mr Blunkett set out several other benchmarks by which he wanted his performance to be assessed. He said he would not be judged on whether he reduced the prison population, although the current number of 66,000 was "not a record to emulate, but to overcome". Instead he would concentrate on reducing the reoffending rate - the likelihood of former inmates committing new crimes. Mr Blunkett also announced that he intended to increase the pace of deportations and removals of failed asylum seekers, hitting a target of 2,500 a month by early next year. The change will mean that the target date for the previous goal of ensuring that 30,000 failed asylum seekers and others refused immigration status are removed each year will be brought forward from April 2004 to December 2003. The pledge to create the largest ever police force in England and Wales by the time of the next election extends Labour's previous pledge of funding an extra 9,000 police recruits. It recognises that it is as difficult to persuade officers to stay in the job as it is to find recruits. Figures to be published today are expected to show that police numbers have started to rise again as a result of the recruiting campaign. Mr Blunkett told the Commons that there were now 125,537 police officers or their full-time equivalents. The second half of the three year recruitment campaign should ensure numbers rise to 127,158 by this autumn, which would finally bring them up to the level they were when Labour took power in 1997. The ring-fenced three year "crime fighting fund" is designed to ensure that Labour's manifesto pledge of ensuring that record numbers - 128,280 - are in place is met by next year. Mr Blunkett said yesterday he now hoped to do better than that and wanted the Treasury to extend the crime fighting fund so that there would be more than 130,000 police officers by the time of the next election. "I will set a new target if we get there," Mr Blunkett promised last night. The announcement means that the home secretary has raised Jack Straw's police recruitment plans by about 1,100 officers - a target which ministers believe can be met within three years without extra Treasury funds. But it was clear last night that the police will get the extra officers only if there is rapid progress on working practices. Mr Blunkett said it was unacceptable that sickness absence rates varied by 80% between the 43 police forces. Retirements on medical grounds also varied sharply, from 5% to 58%. "All this leads us to believe that change is necessary," Mr Blunkett said.