Parliament returns for a new two-week pre-party conference session today with Conservative and Liberal Democrat MPs eager to push through a new statutory ban on naming defendants in rape and other serious sexual cases before they are charged. They will be seeking to amend the sexual offences bill now in its committee stage. The demands for fresh statutory action - anonymity was granted to rape suspects between 1976 and 1988 as a quid pro quo for protecting victims - follows the acquittal of John Leslie, the television presenter, on two charges of indecently assaulting a 23-year-old actress in a trial that ended in July. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, on the day of the acquittal, noted there was "a fine balance" on the question of whether rape suspects should be exposed to publicity, but rightly noted that this was an issue better determined by parliament than a judge. Home Office ministers, as our home affairs editor reports today, are hoping to tighten up existing guidelines, rather than make sexual offenders a special case. Talks have already been held between Home Office officials and the Association of Chief Police Officers over making the leaking of names of suspects of sex crimes to the media a police disciplinary offence. Ministers are right to give the police - and the media - one last chance. Trial by the media contradicts the very purpose of the criminal justice system, which was set up to replace mob rule and lynch law. Police leaks to the tabloids by their very nature, only give the police side, not the defendant's. UK contempt laws, which once restrained the reporting of such cases before trial, have been eroded to the point of creating a free-for-all between competing tabloid papers. Yet there are serious reasons for not giving sex offenders anonymity. No other defendants are given such treatment. The protection given earlier to rape defendants was withdrawn partly on the grounds that an open justice system encourages more victims to come forward. The problem with the current system is not that too many rape suspects are convicted, but too few.