Three youths convicted of kicking and beating Garry Newlove to death outside his own home after a seven-hour drinking binge were today all jailed for life.Adam Swellings was jailed for life with a minimum sentence of 17 years. Stephen Sorton was handed a 15-year minimum sentence, and Jordan Cunliffe will serve at least 12 years.Newlove was "kicked like a football" by the gang whom he had challenged after they vandalised vehicles outside his house in Warrington, Cheshire.Swellings, 19, Sorton, 17, and Cunliffe, 16, were convicted last month at Chester crown court of murdering the father of three in front of his family. Jailing the teenagers, Judge Andrew Smith said: "You were three of a gang who attacked Garry Newlove only because he had the courage to remonstrate with you."For you all, drunken aggression was part of the night's entertainment. It was a gang attack, each of you continued to behave aggressively after you had finished with Garry Newlove."Smith said the father of three did not provoke the gang in any way after he went out barefoot to confront the teenagers, who were vandalising his wife's car and a neighbour's digger. "They were the actions of a courageous and devoted family man, who paid with his life," said the judge. "You three were only so brave because you outnumbered him many times over."The judge added he had to consider the effect on Newlove's daughters of watching their father murdered in front of them when sentencing the gang. The youths knocked the 47-year-old sales manager to the ground and punched and kicked him causing fatal injuries. Newlove's eldest daughter, Zoe, 18, said they kicked his head "like a football". Such was the force of the kicks that there was an imprint of a trainer on his head and a trainer lodged under his body.His daughter Amy, who had been reading in her bedroom, had first called her father called him after looking out of her window and seeing a youth kicking her mother's car.After the assault the youths just walked off, leaving Newlove's wife, Helen, and his three daughters to try to help him. He died in hospital two days later, having never regained consciousness.Following the conviction of the three youths last month, it emerged Swellings had been freed on bail that morning, after appearing in court over offences including assault.Helen Newlove has pledged to campaign for the government, parents and police to step up their response to anti-social behaviour so her husband "will not have died in vain". She broke down in tears when the judge sentenced Swellings.During the trial, the jury heard Swellings was the ringleader of the gang and had drunk four litres of cider and smoked five cannabis joints. He threw the first punch, having approached the barefoot sales manager from behind. Egged on by the other gang members, who shouted "Get him" and "Do him, Swellhead", Swellings punched Newlove to the ground.Sorton, who had consumed nine or 10 bottles of Stella Artois and one three-litre bottle of Frosty Jacks cider in the hours before the attack, then kicked Newlove with such ferocity he left his training shoe under the victim's body.Smith today referred to Sorton attacking a boy with learning difficulties hours before killing Newlove. He said: "You indulged your taste for gratuitous bullying and violence that evening and you were one of those who started the violence against Garry Newlove."Cunliffe, who was aged 15 on the night of the attack, also joined in, bragging to other gang members afterwards: "We've just banged a man and he's not moving."