Detectives yesterday officially named a missing Portuguese factory worker as wanted for the murder of his pregnant girlfriend, Hayley Richards.Hugo Quintas, 23, has not been seen since Ms Richards, also 23, was found with her throat cut at her home in Trowbridge, Wiltshire, a week ago today. At a press conference, Detective Superintendent Mike Veale said: "As a result of extensive inquiries conducted by my team, I am this afternoon naming Hugo Quintas as being wanted for the murder of Hayley Richards." Police released the first picture of Mr Quintas, who is known to have boarded a flight to Portugal from Bristol airport on the afternoon of Ms Richards' murder. Police believe he is now in Spain. A European arrest warrant has been issued and Wiltshire police are working with Interpol and the Spanish and Portuguese authorities. Mr Veale said: "His present whereabouts are unknown, but my inquiries are focusing on Portugal and Spain. We are determined to bring Hayley's killer to justice as swiftly as possible." Ms Richards, who was three months pregnant, was last seen alive by her mother last Friday night after leaving a restaurant in Trowbridge where she worked. She was found with multiple stab wounds last Saturday afternoon after failing to turn up for work. She was killed a week after telling police Mr Quintas had assaulted her. The police handling of the case is being investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission after it emerged that he had been spoken to twice by officers but not arrested. The suggestion that Mr Quintas was not arrested because a translator could not be found will also be looked at. Detectives are seeking a black L-registered Rover 200 SLI which they believe could be connected to the killing. Officers and police dogs are continuing to search for the murder weapon, thought to have been discarded in the area. A Portuguese man who shared a house with Mr Quintas appeared at Chippenham magistrates court yesterday charged with perverting the course of justice and making false statements. Joaquim Sergio Da Cunha, 29, a dairy worker, is accused of cleaning a property in Trowbridge and cleaning clothes he believed would help police in their investigation. He was remanded in custody.