Eight British men planned to explode bombs hidden in soft drinks bottles aboard planes heading across the Atlantic from Heathrow causing civilian "carnage" on an "unprecedented scale", a jury was told yesterday.More than 1,500 passengers and crew would have been killed on at least seven flights taking off in the space of three hours from the same airport terminal.Opening the case Peter Wright QC said the plan was for a "series of coordinated and deadly explosions" which, if successful, would have had a "truly global impact"."These men and others were actively involved in a deadly plan designed to bring about what would have been ... a civilian death toll from an act of terror on an almost unprecedented scale," he told the jury. Wright said the suicide mission was to be carried out "in the name of Islam", and as the defendants watched from the dock at the top security Woolwich crown court, he said: "They are men with the cold-eyed certainty of the fanatic."The eight men - seven from London and one from High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire - all deny conspiracy to murder. Prosecutors said the bombs would have evaded detection at Heathrow's Terminal 3 because the components appeared to be innocent. Liquid explosives were to have been hidden in Lucozade and other soft drinks bottles. Disposable cameras would be used to help set off the devices which would also contain regular batteries, hollowed out to contain chemicals.The jury was told the bombs would be constructed on board. Wright said: "Once assembled they would have the capability of being detonated, we say, with devastating consequences."Counter-terrorism officers foiled the alleged plot in August 2006. Of the eight men on trial, the crown says the ringleaders were Abdulla Ahmed Ali, aka Ahmed Ali Khan, 27, of Walthamstow, Assad Sarwar, 27, of High Wycombe, and Mohammed Gulzar, 26, of Barking.Ali and the remaining five defendants were prepared to kill themselves and all who happened to be on the planes, the jury heard.Police and the security services had began investigating the plot months before the men were arrested.The trial continues.The chargesEight men deny two charges linked to the alleged plot. The first charge alleges that the men conspired to murder between January 1 and August 11 2006. The second charge alleges that the men conspired to commit an act of violence likely to endanger the safety of an aircraft between the same dates.