A former BBC Radio Norfolk broadcaster has been jailed for 22 years for a string of child sex offences spanning two decades.Michael Souter, 60, was said to have used his celebrity to abuse seven boys in what detectives described as "one of the worst cases of prolonged child abuse" they had investigated.Souter, who also worked as a Radio Clyde presenter, was found guilty of 26 child sexual abuse offences between 1979 and 1999 at Norwich crown court.Sentencing Souter, the judge Mark Lucraft QC said the ex-broadcaster displayed an "ongoing sexual obsession with boys" and described his attempt to undermine the victims' allegations as "pathetic"."The childhood of many of your victims was destroyed and their lives blighted," he said. "You took hundreds of photographs of boys in shorts and were the only person in this court who could not see these pictures for what they were."Souter was first arrested by police in 1993 but, because of a lack of evidence against him, he continued abusing boys for another six years.During the trial, prosecutor Andrew Shaw told jurors that the presenter used his celebrity status to abuse society's most vulnerable.Originally from Scotland, Souter worked as a producer and presenter in both commercial and BBC radio since the mid-1970s. He previously presented for Radio Clyde. Since 1989 he has worked as a freelance broadcaster and had run a media relations consultancy.Souter's catalogue of abuse began in 1979 when he worked at BBC Radio Norfolk. During the 1980s and 1990s, the abuse escalated as he took up senior positions within the community, including as a Scout leader and social services youth mentor.The court heard that on one occasion Souter had plied a victim, who had a casual job at BBC Norfolk, with alcohol. The boy passed out and woke to find his trousers pulled down and Souter, who had not been drinking, molesting him.Speaking outside court, Detective Inspector Paul Brown, from Norfolk police, said more potential victims of Souter had come forward since he was found guilty on 17 October. Brown said the Jimmy Savile scandal had encouraged victims of child abuse to come forward with allegations."While I wouldn't compare Souter and Savile directly, both used their celebrity to cultivate a certain respectable image and both cases have served to highlight that social attitudes are changing and child abuse will be investigated rigorously by police," he added."We have certainly seen an increase in people coming forward and hopefully convictions like this can continue to give people the confidence to do so."Throughout his trial Souter denied the offences, saying they were concocted. He insisted that police had invented evidence as part of a conspiracy to smear his name – a defence he maintains.But Shaw, prosecuting, described his protestions as a "cynical defence" in the face of overwhelming evidence. One victim said in a statement read to the court: "Souter's insistence that he is innocent and that this is all lies and conspiracy has not allowed full release and closure."Souter's barrister, Andrew Hill, admitted he could offer little by way of mitigation because his client continued to protest his innocence. "His position prior to these matters – the charitable works and many other local good works – will all be forgotten when it comes to sentencing," he said. "A distinguished career in the navy and journalistically now comes to naught."