For some it is the not knowing – and the fear that they will never know.Others say they cannot bear to know. They want to pretend it never happened, never talk about it again.Often, child abuse blights individual lives or extended families. The Vanessa George case has hit an entire, tight-knit community.Almost everyone in Efford and Laira, adjoining neighbourhoods overlooking the river Plym in Plymouth, has a friend or family member who fears their children may have been sexually assaulted by George and her co-accused, Colin Blanchard and Angela Allen.Police say at the height of the inquiry there was concern that 313 children from 270 families might have been abused at Little Ted's nursery. Careful study of the photographs of the victims, the date they were taken and the nursery register have narrowed this down to 30 families and 30 children.None of the children's faces are shown in the images. Detectives used software developed by the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre and brought in a forensic anthropologist to try to identify the children, but without success. They say they will continue to try but believe there is a "very low probability" of ever positively identifying any of the victims.A mother who fears one or both of her young children could have been abused said: "When I found out what had happened I felt sick. I was so angry I wanted to kill her."She said police gave parents a list of children who were most at risk and explained changes in behaviour they might exhibit. "My children meet all those criteria. They have been showing symptoms of abuse. They are withdrawn, showing bad behaviour and wetting themselves," said the mother."I am devastated. I have to make sure she does not affect the rest of my kids' lives."The mother said she considered George a friend. "She was lovely, really friendly and happy to help. She seemed like an angel – someone who was warm and really easy to get on with. She became good friends with a lot of the parents. None of the parents ever suspected she was hiding anything."Some parents feel guilty at having sent their children to the nursery. Another mother said: "I will never forgive myself for sending my child. I wish I had kept her at home where I knew she was safe. I don't know if she'll have trouble trusting people in the future but my faith in people has taken a big blow."It has been the most delicate of police investigations.Together with other agencies, the police set up an "ethics committee" to make sure they did not do further damage to the children. They could, for instance, have taken new images of the suspected victims and tried to match these to the photos George took – but the conclusion of the committee was that this could turn out to simply be a form of state-sponsored child abuse.They have not shown the images to parents, but have had to tell them what some of them showed.Although detectives are focusing on the 30 youngsters believed to have been abused, a police source estimated that about 200 families still fear their children could also have been abused. "Some keep coming to us, asking for more information," said the police source. "They want to be reassured that their children definitely weren't abused. They'll never really know. They may never be able to rest easy. Others just don't want to know. They want to brush it under the carpet, hope that their children weren't abused and try to get on."The only person who can help identify which children were abused is George. So far she has shown no remorse for her crimes – and does not seem inclined to help police, the victims and their families or her former community any time soon.