The detective leading the hunt for a youth who stabbed a woman jogger in a north London park yesterday appealed to mothers who suspected their teenage sons could be responsible to contact the police.Detective Chief Superintendent John Shatford of the Metropolitan police said his team was looking for a young man, probably in his late teens but possibly early 20s, who could be in a state of high excitement. Mr Shatford said that the 39-year-old victim had been stabbed several times in the torso during the attack in Clissold Park in Stoke Newington on Friday afternoon. The assailant had sworn and kicked her repeatedly but she had managed to escape and "ran with all her might", with the attacker chasing her, shouting. She ran about 100 metres before collapsing by a lake beside a doctor, who saved her life by staunching her wounds. The condition of the injured woman, who is under police guard at an east London hospital, deteriorated on Monday night and she had to have further surgery on Tuesday. Mr Shatford said she was "extremely uncomfortable", although her injuries were not life threatening. He said the attacker probably lived nearby, and could have been responsible for the murder of Margaret Muller, a American artist who was stabbed to death in nearby Victoria Park in February. Police are worried the man will strike again and have warned women in the area to take extra care and avoid running outside alone. Mr Shatford said psychological profilers analysing the case believed the young man could either be "on a high" or in a state of withdrawal. "He has carried out his fantasy and he may be excited by that," Mr Shatford said. "He may be very interested in the news, and talking about the crime, but equally he could be very quiet. There are no certainties "If there is a mother at home who has a suspicion about a teenager, please tell us. Someone must know." Mr Shatford said the attacker looked for slightly built females in surroundings which allowed him to blend in. Margaret Muller had been 4ft 11in (130cm) and the Clissold Park victim is 5ft 4in (162cm). Neither had been sexually assaulted or robbed. "He [the attacker] sees some way he can control women with that particular profile," said the detective. Mr Shatford said the attacker was a white man of 5ft 6in to 5ft 9in (167cm to 195cm) with "teenage" facial hair on his chin and jaw and angular features. He had been wearing a hooded sweat top and carrying a rucksack on his back with his arms through both of the straps. He had an English accent. The area of the attack and the victim's route through the park remained cordoned off yesterday as officers continued a fingertip search for clues. The weapon has not yet been recovered.