A doctor and a nurse have been given suspended prison sentences after being found guilty of the manslaughter by gross negligence of a six-year-old.Hadiza Bawa-Garba, 39, a doctor at Leicester Royal infirmary, and nurse Isabel Amaro, 47, were both given two-year sentences suspended for two years at Nottingham crown court on Monday over the death of Jack Adcock.Jack, from Glen Parva, Leicester, had a known heart condition when he was admitted to Leicester Royal infirmary in February 2011 with vomiting and diarrhoea. He developed sepsis and died after a cardiac arrest.Prosecutors said that Bawa-Garba and Amaro had “robbed” Jack of his chance of survival.Mr Justice Nicol said: “Jack’s young life was cut short prematurely. That was a tragedy. No sentence that I pass on you will alter it. “There was no evidence that either of you neglected Jack because you were lazy or behaved for other selfish reasons. “You both had other patients to attend to. The problem was that neither of you gave Jack the priority which this very sick boy deserved.” Prosecutor Andrew Thomas QC read an impact statement from Jack’s mother, Nicky, who said she “never in a million years” expected her son to die after taking him into hospital. “If I knew then what I know now, I would have never let that doctor and that nurse near my son. Jack was neglected from the moment he entered Leicester Royal infirmary. It makes me so angry to think my son could still be here today if they had done their jobs right. “I will never forgive myself for taking him there. I could have cared and looked after him better than they did.” Nottingham crown court also heard a statement from Jack’s father, Victor, who said: “I had to watch my little man go. I miss him every day and I will do for the rest of my life. “Since we lost Jack, I’m a changed person. I was a happy-go-lucky person who has now become miserable and bitter. I wish I could forgive them but at the moment I can’t and I don’t think I ever will.” During the four-week trial, the prosecution said Jack died after a series of failings by medical staff, including Bawa-Garba’s “failure to discharge her duty” as the responsible doctor. Thomas said Bawa-Garba had failed to recognise that Jack was suffering from septic shock and when he collapsed, she momentarily stopped life-saving treatment after mistakenly believing he was under a “do not resuscitate” order. The error was picked up by a junior doctor after CPR was stopped for about a minute – and it was said Bawa-Garba had confused Jack with another patient who had a DNR order.The court also heard Amaro accepted she had breached her duty of care but denied that any of her failings had significantly contributed to the youngster’s death. Thomas said her record-keeping was “woefully incomplete” and failed to monitor Jack’s vital signs. In mitigation, Zoe Johnson QC, for the doctor, said: “Bawa-Garba has not only lost a job but in light of this conviction her career is over. “She wanted to be a doctor since the age of 13, it was her vocation, it was her life’s work that has been crushed. Not only is her career at an end, but her reputation and professional pride have been devastated.” Nicky Adcock shouted out “What about my son?” as Bawa-Garba’s mitigation was laid out. Johnson told the court Bawa-Garba “did not intend to cause Jack harm” and said she was the sole carer for a severely disabled five-year-old son. “She is essentially the only person who can meaningfully communicate with her son,” she said. “There are exceptional circumstances to suspend the sentence. It would be a sad irony if another young boy were to suffer as a result of these events,” Johnson added. Bawa-Garba’s husband, who lives in Dubai and works in aviation, would not be able to care for her autistic son and has no right to work or claim benefits in the UK. Paul Greaney QC, representing Amaro, said: “The harm caused by her negligence was, we accept, enormous and its effect will endure as is plain to see, as any parent will understand.” 