The Tories will introduce the direct election of police authorities, free to set their own budgets, in a bid to end the "centralisation" of the police force by government and improve community cohesion, Tory MP Andrew Mitchell said today.Mr Mitchell was speaking at a fringe debate jointly sponsored by the New Statesman and the police federation on whether the police are racist.He reiterated the Tory party call for an end to recording stop and search incidents as a bureaucratic waste of police resources, best spent fighting criminals on the streets."When you look at the evidence," he said, "I find remarkably little to show that stop and search is being consistently used in a way that could be said to be racist. "This will hugely increase the amount of bureaucracy and forms to be filled by police."Praising the government's community cohesion taskforce, Mr Mitchell went on to jibe at the Labour government's tendency to keep a strong grip on policing from the centre.Local police should be left to tackle local problems, with the participation of their local community, he said, adding: "We need to move away from the police centralisation programme as a whole. "We will bring in elections for police authorities which will stop the current targeting of money from the centre towards the government's pet projects . . . directly elected police authorities will be entitled to set their own budgets on issues of importance. "I would hope ethnic diversity training and community relations suited to the local community will be very much part of that agenda."John Wadham, the deputy director of the new independent police complaints commission, said failure to address the perception that stop and search powers unfairly targeted the black and ethnic community would only serve to impact on the community as a whole.If black and ethnic minorities feel they are unfairly treated by the police, they will be far less likely to come forward with information that will help the police do its job, including combating terrorism, for example. The police can only do their job with the backing of people helping them with relevant information, he said. "It is not just about being nice to people, it is actually about protecting people. Without that additional ingredient, we will fail."Jan Berry, the chairwoman of the Police Federation, joined the rest of the panel in refusing to be drawn on whether the police was racist or not, but admitted that since the police force to an extent reflects the society it serves, than racists were bound to be within its ranks."Maybe it does not reflect society as much as it needs to, but it does reflect society so if there is racism then it going to be there in the police service."Speaking of the recent broadcast of the Secret Policeman, which unearthed police cadets using racist terms, she commented: "I was relieved to a certain extent it was at training schools but I do not fail to think it would not be in some police stations as well." Attitudes towards race were in part "generational", she said, though the diversity training introduced following the MacPherson report had put many officers through "a lot of pain" as they were confronted with their views. Policing requires public consent to get on with its job "without fear or favour", she said. She rejected the prospect of positive discrimination which she said was being considered by Tony Blair's government, but admitted more needs to be done to welcome officers from black and ethnic minority groups.She questioned the government-inspired targets which she said were hard to reach in areas with low black and ethnic minority targets. While most were on target to meet the governments black and ethnic minority recruitment by 2009, at least seven forces would fail to make the mark."Maybe in those areas we need to set challenging targets but not unachievable targets," she said.