In the early 80s, an unfledged parliamentary hopeful tramped the streets near his home in east London, stuffing leaflets through letterboxes and switching on the doorstep charm to persuade his neighbours to turn out for Labour.Fast forward 25 years and that candidate is the prime minister; Downing Street, less than five miles as the crow flies, is a world apart from the Holly Street estate in Hackney.Yet Tony Blair clearly recalls his time walking those streets. It was, he said, his introduction to what he called the society of fear. "People were too scared to open the door," he said. "The letterboxes had burn marks round them where lighted rags had been shoved through."The Holly Street estate, he added, became the starting point for a personal crusade, one for a society built upon respect and responsibility, one characterised by "rules, order and proper behaviour".Last Sunday evening on the estate, at the end of the road where the Blairs had their first marital home, Stevens Nyembo-Ya-Muteba, a churchgoing father of two, was knifed to death outside his home. He was attacked, apparently, after asking a group of youths to keep the noise down because he had to get up early for work.The killing has been harrowing for local people, not least because the Holly Street estate has been transformed over the past decade. Far from being the run-down badlands of Mr Blair's recollections - and of some media reports last week - it is a model of inner-city regeneration.The murder has also brought torment for the family and friends of Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba. At a press conference at a police station on Wednesday, his daughter Debbie, seven, waited for her turn to speak. Then, as the cameras turned to her, she burst into tears. "I just want my daddy back," she wept.Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba, 40, had settled in the area after leaving his home in the Democratic Republic of Congo after the outbreak of war eight years ago. Far from being a penniless refugee, however, he came from a relatively wealthy family in Katanga, in the south of the country, where his father was a director of Gecamines, a large state-owned mining corporation.After studying engineering in the capital, Kinshasa, he moved to the UK, where he lived with friends and found work at a Tesco depot in Essex and as a porter at Marco Pierre White's Criterion restaurant in central London. He also enrolled at a further education college in north London, studying maths.Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba's wife, Veronique, 29, joined him seven years ago. They had a second daughter, Sheridan, now four, and earlier this year he became a British citizen.When Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba became the first student at his college to be offered a place at Cambridge, he told the college newsletter that he had been warned he had "no chance" of getting into the university. "But I believed in myself and I got what I wanted," he added. Eventually he decided against leaving London, where Debbie was already at school, enrolling instead in a maths and business studies course at the University of Greenwich.Three years ago the family moved into a first-floor apartment in a housing association block on Evergreen Square, at the heart of the Holly Street estate. The estate had been transfigured long before they arrived, the redevelopment funded first by the Tories in the 90s, and then by Labour.Yesterday in Evergreen Square it was easy to see the attraction for Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba. There was no graffiti, nor a scrap of litter, and smart new Golfs and Fiestas were parked under the newly planted sycamores and limes.According to some local people, the small park overlooked by Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba's apartment was plagued during the summer evenings by drug dealers.Other neighbours and local police say the area does not suffer more antisocial behaviour than others in inner London. Police say recent attempts to target drug dealers have been largely successful.Latest Home Office figures suggest that serious violent crime in Hackney is falling. It remains twice the national average, however, and on Sunday, Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba joined those statistics.Neighbours say that a small group of teenagers had broken into the entrance of the block, and that Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba asked them to leave and be quiet.A few minutes later he was found slumped near the stairs, and shortly afterwards he died in hospital. On Thursday a 17-year-old boy appeared in court, charged with his murder.A postmortem examination showed that Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteba had suffered several stab wounds to his upper body. His last words, according to some reports, were: "I've got work tomorrow."