Seven rusty containers daubed with graffiti looked incongruous sitting in front of the august facade of the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, cheap and tacky amid all the pomp and ceremony of London's tourist heartland. But that was exactly the point they were making, and there was a steady queue of intrigued visitors waiting to walk through the installation, Journey.Each container had been curated by a different artist, from artist Anish Kapoor to Oscar-winning costume designer Sandy Powell. Visitors emerged white faced and shaken. Nearly 24 hours later, I could not get the image out of my head of the empty bedroom of a trafficked woman, trapped in prostitution: the dirty unmade bed, the bowls full of condoms, the used condoms half pushed under the bed, the price list daubed in felt tip on a board - oral sex, anal sex, £10 extra for kissing.Due to go on tour to cities such as Glasgow and Liverpool, and eventually, it is hoped, eastern Europe, the installation is designed to highlight the work of the Helen Bamber Foundation, which offers therapeutic treatment to those traumatised by violence and abuse. In particular, it wants the UK to sign up to the Council of Europe Convention on Trafficking, so it was helpful that the installation attracted a steady stream of government ministers.The fact that Journey - telling the story of Elena, sold for £500 in Lithuania to traffickers, and ending up serving 20 to 30 clients a day - was shown in Trafalgar Square is largely down to actor Emma Thompson. For a week, Thompson and Bamber were on hand every day to talk to politicians, media and visitors, urging their case.While I was there, Thompson showed Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, around; later, it was the turn of James Purnell, the culture secretary. In between, Thompson and Sam Roddick, the activist and daughter of Anita Roddick, faced a stream of television cameras and radio mikes.The whole scene is a telling illustration of celebrity power. A good cause can go unnoticed, but add some Hollywood glamour and things happen. Money arrives, contact books get plundered, permissions granted. Then the public take notice and the politicians are beating a path to your door.Thompson is well aware of all of this. "My calls tend to be taken," she admits, smiling wryly. And she has no inhibitions about asking for things and calling in favours. "[Mayor of London] Ken Livingstone was great about helping, but he did owe me one. I did a benefit for him back when he was running the GLC [Greater London council] in the 1980s."That reference illustrates how Thompson's social activism goes back more than two decades. She describes herself as a part-time activist, the work with charities squeezed in between her acting and her top priority, her family life with her husband and daughter. But that still gives her time to have taken on the role of chair of Helen Bamber's new foundation, on top of her long-term commitment to the charity ActionAid. She is chair of ActionAid's network of ambassadors, and is working on a project to write a book about her visits to Africa with the charity.Thompson describes Bamber as her mentor. She has known her since she did a benefit for the charity Bamber founded in the 80s, the Medical Foundation for the Care of Victims of Torture. When Bamber decided just over a year ago that she wasn't ready to retire after all, and that some severely traumatised people were not getting the treatment they needed, Thompson was keen to help.Thompson's help does not consist only of offering the address book and pitching up for the television interview. Clients from the foundation use Thompson's studio next to her office for yoga and pilates. "They come through a lot, and we have volunteers who teach drums and guitar," she says. "It's part of their physical rehabilitation. I get to know people and we talk, and some people you make friends with and then you socialise with them. Of course, others are too badly traumatised to want that."Clients of the foundation are not the first people to find themselves absorbed into Thompson's private life. Four years ago, she met Tindy, a Rwandan orphan, at a charity event, promptly invited him for Christmas, and he became a regular part of her family. Her activism is less about abstract principles and more about relationships with the people she has met through her activism. The Journey installation was born out of her friendship with Elena, one of Bamber's clients. "Our engagement with people who have suffered is full of riches," Thompson says. "I'm not really interested in people who haven't suffered much." Then she checks herself quickly. "That's a bit mean. But I'm always interested in the stories of all our clients. And our curiosity needs to be engaged instead of pity. We need engagement rather than charity."This is where the two contrasting sides of Thompson's public profile fit together. What is common to both her acting and her activism, she says, is her curiosity; both are about exploring how other people see the world, about extending her empathy to inhabit someones else's personality. Such is that desire for empathy that she will probably do some therapy training at some point, she says matter of factly."Those who have suffered a great deal have much to teach us," she says. "They are mentors and they can teach us about what's in the darkness. The ethics of the 21st century will depend on us recognising that darkness. We need to understand why human beings torture others, because we all have that inside ourselves."What really interests her now is how she can bring her interest in storytelling and communication to bear on suffering and injustice, and she feels that the Journey installation is a real turning point in achieving that: using culture to find new ways to engage an audience with the central moral issue of our age - the perception of the outsider, and how barriers build up and prevent the empathy human beings naturally feel for each other.Build-up of resentmentThompson says: "London is a great city and its greatest attribute is its people and how we live peacefully. We do it bloody well. But there are times and places where those relationships break down. How do we get people to keep their eyes open? How do we make sure that we don't allow a build-up of resentment of people different from ourselves? Journey was a way of communicating without judgment. Unlike the media, which can be very reductive with its simple messages, we need to allow people to make their own minds up. It's about engaging people. It's what film does."The curiosity is not the end but the beginning; it is the way to mobilise people and, for Thompson, the moral drive is everything. "What's the point of being here unless you engage with what's unjust, try to understand it, and alleviate it?" she asks, fixing her famous eyes wide, in a challenge.That does not mean there is no room for frivolity, or for fun, or even not taking yourself too seriously, Thompson insists. In fact, comedy was Thompson's first vehicle for her politics. Her idea back at Cambridge university in the early 80s was to use sketch comedy as a form of social/political commentary. She did a TV series in the mid-80s, and her first sketch was about domestic violence. She describes herself, at that time, as a "benefit queen" doing comedy for every good cause, from Nicaragua Solidarity to the GLC. It was a bid to get taken seriously by the earnest, ambitious Cambridge graduates she mixed with then, but, she says now, it was "as good a way in as any".She argues that her work has always been political, if not overtly so, even in films such as Howards End and Sense and Sensibility, which were more famous for their luxuriant aesthetics than their political content. It is the one point in the interview when she bristles slightly, and admonishes me on being too literal. Amid the charm and easy warmth there is a glimpse of a sharp edge.The longevity of her commitment is not in doubt, and the consistent moral drive is striking. So where does it all come from?Thompson is uncertain. She talks vaguely about a sense of injustice being innate in children from an early age, but says her family was not the kind to sit around talking about politics. She talks of her mother as a fair-minded person who was profoundly morally grounded and who inculcated her with a sense of justice. But the point where this came into focus was at Cambridge, where she discovered two major influences: George Eliot and feminist criticism. She was plunged into a 19th-century moral universe and, at the same time, filled with a rage against the injustice done to women down the ages. She says now that, looking back, Eliot's high moral standards were damaging and made it hard for her to accept any part of herself that was not morally acceptable.But Eliot is still very much with her. She interrupts the interview to mention to Bamber that she had just stumbled across a passage by the Victorian author describing how our shrinking away from suffering can be caused by our compassion - we simply can't bear the pain. That urge to retreat should not make us feel guilty, Thompson adds. But as she well understands, even if that urge is not ignoble it must be resisted if we are to understand the suffering inflicted all around us.Moral purposeAfterwards, the more I thought about Thompson pondering, from a life of privilege and fame, how she can relate to the terrible suffering of others, the more I came back to the earnest high-mindedness of the Victorian novelist. Eliot did exactly what Thompson is talking about; she used the human love of stories and our curiosity about character to stretch our capacity for empathy to moral purpose.Thompson has been profoundly influenced. She is experimenting with other forms of culture, and identifies a new set of challenges around the stigmatisation of the outsider. She says that "notions of charity of the 19th century were great, but now we need a similar revolution in the 21st century". Details of The Journey at:  the-journey.co.uk·Email your comments to society@theguardian.com. If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication"