I really feel sorry for the jury in the Shipman trial. Not because they had to listen to, and then consider, several weeks of distasteful evidence about 15 deaths, but because the poor things were denied what used to be a fundamental perk of jury service - the inalienable right of juries to be put up overnight at a posh hotel if they weren't able to reach a decision during the day.I believe it was enshrined in one of the lesser-known clauses of Magna Carta. How well I remember the days when a typical London jury, having agreed on the verdict long before noon, would brilliantly spin out its deliberations until five, so as to ensure for every member a luxury meal and kip at the elegant Brown's Hotel in the west end. On occasions, it is said, every room in the place was occupied by such bogusly indecisive jurors. Later, the Howard Hotel, nearer the Old Bailey, was used, but it didn't have the same cachet. Jurors who had overnighted at Brown's felt superior to mere Howarders. Alas, the whole jury hotel scene is no more. A vicious law passed a few years ago allows judges to send jurors back to their own homes for the night, with firm instructions not to discuss their case with anyone. I'm sure they're all keeping to that ban. Just as the spouses and lovers on conjugal visits to the hotel-bound jurors in the OJ Simpson trial never ever mentioned a word about the case. Still, it's good to know that the Shipman jury deliberated for so long because they were considering the evidence, not dreaming of a night between silken sheets.  Genocide is a word much misused these days, too often applied to very nasty behaviour against some ethnic, racial, religious or national group. To use it so cavalierly serves only to diminish the impact of true genocide - conduct or policies aimed at human extermination. The ethnic cleansing perpetrated in the Balkans during the 1990s was appalling and awful, but not genocide. What I hadn't realised, until informed the other day by Michael Ignatieff in an stimulating lecture at the Royal Society of Arts, was quite how recent the word is. It was invented only in 1943, by a Polish-Jewish lawyer, Raphael Lemkin. Just two years later it was one of the charges faced by the main defendants in the Nuremberg trials. A few years after that, there was a United Nations Genocide Convention, its existence largely the result of the obsessive Lemkin's incessant pressure. Lemkin died, forgotten and alone, in 1959. In the nearly 60 years since his invention, the number of defendants found guilty of genocide in the courts is precisely one, arising from the Rwandan massacres. Solicitors, as you've seen from their brass plates, are usually also "commissioners for oaths". If you need to swear to some official document, you wander over to a solicitor, who signs the thing in question and pockets a small fee. What I didn't know is that a few years ago, behind my back, barristers were also allowed to be commissioners for oaths. At a time when their earnings are under such savage attack, this could become an important money-spinner. They charge £4 an oath, and it only takes a minute of their time. In an eight-hour day, if they don't go to lunch and have an adequate queueing system, they can do 480 signings, for a daily income approaching £2,000. Barristers claim that oaths taken in front of them are more truthful, and last longer, than those done by solicitors. The only problem is that very few documents need to be sworn in this way. Still, every little bit helps. Those of you lucky enough to have penetrated the portals of the Law Society in London's Chancery Lane will have noticed, on the walls, many large oil portraits of serious-looking men in suits.They are the past presidents of the Law Society, and, I've thought, how generous of the society to honour their past leaders in this way. Wrong. Martin Mears, a recent past president, reveals the truth in the New Law Journal. The men in question (no women yet) commissioned their own paintings and paid for them out of their own pockets. They've then kindly donated them to the Law Society, which graciously accepted them. Skint presidents get no wall space. Perhaps it's the same with portraits of the Queen. It must cost her a fortune.