The family of a black man who died in police custody received a setback in their campaign to see officers prosecuted when the lord chief justice ruled yesterday that they must wait for the inquest before taking further action.Relatives of Roger Sylvester, who died in hospital after being restrained outside his house in Tottenham, north London, in 1999, were angered when the crown prosecution service decided not to press charges against the eight Metropolitan police officers involved. In April a judge at the high court in London granted permission for a full judicial review of the decision by the director of public prosecutions, David Calvert-Smith QC. But yesterday, as the Sylvesters sought disclosure of an investigation by Essex police into the conduct of the Met officers, Lord Justice Woolf told them that the review would have to be postponed. Ian McDonald QC, acting for the family, told the court: "Having an inquest first would not be in accordance with public policy... The reason why a prosecution should go first is that if there's an inquest beforehand it allows the person who may be prosecuted to see all the evidence tested and actually have a kind of rehearsal." But Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Bell at the high court, said an inquest would allow a public investigation into what happened just before Mr Sylvester's death and would make available the information the family sought. An inquest would also allow the director of public prosecutions to reconsider his decision in the light of fresh evidence. Cases must be referred back to him if inquest juries return verdicts of unlawful killing, but it is rare for such verdicts to result in the prosecution of police officers. Lord Woolf added: "The police officers are naturally concerned about having the matter hanging over them without having the opportunity of giving publicly their version." Mr Sylvester's family said the officers exercised their right to silence during the investigation by the Essex police. They fear the police may do so again at the inquest. Outside the court, Bernard Renwick, Mr Sylvester's brother, said: "We still believe an inquest is not the right forum. We still fear the police officers may use the rules to continue to give no-comment answers when interviewed." Sheila Sylvester, Mr Sylvester's mother, said: "All I would like to know before I die is how and why Roger died." But the family welcomed Lord Woolf's request to the investigating authorities to be "generous" in releasing evidence - which legally can be disclosed to the family as little as 28 days before the inquest. "Since Roger died two years ago we have had to fight all the way," said Deborah Coles, the co-director of the campaign group Inquest, which is supporting the Sylvesters. "There has been the most obsessive secrecy around the case and I hope these comments from Lord Woolf will put pressure on the police commissioner to allow full disclosure as a matter of urgency." Mr Sylvester died aged 30 in January 1999 after police answered a 999 call and found him naked and behaving "erratically" in his front garden. One officer is believed to have recognised him as someone who had been mentally ill in the past, although his family insist he had recovered fully and had been untroubled over the previous two years. Eight officers restrained him and took him to St Ann's hospital, Tottenham, where he collapsed when a doctor left the room. Up to six police officers remained with him. Resuscitation attempts failed and he stayed in a coma until his family switched off his life support machine a week later. The inquest into his death is unlikely to take place before the autumn.