  Illustration: David Foldvari for the ObserverOne of Britain's judges has really been hauled over the coals in the past few weeks. He'd been poking his nose into a profession of which he had little knowledge or understanding, and drawing naive and offensive conclusions; it really hasn't gone down well. I think you know who I'm talking about.Yes, it's Judge Peter Bowers, of course! When sentencing a burglar he said that burglary took "a huge amount of courage". "I wouldn't have the nerve," he said, before letting the guy off with a suspended sentence.On Tuesday Bowers was formally reprimanded by the Office for Judicial Complaints, which must have come as a relief to him because, at the time of the remarks, he expressed concern that he "might be pilloried". If he thought that, he should probably go on a refresher course before he sends some poor hoodie down for a keelhauling instead of an asbo. Maybe he feared that, if he didn't let the burglar off, the guy would get hanged. Or maybe that's what he wanted – maybe he thought that's what "suspended sentence" means.The judge's comments drew complaints from all sides – and by "all sides" I mean the prime minister, the chairman of the National Victims' Association (don't miss their Christmas party if you like a passive-aggressive ambience) and LBC's Nick Ferrari. David Cameron said that burglars weren't brave at all but were "cowards". I don't know how he knows that but it's a good job because presumably, if they were braver, they'd break into loads more places. "Thank the Lord for the comparative cowardice of these dishonest people," he must be saying.He isn't of course – he just wants to slag burglars off and so is associating them with the negative end of the bravery-cowardice spectrum without really thinking about what those words mean. He may as well have countered that burglars weren't handsome but ugly, not tall but short, not symmetrical but wonky and not fragrant but stinky. Having established that burglary is a bad thing, he thinks linking it or its practitioners with any positive attributes, however incidental, is an idea too sophisticated for the British public to grasp.I don't mean to blame David Cameron: this culture in which any concepts more complicated than good and bad are too nuanced to bother trying to express is not of his making. And he's never seemed particularly keen to change things, either for better or worse. He just wants to make his way to a fireside in a cosy House of Lords bar, the words "prime minister" indisputably inked on to his CV, with the least possible fuss. He makes Macmillan look like Thatcher.But obviously Judge Bowers is correct. In many cases, doing a burglary is going to require considerable courage. In order to break into a house and steal stuff you have to be brave, show a bit of gumption. In order to go and get someone else's property, you literally have to be a go-getter. Now, I'm not saying that the judge chose the best time to point out these evident truths. It would have been more appropriate and, more importantly, diplomatic to have emphasised some of the less praiseworthy attributes that burglary requires: dishonesty, unkindness, selfishness, thoughtlessness, disdain for the integrity of a window, raging narcotic withdrawal. I can understand those who dislike what he said. Not all truths need to be spoken. But that doesn't make what he said untrue.Personally, I like it. I find the way it has annoyed people extremely satisfying. I'm attracted to its inappropriateness. It sticks out, it's noticeable, which is refreshing in the current era of public discourse when all prominent figures seem at pains to be blandly appropriate: to show the expected level of respect, rage, shock, support, joy or grief. I like the judge for having taken the trouble to find something odd to say – something interesting and off-message.It's a rare skill. PC Gary Archer of the British Transport Police doesn't seem to possess it. Last week he described a series of thefts of dog-shaped charity collection boxes from station platforms in Oxfordshire as "simply unacceptable". I don't disagree but he didn't grab my attention as much as the grainy CCTV snap of a youth tiptoeing off with a large plastic labrador. It would probably hurt the policeman's career if he described the crimes as "funny" or "refreshing". "More fun than a stabbing in a nightclub." "Makes a nice change from inveigling your way into an old lady's house by pretending to read the meter." "Not what you'd ideally have people doing, but it shows a bit of enterprise." Some might say that was belittling a crime – I reckon it's looking on the bright side.At the risk of sounding like those people who go on about how the Nazis had nice uniforms, it's worth remembering that bad things often have good aspects to them: burglars show bravery, smoking looks cool, Jeffrey Archer was quite good at athletics, the theme tune to Casualty is catchy. The good aspects don't stop the things being bad. It's vital to our understanding of a complex world, and to our intellectual dexterity, to be able to hold two different concepts in our heads at once without assuming that they're mutually exclusive.This is particularly important in the arena of justice, so I like Judge Bowers's style. As anyone who has a friend keen on amateur dramatics will know, it's possible to think of something good to say about anything. Perhaps judges should have to do this by convention. Every time they sentence a criminal, they should be required to find something positive to say about the crime – not as an excuse, not even in mitigation, just as an acknowledgement that the world is always more complicated, baffling and contradictory than it seems.So, a murder could be described as cunning, an assault as physically dexterous, a fraud as punctual, an extortion racket as ambitious, an act of road rage as demonstrating spontaneity, an intense period of obsessive stalking as "daring to dream". The convicted criminal's judicial compliment could become as strong a tradition as a condemned prisoner's last meal.Of course it would annoy the hell out of some people. But mainly those who enjoy the sensation.David Mitchell's autobiography, Back Story, is out now