The idea of giving relatives of murder or manslaughter victims a say in court was first floated in the run-up to the last general election - always a dangerous time for law'n'order reform. It was fleshed out in a consultative document in September. Harriet Harman, a constitutional affairs minister, signalled why she supported the idea: "It seems to me an incredible paradox that the people for whom the case matters the most are silent in court." Her boss, Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, was just as enthusiastic: "A voice for the victims will rebalance the way serious cases like murder and rape are tried, so that the courts take fully into account the victims' views."On the face of it this sounds reasonable. And indeed some countries already operate such a system. Victim impact statements in court have been in operation in Canada since 1998. Australia was even earlier with the state of South Australia introducing them in 1988. The Netherlands and some US states have similar systems. And yet our judges are digging in. Both Lord Woolf, the former lord chief justice, and Sir Igor Judge, the deputy lord chief justice, have expressed concern. Their reservations fall into three categories: professional, practical and ethical. The objection in the first category - extending rights of audience in the court beyond the legal profession - should not be sufficient to block the reform. The practical objections - who would be selected to speak for victims in multiple murder cases? - could be resolved. But the third category, the degree to which the scheme would change the nature of our criminal justice system, is more serious.Victims or their advocates are to be invited to address the court after conviction but before sentence. They would not be able to propose a sentence. But as Sir Igor told the Times, providing space for a victim impact statement would raise victims' expectations that making sentencing proposals was precisely what was on offer. The purpose of setting up a criminal justice system was to end the anarchy that went before: blood feuds, revenge responses, vigilantism. To its credit, the oldest and biggest victims' group, Victim Support, has recognised the danger of returning to bad old ways. They have big reservations about how it would work out. The current system uses victim impact statements, taken down by the police from relatives and given to the judge before sentence. There are ways in which victims could be given more support, but inviting them or their advocates to make oral statements in court is one option that should not be pursued.