Prison suicides have returned to the record high set two years ago, according to Home Office figures released yesterday.The total of 95 deaths this year includes those of two prisoners who died at their own hands this week, but not that of 14-year-old Adam Rickwood, the youngest person to kill himself in custody, as he died in a privately run secure training centre. The Home Office argues that the death toll should be set against the background of an increased prison population, although the number of people in jail has now dropped from its all-time high of around 75,500 in April this year. Earlier this month, the parliamentary joint committee on human rights warned that suicides had reached "shocking" levels and criticised the "over-reliance" on custodial sentences which had boosted the prison population. Its report argued that increased resources and a reduction in the use of imprisonment were necessary to tackle the problem. The committee's chairwoman, Jean Corston, Labour MP for Bristol East, said: "Extremely vulnerable people are entering custody with a history of mental illness, drug and alcohol problems and potential for taking their own lives. These highly vulnerable people are being held within a structure glaringly ill-suited to meet even their basic needs." The Home Office said it was considering the joint committee's recommendations and was already working to promote alternatives to custodial sentences, allowing prisons to concentrate on serious and persistent offenders. A spokeswoman pointed to the increase in resources for the probation service, as well as initiatives inside prisons such as the introduction of detox units into every woman's jail in the country. But Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest, which campaigns on deaths in custody, said: "The figures highlight the chilling consequences of sending so many people to prison. The only way to reduce self-inflicted deaths is to dramatically reduce the prison population." She added: "Every one of these deaths is someone's son, daughter, mother or father." Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said the deaths "should shock but not surprise". The Conservative party meanwhile claimed that the Prison Service was in "financial meltdown", after a leaked email written by the director general, Phil Wheatley, warned that it was £31m over budget for this financial year and would have to implement a managed recruitment ban and cuts to non-essential spending on maintenance, conferences and travel. The Home Office said that the overspend was less than 1% of the overall budget and was caused by factors outside the service's control.