An Iraq veteran is facing life in prison after being convicted of the racist murder of a Bangladeshi waiter on Orkney, whom he shot dead in an Indian restaurant when he was 15 years old.Sergeant Michael Ross, now 29 and a sniper with the Black Watch, leaped over the dock and tried in vain to escape after the Glasgow high court jury yesterday found him guilty of murdering Shamsudden Mahmood in June 1994. The majority verdict ends one of Scotland's most troubling unsolved murders. Described in court as "savage, merciless and pointless", the killing is thought to be the only racist murder in the Orkney islands. Mahmood, working at the Mumutaz restaurant in Orkney's main town, Kirkwall, had been killed in front of customers with a single shot by a masked gunman.The six-week trial heard that Ross had been the police's main suspect. Witnesses told police Ross held violently racist views and guns fascinated the then cadet.His father, Edmund - then a police officer initially involved in the murder inquiry, and a shooting enthusiast - unwittingly gave the police a breakthrough.PC Ross told colleagues he had 9mm ammunition similar to that used by the killer. His son's room was searched, revealing a notebook with a Nazi swastika, an SS symbol, and "death to the English" written on it. A balaclava was found. It then emerged Ross had been seen dressed in similar clothing to the killer in nearby woods a fortnight before the shooting. Ross's father was jailed for four years and sacked from the police when it emerged he had lied to his own force and tried to cover up crucial evidence. A former Marine called James Spence told detectives he had given PC Ross two boxes of ammunition - not just one sealed box as the policeman had claimed. The case against Ross was reopened after a key witness walked into Kirkwall police station in 2006 with a note which revealed he had confronted the killer on the night of the murder in nearby public toilets. William Grant, 51, said he had seen Ross leaving a cubicle with a gun. Grant said he had become overwhelmed by guilt. The court heard that after leaving school Ross had joined the army, where he served in Iraq and was promoted to sergeant, winning commendations. In a statement, Mahmood's brother, Abul Khair Mahmud, said: "Justice has been done. The family feel happy with the verdict and happy with the performance of the police."The judge, Lord Hardie, said he would defer sentencing until next month.