The last person to see British expat Patricia Wilson alive has described her friend’s tumultuous relationship with the gardener accused of her murder - and how she frantically searched the rural French house for signs of life after realising she had gone missing.Fiona McKinley, 61, who had a close relationship with Wilson, 58, described how she grew increasingly worried when she could not contact her friend, eventually using a spare key to enter her house, where she discovered pools of blood.Wilson’s relationship with her lover Jean-Louis Cayrou, 54, was initially positive, but he “turned into a jealous, possessive person, who wanted her to himself”, the Cour d’Assises de l’Aveyron in southern France heard.The friends had returned together from England on 17 August 2012, but Wilson failed to call McKinley as she had promised to the following day.On 23 August, after failing to make contact, McKinley and a friend went to the house, thinking Wilson might have “had too much to drink”.They checked upstairs and found no sign of her and realised the electricity had been turned off.Just weeks before, Wilson had called McKinley, telling her Cayrou had broken into the house, cut the electricity and threatened her, she told the court.“She told me on the Friday night, or Saturday morning, Jean-Louis had arrived at her house, turned off the electricity, gone into her bedroom … took a cushion from downstairs, put it on the back of her head,” McKinley said.“He was on top of her to hold her down, she tried to turn on the light, she realised it would not work. She thought, I have to be calm, because otherwise something horrible will happen to me.“He said to her: ‘See, this is what could happen to you if you live in this house by yourself.’ She was terrified. Absolutely terrified.”McKinley said the knowledge of this incident made her start “looking for a body” with her friend, in the house, lake and compost heap outside. Two other friends came to assist the search. The group found “blood everywhere” inside and decided to call the police.McKinley described Wilson as “loud, funny, strong-minded” and “fun to be with”. She had moved to the Aveyron region with her partner Donald Marcus in 2008, but when he returned to England for medical treatment she became “lonely and depressed”.After meeting Cayrou, she returned to her “smiling, laughing, funny and happy” self, McKinley said. But Cayrou was “clingy” and just three weeks after they met, had asked Wilson to marry him, which was “ridiculous”, McKinley added.“I think he has two sides. He was very angry, possessive, he was jealous of her few friends, he was jealous of the cats, he was jealous of the time she spent on the computer,” she said. “He wanted to control her but she was not the kind of person who could easily be controlled.”The case continues.