I think about Stephen when I go to bed every night, and first thing when I wake up. I've lost a son and can never bring him back. And his killers are still walking the streets. But the fight for justice was worth the effort. When Sir William Macpherson's inquiry reported 10 years ago, it was as if we had at last been vindicated when we refused to accept that the police had investigated the murder properly. It also explained to me what had really been going on - I'd had no idea why my husband Neville and I had been kept in the dark by the police and not been given satisfactory answers.It was important that the Metropolitan police were found to be institutionally racist. The then commissioner, Paul Condon, had earlier said that black children were more likely to commit crime. This outrageous comment essentially helped officers think all black youngsters were potential criminals. I can't help believing that this contributed to them not investigating Stephen's murder; they assumed he must be into drugs and law-breaking. It still rankles with me that Condon did not resign, or was not sacked, at the time the report was published.And later, when the Met set up Operation Trident, to investigate so-called black-on-black crime, it seemed as if they were perpetuating that racist element. Murder is murder, but instead it was more like "oh, it's just another black kid been killed". Ultimately, all victims, regardless of race, have mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters who are stricken by grief for them. In that respect, things haven't moved on.On Sunday the justice secretary, Jack Straw, who 10 years ago was home secretary, said: "If you are asking me whether I believe the Met as a whole is still institutionally racist, the answer is no." I believe his comments are based on the number of policies that have been produced over time. There is a difference, however, between policies and how things happen in reality. The community only understand policies through the effect they have on their lives, and if people can't see or feel a change, then in effect nothing has happened. More needs to be done; and if the government wants to get its message to the wider community, it needs to do a lot more communicating.Before the inquiry, black people were six times more likely to be stopped and searched by the police. Now, after all the years, and after all the work that has been put in, they are seven times more likely to be stopped. Police should be using proper intelligence, and frontline officers should not have the power to discriminate like this.Only a minority of black people carry knives, and if the community could trust the police more, they'd help them catch criminals. Institutional racism has not been eradicated. On the positive side, though, there are more community consultation and advisory groups today, which give people a chance to influence policing. And there has been a lot of police training, and officers are more sensitive about how they handle the public. I can look at cases such as Anthony Walker and Damilola Taylor and see that what was exposed in the case of my son's killing has allowed other victims to get justice.Beyond the police, we have a Race Relations Amendment Act, and public and private institutions across the board have taken a long, hard look at their policies on race and diversity, and the composition of their workforce.I see young people able to look ahead to a much brighter future than they could have before. Lots of people say to me "thanks you for all your work", or that they'd never have their current job if the inquiry hadn't happened.At the time of the inquiry report, though, I was also hoping evidence might emerge so his killers could be brought to justice. Sadly, it never happened. It still upsets me when I see a television or newspaper report about the suspects as they are now, getting on with their own lives. I often wonder what Stephen would be doing now: he had a very positive life, full of opportunity. To some extent I'm still living in the past, but it's very difficult to move on. I've had to support my two other children and give them the best possible chance in life; but I can't help thinking about these things.comment@theguardian.com