An 80-year-old man who paid a man £50 to carry out an acid attack that left his teenage ex-girlfriend with disfiguring burns to her face and neck has been jailed for 18 years.Mohammed Rafiq arranged the doorstep assault after 19-year-old care worker Vikki Horsman told him she was halting their relationship because of his controlling behaviour.Rafiq planned the attack with 25-year-old Steven Holmes, who was paid £50 to carry it out, and a third man, Shannon Heaps, 23. All three were convicted of causing grievous bodily harm. Homes was jailed for 14 years and Heaps for 12 years.The jury at Wolverhampton crown court was told that the assault at a house in Tividale, West Midlands, took place in April after Horsman split up with Rafiq because of his jealous behaviour. Horsman has described how she came to rely on Rafiq after her parents died. He treated her well to begin with and bought her a car but she said he became controlling and paranoid.She converted to Islam at his behest but be began to falsely suspect her of cheating on him.After they parted, Rafiq went to see her at the house where the attack took place. She was about to go and get some sleep before starting a night shift when she heard a knock at the door. He told her that someone was there for her and as she opened the front door she was confronted by a figure in a grey hoodie, a bandana over his face and his hood up. The man said her name and threw a black liquid at her. Horsman screamed in pain and glimpsed her blistering face and neck in a mirror as she stumbled back into the house. She has said she could feel her skin peeling off layer by layer and thought she was going to die.“I just started screaming because of the burning,” Horsman told the jury.She remembered seeing Rafiq standing by the living room window as she reeled away.Horsman was in intensive care for five days and underwent specialist surgery to her face, neck, shoulders and upper leg for deep burns. She will need treatment for many years.Initially Rafiq was treated as a victim, having suffered minor burns when he was splashed with the corrosive liquid, but his part in the plot later became clear.Speaking after the trial, Horsman, now 20, said: “What happened that day changed my life forever. I have had to undergo lots of treatment for the burns and the damage those people caused. I still have sleepless nights and keep leaving my home to stay with friends and relatives as I can’t bear to be on my own. This is what those people have done to me – all because I had the courage to be my own person and escape a controlling man.“I know I have to be strong and am pleased that justice has been done but no matter how satisfied I am to see Rafiq and the others go to jail, that won’t turn the clock back and take away the scars they have left me with.”Judge Nicholas Webb described the attack as a wicked act with grave consequences and said Rafiq was old enough to be his victim’s grandfather.He said: “Acid attacks are not uncommon in certain parts of the world. Thankfully, they are rare in England. Quite often they are to punish a woman who has refused to bow to the demands of a spouse. In such cases it is done to leave a permanent reminder of what happens when a woman rejects attempts to control her.”The judge pointed out that Horsman was vulnerable when she met Rafiq following the death of both her parents. He told Rafiq: “She had decided she didn’t want to continue her relationship with you and you became jealous and angry. You obtained the acid and left it at the front door of the house for Holmes to pick it up and throw.”Turning to Holmes, Webb went on: “I have formed the view that you are callous and lacking in true remorse. As far as I can tell you have no real conscience. Once Vikki Horsman had identified herself, you threw acid at her. She has received excellent treatment, but she is still badly scarred. In a sense, she is fortunate in that she was not blinded.”