A verdict of unlawful killing was recorded on Monday over the death of a young woman whose father was accused of her murder, but killed himself two days before he was due to stand trial.Children found the skull of 19-year-old Victoria Couchman in woodland in October 2008. More human remains, including her femur and pelvis, were discovered in the same area in Redgeland Wood, St Leonards-on-Sea, East Sussex.Couchman, a single parent, had probably been killed five months earlier, but none of her family or friends reported her missing to police, the inquest at Hastings magistrates court heard. Her father, Tony Couchman, was charged with her murder and perverting the course of justice by Sussex police detectives.The 46-year-old committed suicide by slashing his arm with a razor blade in his cell at HMP Lewes on 2 January2010, two days before he was due to stand trial at Lewes crown court. He had denied both charges.Recording a verdict of unlawful killing, East Sussex coroner Alan Craze said it was "one of the most significant and difficult set of cases" he had dealt with.The case against Tony Couchman was "circumstantial" and due to Victoria Couchman's remains being left exposed for several months, a cause of death could not be determined.But Detective Chief Inspector Adam Hibbert, from Sussex police's major crime branch, said that "taken cumulatively", the evidence provided "good reason" for Tony Couchman to be brought to trial.The inquest heard that Tony Couchman was suspected to have sent text messages purporting to be from his daughter after she had been killed. These included texts sent to her mother, Fiona Masters, with whom Couchman had split, saying that she had set up home with a new boyfriend.Hibbert said: "A text expert examined the texts purporting to be sent by Victoria. He came to the view that it was very likely that the texts were sent by Tony."A phone used to send texts claiming to be from Victoria had been bought by a man fitting her father's description at a shop. A walking stick was also bought, which Couchman had cause to use.Other reasons to suspect she had been killed included the fact that her body had possibly been concealed, and that she had not taken any money or possessions with her. There was also no attempt at contact with friends or family, including her own daughter, and there were "lies and inconsistencies" in Tony Couchman's accounts to police, Hibbert said.Tony Couchman had told police that he had not reported her missing because she had vanished on previous occasions and was on a final warning with social services. He claimed to fear that social services would take away his grandchild, but the authorities denied that Victoria had been given a final warning.According to Hibbert, Tony Couchman had 11 convictions ranging from theft to firearms offences.Hibbert said: "There was a possibility that Tony Couchman was involved in drug dealing. In diaries seized, he had a 'dealers list', and foil and electronic scales consistent with dealing were found, but he didn't have convictions for drugs offences."At around the time of her disappearance, Victoria Couchman was seen outside the house she shared with her father in Beecham Place, St Leonards, and was heard to say: "I have had enough. He's too controlling." Later that day, a neighbour with whom she had started a relationship called at her home and was told by Tony Couchman that she had gone out.Hibbert said it would have been the prosecution's assertion at trial that Tony Couchman had disposed of her body in his car, which he sold 12 days later. He also said he had lost his mobile phone shortly after she disappeared, which police said would have been of important evidential value.Forensic archaeologist Lucy Sibun said various body parts belonging to Victoria Couchman were missing, including her hands, feet and right arm. No clothing or personal possessions were found during a thorough search of the wooded area, she added.Forensic pathologist Dr Kenneth Shorrock was unable to give a cause of death but said it was "very unlikely" that her feet and hands had been removed by a human. He told the hearing: "My view is that it is much more likely that her feet and hands were removed as a result of activity with animals."She had probably been dead for a "few months", meaning she died around the summer of 2008, he added. There was no evidence of a fractured skull or broken ribs, he said, and if she had been stabbed, there may have been evidence of damage to bones.He said the "distinct possibility" was that she had been strangled, although he was unable to say so conclusively. Shorrock said: "Victoria was a young woman and a common way to kill young women is to strangle them. In my view strangulation is a distinct possibility."Linda Piper, deputy general manager of surgery at the Conquest Hospital in St Leonards-on-Sea, said Victoria had surgery following a car crash in which her brother Dean, 17, died in November 2005. This resulted in her being fitted with pins and screws with a unique reference number which helped identify her, along with dental records.Joanne Keating, 33, said Tony Couchman was an overprotective father. She said: "I think it's because he lost his son Dean and he didn't want to lose another child."Victoria had a stillborn child with Keating's brother Joseph in 2007. After discovering that his daughter was pregnant, Tony Couchman "went off his head", Keating said.She added: "He seemed obsessed. Vicky was telling us stuff, saying she was scared of Tony and saying he was going off his head."Threats were made to Joseph by Tony Couchman, it was said, and when Victoria was rushed to hospital at the time of the stillbirth, her father refused to allow Joseph to attend the hospital, Joanne Keating said.She received a text claiming to be from Victoria, which said: "Good job the baby is dead because Joseph wouldn't have been a good dad." Keating told the inquest she had doubts that it was sent by Victoria. She said: "I don't think it was Vicky, because she doted on Joseph." The relationship eventually broke down and by February 2008 Victoria told Joanne Keating she had met someone else.In reaching his verdict, Craze said his function was not to judge whether a jury at crown court would have convicted Couchman of killing his daughter. He said: "I have to decide whether the evidence, when you add it all up, is sufficient for me to be sure that Victoria was murdered."He said he was sure that she had died elsewhere and had been taken to Redgeland Wood but was uncertain of the cause of the death, saying: "We are left with any number of possibilities."He went on: "Taking all the evidence together, am I sure that she was unlawfully killed? The answer is yes, so I bring in a verdict of unlawful killing."This – for Vicky's family and friends and the police, who have spent days, weeks and months investigating this matter, and for my service – has been one of the most significant and difficult set of cases that I have had to deal with."If everybody after today is left with a sense that closure has been achieved, I'm quite certain that everybody in the family will feel some sense of relief that things are over."