Earlier this month the House of Lords delivered a judgment in the case of a 25-year-old man who was given an indeterminate sentence for public protection (IPP) in November 2005 after he was convicted of robbing a taxi driver.The reason the House of Lords was considering this man, known in court as "Mr Wells", was that, although his minimum sentence was just 12 months, more than three years later he was still in jail. There are potentially good reasons for keeping offenders in jail – the purpose of IPPs is that release is only possible once they no longer pose a risk to the public. And more generally the principles applying to imprisonment are punishment, reduction of crime, protecting the public and rehabilitation of the offender.But the reason Wells was still in jail was none of these. Instead, he was one of thousands of prisoners serving these kind of sentences – which have a lower limit known as a "tariff", but no upper limit – caught in a catch 22 that works as follows. As an offender, you can only be released from an IPP once the parole board is convinced you are no longer a risk to the public. This requires taking part in rehabilitative courses, including "enhanced thinking skills", "anger management" and "sex offender treatment programmes". But because of a lack of resources, it is increasingly difficult for willing inmates to get onto these courses and so, unable to demonstrate reform, they remain in prison.As a result, Lord Brown said in his opinion on 9 May, these prisoners have "rapidly ... swamped the prison system". His views, which were echoed by others in the House of Lords, echoed the findings of a report, known as the Lockyer review, which in 2007 found that IPP prisoners were "stacking in local prisons and are not moving to establishments where their needs can be assessed or better met". In the same judgment Lord Hope said that by not providing resources for IPP inmates to work towards their own release, the secretary of state had "failed deplorably in the public law duty he must be taken to have accepted when he persuaded parliament to introduce IPPs".This is not to say that the three people sentenced last week for causing or allowing the death of Baby P would be able to persuade the parole board to release them simply by attending rehabilitative courses. It is quite clear from Mr Justice Kramer's sentencing remarks, when he handed down IPP sentences to all three, that he considered them extremely dangerous people, particularly as far as young children were concerned. He referred to the "extraordinary and abhorrent features" of the case and explicitly stated that none would be automatically released when their minimum tariffs were up.But what the three Baby P offenders have in common with Wells is that they have all received a sentence from which it is notoriously difficult to be released. There are almost 11,000 people now serving these IPPs, and according to the Ministry of Justice fewer than 50 have ever been released. The fact that offenders who have received sentences of fewer than 12 months that fall into this category are known as "short-term lifers" says something about the length of time they are likely to spend locked up.This is why the response to the Baby P three is so irresponsible, or misinformed, or both. Some groups – such as children's charities the NSPCC or Kidscape, which were both quick to provide a knee-jerk response expressing "outrage" – should have a sufficiently sophisticated grasp of criminal sentences to know better. But the public, who only heard the figure "three years" in relation to the mother, which the Sun among others had helpfully emphasised before getting people to sign their petition, can't be blamed for believing this is what she will serve and therefore concluding that this sentence is lenient.In fact, the sentences were not lenient. The only problem these sentences have presented in the courts is that it is almost impossible to get out of prison once the minimum time expires. So it is almost guaranteed that all three will spend far longer than their minimum period in prison, as so many before them already have.• This article was amended on 1 June 2009. The original referred to the probation board, when it meant parole board. This has been corrected.