David Cameron turned away from defending public service-ocide yesterday, to address the subject of Raoul Moat at prime minister's questions. I do not understand why politicians feel they must contribute to every crime drama that screams across the tabloids (remember Tony Blair's attempts to intervene in the plot lines of Coronation Street?), but even so, Cameron paused to express his bewilderment – at the flowers left where Moat took his own life and by the Facebook page set up in Moat's memory.Cameron cannot get his oddly rectangular head round it and so, in full righteous vicar mode, he spluttered: "It is absolutely clear that Raoul Moat was a callous murderer, full stop, end of story." I never trust a man who says "end of story" and then continues – but the prime minister, inevitably, did continue. "I cannot understand any wave, however small, of public sympathy for this man," he said. "There should be no sympathy for him. Full stop, end of story." And there is Cameron's happy world view, the view from North Kensington, if you will. Life is a Manichean struggle between good and evil, and no transgressor should seek understanding. Sympathy is to be cut from the budget.Bewilderment is contagious. Rod Liddle, writing in the latest Spectator, uses the sympathy for Moat to weigh in against northerners, in the small-boy-shouts-obscenities-at-grownups style that has become his trademark. Liddle too is disgusted by any sympathy for Moat but he has taken the righteous fury up a level, to somewhere completely bonkers, to somewhere we may never reach him.Liddle seems to believe that the crucial connecting factor in the Moat and Derrick Bird shootings – plus the Shannon Matthews abduction case – was that the protagonists were all northern. "The more callous among you might well argue that it doesn't really matter, as these madmen are only shooting other northerners, and so it is therefore none of our business," he writes. "But there is no guarantee that the next deranged northerner will not get on a train, if he can afford it, and start shooting at us, instead."Perhaps Liddle's next column will include a suggestion that the tracks under the King's Cross to Manchester Virgin express be ripped from the earth and perhaps recycled, to provide weapons for more northerners to kill other northerners. And so on and on, until he ends up drooling in a corner, railing against funny-looking lesbians from Preston.Now, while I have examined the Facebook page – it's called R.I.P RAOUL MOAT YOU LEGEND! ❤ – and detest many of its anti-police, anti-women sentiments (as if the police and women were in league together against Raoul Moat) I am not half as rattled by R.I.P RAOUL MOAT YOU LEGEND! ❤ as the prime minister and Liddle are, mostly because it is not as abnormal as they think it is. The internet is young, and we are still seeing the dazzling ways it allows hitherto muffled emotions to crackle into life.But human sympathy for a troubled man, no matter how depraved his crimes, no matter how gauchely the sympathy is expressed – and I smell the stench of metropolitan snobbery here – is normal and healthy. Before he killed himself Moat, in a dark puddle of babyish self-hatred and – who knows? – regret, wrote: "Always in my adult life I have felt alone, estranged from my entire family, and needing to belong somewhere but never did ... all my life I wanted death."And death was what he got, by his own hand, near a storm drain in Rothbury, barracked and screamed at by onlookers. I can't condemn a childhood friend of Moat for leaving a bunch of flowers, and neither should the prime minister. Full stop. End of story.