The ballot of 126,000 frontline officers in England and Wales, rejecting government proposals for new pay and conditions by a 10 to one margin, can also be seen as a "no" to government plans for wider reform of British policing, particularly in the light of the very high turnout.But widespread reform in many areas is long overdue, and will be welcomed by many officers. Outmoded practices need to be abolished, and modern and effective management procedures introduced. Numerous operational suggestions are sensible and compelling. Less positive, however, are the changes proposed to officers' pay and employment conditions rejected in the ballot. The apparent ambiguities and arbitrariness surrounding the ways in which new pay deals would be determined were a significant factor in the resounding "no" vote, announced today. The Police Federation chairman, Fred Broughton, said: "The questions about the discretionary money to be distributed ... and the detail of these proposals have ... been a major part of the rejection."More unpopular still, the government offer greatly reduces overtime payments - a large proportion of most officers' overall income. Some allowances, while more difficult to justify, will disappear. Compensatory bonuses in "outstanding" situations, or to "outstanding" officers, are unlikely. They would be divisive, as well as payable at the discretion of the local commander, and from the local budget. At a time of growing recognition that police and other key public workers are underpaid, the Home Office is suggesting that the overall salary of police officers should actually be cut. No employee, public or private, would be happy with this situation. The offer is also unlikely to result in improved recruitment and retention of good officers. As with most employees, pay and conditions are the greatest anxiety for police workers. Elsewhere in the government reform proposals, however, are suggestions to concern police and public alike. A senior federation official has described civilian wardens as "the most dangerous and objectionable" of all the reform proposals. Objections do not concern using wardens as such, but involve the possibility of giving police powers to those unsuitable, and untrained, to be police officers. Would anyone perform a police officer's duties, with half the salary and even less status, were they considered suitable to be the real thing? The government suggests wardens may be able to use physical force to stop, search or detain the public. Carrying out these functions safely will probably eventually necessitate them carrying, and sometimes using, batons, CS spray, and handcuffs, even though this has recently been ruled out. Supporters of the white paper on police reform, published in December 2001, should consider this proposal carefully. Wardens are part of a raft of measures seen as providing policing on the cheap.Another is for arrested suspects to be handed to a civilian case manager responsible for interviews, enquiries, and virtually every other function currently performed by an experienced detective, or the arresting officer himself. Such de-skilling threatens to relegate the functions, and in time the pay, of police officers to those of merely a highly visible uniform carrier - required only to carry out arrests, and to be seen in public as much as possible. For, while one clear strand of the white paper is to cut costs, another is to mark the passage of a quiet revolution in the emphasis of police work. While crime levels generally have fallen, fear of crime has increased. Crimes the public most fear, such as street robbery, continue to soar. The public is now to be reassured by maximising a "visible police presence" - the populist comfort blanket of bobbies on the beat. Measures to tackle fear of crime may, however, reduce police ability to reduce and detect actual crime - until now their primary function. Researchers and officers know, for example, that uniformed patrolling is amongst the least effective methods of combating street robbery and similar crimes. In future of course, many of those patrolling in uniform will not be police. They will be wardens, security guards and others whom the white paper comfortingly describes as the "extended police family". As further reassurance, record numbers of real officers are predicted. Many of these will appear in statistics, but rarely in communities, as any minimum time that an officer should work (currently 16 hours per week) is to be abolished. The ending of the requirement for a police officer to be a British citizen will also allow forces to recruit abroad, bringing the police into line with teaching and nursing. David Blunkett may be hoping that, as with his recent terrorism bill, the rejection of some outlandish proposals will guarantee the acceptance of the remainder. He writes: "Police officers need to be used for their key role - catching criminals and providing reassurance." Much of the white paper is a balanced and well argued attempt to tackle police failings, and will assist this aim. Parts, however, may not. They threaten not only the entrenched interests of officers, but also police morale, effectiveness and accountability, and therefore the wider interests of society. As with Sheehy almost a decade ago, it may once more be time for the public to listen to what the federation has to say. · Charles Shoebridge was a serving Metropolitan police officer from 1988 to 2000