 A plot with suspected links to Islamic State intended marauding armed terrorists to attack London weeks before the January 2015 atrocities in Paris.The French capital was the first in Europe to be struck by roaming gunmen, with the terrorists starting their killing spree at the magazine Charlie Hebdo, before making their getaway, prompting a huge manhunt.Two convicted over moped drive-by London terror plot The British plot was thwarted in October 2014 and involved Tarik Hassane and at least one other young man from west London, under direction from overseas. Hassane and his schoolfriend Suhaib Majeed were convicted at the Old Bailey.The suspects had been watched for several months. When they took possession of a firearm, intelligence chiefs and senior detectives from Scotland Yard’s counter-terrorism command met at a tense executive liaison group. The west London youths were also attempting to get the money to buy a moped.Police and MI5 decided that the plot could not be allowed to run any longer, that the threat to public safety – of the terrorists slipping the net and executing their attack plan – was too high. Police were sent in to make the first series of arrests.Commander Dean Haydon, Scotland Yard’s head of counter-terrorism, said: “It does draw parallels with Paris. The attackers were intent on murder, intent on using a firearm, intent on causing fear, distress, disorder in a particular part of west London.”British counter-terrorism officials view the plot as the most significant they have disrupted since 2006, when they stopped terrorists blowing several planes out of the sky.Since then one attack on British soil has claimed a life, the 2013 knife murder of the soldier Lee Rigby. The plot Hassane led represented an escalation in how many people the terrorists hoped to kill and in terms of sophistication.Haydon said: “This is an elevation of complexity ... committing a drive-by shooting, acquiring a firearm, silencer and ammunition, in broad daylight targeting police, military and members of the public before making their getaway.”The Guardian understands that Hassane, 22, is believed to have visited Isis-controlled territory in Syria, and the plot is also believed to have been aided by someone overseas.When police stormed one address, the British-based organiser of the plot, Hassane’s friend Majeed, tossed a self-loading Baikal pistol, magazine and silencer from his bedroom window.In encrypted messages the group had called itself “the turnup terror squad” and demonstrated its extremist mindset.The convictions drive home the claims from security officials and government of the severe threat Isis poses to the UK.But the criminal justice process does not focus on why, yet again, young Britons threw away the opportunities they had in pursuit of violent jihad.Hassane had a promising future. He had grown up on a council estate, and through hard work, the love and support from his family, and his own determination, had been on the cusp of realising his dream to be a doctor.He threw it all away for Isis and its vision of a pan-national state ruled by murder and sadism.Isis, as al-Qaida before it, has proven its ability to reach into the streets and Muslim communities of Britain, and tear away the country’s young.At the age of 16, Hassane was football mad. In a video filmed seven years ago, he gives an insight into his background as he talks of being “broke” and playing football for an inner-city team in west London.He played for FC Kensington, and match reports show he scored for his side. In the club’s promotional video from 2009-10, Hassane said: “They let us train for free, every Wednesday, because some of us are broke.”Five years on, Hassane was leading a different type of team. With friends from school, he was planning to kill soldiers, police officers, and maybe even just whoever he could.He was so charismatic that, unusually, friends spoke out for him after his arrest in October 2014 attracted large-scale media attention.One was Wilson Weaver, a friend from Westminster City school near Buckingham Palace in central London, who said Hassane was a model citizen who had risen from a humble background to train for a career as a doctor. “He’s always been a smart kid, he was named ‘the surgeon’ at school because he wanted to be a doctor since the age of 11,” he said. “Ever since I’ve known him he’s been a Muslim and devout.”It is not known how MI5 and the police became aware of Hassane. But his social media outpourings may have been enough to attract attention. From January to April 2014, he frequently posted on the social media platform Ask.fm while in Khartoum, Sudan, where he was studying for a medical degree. The man who wanted to attack his country in the name of his religion talked openly about his extremism. He also dispensed advice on diet and marriage, and in typical British fashion, complained about the African heat.Hassane also was displaying signs of someone who had crossed the line and was supporting violence, justifying that through how he interpreted his religion.When asked “Do you want to go to jihad soon, like many of the youth?” he replied: “Of course not, I want to make money and please my parents. :)”Asked in April 2014 if he was more of a dog person or a cat person, he replied: “I’m more of a strap person.” Strap is a term for a gun.He wrote of reading extremist Islamist writings. He praised Abu Muhammad al Maqdisi, said by the US to be one of the most influential jihadi theorists, and there are frequent mentions of the writings and YouTube videos of Anwar al-Awlaki, the radical cleric linked to multiple terrorist plots against Britain and the US, who was killed in a drone strike.Hassane praised Osama bin Laden as a martyr, writing: “He’s a big mujahid. May Allah accept him as a shaheed [martyr] ameen.”He also wrote: “Muslims shouldn’t be in the UK in the first place,” and that “democracy is kufr”, and agreed it was obligatory to go to Syria.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   YouTube videos featuring the radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki were frequently mentioned by Tarik Hassane on social media. Photograph: Site Intelligence Handout/EPAHassane is believed at some stage to have gone to Isis-controlled lands in Syria, and his writings show the fervour with which he viewed the extremists: “Just for the record, those in Shaam [Syria] fighting Bashar [Assad] are more beloved to Allah than us since they are fulfilling the greatest deed in Islam and may Allah protect my tongue from ever harming the mujahideen ameen.”Police declined to comment on whether he knew other west London extremists, most notably Mohammed Emwazi, otherwise known as Jihadi John, who glorified in beheading hostages in Isis propaganda videos.Hassane wrote of attending a west London mosque from 2009, when he was aged 15, where he was influenced by older men. The mosque was Al-Manaar in west London, also attended by Emwazi and his associates. The timescale given by Hassane leaves open the possibility he was attending the mosque and moving in similar circles at the same time.In his social media discussions, Hassane wrote: “Roughly 16. Friend of mine who wasn’t practising told me to come to the masjid [mosque] to chill. I went and then met some good older practising bros. Started hanging around with them and that’s basically it.”He added: “I went and I met one of the best brothers who spoke to me about the deen in general, he didn’t make it like the whole focus of the convo, he just dropped it in here and there, met him a few more times and hamdulilah I benefited. May Allah protect the brother and accept all his efforts for this deen, ameen.”On Ask.fm the reputation of certain extremists from around the Ladbroke Grove area of west London resulted in Hassane being teased.In February 2014, one person wrote to Hassane: “Apparently grove man are not on marriage, they all to busy going jihad ... is this true? He merely replied: “OK.”As well as Hassane, Majeed, a prize-winning maths student who went on to study physics at a top London university, went to Al-Manaar mosque. The mosque, and the connections made around it, is believed to be how Emwazi met other British extremists such as Aine Davis and Alexanda Kotey, who also fled to join Isis and who are alleged to be part of a cell that oversaw the detention and beheading of western hostages in Syria.The mosque points out it has no control over who walks through its doors, with no register taken, and said it opposes extremism.