Past a short stretch of police ticker tape and down a muddy track towards a clearing in a pine forest, Morag Givens stands in silence as she observes the scene at an old sand and gravel quarry 14 miles south of Inverness.The quarter-acre site has become the crime scene for one of Scotland's most perplexing murder mysteries, that of Givens's sister, Renee MacRae, and her three-year-old son Andrew, who vanished nearly 28 years ago. Givens, now in her sixties, is supported by her husband as she focuses on the four-metre deep trench in the centre of the former Dalmagarry quarry, amid a heavy police presence. She knows it will be difficult for her if the dig proves successful but she is praying that it is, and that it provides the evidence to bring the killer to justice. 'The main thing for me is that they find the remains of Renee and Andrew,' she said. 'I know it's not going to be easy for me if that happens. It'll be very upsetting. But I have to cope with that.' It was at around 5pm on Friday, 12 November, 1976, that Renee and her son were last seen alive. Later that evening a bus driver stopped at a lay-by opposite the quarry site, on the main A9 road between Perth and Inverness, to investigate a flicker of flames. He found a burnt-out blue BMW. The only clue to what happened to the occupants was a large bloodstain in the boot. The following day, detectives traced the vehicle to a millionaire Inverness businessman, Gordon MacRae, who told police it was being used by his estranged wife, Renee, from whom he had been separated for more than a year. Mrs MacRae had told him she was travelling south to her sister's in Kilmarnock, saying she would be back by Monday afternoon to collect their elder son, Gordon, who was seven at the time, from school. However, it came to light after her disappearance that Renee had been having a secret affair with a married man, Bill MacDowell, who was her husband's company secretary and the father of Andrew. Renee had confided in her best friend, Val Steventon, that she and MacDowell were planning to run away to the Shetland Islands to start a new life. On the day they vanished, Renee had been planning to meet MacDowell and spend the weekend with him in Perth, where he and Andrew were to get to know one another. MacDowell, who now lives in Wandsworth, London, with his wife, Rosemary, told police he had a change of heart and decided not to meet Renee. Last week, he broke his 28-year silence, reportedly telling the Sunday Mail he didn't commit the crime and adding that the police should be looking somewhere else. The tangled web of intrigue and suspicion does not end there. Earlier this year, former police sergeant John Cathcart, who worked on the initial investigation, told the Grampian Television documentary, Unsolved: Getting Away With Murder, he was 99.99 per cent certain the bodies were in the quarry. During a search there in April 1977 he said he could smell decomposing human remains. The following day, his superiors told him to stop digging and abandon the search. Cathcart, now 70, said the decision has haunted him since. 'No reason was ever given,' he said. 'The machine we were hiring had to go back so I assumed it was financial. I was a sergeant, working in a rank-structured job. If the superintendent said jump, you jumped. You didn't argue.' There were also witnesses who reported seeing a man dragging a sheep into the quarry - Renee was wearing a sheepskin coat when she vanished - and a man wheeling a pushchair along the A9. The decision to reopen the case was partly down to Cathcart's statements in the documentary, coupled with advances in forensic science. Among those working on the excavation are Professor Sue Black of Dundee University, an internationally renowned forensic scientist, and Professor John Hunter of Birmingham University. They are part of the Centre for International Forensic Assistance, which has carried out war crime investigations in Iraq, Bosnia and Kosovo. Detective Superintendent Gordon Urquhart, head of CID at Northern Constabulary, is in charge of the investigation. He thinks there is a good chance remains will be found. Only then will Givens get some closure. 'At the moment, I only have a bench in the cemetery where my mother and father are. I often go there and sit and think. It's very difficult, not knowing where Renee and Andrew are. It would mean so much to be able to give them a proper burial.'