With her violent ex-boyfriend knocking down the front door and threatening to kill her, Clare Wood made a desperate 999 call to the police. She had previously accused George Appleton of harassment, sexual assault and criminal damage – yet it took Greater Manchester police 24 hours to respond to her emergency call. This delay, due to the lack of police patrols, was one of many "individual and systemic failures" found by the independent inquiry once Wood had been strangled and set on fire by her former partner in 2009.Appleton had a history of violence against women, including time in prison, a fact that led Wood's family to campaign for the right for those worried about a partner's abusive behaviour to be told about their criminal record. The announcement on Monday that Clare's law, as the subsequent right to know has been called, is to be rolled out nationally came on a day officially designated as International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women.However, without a better response from police nationally to allegations of domestic violence, Clare's law is unlikely to eliminate anything. If a woman is worried enough to go to the police and ask whether their partner has a previous record, odds are that she already has serious doubts about him. Wood certainly did.According to the Crime Survey for England and Wales 1.2 million women and 800,000 men reported being victims of domestic abuse last year, up 10% in the past three years. Conviction rates are at their highest recorded levels. Yet, incredibly, the number of cases the police refer for prosecution has fallen by 13%. There are huge discrepancies across the country, with some police authorities acting early enough to gather vital evidence while others do not.The Labour party believes a 20% fall in police budgets since 2010 could be to blame. Shadow attorney general Emily Thornberry says: "It's much easier to prosecute a shoplifter."Perhaps more worryingly, funding for women's services running refuges and domestic violence support centres has been cut by 31% in the past two years.So what good will Clare's law actually do? Once they find out their partner's violent history, what help does the law give women if refuges are closing? In Wood's case, even a panic alarm at home failed to help. The Independent Police Complaints Commission report into the handling of Wood's case stated: "Women suffering domestic violence should not feel scared to approach the force for help." Which seems to be a starter for 10. Once they go to the police, women should also be confident that the police will do all they can to help. And there are already laws for that.