When I wrote on Cif recently about the shocking murder of Halton McCollin, I was taken to task by several comments for declining to offer instant solutions to the problems of gun and gang crime. It is an understandable request. We can all express our horror at brutal murders, and our condemnation of violent criminals without getting our shoes muddy. I'm the last person who would adhere to the John Major maxim: "Society needs to condemn a little more and understand a little less."But then I was raised in an era of academic understanding. My psychology degree, undertaken in the mid-1980s, was firmly rooted in a tradition of individual determinism: if we can understand the reasons why individuals behave as they do, we can better hope to influence them to their own and society's benefit. Criminality would be discussed within modules with titles like "Abnormality and Deviance".Since then the traditions of psychological and sociological determinism have come under assault from the unlikely field of economics, in particular ideas which germinated at the University of Chicago under Nobel Laureate Gary Becker, before flowering in mass consciousness in 2005 with the publication of Levitt and Dubner's bestseller, Freakonomics.Rational Choice Theory (RCT), as advocated by Becker and his disciples, has seared deep into public discourse, influencing the opinions of bloggers, bureaucrats and politicians alike - including many who are unaware of the theoretical skeleton of their stance. The theory dispenses with the need for individual explanations, causes or motivations for behaviour and simply assumes for convenience that every human action is a matter of rational choice. In the case of criminality, a sane person consciously or unconsciously weighs up the foreseen benefits of committing a crime against the perceived risks of getting caught and the foreseen consequences if convicted. How the individual got to the point of making that decision - however psychologically damaged, brutalised or just plain wicked he or she may be - is irrelevant in terms of policy.The theory is immensely popular with those on the political right, not least because it gives them free rein to condemn a little more and understand a little less. However (tempting though it may be), that is no reason to reject it. One of the inadvertent stars of Freakonomics was a young sociology student called Sudhir Venkatesh, who studied the practices of a ruthless Chicago gang for his graduate studies and was puzzled to learn that most crack dealers live with their moms. The reason? They actually earned less than the minimum wage. Venkatesh has just published a book that expands on his experiences, Gang Leader for a Day.It is an eyepopping, engaging and surprisingly funny book. In intimate detail Venkatesh illuminates and dissects the choices made daily by residents of Chicago's Robert Taylor Homes project. These are rational choices made to get by: to hustle, deal, pimp, steal and sometimes even kill.Venkatesh's book adds to a significant canon of research into the gangs of the USA. But how relevant is it to the British experience? Unfortunately there just isn't the body of research here to know for sure, but there are many obvious differences. British gangs (to my knowledge) have nothing like the depth of organisation of Chicago's Black Kings. They are less embedded in communities, have less history, their tentacles have less reach into every aspect of life on our estates. But there are similarities too in the stories of young lives gone awry, of hope amid the chaos, and hopelessness amid the desolation.Does Venkatesh give us any clues as to why young British people join street gangs, and more importantly, what we might do to dissuade them from doing so? Not directly. However his unprejudiced, non-judgmental, observational style does give us a useful way of approaching the question, while RCT may give us a tool to begin scratching for answers. Might it help our understanding of youth crime to consider it as an entirely rational choice?I'm not an instinctive admirer of RCT. When we examine people as data sets rather than individuals, we lose sight of their humanity. Psychology, though still a young social science, is not an impenetrable mystery, and society would benefit in many respects from understanding and applying its principles. Many members of our society make decisions that are objectively irrational or self-destructive. Nonetheless, when it comes to policymaking, it makes sense to seek solutions beyond placing a cognitive-behavioural therapist on every corner. The aim is neither to understand a little less nor to condemn a little more, but to change policy in ways that will make the choice to adopt serious criminality less rational.This is the first on two articles for Cif. In the second one, I shall attempt to channel the spirit of Venkatesh, Levitt and Dubner, leave all mentions of morality, values, psychology and politics to one side, and get a little bit Freakonomic on you all.