A mother of three who stabbed her abusive husband to death had her murder sentence quashed at the appeal court yesterday and replaced with manslaughter.Donna Tinker, 31, will serve seven years rather than life after an appeal in which her nine-year-old daughter said she saw her father, Richard, threaten her mother with a hot iron before she attacked him with a vegetable knife. Women's groups welcomed the decision, saying the case highlighted the way that police, the crown prosecution service and the courts remained unsympathetic to abused women who turn on their partners. The court had heard the relationship between Tinker, a care assistant in a nursing home, and her husband, a kitchen assembler, was "somewhat tempestuous." He was a cannabis addict and suspected his wife was unfaithful. Shortly before his death in June 1999, a neighbour noticed on two occasions that she had suffered injuries to her head, back and arm. Before the fatal attack the couple had been drinking at a local pub. They returned to the family home in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, but in the evening Mr Tinker ran to a neighbour's, blood dripping from a wound to his back. He told the neighbour he had been stabbed and asked her to summon help. He also asked the neighbour to tell his wife he loved her, and then collapsed. He died five days later. At first Tinker, 31, told police she had hit her husband with a lamp after he "booted her in the face". Later she changed her story, saying he pushed her against the kitchen sink and held her from behind with an iron poised as though to burn her face. Tinker said she saw the knife on a draining board and picked it up. He let go of her and she lashed out at him. In April 2000 a jury at Leeds crown court rejected her defence of provocation and convicted her of murder. She was jailed for life. During the two day appeal, Tinker's daughter, Natalie, who was five at the time of her father's death, gave evidence via video link. She claimed she had watched the dispute between her parents through a kitchen hatch and saw her father brandish the iron. The appeal judges rejected Natalie's evidence, arguing that she would not have been tall enough to see through the hatch. However, the court accepted that when he summed up the case, the trial judge, Mr Justice Smedley, did not properly direct the jury on how it should treat Tinker's lies to police when she was first questioned. Counsel for Tinker, Vera Baird QC, told the judges her client was "devastated" at her husband's death and was "still in love with him". She asked the judges to pass a sentence which would mean that she could be freed at once and reunited with her children. Lord Justice Kennedy said that while she may have been physically and verbally abused, the court did not accept she had been threatened with an iron just before the killing. "Nothing that happened justified the picking up of a knife and using it with at least moderate force to plunge it at least four inches into the back of her husband." The seven-year sentence means Tinker will probably serve around another 12 months. Outside court, Tinker's father, Alan Hall, said the family was pleased the murder conviction had been quashed but believed the seven year sentence was "excessive". He added: "At least she will now know when she is getting out."