Tony Blair yesterday made one of his most humiliating climbdowns when he was forced by a revolt of Britain's top police officers to abandon his plan for £100 instant fines to tackle drunken louts only 72 hours after its launch.The fatal crash-landing of the high-profile law and order initiative was all the more painful for Mr Blair because it had been developed in Downing Street as a cure to the cabinet's bout of "post-Women's Institute tension", which has seen rows over Europe and the royal family and criticism of the Blair style by the Labour-supporting novelist Ken Follett. "One or two chief constables said it was not a goer," said the Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, after a two hour Downing Street "seminar" to discuss the rise in violent crime. "The prime minister was using a metaphor when he spoke about young hooligans being frogmarched to cashpoints. The discussion focused on fixed penalty fines. The idea of the police collecting money did not seem a feasible thing to do," said the minister. In place of on-the-spot fines the police said they were keen to look at ideas such as fixed penalty tickets, which can be challenged in court, to tackle growing volumes of low level violent crime such as minor robbery and fighting. "We do not want to see any change in the practice where magistrates' courts are seen as the appropriate forum for collecting fines. We want to find ways of intervening in a more simple way," said Sir John Evans, chief constable of Avon and Somerset and chairman of the Association of Chief Police Officers. He said the police favoured penalties which simplified the justice process and did not involve going to court. Fixed penalty fines might work to tackle low level disorder: "The person would be arrested, taken to the police station and, if appropriate, a fixed penalty ticket might be issued. It would allow the officer to be back on the street without hav ing to go through the bureaucracy of a court appearance." Other ideas "kicked around" during the seminar included extending bans on drinking in public places and introducing attendance centres where louts could be sent on arrest to cool their heels. The extension of powers to ban public drinking would involve giving back to police the power of arrest of anybody they see drinking but who is not yet drunk. In the past this has foundered on the fact that it bans both the white wine country picnic as well as alcoholics in the local park. Ann Widdecombe, the shadow home secretary, last night said the episode had been a humiliating climbdown for Mr Blair: "Anyone with an ounce of common sense would have seen that this scheme was unworkable."