Alan Johnson would never use a wonkish phrase like "evidence-based policymaking". But despite his plain-speaking style, the home secretary's remarks on antisocial behaviour had – until yesterday – indicated a pressing need to spend rather more time with the facts. In a Guardian interview in September he gave the impression that he was more concerned with the number of antisocial behaviour orders issued than the detail of whether they worked. And at Labour's conference he pledged "to ensure that any breach of an asbo is prosecuted", although he seemed to lack any plan to do this.The orders are always costly, are breached more often than not and can serve as a trapdoor to prison. Even if they are useful in rare cases, these are powerful reasons to worry about cavalier enthusiasm. The decidedly modest anti-thuggery measures announced yesterday – extended witness support plus 85 new "victim champions" – are thus rather less important than the welcome change in tone. Mr Johnson has at last done his homework, and now stresses using the current law more smartly, not legislating afresh. There was also a belated recognition that asbos are only one of a range of ways to tackle the bullying, intimidation and vandalism that blights so many lives.The National Audit Office's evaluation of the various options suggests that asbo alternatives, such as acceptable behaviour contracts, are both cheaper and less often associated with repeated bad behaviour. In part that may be because asbos are held in reserve for the worst transgressors, but at over £3,000 a throw there is every reason to use them sparingly indeed. The recent history of criminal justice in the UK is of punishing ministerial words translating into excessively punitive decisions in the courts. Whatever the policy, the resurgence of tough rhetoric on antisocial behaviour – a resurgence following the lull that arose when the previous home secretary misdirected all energies into jailing terrorism suspects without charge – could do real damage if magistrates regarded it as a crude demand for extra asbos.There is also a political argument for keeping the language cool. The Home Office yesterday pointed to solid evidence that fears of antisocial behaviour had eased. Fears, however, could soon flare back up if the public regards the loudly proclaimed solution of a crackdown as evidence of a problem. The murder rate is at a 20-year low, and even the most sceptical voters should understand that this is one figure that cannot be fiddled; the police, after all, count the bodies. Ministers truly ready to think the unthinkable on crime and disorder might just consider running a positive campaign – one stressing that Britain is now safer than it was.