Two men were jailed for life yesterday for the murder of a faith healer who took money from clients but failed to fulfil his promises. The victim offered cures for everything from immigration problems to infertility and baldness in exchange for large sums.Tariq Malik, 29, and Imran Khan, 27, both from Luton, were given life sentences for the murder of Alfusaine Jabbi, 22, a Gambian who operated under the name of Mr Wahib. Malik must serve a minimum of 22 years and Khan 20 years. Jabbi, also known as Abdula and Mohammed Ali, arrived in Britain in 2003 after living first in Mali and then in France. He set himself up as a faith healer, advertising his services as Mr Wahib on business cards and in magazines aimed at the west African community. "This man clearly led a double life," said Detective Superintendent Keith Garwood, who headed the investigation. "On one hand he was the much-loved son known as Abdula, with a family living thousands of miles away, and on the other, a businessman called Mr Wahib, trying to make a living as a faith healer within the Muslim community."His business card promised: "Nobody can beat Mr Wahib!!!" and assured potential clients that "all your problems will be solved forever and all your wishes will be fulfilled in seven days guaranteed".Among the problems he promised to solve were sexual impotence, exams, baldness, anything concerning business or finance, depression and "domestic problems regarding husband and wife".He sometimes asked to receive his payments wrapped in women's underwear, Luton crown court heard, and he would promise to sacrifice a camel in Gambia in exchange for money, something his clients would have to take on trust. The court heard that Jabbi had received £14,000 from a woman seeking assistance in solving what were believed to be a variety of health and employment problems. It would appear that his promises had not been fulfilled and she wanted her money back. She made frantic attempts to contact him, on one occasion phoning him 145 times in a single day.Finally, Jabbi was lured to a house where he was tied up, beaten and stabbed to death. Salt was rubbed into his wounds to increase the pain and his body was dumped in Leagrave Park, Luton, where it was later found by a cyclist."This was a truly appalling crime," Judge John Bevan QC told the guilty men. "Alfusaine Jabbi was clearly a confidence trickster who took advantage of vulnerable people. But no amount of money stolen entitled you to behave towards him as you did." Malik's brother Khalid Malik, 28, was found guilty of perverting the course of justice by giving false information. He was cleared of murder, conspiracy to imprison and of perverting the course of justice and jailed for two and a half years. Guhar Mirza, 27, the wife of Tariq Malik, was found guilty of two charges of perverting the course of justice and was jailed for 18 months. Rubina Shah, 38, who was found not guilty of conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm with intent, but guilty of conspiracy to imprison, will be sentenced at a later date. Bedfordshire police said last night they were still seeking two people in connection with the murder.Last June trading standards officials in Sandwell in the West Midlands warned members of Asian communities to beware of unscrupulous faith healers, after receiving a spate of complaints from consumers who spent large sums of money on spiritual healers. One family gave £16,000 to a faith healer who claimed that a family member was possessed by black magic that would kill her and her daughters if he did not go up a mountain to pray for them, said the council.