Crime figures are, without doubt, the most controversial statistics that any politician can bandy about during a general election campaign. Commentators love to quote the old political saw that there are "lies, damned lies and crime statistics". The politicians do their best to live up to the billing.The Conservatives tell us that violent crime has gone up under Labour with a million violent crimes a year and a hundred serious knife crimes every day. Labour tell us that since they came to power crime has fallen by 36% (6m fewer crimes) including a 41% fall in violent crime. The Liberal Democrats sidestep this blunt contradiction by simply stating that "crime is far too high and too many people don't feel safe — in their homes and in their town centres."The Tories are right to say that the violent crime figures as recorded by the police have gone up since the late 1990s. But the UK statistics authority were equally right to point out that it is misleading to the public to say that the violent crime figures have gone up without pointing that this is largely because of changes in the way police record violent offences not because there are more people lying in the gutter bleeding on a Saturday night. In fact one of the most remarkable and unheralded changes in the pattern of crime in England and Wales has been the huge decline in the once-hidden offence of domestic violence over the past decade.For that matter Labour's claim that crime has fallen since 1997 is not quite the whole story either. The long relentless rise of about 5% a year in "crimes known to the police" from the end of the First World War as the crime rate in England and Wales was calculated actually came to an end in 1995 — two years before Tony Blair promised to be "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime."But the structure of the crime figures themselves do very little to help the average voter through the myriad of emotional controversies that rage over law and order. There are two major sources of crime data. The police recorded crime figures which have gone through major changes in the way they are compiled to more accurately reflect the number of victims.The second measure is the British Crime Survey, which incidentally was set up by the Conservatives in 1981 but despite its name does not cover Scotland or Northern Ireland. The BCS, based on interviews with 40,000 people each year about their experience of crime, is regarded by Home Office criminologists as the more authoritative of national crime trends although the police figures have different strengths and weaknesses.A recent report by Home Office crime adviser, Louise Casey, concluded that the public had lost trust in official crime statistics and called for more local information about crime. New techniques of crime mapping means that more than ever before your neighbourhood crime picture is available at a touch of a button. But while fear of crime has fallen locally the lack of clarity about what is happening to the national crime rate continues to stoke the punitive atmosphere of the debate over law and order. We hope this factfile will help you decide.Download the data• DATA: download the full supplement datasheet (XLS)World government data• Search the world's government data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk• Get the A-Z of data• More at the Datastore directory• Follow us on Twitter