A 78-year-old former teacher who was sexually assaulted has won the right to sue her attacker for a share of his £7m lottery winnings - 20 years after the crime was committed.The High Court judgment against the convicted rapist Iorworth Hoare sets a powerful precedent for claimants previously defeated by time-limited regulations. The ruling could, it is claimed, encourage victims previously deterred from bringing cases to initiate class actions against local authorities, churches and other institutions.Mr Justice Coulson denied that his decision - allowing the pensioner to pursue a claim for damages - would open the floodgates to litigation. He insisted that the circumstances of the former teacher, known to the court only as Mrs A, were highly unusual. The woman claims she suffered psychological injures after Hoare attacked her in Roundhay Park, Leeds, in 1988. Hoare, 59, was convicted of attempted rape and jailed for life - he had six previous convictions for rape, attempted rape and indecent assault - and spent 16 years in prison. While on day release from prison in August 2004 he bought a winning Lotto Extra ticket. Earlier this year Mrs A won a landmark ruling from the Law Lords that, in cases of serious assault, courts had a discretion to extend the usual six-year limit within which compensation claims must be brought. Yesterday's decision was one of the first applications of the House of Lords ruling. Mr Justice Coulson said there were factors in Hoare's favour - the length of the delay in suing, the difficulties he might face regarding production of defence evidence in the light of the delay and the fact that Mrs A had already received £5,000 from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Board.But, he said, those in Mrs A's favour carried far greater weight. It was a serious assault. As a result of his conviction Hoare was given a life jail sentence which rendered him incapable of earning a living and therefore not worth suing at the time. His lack of funds prior to his lottery win meant he was not worth pursuing for damages, the judge explained. This was the main reason for the delay in bringing the action. Such delay was reasonable given that Hoare was penniless at the time, Mr Justice Coulson added. Mrs A's case was "wholly exceptional" and such circumstances would rarely arise. "It will be even rarer for such a defendant, years later, to buy a lottery ticket which wins him £7m or otherwise come into an unexpected fortune which makes him suddenly worth pursuing after all," the judge said. He ordered an urgent trial of Mrs A's damages action if no settlement is reached. Mrs A says she still suffers from nightmares and that the brutality of the assault destroyed her self-esteem and wrecked her relationships. Hoare, released from prison in 2005, is reported to live in a £700,000 house near Newcastle.Jonathan Wheeler of London solicitors Bolt Burdon Kemp, who acted for successful claimants in the House of Lords judgment, said he was now personally processing up to 25 new cases previously debarred by time limits. "There's a lot of work there," he said. "This judgment shows how the House of Lords ruling is going to be applied."He is preparing cases against organisations as diverse as local government authorities, army cadet groups, scout movements and churches."Now all you need to do is prove [for example] that someone was employed in the capacity of looking after children and that they were convicted."