Three people have been arrested in Spain over the kidnapping of Sahil Saeed in Pakistan. They are suspected of being linked to the transfer of ransom money.Two Pakistanis and a Romanian woman were arrested on Monday in the town of Constantí, near the north-eastern city of Tarragona, said the Diari de Tarragona newspaper.All three would appear before a judge , an official from the superior court of Catalonia told the Press Association.Sources close to the investigation told El País that Spanish police had co-ordinated their work with counterparts in Britain and Pakistan.Sahil, aged five, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, was found by locals wandering alone and apparently unharmed in a field . Twelve days earlier he was snatched by gunmen while on holiday in Punjab with his father, Raja Naqqash Saeed.Saeed was taken as he and his father prepared to leave for the airport to fly home after a holiday with relatives in Jhelum. His father said the kidnappers had demanded £100,000.Diari de Tarragona quoted neighbours as saying police had discovered a large sum of money in the flat where the arrests were carried out. The same neighbours claimed to have overheard police saying they had recovered most of the ransom cash."We can't confirm or deny the news," said a police spokesman in nearby Barcelona.Diari de Tarragona said three people were believed to have travelled to an unnamed city in Europe to pick up the ransom money.Rana Sanaullah, the Punjab law minister, had said he believed a ransom demand of £100,000 was paid by Sahil's father and told a local TV station the money had been paid "not in Britain but in another country"."We are trying to bust this gang with the help of other countries," Sanaullah said.Sahil's return to Britain is being organised by the British high commission in Islamabad. His mother, Akila Naqqash, 31, has spoken to him by telephone.After his rescue Sahil was taken back to Jhelum for a brief hearing before a magistrates court, a legal procedure that is necessary in kidnapping cases.Sahil told the court he was kept in a village and looked after by a woman throughout, according to court sources. He said the kidnappers took him horseriding and for rides on a donkey cart. He was given a little cycle to play on and a toy gun.He was accompanied to the court by British officials and his uncle, Rizwan, for the 11-minute hearing. He was then driven back to Islamabad, about 90 minutes away, where he is staying under British protection with his grandmother Tasneem and uncle Rizwan. His father is expected to arrive in Islamabad tomorrow.