What better way to alienate further those involved in the riots than to dismiss them as members of a "feral underclass" (Punish the feral rioters, but address our social deficit too, 6 September)? Describing people in such dehumanising terms will undermine any attempts to address the "social deficit" identified by Ken Clarke. Moreover, he should be seeking the sources of this social deficit in the wider society. Clarke calls for "an attitude that shares in the values of mainstream society" on the one hand but acknowledges that the so-called underclass "are cut off from the mainstream in everything but its materialism" on the other. This materialism is manifest most plainly by the feral elite who have the resources to indulge it. Addressing the social deficit must involve confronting the rampant inequality and materialism that disfigure our society.Ruth ListerLabour, House of Lords • Ken Clarke may believe that radically overhauling the penal system will remove the risks of rioting from our streets, but he is wrong. His article shows a frightening lack of knowledge of the history of penal policy in this country. Consider this statement: the most effective cure for crime "is to remove its causes, which often have their origin in the social condition and more often in the absence or weakening of those moral restraints by which society is kept together". Not our Ken but Sir Edmund Du Cane, the 19th-century head of the prison system (writing in 1885). He advocated tougher regimes and would have applauded the current justice minister's call to make jails "places of productive hard work". From mid-century Du Cane implemented his policy of "hard labour, hard board and hard fare", forcing hundreds of thousands of offenders to endure treadmills, meagre diets and broken sleep. The result was not to reform morals but to entrench criminality and the stigma of imprisonment.Locking people up doesn't work – it never has, and never will, be appropriate for the majority of offenders. There is another historical continuum which Ken might care to consider. Penal policy changes with each passing political agenda and every new home secretary, but one thing remains constant: economic and social inequality. Ken can bang on about the "criminal classes" for as long as he likes, but until his government makes real efforts to address the gulf between the haves and have-nots in our society, riots and criminality will continue to interrupt the cosy summer holidays of our nations' rulers.Drew GraySenior lecturer in the history of crime, University of Northampton• Ken Clarke is right to go beyond the normal hang 'em and flog 'em rhetoric following the recent riots and look to help rather than simply punish the most problematic families. So too was Iain Duncan Smith in his analysis that early intervention can demonstrate real improvements in behaviour by solving problems before they happen. As one of the pilots for the Family Recovery Programme, we have seen increased attendance in schools as well as reduced youth offending while saving the public purse.However, the real key to unlocking the potential of our most at risk families is to get them to open up and acknowledge that they need help. Only by doing this at a local level as well as getting all the partners – police, health and social workers – to work intensively together, can we be successful in the long term.Cllr Nickie AikenCabinet member for children and young people, Westminster council • "Three-quarters of the adults charged already had a conviction". Isn't there just a possibility that the number of those arrested and charged was biased towards those that the police and other authorities already knew and so were more easy to identify from the video and verbal information that was available?Ron BrewerOld Buckenham, Norfolk• Does Ken Clarke realise that by describing rioters as coming from a "feral underclass cut off from society" he has devised the acronym "fucofs"?Toby WoodPeterborough, Cambridgeshire• Ken Clarke is right to blame our penal system for the high percentage of reoffenders involved in last month's riots. It is a shocking fact that more than seven out of every 10 short sentence offenders leaving British prisons are reconvicted within two years. Prisons have long been an expensive failure. This is bad for communities, bad for families and also bad for the taxpayer – and that's why payment by results is an excellent way of driving down reoffending rates. The government's proposed reforms are the right way forward, but risk being frustrated by effects of prison overcrowding and facilities in the wrong places. With around one in three prisoners incarcerated more than 100 miles from home and around 135,000 transferred to other prisons every year, community-based organisations can't work with them meaningfully before and after their release to rehabilitate them. This prisoner "churn" needs to stop. Reforming the prison estate so that short sentence offenders – those most likely to reoffend – are held and resettled entirely within their home region would achieve this. But both of these things are expensive and require more prisons. Mr Clarke knows the destination and has the right vehicle to get there, but in a time of austerity, can he afford the petrol?Ian MulheirnDirector, Social Market Foundation• If the criminal justice system is broken it is not because it fails to rehabilitate criminals but because it fails to punish them. That is why the rioters did not expect the police to go after them so systematically or the courts to deny them bail and impose exemplary prison sentences. By rediscovering its punitive and deterrent purposes, the system stopped the rioters in their tracks. They will now think twice before they repeat offend. No doubt there are underlying problems which need to be addressed, but it is not the criminal justice system that is broken but the habitually and incorrigibly criminalised underclass which may be beyond mending. Ken Clarke should let the police and courts get on with their job, and put the blame where it ought to go.Keith BurdCollingham, Nottinghamshire