A grammar school pupil who went from A-grade student to triad gangster was jailed today for his part in the death of a man during a punishment beating. Jerome Castrillo was 17 when he went with three members of the Chinese gang to teach Mick McGrath, 57, a lesson. But Castrillo, now 18, was convicted of McGrath's manslaughter and given four years' youth detention at the Old Bailey.Judge Martin Stephens told him: "You were doing well at school, you had the enormous privilege to have a good family, good friends and every prospect of a decent, happy and successful life. You allowed yourself to be seduced into joining a criminal organisation with the prospect of gaining finance from fraud."He said Castrillo had done a "terrible thing" in going along with the others knowing some violence would be used – but was young enough to pick up his life.Drug dealer Ryan Parker-Saunders, 23, of West Norwood, south London, driver Cho Wei Leong, 22, of Haringey, north London, and Yu Xiang Liu, 25, a Soho restaurant manager, were found guilty of murder. They were jailed for life with minimum terms of 16 years. Leong and Liu were recommended for deportation to China after serving their terms.Castrillo, a pupil at top state school Latymer, in Enfield, said he was recruited by older boys in the upper sixth form. Within a year he was in the dock accused of killing McGrath, a former drug dealer.McGrath, a former multimillionaire, had fallen on hard times after being jailed for drug importation and becoming hooked on heroin in jail. It was after McGrath was found to be stealing drugs from a triad gang that Castrillo and other triads went in to punish him at his home in Charlton, south London. McGrath was found dead in November last year from head injuries after being struck with a vase while being beaten.Castrillo told the court he had been lured into the gang a year ago by the promise of parties with girls and free drinks in Chinatown. He went to the China City restaurant and became initiated into the Wo Shing Wo, or SW, triad gang.Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting, said it was hard to believe that Castrillo had gone off the rails. "He was a 17-year-old, living with his parents and two younger brothers and in the sixth form studying for A-levels in maths, history and media studies," he said.Aylett said the accused were traced from DNA on cigarette butts in the flat, where £800 worth of drugs had gone missing.Castrillo said neither he nor members of his family had been in trouble before. His mother worked in a school office and his stepfather in a Post Office. He said he went to a grammar school and had nine GCSEs – five at grade A and one at A*.He said he agreed to join the gang because he thought he would have a good time. But he added: "A few weeks or a month after I joined, I realised it was not some small street gang."He was asked to recite the three good rules – loyalty, honour and respect – and the three bad rules – gambling, drugs and women. The rest of the initiation consisted of him placing £36 in a red envelope with his triad name of Cas on it."On the tube home I had a slight sense of regret," Castrillo said. "I thought it might be all right for now, but will it still be when I am 30 with a wife and kids? I thought it was unnecessary."He had two attempts at credit card fraud but had not got the £300 he thought he was owed. He had also considered selling drugs but never got his hands on any.Detective Inspector Bob Campany said after the case: "This case highlights the danger of triads recruiting in our schools. They don't discriminate – they go for bright, intelligent, well brought-up kids with qualifications and a future. They may offer a superficial, glamorous lure, but as Castrillo found out, it can only lead to a long prison sentence."Headteachers should be vigilant at all times for the danger these organised criminal gangs pose in the playground and outside the school gates."