A man who fed a white rabbit to an alligator at a zoo in north Wales has been banned from keeping animals for 10 years and forced to undergo treatment for alcohol abuse.Damien French, 20, shocked visitors at the Welsh Mountain zoo in Colwyn Bay last October when he grabbed a rabbit from a petting zoo area, pulled out one of its ears and threw it into a pool in the alligator house.He had scaled a wall with two teenage friends to get into the zoo, and took two rabbits from the "children's farm" area after seeing a sign saying that alligators feed on small mammals in the wild.French was today given the maximum six-month custodial sentence over the incident, but Llandudno magistrates court suspended the sentence.The chairman of the bench, Alan Roberts, said: "These are serious cases and deserve a custodial sentence."He was also placed under a 12-month supervision order for his alcohol abuse treatment. The court was told that he drunk between 20 and 25 pints of lager on the evening after the incident.The zoo's administrative director, Chris Jackson, welcomed the verdict, saying that they did not feel vindictive towards French."This should send out a strong message that we will not stand idly by and let these sorts of things happen," he said.During the trial, the court was told how French took the animal from the petting zoo and jokingly threw it into the alligator enclosure from a balcony.One of the two friends who accompanied him on the rampage, aged 16 but not named for legal reasons, told the court: "We were in the alligator house and Damien said, 'He looks hungry'."He went into the other place, climbed on to a ledge and leaned over and he grabbed one of the rabbits by its ears."He said he was going to throw it to the alligators. I said, 'Don't throw it in', but he did."The court was told how a young girl walked into the enclosure, saw the rabbit between the jaws of a large male alligator called Albert, and asked: "Is that a rabbit?""It was. It was running around 10 minutes ago," one of the three replied.During the trial last month French argued that his 14-year-old friend had thrown the rabbit. "We were all laughing about it. I was laughing just because of the shock of it happening," he said. "I found it funny at the time but I feel pretty bad about it now. It's not a nice thing to have happened. I felt as guilty as the others just for being there, but I didn't touch the rabbit."The court was also told that French had later reached into a pen holding Arctic foxes and that the friends had thrown a lit cigarette at a chimpanzee.The sentence also covered two charges of criminal damage that he had already admitted, in which he smashed two shop windows in Colwyn Bay the day after the rabbit incident.French, who is unemployed, said that he had been forced to move house because of threats from animal lovers following publicity around the trial.Chris Jackson said that the zoo had received anonymous emails threatening French. "The naming and shaming will probably prove to be the greatest punishment," he said. "He's drawn attention to himself with some of the more extreme elements of the animal rights movement."