In the decadent Eighties, coming to the end of a 10-year sentence, I persuaded the governor of Oxford prison to allow me to conduct a small archaeological dig. Among the findings - shackles, chains, a rusty key, even a human thigh bone - we found scores of white clay pipes, proof (if any were needed) of an atavistic link between old lags and past centuries' equivalent of Old Holborn.Moving on a decade: one of the first places marauding prisoners broke into during the Strangeways riot was the tobacco-rich canteen. Roll-ups ruled the roost throughout that short-lived revolution. Even as we progress through the health-obsessed 'Noughties', more than 90 per cent of prisoners still smoke. So imagine the consternation when it was announced that, from 1 July, all enclosed public spaces would become, effectively, smokeless zones. 'Bird without baccy?' the cry arose. 'It's a diabolical liberty.'Tobacco (or lack of it) does strange things to certain men in prison. Take the 'swoopers', so called for their predilection to 'swoop' down on any abandoned 'butts' or 'dog ends'. Or their near relatives, the even more desperate 'T-Bag Toe Rags', who roll up reconstituted tea leaves.If prisons were to ban smoking altogether, how would they cope with the 70,000 seriously discombobulated convicts metaphorically (it is to be hoped) climbing the walls like poisoned ivy? The authorities are not that stupid. They understand why there is always far more trouble on the landings the day before the canteen comes round than the day after.Ironically, a white knight in the guise of the Prison Officers' Association arrived in the nick of time. One of the POA's members recalled a precedent that proved: 'Prison cells aren't public places.''Don't yer remember?' an old Lancastrian buffer close to retirement said. 'Them two ... ahem ... homosexuals took the governor of Preston to court after they'd bin caught 'avin' sex in their cell and charged wi' upsettin' t'good order 'n' discipline of the institution? The judge declared the internal adjudication null 'n' void. Once the door's shut, 'e said, a cell's as private a place as can be imagined.'Or so the story went. At any rate, whatever machinations may or may not have been used, come the day free men shiver in their makeshift shelters in Shepherds Bush; as they fight for their lights under woebegone windshields in Wembley; cells remain dedicated smokers' zones, private 'public' places, wholly and rightly excluded from this ludicrous new dawn.· Peter Wayne is in HMP Wandsworth