An American couple has came forward claiming to be the estranged parents of a "bogus earl" who commited a Day of the Jackal-style identity theft.The couple from Orlando, Florida, said they recognised pictures of the self-styled Earl of Buckingham, who was jailed in England for 21 months in November for stealing the identity of a baby who died in 1963.Theories about the true identity of the man without a past have circulated since he was convicted last year under his assumed name of Christopher Edward Buckingham. One story claimed that he was a spy in the former East Germany who secretly defected to the west. Another said that evidence of his true identity was kept in a Swiss safe deposit box, an echo of the plot of the thriller The Bourne Identity.But, according to Charles and Barbara Stopford, he is in fact an anglophile American citizen who was living with his grandmother before disappearing without explanation in 1983.The couple contacted the Times newspaper after seeing a photograph of Buckingham on the paper's website and noting a striking resemblance to their son."I've seen the photos and I know it is him," his father told Sky One, in a programme to be broadcast at the weekend. "Charles always had an obsession with the English, maybe because he knew that my ancestry is English. "My first feeling on seeing the pictures was relief that I knew my son was alive. I knew he travelled a lot and I always feared the worst. Then I felt confused - what is all this about? That is the biggest question and will remain the biggest question - why would he do this to us?"Kent police have asked Interpol to check his DNA and fingerprints against the records of the Stopfords' son, who was named Charles Albert Stopford.But the suggestion of espionage has not yet been eliminated. Mr Stopford also said that his son had worked for US naval intelligence before his disappearance at the age of 21.He is thought to have taken the name Christopher Buckingham from the headstone of a baby who died on a caravan holiday in 1963.After his arrest, police found notepaper in his car describing him as Lord Buckingham of Little Billing, Northamptonshire, and in his initial interview with police he claimed to have a seat in the House of Lords.During his long period of living under his assumed identity he worked as an IT consultant, married a Canadian woman and had two children.His former wife, Jody Doe, told the programme that his double life was "incredibly cruel". "I can't even begin to understand why Chris isolated us and himself from his family for all those years, or denied his children the opportunity of growing up with an extended loving family," she said.His passport was revoked in 2003 after a security trawl for documents that matched existing death certificates, but he was not arrested until Kent police noticed him using the cancelled passport when he attempted to enter the country at Dover last January.