In the good old days of a "force within a force", when corruption was rife in the Met police, paid informers were just part of the scene. They helped "solve" crimes and were an excuse for a great deal of drinking on the job by detectives to "consult a source". Ethical issues abounded, especially in regard to informers who took part in serious bank jobs that were often allowed to happen, so "a pavement job" could take place – an arrest on the pavement by coppers alerted to the crime. That some ended up sharing the spoils, and/or letting the crime happen uninterrupted was all part of the game. One detective wryly told me at the time that "we were all bent – one third took money, one third did favours, and the rest of us knew what was happening but looked the other way".But subsequent scandals that reached quite high in the Met linking senior officers to informers led to a major crackdown on how informers should be managed. The huge amounts of money now involved in organised crime encourage the use of the very latest in technology that – together with its global nature – makes detection increasingly difficult. Deals can be done in obscure dialects that one FBI man once complained to me were "unfair" – and money can be laundered in a seconds at the press of a computer button.So the need for reliable informers is greater than ever. But so are the risks. It must be said that police discipline procedures have moved from being mocked and despised in certain canteens as the "round-heel squad" who were bending over backwards, to today's more serious and feared investigators. Suspensions even on full pay can be very wearing psychologically, and do act as a deterrent for most officers.I do not dismiss the ethical traps that remain – the misuse of police authority revealed recently in north London, where officers seized property including plasma TVs and smart cars for their own use – is merely one example of how easy it is for corruption to leak into the ranks. Paying informers is a shortcut to building trusted links in the community that would lead to more reliable intelligence. But the latter is much harder in professional criminal circles than with opportunist teens who often brag about their exploits.But I am an optimist, and I want crime to stop. As our series The Truth About Crime showed in last night's episode, the people who commit property crime do it for the money (often to feed their habit). While addicts will go through open doors and windows to grab a laptop, they are easily caught. But professionals commit such ruthless crimes as distraction burglary – attacking old people's savings upstairs while a colleague keeps them busy at the door. By the time police are called, they have moved on – either to the next house, or off on the ring road out of town. They are extremely hard to stop without intelligence. As internet fraud soars, the opportunities to commit crimes keep ahead of our efforts to stop it. So like it or not, I think we must use money to pay for intelligence that will help us stop criminals in their tracks.