What happens when the highest court in the land thinks it may have got the law wrong? The House of Lords is the final court of appeal - so what do the law lords do if they fear they made a mistake?The doctrine of precedent says no other court can overrule the House of Lords. It can overrule itself, but only when a suitable case comes along. That dilemma led to an extraordinary legal saga in which senior judges hit upon an unprecedented way of putting the law back on track, which culminated in an appeal last week.In 2000 the law lords took what some commentators argued was a wrong turning. They liberalised the law on provocation, the partial defence to murder which reduces a murder charge to the lesser offence of manslaughter. The ruling made it easier for a provocation defence to succeed, not only when a battered woman kills her partner after years of abuse but also when a husband kills his unfaithful wife in a fit of jealous rage.The Homicide Act 1957 says that a jury must decide whether somebody who killed in response to words or acts lost self-control and whether a "reasonable man" would have acted in that way.When the case of Morgan Smith, who killed his friend while clinically depressed, went to the Lords in 2000, women's groups and the civil liberties organisation Liberty intervened, arguing that the outcome was crucial for future prosecutions of battered women who kill.The issue was whether the jury could take into account that the defendant was suffering from clinical depression or some other condition affecting self-control, such as battered woman syndrome. The law lords ruled by a three-two majority that juries could take account of characteristics which made the defendant particularly susceptible to losing self-control.Critics said the ruling was legally wrong. But over the next few years no appeal on provocation went to the House of Lords, so there was no chance to recant. Finally in 2005 the law lords seized on an appeal going to the privy council in a case from Jersey, a different legal jurisdiction but with a murder law based on the law of England and Wales. The privy council hears appeals from the courts of the Channel Islands, Caribbean countries and some other Commonwealth countries. Its judges are mainly the same law lords who sit in the House of Lords. But the privy council's rulings do not set precedents for the courts of England and Wales, and cannot overrule judgments of the House of Lords. They are merely "persuasive" in English cases.Nine of the 12 law lords sat on the privy council case of Dennis Holley, who killed his girlfriend with an axe after she told him she had just had sex with another man. His conviction had been reduced to manslaughter on appeal, on the basis that the jury should have been allowed to take account of his chronic alcoholism. On an appeal by the Jersey attorney general, the privy council ruled, by six to three, that the Morgan Smith case had been wrongly decided. Last week a special five-judge panel - instead of the usual three - of the English appeal court, which was considering two murder appeals, ruled that the privy council's decision in the Jersey case was now the law in England and Wales.The bizarre result is that a ruling of Britain's highest court, the House of Lords, has in effect been overturned by a different court, the privy council. The appeal court judges applied the Holley judgment in dismissing the two appeals.Peter Thornton, the QC who acted for both Smith and Holley, said the privy council's judgment had "set the law back 50 years". The Law Commission, asked by the government to review homicide law, called last month for an overhaul of the law, which it described as a "mess". Provocation, it said, was an example of "the continuing uncertainty in the law of murder".