Jimmy Savile carried out 46 sexual assaults on 22 pupils and one visitor to Duncroft approved school in Staines, Surrey police have said.The disgraced former Top of the Pops presenter carried out a range of abuse on pupils during visits to the school for emotionally disturbed teenage girls in the 1970s.In a report on Savile’s offending at Duncroft school, published on Wednesday, the force said 13 victims were abused on at least two occasions by Savile and five were assaulted when the school was under the control of Barnardo’s children’s charity in October 1976.More than 160 ex-pupils of the former girls’ school were contacted by detectives in connection with Operation Outreach, launched in 2012 at the height of the Savile scandal. The force interviewed Savile in 2009, two years before he died, but failed to bring him to justice.The report says Savile first visited Duncroft on 21 January 1974, and stopped when the school closed temporarily in 1979, during which time he visited at least 16 times, although evidence from victims and witnesses suggests he attended more frequently. Detectives found that 25 of Savile’s 46 sexual offences took place within Duncroft’s grounds, including in and around the principal’s office, the entrance to the school, the communal TV room, the kitchen and the dining room. Of the abuse that took place off-site, 13 attacks were allegedly carried out in Savile’s car. The nature of Savile’s offending ranged from non-consensual kissing to forced oral sex, police said.A former Duncroft pupil told the Guardian in 2012 that she was molested by Savile in his car in 1973 when she was 14. Waiving her right to anonymity, Carole Wells, 55, said she had been frightened into silence for decades by the former Jim’ll Fix It host but was willing to make a statement to police after other victims came forward.A file of evidence in relation to two former Duncroft members of staff was passed to the Crown Prosecution Service in May 2014, according to the police. The CPS decided six months later that there was no realistic prospect of conviction and dropped the case.Asst Ch C Stuart Cundy said: “As today’s report shows, extensive investigative work has since been carried out to review all material available from Mind and Barnardo’s, who each managed the school for a period between 1974 and 1979, as well as speaking to former members of staff. In total, 44 statements have been taken, 300 officer reports submitted and 166 former pupils contacted in relation to this inquiry.“Inquiries in the original 2007-09 investigation pre-dated much of what we now know about Savile and his pattern of abuse. The force has always accepted there are things which should have been done differently in Operation Ornament and these were highlighted in the report published by Surrey police in 2013.“I thank all those who came forward during the course of the Outreach investigation as it is only with their support that a large number of other offences by Savile at Duncroft have been uncovered.”The chief executive of Barnardo’s, Javed Khan, said: “We are shocked and saddened by what the investigation has found. However, there is no evidence that any staff knew about the abuse at the time. We are sorry that the standards of social work practice at the time have led to some people feeling they were let down by the care system at Duncroft.”