Britain's criminals have begun to arm themselves with potentially lethal stun guns and CS gas sprays in an attempt to avoid harsh new sentences for possessing firearms and replica weapons.Figures obtained by The Observer show that in the past year the number of handguns seized by Customs and Excise at ports and airports has fallen by half, while the number of stun guns has almost doubled. The weapons, which incapacitate victims for up to 15 minutes, are officially classed as firearms, but have become increasingly popular with muggers and robbers as they are highly effective but cause no permanent damage. Last week a gang in Daventry, Northamptonshire, used a stun gun to attack a lorry driver and steal his vehicle, which was carrying £250,000 worth of spirits. Stun guns are widely available on the internet. One website, guns2u.com, boasts: 'We can deliver all the goods on our website anywhere in the world - it's our speciality! However, some of the items may be slightly or very illegal to import or own in your country or state. So please check with your authorities before ordering (if you are bothered that is!).' The Observer placed an order and received a 200,000-volt stun gun and a 25ml CS gas spray. Both items were delivered in a matter of days, even though they are prohibited in the UK. The stun gun we received is four times more powerful than the Taser models currently on trial with British police forces. Experts suggest there are as many as 10,000 stun guns in circulation in the UK and that the number is growing fast. More and more are being intercepted in the post and recovered during police searches for drugs. 'It's the perfect weapon for a mugger because it will put anyone down and they won't know what's hit them,' says one south London villain. 'I know of a lot of football hooligans who have them, but they're also common among carjackers. A lot of drug dealers have started using them to torture people who owe them money. They like them because, unlike bullets, knives or clubs, there's no evidence of the attack.' Possession of stun guns was made illegal in Britain after one was used to rob a postman. Although there have been no fatalities involving their use in this country, they have caused at least 30 deaths worldwide. The guns2u website explains how they work: 'The stun gun does not rely on pain for results. The energy stored in the gun is transferred into the attacker's muscles, placing a tremendous demand on the muscles. This demand instantly depletes the attacker's blood sugar by converting it to lactic acid. In short, he is unable to produce energy for his muscles, and his body is unable to function properly.' The Observer also received a pistol capable of firing the same rubber bullets used by French riot police. The gun, made of high-impact plastic, fires single 12-gauge shotgun rounds. Each cartridge is loaded with black powder and a rubber bullet weighing 4.5g. Studies show that, using the ammunition supplied, the weapon can cause rib fractures at a distance of less than two metres. A report from the all-party parliamentary group on gun crime earlier this month recommended a review of Customs procedures for clearing parcels which are brought into the UK through private companies. A Customs spokesman said: 'Well over 90 per cent of all weapons smuggled into this country come via mail order. We are aware stun guns are coming into Britain in increasing numbers. It is causing concern. They are dangerous and potentially deadly if a child, or person with a heart problem, was attacked with one.' While possession of stun guns and CS spray is theoretically punishable with a maximum sentence of 10 years and an unlimited fine, most cases are treated less seriously. Those caught attempting to bring the weapons into the country face having the weapon confiscated but further action is rarely taken unless there is evidence of specific criminal intent.