Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary, today risks claims of allowing too much political interference in the selection of judges when he reveals that at least five non-lawyers will be involved in the process.He will also propose that the new judicial appointments commission, which will select judges, be headed by a layman and not the lord chief justice. The proposals unveiled today are likely to generate disquiet among judges and lawyers who fear it could lead to more political interference in the selection process. Lord Falconer will suggest a 15-strong commission takes responsibility for recommending the appointment and promotion of judges. Five members will be judges, five lawyers and five lay members. In a bid to assuage fears, Lord Falconer will announce that as constitutional affairs secretary he will be given a statutory duty to protect the independence of the judiciary both in and outside the government. Lord Falconer is gradually replacing the job of lord chancellor as part of a range of constitutional reforms designed to separate the judiciary and politicians. At present the lord chancellor protects judicial integrity through convention rather than on any statutory basis. The consultation paper will propose a range of options on the degree to which the commission actually appoints the judiciary, or instead makes recommendations. The body may also be given a role not just in appointing judges, but in disciplining them. The independent commission was opposed by the previous lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, and will be examined closely by the Bar Council, which is anxious to ensure that the desire to widen the social composition of the judiciary does not reduce the primacy of merit. Ministers regard the current system as outdated. No final decision has been taken, but ministers are likely to follow the Scottish model and appoint a lay chairman of the body, which is likely to be opposed by the lord chief justice, as head of the judiciary in England and Wales. Lord Falconer personally favours some form of political accountability, implying he would like politicians to retain a direct role in the appointment. He believes this procedure will be more transparent than the present system in which the prime minister appoints the lord chancellor. Members of the House of Lords and the court of appeal are appointed on the advice of the lord chancellor. One aim will be to select a larger number of judges from among ethnic minorities and women. A senior government source said: "The current judiciary is drawn from a highly admired well-meaning section of society, but they are not as reflective of society as they should be. Although the number of female lawyers has increased, there are few in the higher echelons of the judiciary. Lord Falconer will propose that judges need not be selected solely from senior lawyers at the bar. A separate consultation paper will propose the law lords no longer sit in the Lords, but form a new 12-strong supreme court sitting outside parliament and presiding not just over England and Wales, but Scotland as well. He does not believe the judiciary will suffer from the loss of the political platform of the Lords.