The Home Office today provoked a major row when it blamed inaccurate police record-keeping for an apparent 22% rise in the number of the most serious violent crimes in England and Wales.Senior Home Office officials said at least 13 of the 43 police forces in England and Wales - possibly as many as 17 - had previously been undercounting crimes [PDF] that should have been classified as GBH with intent as less serious violent assaults.After officials said the practice could have been going on for years, Humberside police confirmed it was one of the forces involved.The police minister, Vernon Coaker, who would not name the other forces, said he was not embarrassed by the disclosure."I would be embarrassed if I wasn't coming forward ... and not trying to draw to public attention something that is important," he said. "I want the statistics to be as accurate as possible. We have every confidence in the crime statistics." The row over the impact of counting rules masked a generally impressive set of quarterly crime figures. The data showed offences fell by 6% in the 12 months to June 2008 in both the British crime survey (BCS) and in police crime records.Violent crime remained stable on the BCS figures. Incidents of violence against the person as recorded by the police fell by 7%, or 18,000.But the figures confirmed that the most serious forms of knife crime are a growing problem, with rises of 28% and 29% in the number of incidents of attempted murder and GBH involving knives.  Officials said one-third of the rise in the GBH figure was accounted for by the counting rules issue. The figures revealed that overall knife crime remained broadly stable at 8,610 incidents in the year to June 2008, but that incidents were becoming more serious. Figures for murders involving stabbings will become available for the first time in December.There is a continuing decline in gun crime, with the number of firearm offences falling 6% to 9,306. The proportion of those resulting in injury fell by 15%.The dispute over the counting rules has not affected the overall downward picture for all violent crime. It relates to the category of offence in which the 13 forces have classified some serious incidents. Professor Paul Wiles, the director of Home Office research and statistics, said the forces had not been counting violent incidents as GBH if the victim had not actually suffered serious injuries.The counting rules were clarified by the Home Office in April to ensure all cases in which there is clear evidence of intent to commit GBH are included in the more serious category, whether or not there are serious injuries. The Home Office gave the example of somebody who broke a bottle on a table and hit a person in the face with it but only succeeded in cutting their nose.The change in classification led to a doubling of the number of GBH incidents with intent reported by the 13 forces.This month they were asked to revise their figures and reported that two-thirds of the increase was accounted for by the rule change.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said the change meant today's figure showing a 22% rise in most serious violent crime against the person was not able to be compared with last year's."For most types of violence where the guidance hasn't changed - like homicide, robbery and death by driving - the numbers are down since last year," she said.Keith Bristow of the Association of Chief Police Officers said police supported the change in the counting rules and it was not an ethical question for officers."The impact of changes made to the way in which some crime is recorded will make uncomfortable reading," he said.