David Cameron yesterday hardened the Tory attack on Britain's "broken society" by calling for an end to "moral neutrality" whereby society refused to distinguish between good and bad behaviour.In a personal speech in Glasgow East, one of Britain's poorest constituencies, which plays host to a crucial byelection on July 24, the Conservative leader said society should not be afraid to say what was right and what wrong."I have not found the words to say it sensitively," said Cameron. "Then I realised, that is the whole point: we, as a society, have been far too sensitive. In order to avoid injury to people's feelings, to avoid appearing judgmental, we have failed to say what needs to be said. We have seen a decades-long erosion of responsibility, of social virtue, of self-discipline, respect for others, of deferring gratification instead of instant gratification."Calling for an end to the "stultifying silence" about what mattered, he said: "We talk about people being 'at risk of obesity' instead of talking about people who eat too much and take too little exercise. We talk about people being at risk of poverty, or social exclusion: it's as if these things - obesity, alcohol abuse, drug addiction - are purely external events like a plague or bad weather."Of course, circumstances - where you are born, your neighbourhood, your school, and the choices your parents make - have a huge impact. But social problems are often the consequence of the choices that people make."His speech marked a change in gear in one of the main themes of his leadership: how to deal with a "broken society". The Tory leader has until now concentrated his fire on Labour for failing to tackle causes of poverty such as marital breakdown and drug abuse.Yesterday, speaking at the start of the Tory byelection campaign for Glasgow East, he said he wanted a "mandate to call time on the twisted values that have eaten away at our social fabric".The Tories, who came fourth in Glasgow East in the 2005 general election, know they will struggle in the byelection but Cameron hopes to use it to draw attention to his mission by dubbing it the "broken society byelection".As he spoke Labour was uniting behind a party heavyweight to fight the seat amid fears the party that could be vulnerable to a challenge from the Scottish National party. Labour was last night selecting the former Scottish minister Margaret Curran as its candidate. Curran, a Scottish parliament member with five years' ministerial experience at Holyrood, is thought to be the party's fifth choice to contest the seat.At the 2005 general election, David Marshall, 67, whose resignation on the grounds of ill health triggered the byelection, won Glasgow East with a majority of 13,507. But the SNP performed better in last year's Scottish parliamentary election and has since enjoyed a strong first year in government. The SNP needs a 20% swing to capture what should be Labour's 25th safest seat in Britain.Launching the SNP campaign, the party's leader, Alex Salmond, stood with his candidate, John Mason, and spoke bullishly of their chances, saying the party was set to pull off a "political earthquake". "The fact that we are in with a chance is a comment on how far things have moved in Scottish politics."