Anyone who dares to criticise antisocial behaviour orders is immediately accused of being out of touch with those being terrorised on housing estates. New Labour's home secretaries Jack Straw, David Blunkett and Charles Clarke have all resorted to throwing insults such as "Hampstead liberals" at those challenging any of the 34 "anti-crime" bills introduced since 1997.So what are the criticisms? One rather obvious problem with Asbos is that they are increasingly used against people who have never "terrorised" anyone. Take a few recent examples. A 23-year-old woman who repeatedly threw herself into the Avon was served with an Asbo banning her from jumping into rivers or canals. A man with mental health problems was banned from sniffing petrol anywhere in Teesside. A woman living on an estate in East Kilbride was given an Asbo ordering her not to be seen wearing her underwear at her window or in her garden. The local Asbo unit handed out diaries to her neighbours to record when she was seen in her underwear, giving a new meaning to neighbourhood watch.All the people cited above face up to five years in prison for any breach of their Asbo. Yet in 2002, the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, advised magistrates to think carefully before handing down short-term sentences, because rehabilitation was virtually non-existent due to the prisons being so full. The examples given are not anomalies. When introducing Asbos, Jack Straw said they were not to be used against people because they were different. But that is exactly what is happening. Asbos are primarily being used against the mentally ill, the elderly, the very young, drug and alcohol addicts, sex workers and beggars. Yet there is no official central record of which categories of people are coming under the order. Many Asbos are being used against vulnerable people with complex problems. The order does nothing for such problems as it can only ban behaviour - often non-criminal behaviour such as hanging around in groups. And they aren't working. An increasing number, more than 40%, are breached and result in people being imprisoned. The reason for the diverse nature of Asbos is the ridiculous breadth of what constitutes criminal anti-social behaviour under the Crime and Disorder Act 1988. You can be served with an order if you have behaved in a way "likely to cause alarm".If the argument of Straw, Blunkett and Clarke is right and people are "terrorising" housing estates, why haven't the police arrested the "terrorists"? Surely they would be liable for arrest under, say, affray, harassment or perhaps even terrorism laws. The reality is that the government uses exaggerated language in order to gain votes. There is absolutely no evidence, for instance, that antisocial behaviour has increased - crime has been on the decline for many years. However, the government hysteria over this issue has led to the growth of a whole Asbo industry and the excessive use of Asbos in some parts of the country. Asbos also deny people the right to have a jury hear the evidence and decide on guilt or innocence. They also allow hearsay or gossip to be given in evidence. In these circumstances the police know that the local magistrate is likely to grant an order. Only 3% of applications for Asbos have been refused. The result is imprisonment for votes. It is a national scandal that as a result of Asbos 10 young people a week are being jailed, and that beggars and prostitutes are being imprisoned even though begging and prostitution are non-imprisonable offences. Of course antisocial behaviour exists, and I am not arguing that nothing should be done. But surely the expense of imprisoning a youth at about £70,000 per year would be better spent on resources in the local community that would help to prevent anti- social behaviour? Government ministers who simply insult the critics of Asbos do not seem to realise that these are growing in number and are closer to home than they think. I have been part of creating a coalition called Asbo Concern which believes that Asbo legislation is being abused and calls for a full government review. More than 20 organisations have signed up, including the National Association of Probation Officers, the Community and Youth Workers' Union, Inquest and the British Association of Social Workers. The first person to attend the first meeting was a policeman from an Asbo unit. He told me he was worried that the police were operating without proper guidelines and with too broad a discretion. Is he, too, going to be accused of being a Hampstead liberal? · Asbo Concern is launched on Thursday at 7pm at Friends Meeting House, London. Matt Foot is a criminal defence solicitor.