A gangmaster who supplied workers for some of the country's biggest chocolate, bread and salad manufacturers has lost his licence after forcing migrants to live in rundown, cramped accommodation for which they had to pay over the odds.Robert Taylor, 38, director of the Burton upon Trent franchise of the employment company 247 Staff, had his licence revoked by the Gangmasters Licensing Authority after failing seven licensing standards, which included three critical failures. He supplied workers to Thorntons, the chocolate manufacturer, British Bakeries, and Florette, the producer of pre-prepared salad bags.Officers investigating his employment practices discovered that one room measuring 2.8 metres by 3.8 metres was used to house three adults, two children and a baby, who slept on one double mattress, a single mattress and a child seat. Searching 19 properties used by Taylor, GLA officers were provided with electricity or gas certificates for just three. They discovered that Taylor - whose company Morantus traded as 247 Staff - withheld money from his workers and forced them to sign standing orders, threatening that if they did not do so they would not receive any work. Workers were paid less than the national minimum wage after deductions were made for accommodation, the costs of which were £24 per worker more than the legal maximum. GLA officers also discovered that if workers left their jobs before their 12-month tenancy agreement was up they had to pay the rest of the year's rent in full. Workers were not allowed to find alternative accommodation. They also found that workers had not given their consent for transport costs to be deducted from their wages and had no idea how much would be taken from their pay packets for this. Despite previous warnings from the GLA - which was set up following the deaths of 23 Chinese cocklepickers in Morecambe Bay in 2004 - workers were charged for the protective equipment that they needed to do their job. Taylor appealed against the decision to remove his licence, made last November, but this was dismissed. The GLA tries to curb the exploitation of workers in the agriculture, horticulture, shellfish gathering and processing and packaging industries. Most of these workers come from countries such as Romania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Latvia and India.Paul Whitehouse, chairman of the GLA, said: "Any group of workers who are dependent on consumer demand for a weekly job should at least expect to receive the minimum wage and the protection of UK law. The GLA is cracking down on illegal work practices to protect workers from the abuse of rogue gangmasters. Yet again, we see that the food on our plates on dinner tables across the UK could be there at the expense of exploited workers."