The proposal to allow the court of appeal to refuse to quash a conviction despite irregularities that would make the conviction unsafe, simply because the judges felt that the defendants committed the crime, is incompatible with justice (Report, September 18). Justice means that in some cases the guilty will go free because there is insufficient evidence to convict them or because the conviction is unsafe. Otherwise the words "beyond all reasonable doubt" are meaningless and we will have substituted feelings and prejudice for standards and facts.If a conviction is unsafe then the court has the option of ordering a retrial. If a retrial is not possible then substituting the feelings of the judges for the decision of the jury or artificially dividing the trial into two parts where part of the evidence is heard by the jury and part by the court of appeal is a denial of justice.As Patrick Devlin said: "You cannot have a little bit of justice here and a little bit there. Justice must be whole and complete." Alastair Logan Barlow Robbins SolicitorsThe new consultation paper seems to be the usual exercise in Home Office spin: when the authorities slip up it's the court procedure - not the law enforcers - that should be blamed. But to allow a warrant to be executed out of date or a caution to be omitted demonstrates both gross negligence and contempt for fundamental rights. The rigid testing of the prosecution's case keeps law enforcers on their toes and sets an example to other European nations. Stephen Jakobi Richmond, SurreyThe proposals are part of the government's wider policy of redressing the balance of the criminal justice system in favour of victims. The paper argues that to quash a conviction where there is strong evidence of guilt, punishes the public and denies justice for the victim.But this argument assumes that victims of a one-off crime are somehow not part of the wider public. As with so many current proposals, such as detention without trial, what guarantee is there that one day you or I might not be kidnapped, as was Nicholas Mullen, who was abducted from Zimbabwe at the behest of MI6 and whose case prompted the new paper? Put another way, are we not all victims of unlawful government actions, against whomever they are perpetrated?The paper is part of a cleverly designed policy to denude us of our identities as members of a society by playing to our baser individual instincts and fears. David Mead Lecturer in Law, University of East Anglia