Concern about a wave of gangland violence in Manchester, which has cost 13 lives over the past three years, has prompted two local people to set up an organisation to try to stop the shootings.Gangstop, which aims to harness local goodwill, is to stage a march through Moss Side, Longsight, Hulme, Rusholme and the city centre to highlight the loss of life. The march, planned for June 1, is intended to bring together residents, young musicians, school pupils, businesses, politicians and celebrities in determined opposition to gun law on the streets. Gary Gordon, 33, grew up in Longsight, where eight of the 13 victims died. He now lives in the neighbouring suburb of Burnage - not so many shootings, but now more notorious for its high level of armed robberies than as the birthplace of the Gallagher brothers. "It's reached the point where if it's nine o'clock at night and I've run out of milk, I'd rather have black coffee than risk going to the shop," he said. "And I think twice about staying on for another drink at the pub. I'd rather get home early in one piece." Mr Gordon had lost touch with his best friend from school, Michael McFarquhar, 34, who had moved to London. Three members of Mr McFarquhar's extended family have been shot. He and Mr Gordon found themselves regularly meeting at funerals. They were not burying elderly relatives but their contemporaries from school and much younger men, some of them teenagers. Mr Gordon said: "At the last funeral we looked around. There were hundreds of people there, and we thought 'Why do you only get this level of community spirit at funerals? It's time to do something about it'." There is already some indication that the level of violent crime in the area is attracting serious attention from Whitehall. This month a pilot project was announced by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to target teenage street robbery in Longsight. Mr Gordon, with a 14-year-old son of his own and a background in youth work, is aware of the pull of the criminal lifestyle. "It's the 'have it all' culture. These are kids who don't aspire to proper jobs that they know they won't get. But they want trainers that cost over £100, a nice lifestyle, and they don't think you have to work for it. They'll get it by any means necessary." When Mr Gordon grew up in Longsight, there was a five-a-side court (now fallen into disrepair) and a West Indian centre with many subsidised activities for children. He had a strong family, positive older role models, and a college tutor who encouraged and inspired him. Now he wants to put something back. "I'd rather be a do-gooder than a reluctant bystander." Mr McFarquhar outlines their demands. "The gangs move in on areas where the community is weak," he said. "People there have to take a stand. And the government has to help, not just with policing and legislation, but with help for community action. "We want more resources for young people who are often low achievers, in education, leisure and employment, to divert them from a path of crime. These kids have low self-esteem and being in a gang boosts their ego. It's about getting them early." Gangstop will not attempt to take on the hard men but try to bring people together to find alternatives. Mr Gordon is conscious of the dangers of standing up to be counted. "I'd be a liar if I said it hadn't crossed my mind. We can't make a difference to people who choose to live by the gun. But we need to provide the young people with other opportunities. Otherwise the situation will escalate."  July 1999 Martin Bennett, 25, Moss Side  August 1999 Dorrie McKie, 20, Hulme  August 1999 Anthony Cook, 25, Chorlton on Medlock  October 1999 Judah Dewar, 35, Longsight  January 2000 Roger Ormsby, 35, Moss Side  January 2000 Gabriel Egharevba, 17, Longsight  September 2000 Marcus Greenidge, 21, Longsight  September 2000 Thomas Ramsey, 16, Longsight  March 2001 Mohammed Ahmed, 29, Levenshulme  June 2001 Alan Byron, 18, Longsight  October 2001 Dean Eccleston, 24, Longsight  November 2001 George Lynch, 36, Longsight  April 2002 Aeon Shirley, 18, Longsight