A suspected jewel thief was killed and another seriously injured during a police chase after an attempted ram raid at one of the London branches of the jewellers Tiffany and Co yesterday.A 4x4 vehicle was driven into the front of the store in Sloane Street, Knightsbridge, west London, in the early hours. Police, who had been tipped off about the robbery - one of 23 similar smash and grab raids on luxury goods shops in Kensington and Chelsea in the past four months - were lying in wait.They gave chase in two unmarked cars as the five alleged robbers made off, one man in the 4x4, two on a moped, and two on a motorbike who collided with a parked car just round the corner in Cadogan Square, where they were arrested. Moments later, the moped also crashed into a parked car and the two men fell off.A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The first of two unmarked police cars, which had been pursuing the moped, swerved to avoid the men but the second car was in collision with both men." An ambulance was called but one man was pronounced dead at the scene. The other is critically ill in hospital.A resident said: "I heard a tremendous bang and so much noise, because the engine of the scooter kept going for quite a while after the accident. I went out and the paramedics were trying to help them."The driver of the 4x4 was eventually arrested several miles away in Acton, west London. Detectives are questioning him and the two men who were on the motorbike, none of whom was injured. A police source said Kensington and Chelsea officers had mounted an intelligence-led operation following an increasing number of smash and grab raids on stores in the area. He said detectives were investigating whether the same gang was behind 23 such raids, using vehicles to ram shopfronts, since June.The Metropolitan police's directorate of professional standards has launched an inquiry into the fatal collision. The Independent Police Complaints Commission has also sent two investigators to the scene.A spokeswoman for Tiffany & Co said no goods were stolen and the shop was open for business as usual.Founded in New York in 1837 as a "stationery and fancy goods emporium", the jeweller has four London branches - Sloane Street, Old Bond Street, the Royal Exchange and at Harrods.In 1994, raiders got away with jewels worth almost £1m in a midnight raid on one of the New York stores.