Tomorrow a patchwork quilt with 598 squares will be displayed in Westminster Hall to mark International Women’s Day. Each square on that quilt represents a woman who will never have the chance to celebrate the incremental but important steps towards gender equality, or take part in the fight for the further change needed to make it a reality. Each square represents one of the 598 women killed by a partner or ex-partner between 2009 and 2015 in England and Wales.Two women a week die at the hands of perpetrators of domestic abuse, and 100,000 people in the UK – the vast majority of whom are women – are at risk of being murdered or seriously injured as a result of domestic abuse, according to the charity SafeLives. And 140,000 children live in households in which high-risk domestic abuse is taking place: many are directly harmed by the parent doing the abusing as well as being irreparably damaged by witnessing abuse between their parents.Theresa May made domestic abuse a personal priority when she was home secretary, introducing a new criminal offence of coercive control back in 2015. This important reform makes it easier to prosecute people exercising the controlling or coercive behaviour over their partners that can be a form of serious emotional abuse in itself and is often a precursor to violence. As prime minister, she has launched a consultation on a new domestic violence and abuse act to further improve the way domestic abuse is tackled across England and Wales.Legislative reform is necessary. But it will only achieve so much without the significant cultural change needed in the police in order to ensure they use new legislation to prosecute perpetrators. Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary raised serious concerns that many domestic abuse victims are still being failed by the police. It found many police forces are not using powers such as domestic violence protection orders to their full effect, and uncovered huge variations between forces in the number of domestic violence cases not taken forward because the victim does not support police action. According to HMIC, reductions in the police budget have left policing in England and Wales in a “potentially perilous state”.There also remains too much emphasis on tackling domestic abuse after it has happened and too little on keeping women and their children safe by preventing serious domestic violence from happening in the first place. Domestic abuse services have historically been under-resourced, and are now much more so. In too many areas, services remain a revolving door, focused on managing immediate risks rather than taking a preventive, long-term approach that supports women to rebuild their lives. It remains a rarity to find domestic abuse services located in the hospitals and GP surgeries with which abused women come into contact, despite the fact that almost a third of domestic abuse starts in pregnancy and that it is a leading cause of foetal death.The family courts too have a greater role to play in keeping women and children safe. They have been too reluctant to limit children’s contact with parents that pose a significant risk to their safety: 70-90% of cases going to the family courts feature domestic abuse, but fewer than 1% of child contact applications are refused. And fewer than 1% of domestic abuse perpetrators receive any specialist interventions to reduce the chances of their reoffending. Without this, many abusers simply move on to the next victim.Mrs May’s commitment to reform the law around domestic abuse should be welcomed. But its impact is jeopardised by cuts to local government funding that have resulted in the slashing of domestic abuse services – 17% of specialist women’s refuges have closed since 2010 – and reductions in the police budget. Tragically, without proper investment, we can expect the quilt to get steadily bigger.