The body of a man suspected of murdering a barmaid 30 years ago was exhumed early today in the latest stage of police attempts to solve a case that led to one of the longest miscarriages of justice in British legal history.Teresa de Simone was raped and murdered in 1979 aged 22. Police reopened the case this year after evidence showed that Sean Hodgson was wrongly jailed over the murder.  Teresa de Simone. Photograph: Hampshire police/PAThe half-naked body of De Simone was found in her car behind a pub in Southampton. She had been strangled, and raped, and her jewellery had been stolen. Hodgson initially confessed to the killing but later denied it. He was convicted in 1982 at Winchester crown court, despite claims by his defence team that he was a pathological liar.After 27 years behind bars, protesting his innocence, Hodgson had his conviction quashed at the court of appeal in March, bringing to light the longest known miscarriage of justice in British legal history.The new prime suspect had killed himself in 1988, nine years after De Simone's murder, Hampshire police said.His body was exhumed at Kingston cemetery in Portsmouth, and police are trying to match his DNA to that found at the crime scene."We have very strong scientific and evidential support for this exhumation," said Detective Chief Inspector Phil McTavish. "All possible preliminary tests and evidence gathering was undertaken before considering this exhumation. It is not an action that is undertaken lightly."At the time of the murder the suspect would have been a young man. He was not from Southampton and he did not feature in the original investigation, but police discovered unconnected papers containing references to seven men who made confessions.The suspect made his confession while in custody for an unrelated crime, 18 months after Hodgson's conviction. It was only after Hodgson was released that detectives were put back on the case.The suspect did not know Hodgson and had no links to De Simone. Police are looking into the theory that he was a stranger who committed the murder and killed himself because of the guilt.De Simone's family had been informed, said McTavish. "We hope that his process may ultimately provide some form of resolution for them. Their continuing support and understanding has been of great assistance to the investigation," he said.Police are scouring case files, and taking DNA samples of people involved in the original inquiry. The DNA of 100 people has been screened since March, said a police spokesman.The fact that the suspect had been buried for more than 20 years posed "significant challenges", and would require a detailed and lengthy process to establish any link between the crime scene and the suspect, the spokesman said."Whilst further work is currently ongoing in order to maximise the DNA evidence with the Forensic Science Service, the inquiry team are confident that they are on the right track and may solve this 30-year-old murder case."Hodgson's lawyer, Julian Young, said his client was not ruling out a claim against Hampshire police for not passing on information about the confessions to his defence team."I am concerned, obviously, at what has happened," he said. "I am very surprised that it has taken until now for this information to be communicated to any of Mr Hodgson's legal teams or the court of appeal. Had it not been for the hard work done by his legal team, these confessions may never have come to light."Hodgson, who is very unwell and in a respite home, was pleased that police were investigating the matter."His first thoughts were for the family, and he hopes this may provide some closure for them. He also hopes it will totally clear his name, although you cannot undo what has already been done," Young said.Mary Sedotti, De Simone's 77-year-old mother, said the suspect must have been "very troubled", whether he killed her daughter or not."In a way, it's hard knowing that he is not here to answer or explain. But then at the same time I think that what he did shows he must have had a conscience," she told the Southern Daily Echo. "He must have been very troubled. Now we must wait to see if he is the man who killed Teresa and, if he is, we will never know why he did it."Solved from beyond the graveIf the exhumed suspect is found to have killed Teresa de Simone, it will not be the first time a murderer has been identified from beyond the grave.In 1999, DNA tests revealed the identity of a man who killed a pregnant teenager, Rita Sawyer, 29 years earlier, but the killer had died a year before the breakthrough. Sawyer, who had been stabbed repeatedly, was found partially-clothed in a field near Chesterton village, Warwick. Advances in DNA testing and identification evidence from the original investigation sent to the Forensic Science Service provided a profile which, when checked against the national database, revealed a match with a man from Leamington Spa. The man – whose name was not released "for compassionate reasons" – had been questioned after the killing, but had not been considered a suspect. He died leaving siblings, a partner and children.In May 2002 the body of a former nightclub doorman, Joe Kappen, from Port Talbot, south west Wales, was exhumed. Kappen, who died aged 49 from lung cancer in 1990, was suspected of the rape and murder of three 16-year-old girls, Geraldine Hughes and Pauline Floyd, whose bodies were found in woods near Neath in 1973, and Sandra Newton, whose body was found in a nearby culvert. South Wales police said DNA results were conclusive and if Kappen had been alive, he would probably have been charged.Last year, decorators in Aspull, near Wigan, discovered an yellowing note in which a retired librarian, who had died weeks earlier, admitted to the unsolved murder of a teenager 38 years previously.Harvey Richardson, who died of colon cancer aged 77, left a cardboard folder bulging with newspaper cuttings about the murder of Lorraine Jacob, a detailed nine-page handwritten note confessing to the crime and a gun dating back to the second world war. The young woman's body was discovered by binmen in a Liverpool back alleyway in September 1970. The librarian, a language enthusiast, had not been known to the police, had no previous convictions, and there was only one report of him being drunk as a young man, according to Merseyside police. At the time police said they were keeping an open mind about the killer.