Cabinet ministers including the home secretary, David Blunkett, and the party chairman, Charles Clarke, yesterday warned that Labour must address voter disillusionment with mainstream parties, or risk seeing a surge by the far right, starting in next week's local elections.Speaking the day after the far right triumphed in France, Mr Blunkett's aides insisted that his tough policies on street crime, immigration and asylum were vital if jaundiced voters were not to abandon the mainstream parties. Mr Clarke described the results in the French presidential poll as tragic and a matter for concern, but denied there was an immediate cross-over from France to Britain. The British National party is mounting challenges in Burnley, Bradford, Oldham, the West Midlands and the East End of London. In an attempt to reflect working class concerns, La bour's local election campaign has already focused heavily on law and order. Downing Street has also been demanding high profile initiatives, convinced by polls showing that disorder, graffiti and abandoned vehicles are big issues for many people. The Home Office minister, John Denham, yesterday highlighted new measures to tackle anti-social behaviour, drug abuse and street crime. The first eight weeks of an initiative in nine London boroughs has seen street crime fall to 21% below the equivalent figure a year before, he said. The education secretary, Estelle Morris, will hold a summit on school discipline in Downing Street on Thursday, aimed at curbing disobedience in 33 identified crime hotspots. Mr Blunkett has been studying the rise of the far right in Austria, the Netherlands and France and has written extensively about the dangers of low voter turn-out. His aides said yesterday: "If mainstream parties don't have robust but fair policies on immigration, asylum and crime, the only beneficiaries will be the far right. The left may not like the idea of detention centres, but it is better than putting asylum applicants in luxury tower blocks when local people feel they cannot get decent accommodation." Mr Blunkett is due to address the issue during the second reading of the immigration and asylum bill tomorrow. Some ministers closely involved in Labour's second landslide victory argued that the defeat in France of the socialist prime minister, Lionel Jospin, showed that the left can never win elections dominated exclusively by law and order. "You are always going to be outbid by the far right," one minister said. Mr Clarke said: "I hope people will vote in the local elections as a consequence. "Labour was concerned about the threat posed by the BNP in some parts of the country. It is a matter of concern that extremists have got a candidate in the final round. "We do take the threat of the BNP seriously. We think it is a highly localised threat, unlike [Jean-Marie] Le Pen in France, in the case of a small number of authorities. But in the cases where it is a threat we are taking it extremely seriously." He said that the result showed the importance of the "progressive forces" in politics in the UK not allowing their support to become "fractured" or distracted. He rejected any suggestion that the French result had any implications for the currently muted British debate about the introduction of a more proportional electoral system.