An art vandal who repeatedly struck at a £1.7m Joshua Reynolds portrait with a hammer has caused more than £10,000 worth of damage to the painting held at the National Portrait Gallery. Mark Paton, 44, from Ilford, east London, yesterday pleaded guilty to damaging the 18th century portrait of Samuel Johnson - one of the gallery's most prized works - shortly before closing time on August 8.The court heard there was no one else in the room when Paton attacked the oil painting, smashing through the glass and striking it several times with a hammer.Alerted by the noise, security staff rushed into room 12 of the gallery where they found a hammer left embedded in the canvas and Paton standing nearby. He was detained by security staff until police arrived.When he was arrested Paton said: "Well I turned myself in, didn't I?" He told police he purchased the hammer earlier that day before sneaking it in past security wrapped in two plastic bags. The gallery has admitted that no security checks were made on bags brought into the building by visitors. Security has now been tightened, a gallery spokeswoman said.Yesterday Paton, who has been living in a shelter in Redbridge, east London, admitted criminal damage and possession of a hammer with intent to cause criminal damage at City of Westminster magistrates court.Euan MacMillan, defending, said Paton had refused to give an explanation for the "unusual" attack. "He has nothing against Sir Joshua Reynold or Samuel Johnson, the subject of the painting," he said. "I am not in a position to elaborate on his offence although Mr Paton says he will tell me at some stage." Mr Macmillan said Paton had been living in a shelter for the last couple of months and on benefits and small amounts of work or donations from the public.Paton was remanded in custody until August 14, and psychiatric tests were ordered by district judge Quentin Purdy. "It seems to me to be a premeditated attack," Mr Purdy said. "He purchased the hammer and did the damage. I'm mindful - given the absence of any explanation - to ask the court's psychiatric team to make any observations. Sentencing at the moment depends on what comments they have to make."The offence of criminal damage carries a maximum penalty of 10 years' imprisonment. Sir Joshua Reynolds, one of the founders of the Royal Academy, is considered one of the country's most important portrait painters of the 18th century.His portrait of Johnson was completed shortly after the English biographer and poet had completed A Dictionary of the English Language in 1755.The gallery has said it is confident the portrait can be repaired.