The drug dealing in a small Victorian terrace house near a park in Nottingham was so blatant that during the day the front window was propped open as a serving hatch. A queue of people formed down the street, ranging from beggars to professional couples. Local residents had been complaining about the crack house for 12 years. "It attracted the most dangerous people like a magnet," says Janet (not her real name), a student who lived opposite. According to Nottinghamshire constabulary, 80% of people being taken into police custody test positive for crack - a marked increase on recent years. It's a lucrative business: in London, a crack house can earn an estimated £24,000 a day - as much as a branch of McDonald's. The dealers and pimps, often armed, "occupy" properties rented by a tenant. In this case, the tenant was violent and living in a housing association property. "It was clear that he and his associates ran the street," says one local resident, Kevin. "He made life for local people absolute hell. They would threaten everyone, even the elderly, and told me they'd stamp on my dogs. They had the street to themselves." But then the middle-class professionals living in the surrounding streets defied intimidation, knocked on each others' doors, and organised. The group that emerged included a psychologist, an art critic, an elderly woman, students, unemployed couples and working parents. "I've lost count of the number of times people said they'd complained to the police and the housing association but couldn't get anywhere" says Jean, a mother of two teenage boys. "We felt totally abandoned." Janet and her flatmate kept a log of the activities at the crack house, including descriptions and car registrations. They offered it to the police, who didn't even look at it. "The police have raided the place four times," she says. "I don't understand why the guy's not in prison." The police and a housing association claimed everyone was too frightened to give evidence. So Jean and her partner, Alan, encouraged residents to do what the police could not - find 22 people willing to testify. Following pressure from residents, the trust went to court last year and repossessed the property from the tenant. Jean, whose car was smashed up by men with baseball bats shortly after her partner started collecting statements, says: "I'm not convinced the housing association would have done anything if local people hadn't started to lift the lid on it." Crack houses, prostitution and other antisocial behaviour is proving a catalyst for bringing back community spirit to many middle-class neighbourhoods in Nottingham. Youth workers say it never left poorer areas of the city such as St Anns, where everyone has always known each other. "Working-class people always sorted out trouble themselves anyway, without involving the police," agrees Derek, a local tradesman. "We didn't trust them." Now it seems the middle-class people there have come round to the same idea. Fluorescent orange placards on lamp posts in Park Avenue read "Kerb crawlers beware. Number plates being noted." They appear to have deterred the sex trade there recently - the fruit of the labour of another residents' group, chaired by Richard Bartlett. Bartlett, a software author who works from home, has watched the same crack dealers open for business in four houses on his street in one year. The squatters partied all night and forced women to work the local streets all day; everyone heard the screams when they were beaten by their pimps. The residents' group he chairs circulates minutes and letters from the authorities via email, lobbies politicians for change, and liaises with other neighbourhood groups in the area. "I was a Trotskyite activist in my younger days," says Bartlett. "Nowadays, I am mixing with people from all sorts of backgrounds, some of whom could be labelled 'rightwing'. It's as if there is no right or left any more, just innovation versus inertia. It's aroused an anger in me. We don't hate prostitutes, but we've prodded the politicians into action. I believe a solution is possible and I don't see why local people should be dragged down." In Nottingham, 77 tenants and residents' groups are now registered with the city council - almost double the number three years ago. Many more, like the Park Avenue residents, have yet to sign up to qualify for financial support from the local authority. Lesley Lowe, housing liaison manager at the council, attributes the growth to people's unwillingness to tolerate crime and antisocial behaviour. "They've recognised the need to come together in their community and campaign for improvement," she says. Music from the salsa class vibrates through the wall to the residents' meeting at the YWCA, as they draw up a "wish list" that includes floral hanging baskets, gates on alleyways and better street lighting. In the cirumstances, that may sound trivial, but, as Lowe points out, the groups feed into new formal structures and a raft of consultation forums. "Residents are sitting face to face with council directors, influencing local, regional and eventually national decisions. There is a clear route from local neighbourhoods to central government," she says. The independent Tenant Participation Advisory Service (TPAS), which represents 1,000 residents' groups nationwide, reports a similar growth in collective action. Phil Morgan, its chief executive, says the tenant participation compact, which obliges local authorities to consult with tenants, was the "shot in the arm" for residents' groups in 2000. The police are also required to respond to the local community under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998.But Jean and other residents are more pragmatic. "The residents' groups are being formed out of desperation as people try to stop their neighbourhoods becoming the next ghetto," she says. Her local crack house may have gone, but the ex-tenant is still at large. Residents claim that the housing association has broken its promise to ban him from the area, after he went to its offices and threatened its staff. The residents' meetings will go on. · The names of some of the residents have been changed for legal reasons.Details of tenants and residents' associations at www.nottinghamcity.gov.uk/coun/department/housing/tenants The Tenant Participation Advisory Service is at www.tpas.org.uk