 A pupil murdered a former girlfriend by battering her with a rock after he was promised a free breakfast if he carried out the killing, a jury heard.The alleged killer, aged 16, lured Rebecca Aylward, 15, to woods near Bridgend in south Wales where he attacked her, Swansea crown court heard.The teenage boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, denies murdering Rebecca in October last year and blames his best friend.Greg Taylor QC, prosecuting, said the accused and Rebecca had briefly been in a relationship about a year before the murder and had kept in touch.The defendant used to meet friends at a local cafe for breakfast, the court heard. At one meeting, he openly discussed killing the girl. His friends assumed he was joking but, in a text, he asked one friend: "What would you do if I actually did kill her?" the court heard. The friend replied: "Oh, I would buy you breakfast."Two days before the killing the defendant contacted his friend to confirm he would attend a breakfast date. He added: "Don't say anything but you may just owe me a breakfast." His friend replied: "Sick, sick boy."After the killing, the teenager is alleged to have asked one friend: "Do you know how hard it is to break someone's neck?"The jury heard that he told two friends: "She was facing away from me and I thought: 'This is it, I'm going to go for it.' I tried to break her neck. She was screaming so I picked up the rock and started to hit her with it. The worst part was feeling and seeing her skull give way."The "academic" teenage boy and Rebecca had dated for three months and had a sexual relationship, the court heard. Taylor said: "When they split up it was not amicable – all of their friends observed a love-hate relationship between them. They gave different reasons for the break-up."The boy said Rebecca tried to trick him into getting her pregnant. She told him she was on the pill and he found out that she wasn't and that she had lied to him. The boy was also telling people that Rebecca was going to go to the police and alleged that he raped her."Rebecca's version was that the boy refused to wear condoms and she asked him repeatedly to wear them." The boy allegedly told a friend: "Wouldn't it be easier if she wasn't here? I am going to kill her – it would be real easy."The jury heard another friend said the defendant claimed he would "kill her, cover it up and not get caught". He also allegedly claimed he would make "a poison" out of foxgloves and kill her with it.Hours after murdering Rebecca the accused tried to lay a false trail by using Facebook as an alibi, it was claimed.Taylor said: "The boy updated his Facebook saying: 'I'm just chilling with my two friends". He used his Facebook to say this was just an ordinary day."Later he wrote: "I enjoyed a rather good day and a lovely breakfast."Police were led to Rebecca's body by a friend of the accused after he had broken down in tears and told his parents, the court heard.Taylor said: "It was the following morning when the boy went into his parents' bedroom. He told them a girl he knew was going to be missing and he feared she had been hurt or worse."They could see the state he was in – pale, frightened and obviously upset."They phoned the police straight away. The boy took police to the forest."A post mortem examination of Rebecca – who was just 5ft 2ins and weighed six stone – showed she had died of head injuries.The trial continues.