Shafilea Ahmed's 17 years at the heart of her dysfunctional family were scarred by a mounting violence that culminated in her brutal killing. Her school, the police and the social services in Warrington were all aware that there were difficulties in the family. She was 11 when she ran away for the first time. On another occasion her mother, Farzana, and the five children were housed by the local authority after her father, Iftikhar, had threatened them with a knife and thrown them out of the house. She had been in hospital after drinking bleach weeks before her parents murdered her, enraged by her refusal to marry the man they had chosen for her. In a final betrayal, it has taken nine years to bring them to trial.Violence and abuse within families is notoriously difficult to identify and prosecute. In Shafilea's case, intermittent attempts were made to offer her support, but they were repeatedly compromised by basic mistakes. Her friends and tutors knew of her father's violent temper yet interviews were conducted while he remained in the same room. To avoid answering difficult questions the Ahmed parents claimed they were victims of racism. The authority of the father over his family repeatedly interrupted attempts to support Shafilea and, after her disappearance, thwarted the police investigation. It was only when one sister was persuaded to break with her family and give evidence against them that a prosecution became possible. And it still took an intervention by the new CPS chief prosecutor for the north-west, Nazir Afzal – who also brought charges against the Rochdale sex exploitation ring – before this traumatic case finally came to court.It is possible, now that forced marriage has been criminalised and the government is supporting charities such as Karma Nirvana, which work with girls threatened with it, that Shafilea would have found a safe haven from the brutality she endured. But it is no fit epitaph for her to say it would not happen today. There are too many uncomfortable echoes of the Rochdale sexual exploitation case, where authorities mistrusted what they were hearing, too many hints of misunderstanding, of an unintended deafness to cultural difference, to leave it at that.The police wisely refused to call Shafilea's murder an "honour" killing. There can be no exonerating circumstance, no licence granted to those who claim cultural protection for brutality. Domestic violence and child sex abuse happen across cultures and ethnicities. But that only makes it all the more important that those charged with spotting it, supporting its victims and tackling its perpetrators, have the ability to understand what they are seeing and how to respond to it, wherever it is found.