A 14-year-old boy pleaded guilty yesterday to raping four girls aged between seven and 10 while they were playing in a park. The four children - one aged seven, two aged eight and one aged 10 - had been playing on the swings in Mandley Park, Salford, when they were attacked last July.Manchester crown court heard that the teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, approached them between 5pm and 6.40pm and took them to a more secluded area of the park, surrounded by bushes and a popular place for children playing hide and seek. It is thought that he threatened them and then raped each of them orally.The girls were examined by doctors at different locations across Manchester and interviewed by specially trained officers. The boy was arrested in the early hours of July 11, the day after the attacks.Maurice Green, prosecuting, said that not guilty pleas to another count of rape and three sexual offences involving the same girls had been accepted following consultation with the girls' families.David Steer QC, defending, said the guilty pleas were submitted on the grounds that the 14-year-old admitted to receiving no encouragement from his victims.Judge James Hammond allowed the boy to sit behind his defence lawyers during the 30-minute hearing, saying he did not have to stay in the dock and could move to the main part of the court. The accused spoke only to confirm his name and enter his pleas.Mr Steer asked for the case to be adjourned so that a consultant adolescent psychiatrist, officers from the young offenders programme and the unit holding the boy could prepare reports.The youth was remanded in custody until March 24, when he will be sentenced.The attacks happened in Higher Broughton, where in the same month a man was beaten to death by a gang of youths who stole his £30 mountain bike.Last May, Phil Carroll, 49, who lives in nearby Lower Broughton, was left fighting for his life after being knocked to the ground by youths who threw a stone at his Range Rover.Salford's police chief, Chief Superintendent David Baines, made headlines when he warned of "feral youths" running wild in the area. His comments sparked a debate on Britain's yob culture.He said: "We have gangs of young people with alcohol, hanging around on street corners being abusive, swearing, intimidating and causing trouble. They then go on to damage property or, as we have seen with Mr Carroll, to commit a very vicious and unprovoked attack."Salford has been in the news after a string of assaults. In December 2004 Sergejs Pacejs, a Latvian, was stabbed in the head with a screwdriver in a racist attack by a 20-strong mob in Lower Broughton Road. He spent six weeks in a coma. Last April a 29-year-old Kurd suffered a broken leg after being beaten up by nine attackers in nearby Camp Street, Broughton.Locals have dubbed Higher Broughton "Little Beirut" because of the violence, while people in Lower Broughton have complained of being plagued by marauding gangs.