The convicted sex killer Peter Tobin was today found guilty of the murder of the schoolgirl Vicky Hamilton, who went missing from her home in Scotland in 1991, and ordered to serve a minimum sentence of 30 years in jail.The disappearance of the 15-year-old from Redding, Falkirk, on her way home, sparked one of the biggest missing person investigations in Scottish history. Her remains were found buried at a house in Margate, Kent, in November last year.At the high court in Dundee, the judge, Lord Emslie, told Tobin he was "unfit to live in a decent society"."This was a vulnerable teenager who needed help on her way home, but instead she fell into your clutches, and you brought her short life to an end in a disgusting and degrading way," he said."It is hard for me to convey the loathing and revulsion that ordinary people will feel for what you have done."Tobin, 62, who lived in Bathgate, West Lothian, at the time of Vicky's disappearance, drugged and sexually assaulted her before trying to cover up the killing.The serial sex offender cut the teenager's body in half, and then bound and wrapped it in coverings and bin bags. Two months after Vicky's disappearance, Tobin arranged to swap his home for another council house in Margate, where he took the remains and buried them.He disposed of the knives used in the killing and hid Vicky's purse under a portable building in Edinburgh's St Andrews Square in an attempt to mislead police into thinking she had run away.Vicky's father, Michael Hamilton, described the verdict and life sentence handed to Tobin as "brilliant". The teenager's mother, Janette, died at the age of 42 two years after her daughter's disappearance. She never knew Vicky's fate.Vicki's sister Lindsay Brown thanked the jury for the verdict, which she said had brought "closure to the family"."Our sister was [a] warm, clever, generous girl who shared many happy years with us," she said. "We will always remember Vicky as she lived and not as she died."Postmortem examinations revealed marks on Vicky's back, chest, neck and hand. There was evidence that Tobin had strangled the teenager, although the exact cause of death could not be ascertained.The handyman claimed he had been travelling from Portsmouth to Edinburgh when Vicky disappeared, but a neighbour said she was "80%" sure she had seen him in West Lothian on the day the schoolgirl was abducted.Vicky's DNA was found on a knife discovered in Tobin's former Bathgate home and his fingerprints were found on a black bin bag containing part of her severed corpse. DNA of Tobin's son Daniel, then a toddler, was found on Vicki's purse. In May 2007, Tobin was found guilty of the rape and murder of Angelika Kluk, a Polish student, at a Glasgow church. He was sentenced to a life term in prison of 21 years, just three years after being released from jail for a sex attack against two 14-year-olds.