Maxine Carr, the former girlfriend of the Soham murderer, Ian Huntley, was today released from prison. The 27-year-old was freed after serving half of a 42-month sentence for providing Huntley with a false alibi.Carr was driven away from Foston Hall prison, in Derby, earlier this week, but remained in the custody of the prison service until this morning, when she was handed over to probation officers. She will remain in their charge until 2007. Stephen Murphy, the director-general of the National Probation Service, confirmed her release and said she had been freed on licence from prison service custody. Carr was expected to go into hiding with a new identity. She faces an anxious future, fearful of being recognised and vilified, attacked or exposed by some areas of the media. Her lawyers yesterday secured a wide-ranging banning order stopping the media from revealing details of her new life. However, newspapers including the Sun and the News of the World were today challenging the high court injunction, which has been described by some legal experts as "extraordinary". It means journalists cannot even solicit information about Carr's circumstances.The plans for her release were feared to have been compromised earlier this week when Home Office documents relating to her were stolen from a civil servant's car in Hampstead, north London. The documents, which were said not to include details of her new identity, were found dumped on Hampstead Heath four hours later. Despite the theft, prison and probation service bosses said Carr's release strategy would proceed as planned. In a statement confirming her release today, Mr Murphy said: "Maxine Carr has today been released on licence from prison service custody, and will now be subject to supervision by the National Probation Service. "The main objectives of supervision are to protect the public and to prevent reoffending. Her case will be dealt with in strict accordance with National Probation Service standards." Mr Murphy said Carr could be returned to prison if she breached the terms of her licence. Conditions would typically include a requirement to live only at an approved address, and not to travel outside the UK without prior permission. Other usual licence requirements are to keep in regular contact with a supervising officer, work only in a job approved by that officer, and display "good behaviour". It is believed that, because of special circumstances, Carr will be visited at her new home by probation officers rather than having to report to them. Huntley was sentenced to life in prison for murdering 10-year-old schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.