Police have released CCTV of a man suspected of stealing a Samuel Palmer painting estimated to be worth £100,000 from an elderly woman and talking her into handing over her jewellery and bank cards.Detectives say the images were taken when the suspect was using 89-year-old Ursula Overbury's cards in Oxford Street, London, soon after he had robbed her of Palmer's The Comet of 1858 and other property at her home in Kensington, west London, last month.Overbury was telephoned late one Saturday night by a man who claimed he was a police officer, her credit card had been used in a crime, and she needed to contact her bank. According to police, she immediately attempted to call the bank but the caller had not hung up but stayed on the line. Overbury dialled the bank's number believing she was speaking to someone who could help her, but in fact it was still the original caller. He told her someone would come to her home and collect her cards. He also asked if she had anything of value in the house that required safe-keeping. She said she had the painting and her jewellery.An hour later, a man – who is believed to have been an accomplice – arrived posing as a member of the bank's fraud team and took the painting, jewellery and cards. He is described as a white man, believed to be in his 30s, approximately 1.78 metres (5ft 10in) tall, with dark hair. He spoke with an English accent.DS Jon Lightfoot, from Kensington and Chelsea CID, said: "Such scams against the elderly and vulnerable are despicable and heartless. Understandably Miss Overbury has now lost trust and confidence in people calling or visiting her home. We have placed a dedicated officer to support Miss Overbury which we hope can try to alleviate some of her fears whilst we make every effort to trace the suspects."The thief has not only helped himself to her jewellery and credit cards, he has also stolen Miss Overbury's most prized possession, her Samuel Palmer painting. This work of art, which is a family heirloom, holds great sentimental value and is Miss Overbury's pride and joy."Police have also warned the public not to fall for so-called "courier scams" in which people are tricked into handing cards and pin numbers to doorstep callers. Banks and the police would never call and ask for the pin or send a courier or the police to collect a bank card, they said.People with information about the suspect or the missing painting should contact Kensington and Chelsea CID on 020 8246 0231 or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.