One of the longest sagas in the history of criminal justice was concluded yesterday when the court of appeal quashed the convictions of Michael McMahon and David Cooper for the 1969 Luton post office murder.McMahon and Cooper, both of whom have since died, were convicted in 1970 of the murder of Reginald Stevens, a sub-postmaster who was shot dead in September 1969 during a bungled robbery by a four-man gang. A third man, Patrick Murphy, was also convicted, but released on appeal in 1973. He too has since died. The case became a cause celebre - and a constitutional shuttlecock between the executive and the judiciary, as successive home secretaries referred the case to appeal, only for senior judges to dismiss the appeals. This happened five times in the 1970s. In 1980, Sir Ludovic Kennedy published a book about the case, Wicked Beyond Belief. Three weeks later, McMahon and Cooper, whose real name was John Disher, were released from prison by special order of the home secretary, William Whitelaw. Their convictions for murder, however, remained on the record. Yesterday, Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with Mr Justice Cresswell and Mr Justice Bennett, effectively conceded that the politicians had been right. "There are now a number of matters which can be described as causes for genuine concern," said Lord Kennedy. "For present purposes it is unnecessary to say that any one of those matters is decisive. It is sufficient to say that, in their totality, they persuade us that these convictions are no longer safe." Two important aspects were the court's inconsistency in allowing Murphy's appeal but refusing those of McMahon and Cooper, when all three were convicted on broadly the same evidence; and the conduct of the senior investigating officer, Detective Chief Superintendent Kenneth Drury. Along with two career criminals, Alfred Matthews and Michael Good, Drury was central to the case. Stevens was shot in daylight in a public car park, so there were many witnesses. Almost straight away, the police received information that the murder weapon belonged to Good, and that Matthews, who had driven to Luton from the East End of London in his own car, was one of the gang.Drury, who has since died, allowed Matthews to admit to a very minor role and turn Queen's evidence, giving testimony in court against McMahon, Cooper and Murphy. Good was arrested but never charged. Drury even ensured that Matthews and Good received the lion's share of the post office reward money. In a statement, one officer who worked with Drury as a "close friend and colleague and fellow freemason" said he often received payoffs from criminals for not prosecuting them. He said Drury was "a past master of the arts" of "falsifying or manipulating alibi statements", "the manipulation of identification procedures" and "the repeated harassment of witnesses until we had got what we wanted from them". In July 1977, Drury was convicted of five counts of corruption in relation to other matters, and jailed for eight years. Yesterday Sue McMahon, McMahon's widow and his girlfriend at the time of his arrest in 1969, said: "It's a really good result, but I don't feel elated, just quite flat. It's been 34 years, and it's such a shame that Mick and John aren't here." Cooper died in 1993 and McMahon on his 55th birthday in 1999. The convictions were quashed on Sue McMahon's 55th birthday. Mrs McMahon and Cooper's brother Terry Disher believe both men would be alive today were it not for the case. "Without a doubt," Mr Disher said. "It affected him mentally and physically. He came out of prison a changed man and couldn't survive on the outside." The solicitor Gareth Peirce took on the case in 1974, and it was her submission to the criminal cases review commission that led to the sixth and final appeal. "There were many other miscarriage of justice cases in the 70s and 80s in which the court took its approach from what had happened in this case," she said. "To think of all those wasted lives; it's tragic and cruel and wrong beyond belief." Sir Ludovic, who attended the hearing, said: "I feel delighted, but it should have happened years ago."  Justice denied September 10 1969  Reginald Stevens shot dead in Luton  March 19 1970 McMahon, Cooper and Murphy found guilty at the Old Bailey, and sentenced to life, with a recommended 20-year term  February 26 1971 Case goes to appeal: dismissed  November 13 1973 Second appeal; Murphy's conviction quashed  February 12 1975 Third appeal: dismissed  July 22 1976 Fourth appeal: dismissed  July 7 1977 Kenneth Drury, senior investigating officer, jailed for eight years for corruption  April 11 1978 Fifth appeal hearing; new evidence rejected  June 26 1980 Sir Ludovic Kennedy's book, Wicked Beyond Belief, published  July 18 1980 Cooper and McMahon are released from prison by order of the home secretary, William Whitelaw  September 1993 Death of David Cooper (real name John Disher)  June 25 1999 Death of Michael McMahon  June 30 2003 Sixth appeal hearing opens  July 31 2003 Convictions of Cooper and McMahon quashed