A British man who emerged 13 days after going missing in the Algarve is recovering in hospital, after apparently having had an ear, two fingers and three toes hacked off.James Ross was found, bloodstained and battered, staggering down a road in the Algarve village of Alfontes, near Loule, on Tuesday.The 26-year-old from Wick, in Caithness, had been kidnapped and was feared dead after travelling to Portugal to pay off a debt of £12,000 allegedly owed on a hashish-trafficking deal, according to Portuguese media. Ross had been persuaded to travel there after his family reportedly received threats from the mainly Scottish gang. He had been told that he could pay off his debt by working at a cannabis plantation in Portugal, it was claimed.Scottish police suspected he had been murdered after Portugal's Policia Judiciaria found the burned-out wreck of the gang's Mercedes car in the Santa Clara reservoir, near Loule.Portuguese police arrested four Scottish men on 15 October, but they refused to say what had happened to Ross. Police assumed he had been murdered and divers began searching the reservoir for a corpse.A Portuguese newspaper reported the arrests on Monday. Police said the report scared the gang members left watching Ross into releasing him from the luxurious country house where he was said to have been held close to the nearby village of Boliqueime.Ross stopped local driver Carlos Perreira in the street and originally claimed that he had been in a car accident, telling him to call police."He came reeling down the road and, waving his arms, asked me to stop," Perreira explained. "He had no left ear and was missing two fingers on his left hand, one toe from one foot and two from the other. He also had a wound to his leg."On 7 October, Ross's wife Donna is said to have received a phone call from Portugal at her home in Manchester. The alleged kidnappers reportedly claimed to have already inflicted serious damage on their captive."He is locked up in a cage and we have already broken his arms," they told her, according to Portugal's Correio da Manhã newspaper.They also reportedly said they had broken bones in his legs, feet, ankles and ribs. Two days later the alleged kidnappers are said to have called back to say Ross would be cured of his wounds and released, but only if his wife did not contact police. Both conversations were caught on police phone taps.A spokesman for Northern Constabulary said four UK nationals had been arrested and that the police were investigating further with Portuguese authorities. Portuguese police were reported to be searching for other members of the gang.A hold-up at the local court had prevented them carrying out a formal search of the house where Mr Ross was held captive until today.Jake McCullough, a British neighbour at Boliqueime, told Correio da Manha that luxury cars were frequently seen driving up to the house, set in woodlands, where Mr Ross was allegedly tortured.Correio da Manhã claimed that the gang had been trafficking Moroccan hashish into Britain.