The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday September 2 2005 In the obituary below, we recorded the satisfaction Jack Slipper derived from the successful investigation into the murder of three London police officers in 1966, perhaps giving the impression that he had led that investigation. In fact it was led by Detective Superintendent Richard Chitty (who died in 1983). See Tom Tullett's account in No Answer from Foxtrot Eleven, published in 1967.While detectives may like to be remembered for the crimes they solved and the criminals they arrested, the former Scotland Yard Detective Chief Superintendent Jack Slipper, who has died at the age of 81, will forever be associated with the one that got away. For it was "Slipper of the Yard" who had the indignity in 1974 of having to return from Rio de Janeiro empty-handed after great train robber Ronnie Biggs had eluded arrest because he was about to father a Brazilian child and could thus not be extradited back to Britain.In fact, Slipper's role as a senior detective in the Metropolitan police was much more significant over the years than that one incident, which led to both a book and a television film, might indicate. He helped form the Robbery Squad and played a key role in the introduction of the "supergrass" system, whereby the "honour among thieves" code was broken and criminals gave evidence against colleagues in exchange for short sentences and a new identity. The scheme helped to lock up many bank robbers of the 1970s and 80s.One of the old school of detectives, right down to his pencil moustache and his swooping eagle Flying Squad tie, Slipper entered the police after serving as an electrician's apprentice and in the RAF, where he was a proficient boxer. He rose swiftly and was involved in investigating one of the biggest robberies of the 70s at the Bank of America in London.As operational head of the Flying Squad, Slipper had a reputation for doggedness. At a reunion last year, he recounted that his greatest satisfaction came from the investigation of the murders of three police officers in Shepherds Bush, London, in 1966 which led to the convictions of three men, one of whom, Harry Roberts, remains in jail to this day.It was the 1963 great train robbery, however, that was to give him his greatest public prominence. He was a detective sergeant in the squad that successfully tracked down most of the robbers involved and saw them jailed for sentences of 30 years only for one of them, Biggs, to effect an audacious escape from HMP Wandsworth.As one of the last of the squad still serving, Slipper was alerted by the Daily Express in 1974 that Biggs had been located in Rio. He flew to Brazil hoping to bring him back, but he had underestimated the wily Biggs whose girlfriend, Raimunda, announced that she was expecting his child.The failure to bring Biggs home and the subsequent jollity that the "slip-up" afforded the media continued to rankle. When the BBC made a television film of the saga, The Great Paper Chase, in which Jeremy Kemp played Slipper, he sued on the grounds that he had been portrayed as a clueless buffoon. He won £50,000 in damages and an apology from the BBC in 1990 after a libel action financed by the late Sir James Goldsmith. He gained some belated satisfaction when Biggs, who is said by his family to be near death now, finally came back under his own steam because of illness.After his retirement, Slipper of the Yard, as he was always known, worked for a further 16 years with a construction and engineering firm and was able to spend more time on the golf course at Sudbury. He was diagnosed with cancer in 1999, but recovered and invited reporters to his home to show them that he was not as ill as they were suggesting. He often found himself in demand as a media commentator and gamely relived the Biggs episode, saying that he felt some sympathy for the ailing robber.In his role as pundit, he did not take himself too seriously and was happy to share his reminiscences and appear in documentaries. He said that he did not think he would have joined the police of today because it is "too political".He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Annie, two daughters and five grandchildren.· Jack Slipper, police detective, born May 1924; died August 24 2005