A £7m advertising campaign which focused on the most distressing aspects of police work has generated nearly 15,000 responses from applicants interested in joining the service, according to Home Office figures released yesterday. A quarter of the responses to the adverts, which have the theme "Could You?" and have featured actress Patsy Palmer and former England footballer John Barnes, came from women, while 4% were from people of ethnic minority backgrounds. The campaign continued last night with a 60-second slot on ITV featuring the broadcaster Joan Bakewell, who is asked whether she could remain emotionally detached while interviewing a suspected rapist. Like the other celebrities who have featured, she concedes that she is not up to the task. As well as boosting applications, a Home Office survey in dicates that the advertisements have painted a more complex picture of police work in the minds of the public. The police service has been battered by bad publicity in recent years and is suffering from poor morale. Figures released when the recruitment campaign was launched in August showed the number of police officers in England and Wales had dropped from 127,158 in 1997 to 124,418 by March this year. Metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens warned this week that pressure on resources was leading to police on the beat being transferred to answer emergency calls and carry out administrative tasks. He said 200 officers had been transferred off the streets and that by February, the Met would be short of 1,000 civilians and 2,500 uniformed officers on six years ago. However, yesterday's figures showed that Sir John's force, hardest hit by the recruitment crisis, has enjoyed the most interest with 1,127 applicants. New government figures released separately showed that the number of new police trainees entering colleges had risen by 41% from April to November this year. Home Office minister Mike O'Brien said the government was keen not only to raise numbers but to show the public the difficult and challenging circumstances in which police officers worked. But critics have pointed out that the crucial problem is not in generating interest but in recruiting and retaining officers. In March the home secretary, Jack Straw, announced that recruits to the Metropolitan police would be offered a bonus of up to £3,000 to ease the cost of living in the capital. The extra cash was to make up for a London housing allowance that was scrapped five years ago and took a new constable's pay package to £23,500 a year.