An American man was found guilty today of attempting to murder his latex-allergic British wife by forcing a surgical glove into her mouth.Charles Henson, 39, tried to trigger a fatal allergic reaction in Allison Phelps at the home she shared with her new partner, Michel Phelps, whose surname she has adopted.Bristol crown court heard that Henson told his estranged wife: "You will be dead in four minutes."The former serviceman, from Wisconsin, was also convicted of attempting to gas his wife, Mr Phelps and the couple's children from earlier relationships at their home in the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire, on March 4. Ms Phelps had met Henson, a jewellery maker, via a fetish website and after a nine-month courtship they married in July last year.But the marriage failed and Ms Phelps accused Henson of violence towards her from the wedding night on. He was into sadomasochism and wanted to treat her as his slave, she claimed.Police investigated Ms Phelps' allegations of violence but the case against Henson was dropped and he was deported in February this year. Ms Phelps and her two teenage children then set up home with Mr Phelps.The trial heard that early on March 4, Ms Phelps was woken by the sound of one of her dogs barking. Mr Phelps went downstairs and smelled gas.He shouted to Ms Phelps to take the children out of the house and not to turn any lights on. After 15 minutes they went back into the dark house.The children sat on the sofa in the living room and noticed the bespectacled Henson lying in front of it.Ms Phelps, who gave evidence from behind a screen blocking Henson's view of her, said: "He put his hand into my mouth quite suddenly and quite violently. It was a gloved hand."She told the court she suffered from a "severe allergic reaction" to latex. She always kept adrenaline to hand, with which she had to inject herself if exposed to latex. She said she suffered ulcers in her mouth and sore lips after the attack.Today, Henson was also convicted of wounding Mr Phelps in a struggle after he was found inside the house at Coalway, near Coleford. He was cleared of wounding Mr Phelps with intent to do grievous bodily harm.When he was arrested Henson still had a white surgical glove on his left hand and police found eight other gloves in the camouflage jacket he was wearing, the court heard.