Claire Gorham, TV broadcaster The significant thing is Jack Straw calling a public inquiry in the first place. It's the first time anyone has taken the issue seriously. He has really disproved himself since, but I will always respect and admire him for doing that at least. It needed a change of government. The Tories don't give a shit about black people. That's not what they stand for. They are "patriots" first and foremost. It might be true to say that for a lot of them repatriation would be quite a good option.It still really surprises me how few black people there are of any profile on TV, apart from Trevor Macdonald, who is a white man with boot polish on his face as far as I'm concerned. I have had things said to me by people in TV that really goes to the heart of it. Like, "putting a black face on TV means they are going to lose viewers", or "people don't know where to place you Claire, because you are black and intelligent", as if black and intelligent don't go together in most viewers' minds. In London what sets us apart from other cities is that the fastest growing number of kids under the age of five are mixed-race. We don't have the whole segregation approach to black and white. When I go abroad and I'm with a white person I'm very conscious of that, you don't see people mixing as much. In London you see a lot of black and white couples, and it really heartens me when I see it. I suppose we are a nation of individuals, there's a kind of unilateral cultural experience elsewhere in Europe that we don't share, we are an island and set apart. We're a nation of eccentrics. However, people do often try to lump black people together, and think that we think, feel and act the same. It never ceases to amaze me how little understanding white people have of the diversity of black experience. Hanif Kureishi - writer It's deplorable that Stephen Lawrence's murder happened - I was brought up in that part of south London and it's very monocultural, very masculinist and rough. On the other hand, the fact that Labour came to power probably had a great effect on the attitudes of the police, in that they had to pursue racism with more seriousness. The main reason the institutions have changed - they have begun to - is down to the Labour government, much as one hates to admit it. So it isn't that racism has diminished, it's that it isn't allowed. It's quite interesting that the Daily Mail took up the Stephen Lawrence case and that middle England is more tolerant; or at least the penny has dropped that we're not going to go away.The papers have reverted to type over the Afghan hijack refugees - it's Middle English hysteria. Though if you really ask people about that they are probably much more tolerant about it than the papers. It was interesting that far from complaining, the Tory MP for the area where the refugees were sent temporarily welcomed them. I certainly think Britain is more liberal than many European countries - in France, for instance, there's far more xenophobia. And I think it's something that will improve. When I was a kid I was the only Asian in school and some teachers were racist. Now my kids' schools are very mixed and that isn't tolerated. The whole country has become more liberal. I feel much more optimistic than before. That's partly because racist attitudes, which will always continue, are considered to be anathema. You can't get away with it. Even if you continue to think it in private, you can't get away with it in public. It's not tolerated in institutions and that's the most important thing. Ahdaf Soueif, novelist I should think that in terms of awareness, race is a more high profile issue. How that filters through to how people feel about race is a different question. There have been big reports before, like the Scott inquiry, and before that the Warnock inquiry. Every time it's as if this is some amazing revelation which creates a change in the national psyche, and things can never be the same again. I don't know how true that is. But a hunch would be that where you have a situation like we are seeing in Britain now - where there is a sizeable underclass even compared to 10 years ago, where you have a whole mass of people who are poor, who have never held down a job, who are desocialised and disenfranchised - it's extremely unlikely that you're going to find a general shift in attitudes towards tolerance. While maybe there is a change in public awareness and a position that the elite and the educated and the upper middle classes take, whether things like that filter all the way throughout society I would very much doubt. The media try, on the whole, to do the fair thing, and this is going to become more of an issue as you see more Asian faces in the media. You see so many names now from the sub-continent, that this on its own is going to change things. But the Afro-Caribbean and black African community is far less represented. There's a perception that Asian people work hard and do well, but black people don't. For instance, a great deal was made of the fact that Stephen Lawrence was an A-level student, as if he was not just like all those other black kids you see hanging around the streets. The Macpherson report brought the problem centre stage. People have paid attention to it. But what happens next? Rabbi Julia Neuberger The murder was horrible, but it's not in that sense a landmark. What has been really important is that the Macpherson report has brought about a change of culture. It takes a generation to change a culture, the question of sexual equality, for example, took a generation to percolate through. But the Macpherson report, importantly, has had a great effect and you can discern it only a year on. It was designed specifically as a very deliberate consciousness-raising thing which is why, perhaps, it will raise awareness more quickly. It has been almost like a punch in the face. I would say that the issue about racism within institutions has come to the top of the agenda. So the fact that Macpherson talks about institutionalised racism has made people aware that they need to look at their organisation in a way that, however fair-minded they were trying to be, they had not done before. I don't think we are seeing the effects yet, but we are seeing a change. It is more than just senior management thinking about the issue; it has brought people up short in some way. People in the health service are very aware about how few black faces there are in senior management. I would say the positive effects extend to a wider cultural awareness of other ethnic groups, such as Jewish people, and to an extent about the Irish. It is very difficult for governments to respond to this kind of thing, but I think they have to add to the consciousness-raising stuff. It's a question of whether the race relations legislation is strong enough. I wouldn't criticise or praise the government at this stage; they are right to continue to work on this but need to consult widely. Government shouldn't just rely on focus groups, especially with the majority that this one has. Sometimes it can take a lead. Max Clifford, publicist Newspaper editors are always looking to build circulation so they pay lip service to race relations, but I don't think things have really changed. Look at the percentage of black staff at most newspapers. Knowing journalists as I do, I read some of the things they write and think, my God, how can they say that? The media are hypocritical about a number of things, it's a case of what suits at the time. The police have suffered terrible publicity as a result of the Steven Lawrence case. I know from speaking to police officers that their morale was at an all-time low. But there's a backlash. The police have abandoned the stop-and-search policy and as a result crime has increased, so now the public are saying they should bring it back. I gave the Lawrence suspects free advice because I knew they'd been found guilty by the media. I didn't know whether they were innocent, but I believe that in a healthy democracy both sides of the picture are shown. You saw all the footage of them at the tribunal behaving like five thugs, but you didn't see it when they had bottles chucked at them by the crowds. I said, "if you want to change the public's perception, do an interview on television and answer all the questions, but make sure it's live. Then, maybe people will change their minds." I introduced them to Martin Bashir. But the interview wasn't live and it was edited so that a lot of the stuff they wanted to get across wasn't in it. If they were clients I would have taken better care of them. The irony is that as a result of the free advice I gave I was accused of being racist. I even received death threats from black groups. How can you accuse a man who represented Mohammed Ali and stood up for OJ Simpson when everyone else was against him of being racist?