Last week, in grim weather, I attended a very difficult funeral. A man, only slightly younger than I and whom I had known since earliest childhood, had hanged himself.Several years ago, he had taken hallucinogenic mushrooms and assaulted an elderly lady who had once been his baby-sitter. He had been sent to prison. Now, worried that the voices in his head would return him to confinement, he decided to end his life.His sister, in her eulogy, said that we should avoid stigmatising those who have been in prison. She said we should always confront those who loosely misuse terms associated with mental illness. She said that while we should pay for our mistakes, her brother seemed to have paid particularly heavily. At the end, she asked Jesus to 'please look after him now'. It was, as I said, a very difficult funeral. Over the last six months, there has been much talk about the problems of mental illness in prison. The Office for National Statistics released a study showing that of the 75,000 inmates in English and Welsh jails, three quarters have personality disorders, 6,175 are psychotic, and more than 35,000 have neurotic disorders. If those sums don't add up it's because many prisoners suffer from more than one condition. Meanwhile, the majority of those heading to prison are going in for short periods. Of the 6,620 people currently in jails under the control of the Scottish Prison Service, 2,857 are there for less than four years. That is a number obscured by turnover. There are estimates that 80 per cent of those heading for prison are serving less than six months. So, while every white van heading from court to jail will contain the gamut of failed society, among them will be a new batch of mentally-disordered, frightened people going to a place where they will be vulnerable to assault and abuse. There is no evidence that their mental disorder will get any better, and their circumstances are bound to get worse. I wonder if the boy I had known, in being sent down for several years, had not effectively been handed a death sentence. In Scotland, someone entering the prison system for the first time is required to undergo a social worker assessment - a Social Enquiry Report. Yet, with so few options at hand, the judiciary sets a high benchmark before a convicted criminal escapes jail. Once inside, the darkness closes in. If those who end up in prison are vulnerable, all light is extinguished. Prisoners say the worst aspects of incarceration are an absence of privacy and continuous apprehension. If they are young and paranoid, it will be so much worse. It is now well accepted that our prisons have become a dumping ground for people who have problems other agencies cannot deal with. Since the asylums were closed in the 1980s, care in the community has struggled, and prisons have taken the burden. In official reports, television documentaries and newspaper investigations, the suffering of the schizophrenic, and, importantly, those who guard them, has been revealed. More torturous still, the proportions of those suffering from mental disorders increases when it comes to women and children. It is believed that 80 per cent of the young in our institutions have at least two forms of mental disorder and, across the UK, the number of children in custody is rising. Meanwhile, the rate of attempted suicides and self-harm in women's prisons is terrifying, with between 30 and 40 per cent trying to hurt themselves, and more than one in 10 at risk of killing themselves. It is not fair to say that nothing is being done about this. The Scottish Executive introduced its Management of Offenders Bill late last year. It has finally funded a programme where prisoners can apply for help on release. Yet there is no change in the circumstances where, if an offender is one of the majority serving less than a four year sentence and is not deemed a serious risk to others, he or she can still be released into the community unsupported. The bill is aimed only at protecting the public. Yet, until issues of mental health are dealt with, it is hard to see how the rest of us are being properly protected. The best hope facing many disturbed ex-prisoners is of having a loving family waiting to take care of them. But as the funeral I attended shows, that is often not enough. There is no way of judging what becomes of many of these people, at least until they re-offend, as 60 per cent of them do. When released, already stigmatised and brutalised by jail, the voices in their heads will be frightening them all the more because of the fear of one day going back. At best, the authorities are doing what they can to keep the suicide figures down within the prison system. There have been some successes. But this is not a problem we will hear much about in the next few weeks as the two main parties compete to sound ever tougher on crime. As for those on the outside, released into no care whatsoever, it is difficult to see what, other than prayers, will help them. ruaridhnicoll@hotmail.com