A 16-year old boy was stabbed to death in east London yesterday after a confrontation between two groups of school pupils.Witnesses told the police the teenagers chased each other along Mare Street in Hackney after the clash, which occurred close to the Hackney Technology & Learning Centre about 4pm yesterday as classes ended. The boy's attacker allegedly fled after knifing him in the neck outside Hackney town hall. Paramedics gave the victim, who is believed to be from Hackney, first aid at the scene, but he was confirmed dead on arrival at the Royal London hospital in Whitechapel. He has not yet been named. Last night, police photographers had cordoned off a large section of Mare Street, including the town hall square. Officers recovered items of clothing found scattered around the area, but it was not known if the murder weapon was found. Police said the victim's family was deeply distressed, and several relatives had travelled to the hospital with him. A number of witnesses in the area have been spoken to but no arrests have yet been made. Scotland Yard said detectives were keeping an open mind about the circumstances surrounding the incident. A postmortem is scheduled to take place and police officers remained at the scene last night. The murder inquiry will be led by detectives from the specialist crime directorate. · Police were hunting for the killer of a woman last night after her body was found in a country lane with a single stab wound to the throat and her purse by her side. A dog walker discovered the body of the 73-year-old, whose identity has not yet been revealed, at about 4.30pm on Wednesday in a wooded lane off Highdown Close at Southwick, near Brighton. Detectives have confirmed that the woman lived locally. They said the motive for the killing remained unclear. No weapon has been found. There is a large housing estate near where the body was found and the area, which is popular with dog walkers, leads to nearby fields. A dozen extra officers from around the country have been drafted in to work on the case and were contacting nursing homes to reassure the elderly. Sussex police yesterday appealed to the public to come forward with information on the case.