The Home Office's new "get tough" criminal justice package includes an extension of summary justice (Reid accused of letting tabloids dictate home affairs agenda, July 21). But to cut out the step between crime and punishment, which is what summary justice means, is to destroy the defining factor of democracy. There are no degrees to democracy - the right to representation before an independent judiciary is an absolute. It is the totalitarian state which polices its own laws and punishes without trial or representation.The introduction of Asbos means the barrier between civil law and criminal punishment has already been crossed; as a result, many young people have experienced a prison system - the inadequacies of which we are well aware of - without having committed a crime. The proposal to extend Asbos to suspects (where we already have bail conditions) means further erosion of the space between suspicion and punishment - if we can't get them for committing a crime, we'll get them for breaking an Asbo.Of course, we can all be victims - but we can also all be accused. Sometimes those who previously despised rights are very grateful for them. The "rebalancing" of the justice system is not about giving anyone - victim or defendant - more rights, but taking rights away from all but the state and its agents. Jane Mayes Geoffrey Clapp Geoffrey Clapp Solicitors, CarlisleA criminal justice system that has already seen too much reform is about to be subjected to yet more change. Why? Almost everyone recognises - even if they won't admit it -that the latest reforms announced by John Reid have more to do with a perceived need to appear tough than they do with rational, thoughtful policy-making. Behind the rhetoric there is growing chaos - the planned prison-probation merger into the NOMS is in a mess; long-standing plans for police reform have suddenly been shelved; despite year on year falls in crime, two thirds of the public think it is on the increase. At no point in the last half century has the need for a royal commission on crime and justice been more urgently required. Professor Tim Newburn Director, Mannheim Centre for Criminology, LSEEffective rehabilitation of young offenders is critically important to meet the needs of victims of crime and raise confidence in the criminal justice system. For too many young people the first intensive support they receive is once they are behind bars. For serious crimes, longer sentences can actually help young people as they provide a substantial time period for rehabilitation. But too many young people are sentenced to short periods in custody for less serious crimes when alternatives to jail could prove more beneficial. Two-month sentences are no deterrent and provide no opportunity to work effectively with the young person concerned. This does no favours to victims, offenders or the public at large. Mike Fleming Acting national secretary, YMCA EnglandTraditional virtues of long term planning, careful preparation, periodic reviews and consolidation have been largely forgotten in the latest criminal justice plans. The announcement of an extra 8,000 extra prison places, at a cost of £800m, will place us above Bulgaria and on a par with Romania, Hungary and Slovakia in the world incarceration league table. With two out of three ex-prisoners re-convicted within two years, such money would better spent on mental health, and drug and alcohol treatment facilities. Geoff Dobson Deputy director, Prison Reform TrustA subhead in your report on prison reform says "Get tough justice package angers penal reformers." So what? I was under the impression that John Reid was at least democratically elected to perform governmental duties such as reform of failing departments. Apart from their own personal prejudices and beliefs, what exactly qualifies "penal reformers" for their role. Where is their democratic mandate? Dr Kevin Law Sheppey, Kent