A man suspected of shooting a police officer was found dead in his home this morning after an 18-hour armed siege came to an end, police said.PC David Lomas, 34, was shot at around 2pm yesterday when a routine arrest turned into an armed siege in Rawtenstall, Lancashire. The suspect, named as Stephen Hensby, 54, and described by neighbours as a loner who liked collecting scrap metal, was found dead when armed police stormed the house at 6.30am."Following an extensive overnight police operation, firearms officers entered a premises on Hardman Avenue this morning where they found a deceased male in an upstairs bedroom," said Chief Superintendent Jerry Graham, of Lancashire police."A deceased dog was also found in the bedroom. No other people were present in the house when police officers entered and no further shots were fired. This was a difficult operation where the safety of the public and police officers was paramount. A police investigation has now been launched."Mr Lomas, 34, from Bury, Greater Manchester, was with a colleague when he was fired at with a shotgun as they approached the house. They were responding to reports of anti-social behaviour and "could not have predicted the level of violence that he was met with", Mr Graham said. Mr Lomas, a community police manager in nearby Haslingden, was airlifted to Royal Preston hospital where he is said to be comfortable after undergoing surgery. A single man who joined Lancashire constabulary in August 2001, he was wearing a stab vest when he was shot. Mr Graham said that was standard uniform for the job Mr Lomas was expecting to undertake. He said officers raided the house at 6.30am today because it was the safest time for the public and the police. The half-mile cordon in the area was lifted shortly after 8am, although Hardman Avenue remained blocked off outside the house. Forensic teams were examining the house and a blue car outside which had had its windows shot in the attack on the police.Dozens of armed officers were called to the house and a stand-off followed as negotiators tried to contact the man inside the property. The body of Mr Hensby, who was in a long-standing eviction dispute with Rossendale council, was found with that of his rottweiler. Neighbours said he was an unemployed loner who had lived by himself since his mother died three years ago. He was known as "crusty man" in the area and sometimes went out shooting rabbits and pigeons. During yesterday's siege, neighbours said they thought Mr Hensby had threatened to set fire to his home because he was being evicted."He used to go out scrawling graffiti all over the place saying things like 'crusty man was here'," neighbour June Edge, 59, said yesterday. "I only spoke to him this morning and he said he was going down to the council to sort out his house."A Lancashire police spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that entry to the property was gained at 6.30am and was not the result of any activity in the property but part of the police tactical operation."