A pair of sunglasses that could resolve a long-running investigation by the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) into an armed robbery has gone missing.The glasses may have been handled by a detective who has since been jailed for stealing from police evidence stores. Their disappearance is a severe setback to Hassan Khan, a prisoner serving life for a 2007 robbery in West Wickham.Khan, now 56, who denies taking part in the south London raid, says he has been told he cannot be released on parole until he has demonstrated that he has acknowledged his "crime".Khan has already suffered one miscarriage of justice. In 1990 the court of appeal quashed a conviction for armed robbery, raising questions about police integrity and contributing to the disbanding of the notorious West Midlands serious crime squad.The CCRC is investigating Khan's more recent conviction for another robbery. He is serving his sentence, set at a minimum of seven and a half years, in Gartree prison in Leicestershire.The evidence against Khan for the West Wickham robbery relied on DNA traces found on a pair of sunglasses that were said by the prosecution to have been found at the scene.DC Lester Oakley, from the Tower Bridge Flying Squad in London was one of the first officers to arrive. In 2008 DC Oakley was unanimously convicted of six counts of theft involving the disappearance of approximately £5,000 in cash from police evidence stores. He was jailed for three years.During that trial, according to Khan's lawyers, it emerged that he had lied about police exhibit documentation relating to Khan's cases, forged a colleague's signature, and stolen rent money he was supposed to use for a surveillance operation.Khan's lawyers say the sunglasses – pivotal to the case against him – had been taken from elsewhere and were never photographed at the scene. They say they were kept in store for two weeks before being tested at a time when Oakley was falsifying exhibits and the evidence store was in disarray.A letter sent to Khan's solicitor by the CCRC last month, however, suggests that investigators are unable to retrieve the crucial exhibit. It states: "Unfortunately, our attempts to locate the sunglasses have proved unsuccessful, as have our endeavours to put together an audit trail of their movements over and above that which was known at the trial ... The intention was to ascertain whether there was any evidence of the sunglasses having been handled by DC Oakley."In a letter from Gartree Prison, Khan told the Guardian: "The only evidence against me was the sunglasses found in a bag near to the bank robbery. This is the last time [I'm putting my] faith in the system to [remove] my wrongful conviction ... and return my freedom to me."The CCRC, which has been considering the case for the past 17 months, is expected to announce its conclusions shortly.