The streets are clean, there's no graffiti on the walls and the houses are well maintained. Walking down this London road I feel no fear; in fact a mother pushing her baby in a buggy has just given me a friendly smile - a rarity in this city.But this isn't a tree-lined suburban street filled with desirable Victorian homes. This is Peckham and the streets where three people - including 15-year-old Michael Dosunmu - have been murdered in just five days.The area has never been salubrious. For more than a generation it has been linked to drugs, gangs and violent murders. It came to the nation's attention in 2000, when 10-year-old Damilola Taylor was stabbed to death on a stairwell of a block of flats on the notorious North Peckham Estate.Just over six years on and the crumbling Sixties housing blocks may have made way for low-level flats and homes through a £300m regeneration programme, but it appears that no amount of money can rid the area of crime.As I walked around last week, I met a man who gave his name only as Mr X. He revealed a picture of young men boasting and showing off in an ever-spiralling game of 'I'm a bigger man than you are'. Much of it is centred on the drugs trade, offering the only employment in much of the area. In the end, guns settle disputes.'In Peckham it's standard for someone going down the local shop to be carrying a strap [a gun],' he said. 'In the past five years guns have just been made more and more available; it's like going to order a takeaway now. It's ridiculous.'According to local people, gang members in the area go under the name Peckham Boys. Their arch rivals, the Ghetto Boys, are from nearby New Cross. For more than 20 years the gangs have been warring with each other.Mr X said: 'To be honest, the beef [argument] goes back so many years that people can't even remember what it was over. It just passes down from the older ones to the younger members of the gang. The Ghetto Boys are falling apart bit by bit. They've got no strength no more. Their top leaders are gone - half of them are on crack, the rest in jail or dead.'The quick succession of last week's killings fuelled speculation that the murders were connected to the two gangs but detectives from Operation Trident, the Metropolitan Police's specialist team which investigates gun crime within the black community, have only managed to link two of the killings and have said that neither is gang-related.This does not mean there is a ceasefire. According to Mr X the 'heat is still on' and anyone who goes to the clubs locally will notice the cold atmosphere. He said: 'You'll have a certain gang of youths on one side of the dance, another on another side and another in a next corner. Everyone's hostile, no one's dancing.'It's all about whose got the best bottle of champagne, who's wearing the best trainers, who's pushing the biggest weights, who's got the biggest jewellery, who's driving the best car.'According to Mr X, if you can scoop every title - best champagne, best gun, best trainers - you will deemed the 'winner' of your area, or 'ends' as it is more commonly known: 'Once you got your status, you're made in your "ends". You go put on certain cable channels and you hear it all in the music: "Rep [represent] your ends". They're glorifying it. Talking about drugs, guns, it's all gone mad.'According to a former employee of one of these small-scale urban cable stations, the more explicit the lyrics, the more likely it would be aired. She said: 'If they aren't talking about popping your gun and repping your ends the station didn't want to know. I think it's disgusting and that's why I left.'I thought it must be a south London trend, but after talking to my son and discovering that youths in north-west London's (aka North Wheezy) Stonebridge Estate have beef with those from Neasden, I was horrified to discover this is not just a London thing but nationwide. White and Asian boys are 'repping their ends too' - in fact, many gangs are mixed.I asked Mr X and other people what could stop this. They all said more black officers need to be in Operation Trident. Until then, the youths will take no notice of what Trident's police say.