Do we need an FBI? Historically, chief constables have always been opposed. Few like the idea of any further reduction in their autonomy over the 50 regional forces they lead. As one of the more cynical asked: "Why should we want anorganisation that stands for Famous But Incompetent?"The prime minister, for one, believes there are several reasons for setting up a new national crime agency that "could share the intelligence, expertise and investigative talent". He has set up a new cabinet committee, under his own chairmanship, that will examine the idea and report in the autumn. For almost two decades police chiefs have been debating the idea. Sir Kenneth Newman, former Metropolitan commissioner, in a farewell interview with the Guardian in 1986, spoke of the need for a national detective agency to combat organised criminals who did not recognise geographical boundaries. A lot has happened since then. The old regional crime squads have gone; in their place by the end of the 1990s was the national criminal intelligence service, with a staff of 1,200, supplying police forces with intelligence and analysis of organised crime; and the national crime squad, which includes 1,330 detectives and 420 support staff to conduct operations that are predominantly concentrated on drug traffickers. To further complicate the issue there is also customs and excise, with 350 officers in its intelligence division and 1,500 operational officers in its investigative service also targeting drug traffickers. Stories about the inability of these three national agencies to collaborate are legion. There are accusations of rivalry, inefficiency, overlap - and a failure to share intelligence. But would a merger of the three agencies help? There is plenty of evidence that it might not. A recent audit commission report on local authorities showed that merging departments frequently did not improve collaboration. Separate fiefdoms continued to exist. Indeed, the council which achieved the greatest collaboration had not merged its departments. Some observers believe the prime minister is using the threat of a merger to force the separate agencies to cooperate more closely together. That might make sense. What the prime minister must ensure is a clearer and more transparent system of accountability - whether the agencies remain separate or merge. Too little is known about the way they operate - and that is unhealthy.