Portuguese police are investigating a possible breakthrough in the Madeleine McCann inquiry after an anonymous letter was sent to the Dutch newspaper De Telegraaf allegedly identifying where the girl's body had been buried.Dutch police said yesterday they were taking the contents of the letter "very seriously". It is understood the author claimed the four-year-old had been buried under rocks in deserted scrubland in an area called Odiaxere, about nine miles from the Mark Warner resort in Praia da Luz, where she went missing.Yesterday evening a group of seven police officers visited Arao, a small village north of Odiaxere. Witnesses said they spent an hour and 20 minutes looking in nearby fields.De Telegraaf reported that it had been sent a map on two A4 pages containing a cross and a question mark indicating a spot which was the "probable finding place" of Madeleine. Tests were carried out on the letter and the envelope and as soon as the results came through they were sent to the Portuguese detectives investigating the disappearance.Officers in Portugal are investigating the letter's claims. Dutch police said that part of the reason the letter was being taken so seriously was that it was similar to one sent to the same newspaper last June, following the disappearance of two girls, Stacy Lemmens and Natalie Mahy, from the Belgian city of Liège.In that case the author claimed to know where the girls' bodies had been buried. The bodies were eventually found two weeks later in a storm drain near a railway crossing a short distance from the location identified in the letter.Abdallah Ait Oud, a convicted child rapist, was eventually arrested for the murders. The DNA of a third person was found on the bodies.Sita Koenders, from the Dutch police in Amsterdam, said yesterday that De Telegraaf had received the letter on Monday and passed it straight to the police. "We carried out forensic investigations straight away and ... we are awaiting instructions from the Portuguese and will start an inquiry into finding the author if that is required."Chief Inspector Olegario Sousa said the information was being taken seriously and "everything necessary" was being done to validate the allegation. "The information indicated an area 15km from the place of the disappearance of the child," he said.Mr and Mrs McCann visited the Netherlands last week as part of a European search for their daughter, who was snatched from their holiday apartment 41 days ago.