A government adviser who praised binge drinking and threatened to "deck" Downing Street officials will head a taskforce to promote respect, the Home Office said yesterday.Louise Casey, 38, was formally investigated in July after complaints that her jokey speech to senior police officers breached the civil service code. She apologised and kept her job. But her promotion from head of the antisocial behaviour unit to director of the 30-strong taskforce drew criticism yesterday.Tony Blair and Charles Clarke, the home secretary, announced the unit as part of plans to crack down on antisocial behaviour. It will tackle nuisance neighbours, help parents develop child-rearing skills, encourage respect for public servants such as teachers and nurses, and - more nebulously - "[ensure] the culture of respect extends to everyone, young and old alike".In a strongly-worded speech, Mr Blair said: "From petty vandalism and binge drinking through to serious drug and gun crime, there are aspects of life today in Britain that are completely unacceptable ... But there is no cause or justification for defeatism."Addressing families at a community centre in Watford, Hertfordshire, he said respect meant changing not just the law, but Britain's culture, even if it meant intervening in families: "At its lowest level it's just about good manners."At its worst, it's a complete indifference to anything other than self; drug dealers in the street; violence after getting drunk; total disregard for the effect your behaviour has on others." Mr Clarke criticised "that form of society which believes you don't put in, you just take out", in an interview defending himself against claims he is soft on law and order. "I don't like liberals ... I am not soft."I am neither woolly or liberal or a woolly liberal," he told the Mirror. "I might not make a lot of noise about it, but we are making steady progress. I know people don't believe it but [crime] figures are going down. What is worse is the amount of abuse and disrespect."But Ms Casey's promotion attracted most attention. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "Presumably the fact Ms Casey has been appointed in this high-profile position indicates the PM shares her views on binge drinking and antisocial behaviour. If he does, it seems likely the problem of antisocial behaviour will continue to get worse, not better."Ms Casey's outspokenness on everything from rough sleeping to people on invalidity benefit offended many in the public and voluntary sectors. Supporters praise her record of achievement, and argue her frankness galvanises people."Whether you like her or not, she's a doer," said a former colleague. In her speech to an Association of Chief Police Officers conference, Ms Casey joked: "Doing things sober is no way to get things done," adding: "If No 10 says bloody 'evidence-based policy' to me once more I'll deck them one."The National Association of Probation Officers said the appointment was "extraordinary" in light of her comments. Mark Oaten, home affairs spokesman for the Lib Dems, said it would "raise eyebrows".