In those brief moments over the last few months when none of the protagonists in the US election campaign had actually said or done anything, media commentators reached for their back-up position: musing about how Barack Obama's story had partly inspired that of Matt Santos in The West Wing. When it emerged that the chief of staff-designate Rahm Emanuel had been the template for Josh Lyman, joy was unconfined. It's always comforting for media professionals to know that, however bizarre things get in real life, someone with whom they went to university invented it about six months earlier.But that's America, of course, where every waiter is a Hollywood star in waiting; they don't do stuff like that in, say, the Channel Islands, do they? Well, the collapse of the Haut de la Garenne mass murder story bears an uncanny resemblance to the final season of The Wire, in which maverick cop McNulty concocted a serial killer to channel much-needed funds to the Baltimore police. In both cases, police were able to take advantage of a news media desperate for sensation and low on bullshit detectors. The Jersey force became postmodern pioneers, creating a "real" fiction that unwittingly mirrored a 'fictional' fiction. And whatever their motivation turns out to be, full marks to them for avoiding the obvious, and not raiding an episode of Bergerac.Politicians are quite happy to get in on the act. Tony Blair promised to intervene when Deirdre Rachid was wrongfully imprisoned on Coronation Street; now culture secretary Andy Burnham is complaining about the results on The X Factor. (Readers who complain that The X Factor is, in fact, a "reality" show, and thus "real", need to read a bit of Baudrillard, or just get some fresh air.)Of course, we're all complicit; we buy the myth the media sells, and so we buy the media. Now Karen Matthews stands accused of faking the kidnap of her own daughter to get a reward from a tabloid newspaper that was trying to sell copies on the back of the non-existent story (and thus inadvertently provoking an even better story). Sometimes the connection can be too painful, but only until we lose interest. Ben Affleck's film Gone Baby Gone was denied a British release because of similarities with the Madeleine McCann case; six months later Madeleine McCann was out of the tabloids, so it was OK to watch child abduction as entertainment.And if media and reality don't correlate, just wait a few years for the latter to catch up. There's an episode of Star Trek where Kirk goes back in time and makes a sneering remark about a "primitive computer". In 1967, the era of room-sized processing behemoths tended by men in white coats, this was clever irony. Now, it's become the truth. Whatever that is.