Two former police constables were cleared yesterday of raping and indecently assaulting a woman with whom they had a sex threesome on duty.Mark Witcher, 30, and Andrew Lang, 31, were each jailed in November for 15 months for misconduct in office, and in December were sacked by the Surrey force - through which last night it emerged that the pair had a history of using their position to try to lure women. The force is now considering an appeal against their sentences as too lenient, and has also begun action to try to withdraw their pensions. Witcher, from Drayton, and Lang, of Whitehill, both in Hampshire, were found out by boasting to colleagues of a "spit roast" with a woman they drove home after she was allegedly assaulted at a club. When police contacted the woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, she said she was raped, but had not reported it. Semen DNA matching both men was found on her skirt, and they were charged. They said sex was consensual. Surrey dismissed the pair - Lang is single, Witcher is married with a young daughter - after the earlier trial found them guilty of misconduct in public office, lying on a police radio, and failing to report a crime. This first jury failed to reach a verdict on the rape and indecent assault charges. Yesterday, a second jury at Winchester crown court acquitted the two on both charges after 6 hours of deliberation. The woman, now aged 25, ran crying from the court. Mr Justice Davies called the two men a "disgrace". The pair were on patrol in uniform in a squad car in the early hours of September 20 2003, when called to an incident in Godalming, Surrey, where the woman and her friends had got into a row with strangers outside a nightclub. By her admission in court, she had 12 double vodkas and Red Bulls that night. She said that the strangers hit her, and the officers drove her round to look for them, to no avail, before giving her a lift home. The pair claimed there was flirtatious banter in the car, with Witcher calling the woman a "lusty, busty northerner" and she teasing she had "never been with two policemen before". She said she was so drunk the pair helped her into her house, where, she alleged, they raped her. But the jury believed their evidence that she began the threesome, simultaneously having oral sex with one and penetration with the other, and swapping positions - a "spit roast". As her male babysitter and three children slept upstairs, Lang even answered his police radio during sex. Witcher told the court he was "amazed and astonished" at what had happened, but was now ashamed and deeply regretted the incident. Lang called it a "spontaneous and consensual out-of-body experience". "At that moment, I was caught up in a highly sexual incident," he said. "I should have walked away, but it was spontaneous and consensual and I made a total mistake staying there." The two went back to Guildford police station in Surrey, where in the ensuing weeks they bragged to colleagues how they had "spit roasted" the woman and "got away with murder." When the story reached the ears of Sergeant Glynis Shaw at a Christmas party, she reported them to the force's professional standards unit, who began an investigation. Three more officers came forward to express concern at the two's behaviour. One officer described the culture at the station as "drinking beer, eating kebabs and shagging birds". At first the allegation was misconduct - having sex on duty. When detectives tracked down the then 23-year-old mother, she broke down in tears, claiming it had been rape, and she had not reported it because she feared it could jeopardise a custody battle with her children's father. The pair were suspended, and charged on February 5 2004, after analysis of a skirt. Both strenuously denied rape, but admitted that what happened was wrong. Witcher, whose wife, Claire, stood by him, said in the witness box: "I'm ashamed of the pain I caused my wife and family. I feel sorry for the woman. I'm ashamed I did it on duty." Surrey's assistant chief constable, Mark Rowley, said outside the court: "The chief constable has already met and personally apologised to the young woman who was the victim of the disgraceful behaviour of these two former officers... The whole force shares my disgust at the abhorrent behaviour displayed by Witcher and Lang towards a vulnerable victim of crime. "Surrey is absolutely determined to maintain the highest standards of integrity and trust the public rightly expects."