A fishing boat which sank with the loss of seven men did not have vital flood prevention equipment and twice had to be baled out by hand in the months before the tragedy, a court heard today.The Solway Harvester, a scallop dredger which lost the entire crew when it capsized in the Irish Sea, was lacking a crucial deck cover for two years, the High Court in Douglas, Isle of Man, was told. The jury heard that only days before the sinking the crew had to bale out sea water by hand after pumps failed. Richard Gidney, 41, the director of a firm which owned the fishing trawler, denies seven counts of manslaughter of the crew by breaching a duty of care.Opening the case for the prosecution, Simon Gedge said that Mr Gidney, from Fleet, in Dumfries and Galloway, and a one-time captain of the Solway Harvester, had failed to exercise "proper care" and this had led to the sinking. He described how the trawler had been dredging the seabed for scallops when gale, force eight winds and high seas forced the boat to head for shelter in Ramsey Bay, Isle of Man. The Kirkcudbright-registered ship sank about 11 miles east of the island at around 5.45pm on January 11 2000. "The prosecution says that failure to exercise proper care led clearly to the sinking and that when you come to judge that failure you will find it of such a degree that you'll find it worthy of criminal censure," Mr Gedge said. "The Solway Harvester was not, the prosecution says, lost as a result of a rogue wave. It was not, and this will be agreed in the trial, as a result of collision with another object or vessel, surface or submerged. "The prosecution says that the loss was due to a failure on the part of those who had responsibility for the management of the vessel properly to consider the hazards produced by her condition when she went to sea." Mr Gedge said the design of the vessel had been dramatically altered with some changes not highlighted to the Maritime Coastguard Agency.In September 1997, 60cm of water flooded a lower deck, forcing the crew to bale out by hand. The fishing trip was abandoned and the vessel returned to Kirkcudbright. On December 21 1999, another serious flood forced a second bale-out.Mr Gedge said: "The water had come in via the starboard scuttle opening. These flooding incidents were not just unlucky circumstances. Other descriptions are given by crew members, such as water coming through with sufficient force as to hit members of the crew like a sledgehammer." The acting Solway Harvester skipper, Andrew Mills, 29, his brother Robin, 33 and cousin David, 17, died when the vessel went down. The other crew who died were Martin Milligan, 26, John Murphy, 22, David Lyons, 18 and Wesley Jolly, 17. The men came from Garlieston, Whithorn, and the Isle of Whithorn in the Machars area of Galloway in south-west Scotland. The hearing, taking place before acting deemster Andrew Moran QC, continues.