Yesterday's white paper on sex offences - with a bill to follow in the new year - passes the first two tests that any legislation should face. Is is necessary? Has it been well thought out? The answer is yes to both questions. There has been no consolidation of sexual offences for 46 years. Even then, the 1956 act was mainly a pull-together of 19th-century laws. The current law is a patchwork of court rulings, old statutes and sudden responses to important reports like Wolfenden on the decriminalisation of homosexuality in private in 1967. The result is an archaic and contradictory jumble: a man who has unlawful sexual intercourse with a girl under 16 faces a two-year sentence; but a man who indecently assaults her, without sexual penetration, faces 10 years. There are different age threshholds, time limits and even different offences according to whether a sexual assault is on a boy or girl.Is it well thought-out? Yesterday's white paper is not a knee-jerk response to tabloid allegations by Ulrika Jonsson or anyone else. It is the culmination of four years' work, including a review committee, extensive consultation and special conferences that ended with a well-balanced 150-page document two years ago. Yesterday's policy paper follows the main thrust of the earlier work. It does not seek to intervene in private relationships between consenting adults, but it proposes important reforms on rape, gay sex and sexual abuse. Ministers should be congratulated for reforming such sensitive laws, which their predecessors did not dare to touch. Rape: Social reformers are rightly concerned by the dramatic drop in convictions in the last 25 years - from 33% to 7%. Much of this is probably caused by the rise of date rape. Ministers have resisted making date rape a lesser charge; rightly so, since the effects can be as traumatic as stranger rape. Instead they are tightening the rules that currently allow defendants to plea an "honest belief" in consent, even where this is unreasonable; they are widening the law to include penile penetration of the anus and mouth; and they reject tabloid pressure to give defendants the same anonymity that victims have rightly been given. Gay sex: Here the law was in its most archaic and discriminatory form. The review rightly referred to the way in which the law's language - "unnatural acts" and "buggery" - helped to legitimise prejudice and encourage homophobia. Homosexual and heterosexual activity is to be put on an equal footing. Homosexuals will no longer be pursued for cruising, which in the heterosexual world would be regarded as chatting up. But like heterosexuals, gays will be prosecuted if they have sex in view of the public or solicit sex in a manner that causes public anxiety. Sex abuse: The rules of the sex offender register, which already achieves 97% compliance, will be tightened. But there will be no Sarah's Law, giving public access to it, because that leads to lynch law and offenders going to ground where they can not be monitored. There will be new laws with severe penalties for sexually exploiting children for gain or "grooming" children for sex on internet chat sites. One rare omission is the dropping of a proposed "persistent sexual abuse act", which will rightly cause concern among children's charities. Most sexual abuse remains in the home. The old incest law, however, will be widened to include adoptive and step relations. It is a good package. It got a progressive response from Tory MPs yesterday. But will the archaic House of Lords defend archaic laws? That is the question.