A self-confessed gunman and robber of drug dealers must have thought he had committed the perfect crime - "a crime that shocked the nation" - when he shot dead Bertram Byfield and his seven-year-old daughter Toni-Ann, an Old Bailey jury was told yesterday.Opening the murder trial of Joel Smith, 32, Richard Horwell, for the prosecution, said there had been no forensic evidence left at the west London bedsit where the pair were killed with a 9mm gun in September 2003. There were no witnesses and no CCTV.Byfield, 41, was himself a dealer in cannabis and crack cocaine. But these murders were in no sense ordinary, Mr Horwell said, because a "bright, fun-loving little girl", known affectionately as "TT", had been shot dead with a bullet in the back."The notoriety was such that eventually the normal barriers that exist between individuals and the police collapsed and witnesses came forward to assist in the investigation that otherwise would not have done so," he said.Over the next two years Smith, whose street nickname was Kane or Cocaine, would make several alleged confessions. Some were to his girlfriend or ex-partners; others to friends and acquaintances, including cellmates while he was serving a prison sentence in Liverpool for another crime.Some were covertly taped by the police. In one he is alleged to have claimed that he was hired to shoot Byfield for £25,000.Mr Horwell said: "This terrible crime might have remained unsolved. Police needed a breakthrough. It was provided by the defendant himself."No human being, no matter how cold or calculating, can shoot a seven-year-old through the back and not feel some remorse after the event."It is the combination of guilt, a loose tongue and a misplaced trust in others that has placed this defendant in the dock."He suggested that Toni-Ann had been killed to eliminate her as a witness. Smith, of no fixed address, denies murder.Mr Horwell outlined the complicated history of Byfield's and Toni-Ann's peripatetic life.Also known as Anthony Pinnock, Byfield was born in Jamaica where he married and had several children before getting divorced. He had lived in England for many years and often had several girlfriends at the same time. In 1997 he was jailed for nine years for possession of crack cocaine with intent to supply. In 2002 he was shot at the home of a girlfriend in Wembley.Toni-Ann was also born in Jamaica, where she lived for a while with Byfield's ex-wife. She was sent to England in 2000 and spent time with several different carers. Occasionally she spent weekends with her father.But Mr Howell said that while Byfield believed he was her father, DNA tests after their deaths showed they were not actually related.On the fatal weekend Toni-Ann could talk of nothing but her new school and during the Saturday afternoon and evening she and Byfield spent hours out shopping in west London for her school uniform. Just before 12.30am the gunman arrived at the house, a hostel for single ex-offenders.A woman staying on the first floor heard Toni-Ann scream, and a disturbance - possibly a bike being thrown around. "Then four shots - then silence," Mr Horwell told the court.When the police arrived they found Byfield's body entangled with a bicycle. He had been shot in the groin and then in the side of his body. Toni-Ann was lying near the door."Neither had any prospect of survival and must have died very soon afterwards," he said.After the murders, Mr Horwell said, Smith, who was born in London, headed north, first to an ex-partner in Nottingham. She thought he was in a state of panic and refused to let him stay. A few months later he referred to the murders while with another ex-partner."It was me. It wasn't meant to happen like that," he is alleged to have said.Smith moved to Liverpool, where he allegedly told a friend: "I have blasted a Yardie and his girl."To another friend he claimed to know the reason why Byfield was killed. "I know 'cos it was fucking me," he is alleged to have said.After being jailed in Liverpool he became friendly with an ex-army cellmate who admitted he had killed children in Iraq but not deliberately. Mr Horwell said Smith replied: "You and me are the same. We both killed children."In September last year, another cellmate watched Smith's reaction as he viewed a BBC Crimewatch appeal which gave a description similar to himself and suggested the murderer had moved to the north-west.A detective had said on the programme that the child's killer would "stand out like a sore thumb" with his London accent among the criminal fraternity on Merseyside.Smith had jumped off his bed and turned the television off. He allegedly said: "If they get me for this, I won't see the other side of the wall."In a guarded phone call to his girlfriend the next day they discussed the programme and he remarked that "the clock was ticking."The trial continues.