Men accused of rape would have their identity concealed up until the time they are charged, under Home Office plans to be outlined this week.The safeguard is designed to fend off attempts by the Tories to push for changes banning the naming of sex attackers until after conviction. The move follows the disappearance last week of an Isle of Wight headteacher accused of indecently assaulting a pupil. Alastair Wilbee, 47, disappeared eight days ago on the eve of publication in his local newspaper of a report of his court appearance. It also comes after former TV presenter John Leslie was cleared of two charges of indecently assaulting a 23-year-old actress. Several women came forward to police after he was linked to the sexual assault allegations in the autobiography of Ulrika Jonsson and then publicly named by presenter Matthew Wright on the Channel 5 programme The Wright Stuff. However, the proposed move has infuriated many women MPs, who fear it will stop witnesses coming forward and contradicts the principle that justice must be seen to be done. They argue that with already low conviction rates for rape, the main problem is not innocent men being wrongly accused but guilty men walking free. 'The high acquittal rate means a lot of people are getting away with it - the conviction rate is now down to 5.3 per cent and that's not because 94 per cent of women are lying,' said Vera Baird, a barrister and Labour MP. 'The danger is that it's the very defendants these people want to protect who may be the greatest danger to women. It marks rape complainants out as likely to be less truthful and that is going to undermine them. There are more false allegations of theft than of rape.' However, Dominic Grieve, Tory home affairs spokesman and also a barrister, says the risk of malicious accusations is a serious one. 'Date rape is a very serious matter and it ought to go to trial wherever possible, but we have to accept that the rate of acquittal is likely to be very high. There are going to be a large number of people who are put through this process - and who have their lives effectively wrecked - who are subsequently not found guilty,' he said. Grieve, who like Baird, sits on the standing committee due to begin scrutiny of the Sex Offences Bill on Tuesday, has tabled amendments giving accused men the right to anonymity throughout the trial and, if acquitted, for the rest of their lives. There would be powers for prosecutors to appeal to a judge to reveal a man's identity if it was considered necessary to justice. The Liberal Democrats have tabled separate amendments making it an offence publicly to name someone accused of rape until charged. The Home Office wants only a voluntary agreement between police and journalists. 'We need a safeguard. Nobody can get a fair trial under such circumstances,' said Annette Brooke, Liberal Democrat on the committee. The Government has a sufficient majority to get its own way this week. But the issue will then be bounced back to the Lords, where Home Office aides are worried an even more draconian mood prevails. Peers voted this summer for an even stronger amendment tabled by the former Law Lord, Lord Ackner, calling for alleged attackers to have the same rights as their victims, who remain anonymous for the rest of their lives, regardless of the verdict. That would have prevented the naming of the Ealing Vicarage rapists, or the disgraced gynaecologist Rodney Ledward who raped more than 30 of his patients, or even paedophile killers accused of both rape and murder - even after conviction. Meanwhile, police were last night continuing their hunt for Wilbee. His wife Gail, 48, fears her husband may have been driven to suicide by the shame of being publicly accused of indecently assaulting a pupil, an allegation he strenuously denied. She said: 'His recent deep grief at the waste of his professional life and the loss of standing in the community that he saw as the inevitable result of the publication of his name and address... have placed my family and me in [a] traumatic and possibly tragic situation.' Wilbee was suspended from his post in May after the allegation was made. When he made his first court appearance on 21 August, he pleaded not guilty to one charge of indecently assaulting a boy under the age of 14.