In the public gallery of Nottingham crown court this week a woman in her 60s sat silently as the man who had abducted, raped and strangled her 16-year-old daughter made the admission she had almost given up hope of hearing.Since Colette Aram was snatched off the street and murdered 26 years ago, her mother, Jacqui Kirkby, has waited to see justice. Were it not for the DNA database and the retention of samples taken from those arrested for minor offences she would still be waiting.Advances in DNA profiling, including the development of low-copy DNA, were not enough to catch Paul Hutchinson for the murder of Aram in 1983. He had never been arrested for a criminal offence and as such his details were not on the database to provide a match when police finally obtained a full profile of the killer through low-copy DNA last year.It was only a familial link – provided via the DNA swab taken from a relative of Hutchinson following their arrest for a minor offence, that led detectives to the man who has evaded justice for nearly three decades.Campaigners against the retention of profiles for any length of time of those arrested would perhaps argue the image above is an emotive one, best not advanced in the debate at the heart of the controversy over the UK's DNA database; the balance between the need for society to protect the privacy of its subjects while also maintaining their security. But ask any police officer charged with informing a mother that their child's naked body has been found lifeless in a field and they would say that murder and its aftermath are always an emotional business.It is the position of Liberty and other campaigners such as Genewatch UK that DNA samples of those arrested for but not convicted of offences should be removed from the database as soon as a decision not to charge is taken. They reject the government's proposal in the crime and security bill that the DNA of suspects should be kept for six years and then removed. But it would not be difficult to argue that their position, had it been policy, would have left Hutchinson at large for another two decades, if not until the day he died.Senior police officers sit in their offices across the country and seem baffled by the ferocity of the arguments over the DNA database. They see the rows of numbers that fill the database detailing the profiles of 4.5 million people as a tool in their armoury, something as essential as fingerprinting. They admit they are not good at getting their message across and believe the agenda has been seized by civil liberties campaigners whose proposals police say would lead to fewer serious crimes, such as murder and rape, being solved. Perhaps the likes of Jacqui Kirkby would have something to say on the subject. But she has never been asked.