Officially it is part of a unit called SCD6. But rank and file officers know it simply as the "celebrity squad". The Metropolitan police's special inquiry team, which investigated the allegations against John Leslie, has been involved in some of the most prominent and controversial investigations of recent times. Jonathan Aitken and Jeffrey Archer have also been successfully investigated by the team. The squad was also involved in the sexual allegations made against Neil and Christine Hamilton and an inquiry into the tapping of Angus Deayton's telephone. The team worked with the FBI in the hunt for one of America's most wanted, the mobster James "Whitey" Bulger, after a sighting of him in the UK. But more recently it attracted criticism for its part in the collapsed prosecutions of the royal butlers Paul Burrell and Harold Brown. Eyebrows were also raised when the team investigated Major Charles Ingram, who tried to cheat his way to a fortune on the television gameshow Who Wants to be a Millionaire? The team was delighted to secure a conviction but many thought the detectives' time could have been better spent elsewhere. The team, which comprises around 10 detectives and a few support staff, is charged with investigating particularly sensitive cases, such as inquiries involving prominent personalities, politicians or members of the royal family. It also looks at cases referred by the government or judiciary. It is also often called on to investigate less glamorous claims of jury nobbling, to revisit cold cases or complex prison inquiries. Based in an anonymous office block, Buckingham Gate, the work of the squad was put in the spotlight by the collapse of the Burrell trial following the intervention of the Queen. Members of the special inquiry team were accused of misleading Prince Charles and Prince William about the quality of the evidence against Mr Burrell. It was thought the officers may have been too deferential in their dealings with the royals. There is no doubt the case strained relations between the Met and the royal family. An external review has concluded that the investigations into Mr Burrell and Mr Brown were fundamentally sound. But two of the senior detectives, Maxine de Brunner and John Yates, have been moved off the team on to other duties. Commander Yates has responsibility for territorial policing while Superintendent de Brunner is in the department of professional standards - the Met's internal affairs section. Scotland Yard says the team does a lot of excellent work which goes unnoticed. Its officers have recently been investigating allegations of drug dealing by prison officers. Inevitably, however, it is investigations like the one into the false claims levelled against Mr Leslie which attract the headlines, and, at times, the criticism.