When I look at the latest lunatic proposal coming out of the Home Office (Parents who ferry children to clubs face criminal record checks, 11 September), I wonder if there is someone in there who actually wants the Tories to win the next election. A Home Office official states: "We believe this is a commonsense approach, and what parents would rightly expect." This will not enhance my children's safety and will dramatically limit their opportunities for fun activities. These checks are unlikely to catch anyone who is a predatory paedophile unless he or she has already come into contact with police.The huge and costly bureaucratic operation needed to register the 11.3 million people it is thought will be trapped by this madness will be catastrophic. If the government has cash to splash on vulnerable children, how about increasing benefits to the thousands who live below the poverty line, in appalling overcrowded housing, or raising social workers' pay?Molly Mulready-JonesLondon• As a parent, I thought I would do as Sir Roger Singleton (chair of the Independent Safeguarding Authority) suggests and focus on what the new registration scheme will do and what it will not do.This registration scheme will not significantly improve child protection as the majority of child abuse is carried out by family and friends. It will not improve children's lives when they are unable to take part in activities for lack of volunteers. With 11 million people on the list, it will not make identifying high risk individuals any easier. It will interfere with sensible volunteering. It is bureaucratic and organisations will be forced to clear every person to ensure that they avoid the hefty fine. It will deter people from volunteering as it formalises what many people want to keep informal.The time it takes to go through the vetting process will mean the need for the volunteer will have passed in some cases. It will create an illusion of security and encourage parents to abdicate their own responsibilities to the state. To say that those with nothing to hide have nothing to fear sounds too much like the mantra of a police state.Am I reassured? No.Steve DolanLeeds• There are two points of objection to the plans to vet all adults working with children. When did the balance shift from citizens proving to the state they are not criminals? And why, as a mother, can I not organise with the club to provide a lift to children to my son's rugby club?  Under these new rules I am not allowed to take a group of children to a sport or social event more than once a month. One of the effects of this diktat will be that children will see adults as potential abusers and every child is at potential risk.Janice SmallBrighouse, West Yorkshire • It may surprise many people to know that despite increased requirements here in the UK on checks for people coming into regular contact with children, there are no requirements for staff and volunteers dispatched overseas. This begs the question - are we unwittingly exporting our sex offenders abroad?Most of the larger and many smaller UK registered international children's charities do of course operate very strict child protection systems, but these are entirely voluntary. There is no UK legislation in place to prevent paedophiles from gaining employment or volunteering opportunities with charities operating projects abroad.The government is clearly very committed to keeping children safe, but it must look at making child protection policies compulsory for all children's charities registering with the Charity Commission. Children's safety must come first, whether they are being ferried to a London sports club by another child's parent or cared for in a Bulgarian orphanage by a British volunteer.Anna FeuchtwangChief executive, EveryChild• The time cannot be far away when we shall need Criminal Records Bureau clearance to live in a street where there are families with children.Brian MossTamworth, Staffordshire