Police today confirmed that over £22m was taken when an armed gang pulled off one of the world's biggest ever bank robberies.During a press conference this afternoon, detectives said more than 10 masked raiders, some dressed as police officers, were involved in the audacious theft from Belfast's Northern Bank on Monday.They also confirmed that a burned out car found late last night in woodland in the south of the province belonged to one of six people held hostage during the raid. Police said the owner had been held blindfolded and gagged for 23 hours before being dropped off in woodland near the main road linking Ballynahinch and Castlewellan, Co Down.Det Supt Andy Sproule told reporters that 45 detectives were working "flat out" in an attempt to track the thieves and were trawling through hours of CCTV footage. But he said the raiders were "forensically aware" and admitted police would not trace the culprits without public help."It is not going to be easy to catch them," he said. "This was a carefully planned operation by professional criminals who have done their homework." The hostages, who included bank workers, had the impression the thieves were aware of bank processes and security systems, he said.Det Supt Sproule said the raid began around 10pm on Sunday when three masked men entered the family home of a bank employee in Dunmurry, near south Belfast. A father, mother, two brothers and a girlfriend were at home and taken hostage. While two of the men stayed at the property, the bank employee was driven to the home of a superior in Loughinisland, Co Down. That house had already been reached by raiders, dressed as police officers, who gained entry after saying a relative had been killed in a road accident.The following day the bank employees went to work and were told to behave as though everything was normal, Det Supt Sproule said. Around 6pm on Monday one of them left the bank carrying a bag containing around £1m in notes which he delivered to a waiting man. He then returned to the bank and shortly after, around 7pm and again around 8pm, a white box van, with the registration plate RCZ 6632, pulled up at the part of the bank from where money is distributed, and began loading crates full of cash, Det Supt Sproule said.In excess of £22m was taken in mostly new notes of various denominations printed by a number of Northern Ireland banks. Once the thieves had possession of the money, they released the hostages.Earlier, it emerged the Australian owners of the Northern Bank will have to bear the cost of the robbery. The National Australia Bank said it had no external insurance policy to offset the losses.A statement from the bank said: "Approximately £20m was stolen from Northern Bank on Monday evening, December 20, 2004. The theft is covered by self-insurance, and as such, National Australia Bank, which currently owns Northern Bank, will bear the impact of any losses arising from the theft."The Northern Bank chief executive, Don Price, said staff were receiving counselling to help overcome the ordeal. "During the past few days bank staff have worked tirelessly to ensure that normal services have been maintained to customers at a very difficult time," he said. "We are continuing to work closely with the police as they investigate this robbery."Assistant chief constable Sam Kinkaid, who is leading the hunt, said it was still too early to say whether there had been paramilitary involvement in the raid on the Donegall Square West bank and, if so, from what faction.Late last night, a vehicle belonging to a hostage was found burned out in Drumkeeragh Forest, Co Down, between Ballynahinch and Castlewellan in the south of the province. According to sources in the area, a female hostage was left in the forest on Monday night. She is believed to have walked barefoot to a house for help, and was later suffering from exposure as a result of her ordeal.In October £2m worth of cigarettes was stolen from a warehouse in Belfast. That also involved a gang holding a family hostage while a member of staff was forced to open up the premises on an industrial estate.At the time the chief constable of Northern Ireland, Hugh Orde, announced that the raid had been carried out by paramilitaries but would not say which faction might have been behind it. The Democratic Unionist party alleged the raid must have been sanctioned by the Provisional IRA.Mr Kinkaid told a policing board meeting in Belfast: "All paramilitary groups in the last five to six months have been involved in serious robberies on both sides of the community."During the summer, £500,000 was stolen from a branch of the Ulster Bank in Strabane, Co Tyrone, near the border with the republic. On that occasion, two families were held hostage while staff were forced to open up offices.The fine line between paramilitary groups and criminal gangs has become increasingly blurred since the start of the ceasefire in Northern Ireland. The province has a reservoir of experienced gunmen who have been stood down from active operations and are at liberty to take part in freelance operations.