William Hague was today branded "desperate" after claiming that the report into the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence has contributed to a "collapse" in police morale and recruitment.The Tory leader linked the Macpherson report on the black teenager's murder to a sharp fall in the use by police of stop-and-search powers, and noted that since its publication street crime had soared. Mr Hague's comments, in a speech to the Centre for Policy Studies in London, were condemned by the prime minister's official spokesman as a "pretty desperate and pretty disreputable" attempt at "casting around to get himself noticed". Sir William Macpherson dismissed Mr Hague's claim that his report highlighting institutional racism in the police had led to a reduction in the police stop-and-search policy and a rise in crime. "I am simply most surprised that the Tory party should change its view, because at the time the report was written they, in common with the government, accepted the report," said Sir William. Mr Hague denied he was "playing the race card". In his speech, the Tory leader said: "We have now had 21 months to assess the impact of the Macpherson report. In that period the use of stop-and-search powers by the Metropolitan police has fallen. "In February 1999 the Metropolitan police made 18,752 arrests following stop and searches. In September this year, new provisional figures show that has dropped by more than a third to just 11,858 arrests. At the same time, street crime has soared - not just in London but around the country."Earlier the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, said people should show "gratitude" when they are stopped by the police. Miss Widdecombe said regular stop and searches showed that the force was doing its job and helping to fight crime. Her comments came ahead of a meeting with Tory leader William Hague and the Chief Superintendent Simon Foy at Brixton police station, south London.Talk about it What do you think?Related special reports The Stephen Lawrence report Race in Britain Tories in opppositionRelated stories14 December: Lawrence report hit Met morale - government What Hague said when the report was published 14 December: Hague to attack Macpherson report 12 December: Paul Foot - the Met is guilty 11 December: inquiry into 'racist' unlawful arrests' 9 December: Sikh policeman's record payout in 'hate mail' case Stephen Lawrence murder: chronologyChannel 4 video 24 February 1999: the Macpherson reportUseful links Macpherson report: summary Macpherson report: full text Macpherson report: the 70 recommendations in full Macpherson report: search Home Office response to Macpherson report Met response to Macpherson report Stephen Lawrence family campaign Commission for Racial Equality Met report on recruiting ethnic minoritiesCentre for Policy Studies