A 15-year-old boy was stabbed to death in south London early yesterday morning less than a mile from where Damilola Taylor was murdered in similar circumstances eight years ago. Lyle Tulloch, from Peckham, was attacked in a stairwell at Newall House on Harper Road, Southwark, and died at the scene. The killing took place only hours before London's new mayor, Boris Johnson, promised to tackle violent crime. He described the boy's death as tragic, saying: 'I think this problem with kids growing up and getting lost in tragic and self-destructive choices is the number one issue we face in this city.' Lyle's death brings to 12 the number of teenagers murdered in the capital this year.Four male youths - two 17-year-olds, a 16-year-old and a 15-year-old - were arrested near the scene of the crime. Last year Lyle went to a foundation set up to help young people having problems at school. 'He was a good boy,' Uanu Seshmi, chief executive of the From Boyhood to Manhood Foundation, told The Observer last night. 'I don't think he was in a gang. He was just a boy who mixed with the wrong people. It took a couple of months before he tuned in to his work, because he was smoking skunk, like a lot of them. But then he turned up to do his schoolwork on time and he really wanted to go on to college.'Seshmi said he had been excluded from his school, Peckham Academy. His mother brought him to the foundation because she had heard good things about it. 'I do know that Lyle had a very loving and caring mum. She had worked very hard to try to get him back into school and was very concerned that he was on the streets. She almost had a nervous breakdown about it,' said Seshmi.The foundation closed down its day centre at the end of last year due to lack of funds. Seshmi remembered that Lyle had enjoyed the drama classes there. 'He had a real interest. We took about 20 boys to the Chicken Shed Theatre for the day too and they had a fantastic time.'Journalist Shona Ghosh interviewed Lyle at the foundation for the Guardian last September. She remembered him vividly: 'He was shy and seemed a bit of a contrast to the kids running around in the hall outside. He was sweet enough to come into one of the classrooms with Uanu, and he spoke about his ambitions to be a lawyer. He became more animated when talking about the foundation, to which he seemed very loyal, and the differences between his previous school and his current environment. 'He seemed happy, saying he felt an improvement in himself at the foundation. He confessed that he had been inattentive and mischievous before, but that he now enjoyed his schooling.'After the day centre closed, Seshmi said he lost contact with Lyle. 'We were just so overwhelmed with boys, in the end we just said "we need to close down in December for restructuring".' The Home Secretary had recently promised to look into renewed funding for the day centre, he said. 'Jacqui Smith promised us she would help us. The Home Office has said it is sending consultants in to see if we can find new funding. It has take a lot of time to happen, though.'A post-mortem held at Greenwich yesterday gave the cause of death as stab wounds and haemorrhaging. Detective Chief Inspector Mick Duthie, of the Metropolitan Police's homicide and serious crime unit, said: 'Another youth has lost his life through knife crime, and we urge anyone with information to come forward as a matter of urgency.'Killings in the capital · The death brings the number of teenagers murdered in London this year to 12. Four died in March · According to Metropolitan Police figures, 26 teenagers were murdered in the capital last year in stabbings and shootings. · Of those 26 teenagers, 16 were killed in knife attacks and nine in gun-related incidents. In one case the cause of death was unconfirmed.