Last week, 15-year-old Kieran Rodney-Davies was mugged in south London and stabbed to death when he refused to hand over his £79 mobile phone. His mother said her only son had never been in trouble before. "He wasn't in a gang or into drugs ... if he had been I would have been prepared for this. It's a tragedy for this to happen over something so trivial."My 13-year-old son Nicholas was mugged a fortnight ago on his way home from school, also in south London. He was luckier. Three kids on bikes stopped Nicholas and his friend and searched them. The bullies made them jump up and down to see what would fall out of their pockets (nothing did), then the gang leader head-butted Nicholas on his cheekbone, punched him in the chest and cycled off. This is not the first time Nicholas has been mugged. We have now lost count, but it has happened on more than a dozen occasions since he started at secondary school. It's the same old story. The thugs want mobiles (which he doesn't carry to school because the school doesn't allow them) or cash (he has a maximum of 40p). Sometimes they take his football. He probably gets picked on because he wears a "posh" uniform, even though he goes to a comprehensive. The incidents usually involve verbal abuse, body searches and humiliation. Once, a boy flashed a knife in front of him. Nicholas has never been badly hurt, thank heavens, but there is always the thought in his mind that his assailants might be armed. I deeply resent the fact that my son now cannot walk the streets around his home without wondering if he is going to be knifed. I can't reassure him that nothing will happen, because it does. Half of all street crimes involve mobile phones. Perhaps this is unsurprising given that the number of mobiles in this country has risen from 17 million four years ago to 56 million today, and still rising. The National Mobile Phone Crime Unit was set up last year to target the problem, headed by Detective Superintendent Eddie Thomson. Thomson has introduced new guidelines for the police dealing with local thugs and also aims to counter phone-dealing by organised crime. He believes they are having some success, although the figures show that it is still early days. Mobile phone crime was down by 10% in the first half of this year, and in the same period there was a 4% reduction in the number of street crimes in which knives were used."Boys pick on boys," says DS Thomson: 90% of muggers are male and 50% of them are aged between 16 and 20. Three-quarters of their victims are male and nearly half are under 21. Most boys of Nick's age have phones and make easy targets. Nicholas's 14-year-old friend Carl owned a top-of-the-range mobile until he was mugged three weeks ago. The next week, on his way home from school, Carl was harassed every night by different groups of kids wanting a mobile or money. "You just have to live with it," he says. "It's not like you can stop it happening." Carl may be philosophical about the incidents, but even though he and Nicholas don't own up to it, their confidence has been knocked and they are wary about going out on their own. Every journey home from school is now a danger. Carl says that what distresses him is that passers-by do not want to get involved. When he was mugged, he was held up against a wall on a main road by four boys and at least four people walked by. They just didn't want to know. Nicholas says he doesn't like to shout out to strangers in case it encourages the muggers to bring out a knife, but he hopes that someone will read the situation and intervene. It hasn't happened yet. Nicholas felt he had a good chance of recognising the main bully and we went to the police station to go through their mug shots. Here, in all their glory, were the young, local undesirables. Nicholas scrolled through the digital photos on the computer and I had to stifle the desire to tell him to memorise them all in case he meets them on the streets. I wanted to take the file away to scrutinise it. He thought he recognised the boy, but wasn't certain enough for the police to act. I was secretly relieved. If Nicholas went to court to identify him, the boy would soon be back on the streets and I wouldn't want Nicholas to put himself at risk of recrimination by identifying him. A couple of days later, at the school fete, Nicholas suddenly saw his attacker. Without hesitation, I abandoned my post at the frankfurter stall, raced over to the gate and blocked the boy's exit on his bike. I tried to extract from him his name and school but he was defensive and monosyllabic and after a few minutes, confused about what I should do, I let him go. After he had gone, I called 999, and five minutes later a police car arrived and we were told they had picked a boy up and wanted us to drive by and see if it was the right one. It wasn't. Nevertheless, the police responded quickly after both the mugging and the sighting. The response was in line with DS Thomson's new guidelines about the "golden hour" principle - 78% of arrests are made at or near the scene of the crime within an hour of the incident, so it is imperative to call 999 promptly. I have to admit I spotted the boy again the other night but this time didn't ring the police, paralysed by worries about the boy taking it out on Nicholas at a later date. Thomson says this is a hopelessly negative attitude. The courts are giving three- to five-year sentences to muggers, including adolescents, when violence is used, and muggers need to be afraid of being caught. "We need to put the fear back into the criminal," says Thomson. "The boy who assaulted Nicholas will be back on the street up to no good now." With the memory of what happened to Kieran Rodney-Davies in the forefront of parents' minds everywhere, what sort of advice should we give our children about how to be safe on the street? DS Thomson's advice is this: "Be alert when you use your mobile, especially at night. Turn off the ring-tone in public places. Don't walk and text. Don't play games on your phone in public. Be especially alert when you leave train and tube stations that are crime hotspots. If mugged, don't be a hero. Give them what they want and call 999 right away." He also urged me to register the unique IMEI number of my family's mobiles on the police register so that, if the police find them, they will know they are stolen - 12 million phones are already registered this way. Nicholas is now a skinny 5ft 9ins and over the past year attacks have become less frequent. My hope is that with another couple of inches and a bit of weight on him, he might become a victim less often. But this September, Nicholas's 10-year-old brother Ben starts at secondary school. He is 5ft tall and wants a mobile for his birthday. He is very excited about the new school, and so am I. But I am holding my breath to see what happens on his journey home.