Meredydd Hughes, the chief constable of South Yorkshire police, admitted yesterday he understood why the family of Toni Comer wanted answers to allegations that one of his officers punched her five times outside a nightclub in Sheffield.But he defended his force and said his officers faced violence from offenders on a regular basis. "We live in a difficult and dangerous world where many of my colleagues are assaulted on a daily basis," he said. "The police officer does not determine how long the fight lasts, the offender does."Mr Hughes admitted he had not seen the footage before it was revealed in a Guardian film broadcast on its website and BBC's Newsnight."What also horrifies me is that this whole incident is being pinned on a few seconds of CCTV," he said."I have had the opportunity to see the rest of the footage which shows the rest of the incident. It's always disappointing when you have only been notified earlier in the evening that there is a piece of dramatic footage about to be shown on a late-night television programme."What I was disappointed with was that we weren't in a position to give the full circumstances at the time and so it's important that we reassure the public that there is more to this case than meets the eye and that we are fully cooperating with the Independent Police Complaints Commission so that they get all the evidence and can form a judgment."Mr Hughes is regarded by colleagues as something of an action man. Yesterday he told reporters he had earned battle scars from his time on the streets during his 28-year career as a police officer. He said he had a scar on his face which was the result of an attack by a woman who was smaller than Ms Comer, who was seen being punched five times by a South Yorkshire officer.The IPCC will now investigate whether in the case of Ms Comer the ability to strike suspects amounted to assault.Mr Hughes, who is married with one son, was a graduate entrant to the police force, joining the South Wales force in 1979. He served in uniform operational duties at all levels, and also as an authorised firearms officer. He transferred to West Yorkshire police in 1995 as a superintendent and took up the post of divisional commander in Calder Valley.Promoted in 1999 to assistant chief constable in Greater Manchester police, he initially took responsibility for IT, criminal justice and communications.In September 2000 he took charge of the uniform operations portfolio, and in that role led the policing of public order and major sporting events including two England football internationals, and commanded the planning and delivery of the Commonwealth Games.He was promoted to deputy chief constable in South Yorkshire in September 2002 - some 18 years after the Battle of Orgreave, when mounted South Yorkshire officers were involved in a battle with 5,000 striking miners and many were battered as they lay on the ground. In June 1990, South Yorkshire police were ordered to pay more than £500,000 in damages to 39 miners injured by police in the most violent confrontation of the miners' strike at Orgreave coking plant.Twenty years on from Orgreave, in September 2004, Mr Hughes was appointed chief constable of a different force, one that has modernised and changed its image. Facing the cameras yesterday to defend it against accusations of brutality, Mr Hughes was confident and assertive.Behind the scenes rank-and-file officers were impressed by his performance. "He is regarded here as a pretty good guy," said one officer. "He still gets out and about on the street with officers."