Three police forces yesterday announced the launch of a joint inquiry into the unsolved murders of seven young women after DNA tests revealed "strong links" between the killings.Around 100 officers from the Strathclyde, Lothian and Borders and Tayside forces have begun trawling through all the information gathered in the cases from the 1970s and early 1980s, including the notorious World's End murders in Edinburgh in 1977. Lothian and Borders deputy chief constable, Tom Wood, who is leading the inquiry, said last week's test results gave detectives a "strong hope" of tracking down the women's killer or killers. "For the first time, we have a positive line of inquiry and some indications that a number of murders committed throughout Scotland during the late 1970s may be connected," Mr Wood said. Helen Scott and Christine Eadie, both 17, who were last seen in the World's End pub, were found dead several miles away in East Lothian after being beaten, sexually assaulted and strangled. The joint inquiry will also consider the murders of Anna Kenny, 20, in August 1977, Hilda McCauley, 36, in October 1977, and Agnes Cooney, 23, in December 1977, all in west central Scotland, as well as those of Carole Lannan, 18, in March 1979 and Elizabeth McCabe, 20, in March 1980, both in Dundee. Suggestions of links between some of the deaths emerged in the past, but today's scientific evidence provides the first positive line of inquiry. The possibility of a serial killer has not been ruled out. Mr Wood refused to say whether one or more suspects were being sought: "We now realise that, although over the years there's been a lot of speculation about links between these crimes, we're now in a position to suggest, or believe, that there may be strong links between these crimes." Mr Wood said officers were in touch with the victims' families, and he urged respect for their dignity and sensitivities. "You cannot describe, I don't think, the anguish that they have been through over this long period of time." The father of Helen Scott said it would be a relief if police could end his family's years of torment by catching the killer. Morain Scott, 73, told STV's Scotland Today: "I think it would take a big pressure off, because you live a lie, I suppose. You put a brave face on but it's in your mind every day, and to see it come to a conclusion I think would be a relief."