A man killed six people, including his wife and their two young children, in a savage knife attack on the island of Jersey because he could not face the break-up of his marriage, his trial has heard.Damian Rzeszowski, a builder, struck as his wife, Izabela, was playing with the youngsters and a friend's daughter in the living room of their flat, the court heard.Rzeszowski, a 31-year-old Polish national, is accused of murdering Mrs Rzeszowska, their children, Kinga, five, and two-year-old Kacper. He also allegedly murdered his wife's father, Marek Garstka, her friend Marta De La Haye and De La Haye's five-year-old daughter, Julia.Rzeszowski, who has been held at Broadmoor hospital in Berkshire since his arrest, denies the six murders. He has pleaded guilty to manslaughter through diminished responsibility but the pleas are not accepted by the prosecution, which argues he was not suffering an "abnormality of the mind".The royal court in St Helier on Jersey was told that witnesses described Rzeszowski as a "hard-working man" and a "loving father who provided for his family". But things changed in June and July last year.Solicitor general Howard Sharp, for the prosecution, said Mrs Rzeszowska, 30, told her husband she had been having an affair and she threatened to kill herself. Rzeszowski started going out drinking, had a one-night stand and took an overdose.In an attempt to save their marriage, the couple went to Poland to visit their families. But their problems continued.The knife attack took place in the couple's home in St Helier on 14 August, the day of their return from Poland. Mrs Rzeszowska and her father went for a barbecue with De La Haye and her daughter, leaving the children in Rzeszowski's care. On their return they found Rzeszowski had gone out and left the children by themselves. When he reappeared at about 1pm, his wife remonstrated with him.Rzeszowski says he cannot remember what happened next but Sharp said the killings began at about 2.45pm.The prosecution believes that Garstka was the first to be attacked. He was lying on a bed when he was stabbed nine times with two knives. He did not move, suggesting he had been taken by surprise.Mrs Rzeszowska was supervising the children in the living room. Sharpe continued: "Kacper was sitting on a chair at the dining table in the lounge. He was probably playing with a toy car when he was attacked." The boy was stabbed 13 times with two different kitchen knives. The girls, who had been painting, were stabbed 16 times each.Sharp said Rzeszowski, who had been drinking whisky, attacked his wife in the flat but she ran out into a courtyard. She tried to call the police but dialled a Polish emergency services number. Out on the street she was stabbed again in front of neighbours. Her friend, De La Haye, was also attacked and staggered out of the flat before collapsing.Neighbours tried to intervene and Rzeszowski then started stabbing himself. He fell to the ground with a collapsed lung.Sharp said the lapse of time between the row over leaving the children and the start of the attacks showed the spree had not been the product of a momentary loss of control.He said Rzeszowski had a history of violence and had been involved in up to 10 fights since moving to Jersey in 2005 and described him as a "pressure cooker who lacks a safety valve".Sharp said: "This is the case of a man who cannot face the prospect of marriage failure and decides that if the family cannot go on as it is, it must not go on at all."The trial continues.