Two teenagers were jailed for life yesterday for the murder of a young woman who was kicked and stamped to death for being a goth after she begged them to stop beating her boyfriend. The judge described the attack as "feral thuggery".Gap-year student Sophie Lancaster, 20, was set upon as she cradled Robert Maltby's head in her lap after he had been beaten, kicked and stamped unconscious by a gang of drunken teenagers acting "like a pack of wild animals". Both were beaten into comas. Lancaster died in hospital 13 days later. The injuries inflicted in Stubbylee Park, Bacup, Lancashire, last August, were so severe paramedics could not tell whether the victims were male or female. Ryan Herbert, 16, who admitted murder, was jailed for life at Preston crown court and ordered to serve a minimum of 16 years. Brendan Harris, 15, who was convicted after a trial last month, was given a life sentence with a minimum of 18 years. Both had been drinking heavily on the night of the attack. The pair, from Bacup, had attacked a 16-year-old boy close to the same park four months earlier, chasing him before kicking and stamping on him. They were given six-month community service orders for that attack after being found guilty of affray.Sentencing them for Lancaster's murder, Judge Anthony Russell QC said yesterday: "At least wild animals when they hunt in packs have a legitimate reason, for so doing, to obtain food. You have none and your behaviour on that night degrades humanity itself. It raises serious questions about the sort of society which exists in this country."Neither of the defendants knew the couple, who were both goths, and the only motive for the "totally unprovoked" assault was that the pair looked different from their attackers, the jury was told. "The intolerance you displayed in this case is shocking evidence of the attitudes of some of our people," the judge said. In a victim impact statement read to the court, Sophie's mother, Sylvia, said: "My daughter's last moments on earth must have been a living hell. Not only did she witness Robert being kicked and stamped upon, but she died not knowing whether Robert lived or died."Harris, who admitted he had started the violence by punching Maltby after hearing a gang member shout "let's bang him", delivered a flying kick to Lancaster's head, and Herbert volley-kicked her in the face "like a ball in flight". A clear footwear pattern was visible on her head. Earlier, the court heard that Maltby, 21, who was not in court, still suffers long-term physical and emotional damage. A statement from him, read out by Michael Shorrock QC, prosecuting, said: "Before all this happened I was settled into a life quite independent. Now I'm finding the whole world a terrifying place." His mother, Tracy, said: "He's gone from someone fiercely independent to someone who barely leaves the house."Brothers Joseph and Danny Hulme, 17 and 16, from Whitworth, near Bacup, and Daniel Mallett, 17, from Bacup, all pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent on Maltby, who was beaten unconscious. They can be named for the first time after the judge lifted an order banning their identification. They did not take part in the attack on Lancaster.Mallett was jailed for four years and four months and the Hulme brothers for five years and 10 months each. Herbert and Harris both pleaded guilty to causing grievous bodily harm to Maltby. Video footage of Herbert released earlier showed him in a mocked-up music video called "Hands up for Bacup", performing a rap about the town and menacingly swinging a wooden pole.Detectives said the conduct of the defendants and their families throughout the criminal proceedings had been "appalling". Harris and his mother been "laughing and joking" when they were first interviewed about the incident. The judge described goths as "peaceful, law-abiding people who pose no threat to anybody", and Lancaster as a caring young woman who wrote poetry and read books. "Her tragic fate has touched many hearts."