The government is to dramatically widen the scope of the official inquiry into the serial killer Harold Shipman, throwing it open to the public and replacing the proposed civil servant chairman with a senior high court judge.The new hearing, expected to start next month, will also look at up to 200 suspicious deaths instead of only 38 - all concessions demanded by relatives of former patients of the Greater Manchester GP. The u-turn by the health secretary, Alan Milburn, was welcomed yesterday by the families, not only in Greater Manchester but in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, where Shipman's murderous career may have started much earlier than previously thought. The judge, Dame Janet Smith, 60, who was brought up in Lancashire and has wide experience of medical negligence cases, is expected to start public sessions of the inquiry in February. Subject to approval by parliament, she will take over from Lord Laming, former chief inspector of social services, whose narrower inquiry, due to be held in private, was halted last month when victims' relatives won a judicial review. Mr Milburn, who is expected to announce the strengthened inquiry and its timetable in Manchester later this week, was praised for "listening to the relatives' arguments" by the families' solicitor, Ann Alexander. She said that the public hearings and extended scope of the inquiry were exactly what relatives had considered essential to unravelling how the GP got away repeatedly with murder. Shipman, 54, was convicted last January of killing 15 patients in the Hyde area of Greater Manchester, where he preyed on elderly women for reasons that have yet to be fathomed. After he was given 15 life sentences, the police said that they had enough evidence to charge him with 23 other deaths, but the crown prosecution service ruled out new proceedings on the grounds that a fair trial would be impossible after previous evidence and the publication of at least two books. Ms Alexander said the new inquiry would be able to look at "gaps in the NHS system" that allowed Shipman to continue quietly killing patients for years, and possibly decades. Ms Alexander said: "The families are really pleased with the choice of chairman. Dame Janet is very well respected and is also from the north of England. She has a lot of experience of medical matters and all the characteristics that the families wanted."