Prisons produce negligible impact on reoffending at enormous social cost; they are clearly not an entirely sensible investment. The chancellor's comprehensive spending review ought to be asking searching questions about the £2.5bn spent each year on locking up offenders, and whether it can be better used. The chances are, it won't. However, there are interesting examples of how criminal justice resources can be better deployed. In the US, George Soros's Open Society Institute has launched a justice reinvestment initiative. Its aim is to reallocate justice dollars to refinance education, housing, healthcare and job programmes that can prevent offending, and reintegrate ex-offenders more effectively and cheaply than prison. The key to justice reinvestment is to make local authorities responsible for the funds that pay for prisons, thereby giving incentive to the creation of a wide range of more socially productive alternatives. While dangerous, serious and persistent offenders still go to prison, keeping others in the community at a fraction of the cost provides savings for local reinvestment. There is a good reason why justice reinvestment may appear suited to the US - underdeveloped welfare and non-custodial provision is reflected in a hugely expanded prison sector. In the states, $54bn (£29bn) is currently spent locking up two million prisoners, so there is substantial scope for redistribution. While UK incarceration rates are the highest in Western Europe, they are still only a fifth of those across the Atlantic. The more devolved US structure of government at county, state and federal level provides scope for changing spending priorities. Many hard-up states have recognised belatedly that delivering the level of healthcare and education demanded by voters is not achievable alongside current levels of imprisonment. The development of mandatory sentencing guidelines gives the criminal justice system the ability not only to predict and provide prison places but to curb demand for them as well. In this country, sentencers and other decision makers have been effectively insulated from the fiscal consequences of their decisions with the result that criminal justice policies have been relatively unconstrained by the question of affordability. The proposal to fund prisons and probation through a single budget, in the national offender management service (Noms), will provide an opportunity for reductions in prison numbers to finance enhanced alternatives in a virtuous cycle. Equally, a single funding pot provides a ready source for funding more prison places should sentencing guidelines here fail to produce the desired fall in numbers locked up. But a purchaser-provider split operated in 10 government regions will do little to lever resources from local government into correctional services. Indeed, commissioning and contracting programmes for offenders could mean that universal services such as housing and education turn their back on offenders unless they are given specific contracts to work with them. Local authority interest in, and responsibility for, offenders could be further diminished. For example, magistrates in Leeds incarcerate 1,200 adults and 150 young people each year, for an average of three months. The cost to the prison service and Youth Justice Board (YJB) of the custodial places is more than £10m, but to local agencies detention will remain, in the language of economists, a free good. Because it is paid for nationally, there is limited local interest in reducing the numbers as any savings that accrue cannot be spent on other measures in the city. To avoid this, three measures could be introduced as a priority. First, the successful experience of multi-agency youth offending teams should be applied to adult offenders. Giving local agencies statutory responsibility for preventing offending with top-up funding from the YJB to meet particular targets has stimulated a much-improved infrastructure for tackling youth crime. A similar model could be piloted initially for young adults and, if it works, for over 21s, too.Second, despite improvements in youth justice the Audit Commission found earlier this year that at least £80m could be saved annually if effective early interventions were made to prevent young people slipping into crime. But as things stand, the savings to criminal justice do not accrue to the health education and social services budgets, which fund the prevention work. Pooled budgets should be piloted in and evaluated. Third, a new approach is needed for the funding of drug treatment. Most prisoners are drawn from the nation's half a million hard-drug users. Two-thirds of those arrested in inner cities test positive for crack or heroin. Yet the 1,700 residential rehab beds available in England have been dwarfed by the 12,000 increase in prison places since 1997. As well as using correctional money to create more rehabilitation places, a better system for funding the revenue costs of treatment is needed. These kinds of justice reinvestment could start to make spending more rational and cost effective. Otherwise, we could end up with US levels of incarceration and the stranglehold on public spending that prison exercises. ·  Rob Allen is the director of Rethinking Crime and Punishment, a thinktank set up by the Esmee Fairbairn Foundation. More at www.rethinking.org.uk