David Blunkett admitted today that Britain's law enforcement forces were "not always one step ahead" of serious criminals, echoing the concerns of the man due to head the UK's proposed FBI-style agency.The home secretary was speaking at the beginning of the second reading of the organised crime and police bill. The bill, which was announced in the Queen's speech last month, envisages the creation of a Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca).Mr Blunkett conceded there was a "real problem" in taking on organised criminals, "who understand the tenets of capitalism more than capitalists". He said it was "undoubtedly the challenge of the decade to get to grips with cross-border crime"."We are not going to see an end to the problem next year," he added. "It will take a decade before we see substantial change".Earlier, Sir Stephen Lander - a former head of MI5 who is due to chair Soca upon its creation in April 2006 - admitted the police and other forces were not "on top of problems" such as drug smuggling, people trafficking and international fraud.Soca - which will consist of up to 5,000 officers, drawn from the police, security services and customs - will focus on international crimes, seeking to trace criminal gangs back to their source, often far outside UK borders. Sir Stephen had previously indicated he was keen to see analysts who had been trained by the security services - MI5, MI6 and GCHQ - working together with the police to target major criminals. He rejected the idea of a "war on crime", however, saying it implied a war that could be won, with crime being brought to an end."We are just about keeping pace [with organised crime], which is hardly a comforting thought," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "Generally speaking, law enforcement in this country has a very high international reputation, but I don't think any of us would seriously think we are on top of these problems." Sir Stephen said he believed more drugs were getting into the UK than a decade ago - around 40 tonnes of cocaine and 30 tonnes of heroin a year. He said the cost to the economy from organised crime "could be up to £40bn a year". "That's something like the GDP of New Zealand, and something like £600 for every man, woman and child in this country - and that is not counting the personal damage to individuals," he added.Soca is intended to bring together work currently being done by different agencies. It will replace the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and investigation teams at Customs and Excise and the Immigration Service. Mr Blunkett paid tribute to the work done by the current agencies in combating crime, and said that changes to how Soca operates would be necessary year-on-year, "to keep up with changes in criminal methodology".But the shadow home secretary, David Davis, while agreeing with much of the bill, said that many different and "sometimes very intrusive" powers would be placed in the hands of one man. Care must therefore be taken, he said, to ensure that the head of Soca was sufficiently open to parliamentary scrutiny.