Crown prosecutors are lawyers employed by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) whose various duties include advice on charges, case preparation and advocacy in the magistrates court. Some days they appear in court with a pile of 20 cases to process in preparation for trial. Other days they deal with legal applications, sentences, or conducting summary (magistrates court) trials, although frequently trials are briefed out to an independent barrister, which frees up the crown prosecutor's time to deal with their other tasks.So when an email sent by a senior crown prosecutor makes the headlines, warning that the CPS in their borough is "near meltdown", with criminals walking away scot-free due to internal inefficiencies, one would expect uproar. When Stephen Wooler, the chief inspector of the CPS, says there are serious concerns which have had a knock-on effect on the conviction rates in the capital, and recent reports in nine of the London boroughs classified five out of the nine as "poor", with the remaining four classified as "fair", you would imagine heads to roll. Particularly when the final reports show the situation to be far worse than originally anticipated.Keir Starmer QC, director of prosecutions, says that the CPS in London needs to "perform much better than it does". So where does the problem originate?As an independent barrister prosecuting in some of these London boroughs, I see the fallout on a weekly basis. Paperwork and files are incomplete or missing; witnesses are not warned to attend court; vital evidence mislaid. And, tired of hearing the same excuses day after day, magistrates are increasingly less likely to adjourn the case to allow the crown to paper over the cracks. Defendants who would otherwise be "bang to rights" end up walking out of the court with a big grin on their face as the case against them is dismissed.It would be easy to blame these problems on a simple lack of funding. But there may be another root cause – the CPS policy of employing criminal barristers as in-house crown advocates, rather than paying them a fee case by case.Crown advocates, unlike crown prosecutors, deal almost exclusively with trials in the crown court and court of appeal. For some at the independent bar, it can be a tempting career move. With a starting salary of £60,000 to £70,000 a year, paid holiday, pension and maternity leave, there are many who will happily relinquish their precarious self-employed status and take the Queen's shilling in exchange for future security.Yet a report by Europe Economics, published in September 2009, suggests that the policy, far from saving money, is likely to end up costing the taxpayer millions more compared with the previous system. How could the CPS have made such a fundamental error of analysis? Unless cost was not the main motive behind this scheme, and they had a more politically-motivated goal in mind.It is far easier to control the way in which prosecutors work if they are on the payroll than if they are an independent agent. They will be subject to internal policies and targets set by their political masters; they will likely think twice about sticking their heads above the parapet and making impolitic noises that might leave their job, their promotion prospects or their pension in jeopardy. In short, as Rupert Myers pointed out in a previous article, by becoming civil servants, the prosecutors' allegiance shifts from being an agent of the justice system to an agent of the government.For the in-house prosecutor, the public interest test will inevitably be tainted by the latest political imperative – more burglary convictions, or a clamp down on anti-social behaviour. In other words, in-house prosecutors are arguably more malleable than their colleagues at the independent bar, and more inclined to tow the political line. But is the cost of this unswerving allegiance a price worth paying?Local CPS offices have had to tighten their belts, leading to staff shortages, recruitment freezes and fewer counsel being briefed for summary trials, meaning more crown prosecutors spending a day in court on one or two trials instead of providing the valuable back-up required in advice, case preparation and review. The extent to which these cutbacks can be laid at the door of the crown advocate recruitment policy is unknown, but it is evident that if the budget has been fudged, as suggested by the Europe Economics report, the shortfall will have to be made up from elsewhere.Consequently, trials, particularly in the magistrates court, are not properly reviewed, disclosure is not made, witnesses are not properly warned, procedures are not followed, the CCTV not followed up, or the interview tape goes missing.And so the cycle is complete. The defendant grins as he walks out of the courtroom. The crown prosecutor (or independent barrister) is torn off a strip by an impatient bench and takes it on the chin as they wonder how they will find the right words to explain to the victim why their case has been canned.• This thread was commissioned after the author suggested it in a You tell us thread