Chief constables have warned against the creation of red light "toleration zones" and have said they intend instead to set up safe houses and other exit schemes for prostitutes while closing brothels masquerading as massage parlours and saunas.The new vice strategy published by the Association of Chief Police Officers comes as the home secretary, David Blunkett, considers a reform of the laws on prostitution which could lead to small licensed brothels, local tolerance zones and a state register of sex workers.Mr Blunkett told the Guardian earlier this year that while he is not personally sympathetic to tolerance zones, he would be prepared to give local authorities the discretion to set them up in their area. So far Liverpool and Doncaster have said they would be keen to press ahead with such schemes.But Tim Brain, Gloucestershire's chief constable, and author of Acpo's strategy on prostitution, said such toleration zones were an unproven alternative."The evidence is equivocal. Many hope that such zones will reduce abuse and victimisation and make the the problem more manageable in terms of its impact on the local community. "But not only do such zones permit the continued exploitation of people through prostitution, there is evidence that illegal prostitution has been encouraged alongside the managed examples." Drug-related prostitution in particular is believed to be increasing. The Home Office estimates that there are 80,000 people involved in the vice trade in Britain, with 95% of those working on the streets using heroin or crack. Dr Brain said that in recent years prostitution had been a low priority for the police with the number of women cautioned for soliciting falling from 3,323 in 1993 to 732 in 2000. At the same time child prostitutes are no longer being prosecuted but treated as the victims of abuse, with the emphasis instead shifting to prosecuting men who are found to be kerb-crawling. The Acpo strategy has been drawn up as an interim answer while ministers prepare to reform the law after the next general election. Dr Brain said the police would focus on the involvement of organised crime including the people traffickers and pimps who organise the trade. Safe houses and witness protection are to be provided to prostitutes who wish to provide evidence against individuals, as well as exit schemes to help women leave the trade. Prosecutions will only take place where there is evidence of a persistent and voluntary return to prostitution. "The government review may result in new laws and priorities," he said, "but any outcome is at least several months away, if not longer. We need to deal with priority operational problems now."