It comes in from South America to west Africa, then via Spain, Portugal or the Netherlands and into Britain through the Channel ports. Cocaine's journey ends on the streets of cities such as London, Manchester, Sheffield, Liverpool and Birmingham, where a wrap of high-purity coke can be bought for £50 a gram and more heavily adulterated varieties for as little as £30.The vast majority of consumers will give little thought to the long line of destruction that leads to the short line of powder in front of them. Mindful of this, Colombia has even tried shaming Europe's cocaine users into desisting by highlighting the trade's civilian casualties and rainforest destruction.The Serious Organised Crime Agency estimates that 35 to 45 tonnes of cocaine enter the UK each year, supplying both the powder market and what police and drug experts label the "problematic" users - those who are addicted to crack cocaine, which is available for as little as £15 a rock.Around 1 million people in Britain use cocaine, the second highest level in Europe after Spain. Strategies for tackling the growth in the trade will be thrashed out tomorrow when a two-day UN conference on the global drugs crisis starts in Vienna.Most of the cocaine on the UK market is controlled by British groups operating in Spain. Increasingly, however, Colombian gangs are based in Britain, where they run the supply of drugs to dealers.West Africa is a growing hub, but the traditional trail into the UK, via the Caribbean, still brings cocaine eastwards on yachts or via air couriers.British traffickers traditionally operate in Spain and the Netherlands, where they will buy the cocaine alongside other drugs. Traffickers will vary their routes, use coded communications and conceal their drugs in ingenious ways to import into Britain. Often a middleman is used to drive drugs into the UK, where they are recovered by the buyer. In Britain the trade is estimated to be worth between £4bn and £6.6bn a year. The Home Office estimates there are 300 large-scale drug importers, 3,000 wholesalers and 70,000 street dealers.Profits from the drugs trade are used in other criminal enterprises. Cocaine traffickers will often import guns as well, partly to provide their own protection and also to sell to other criminals lower down the pecking order. The consumption of crack cocaine - which is imported as cocaine powder and produced in the UK - was once confined to urban areas, but is now being seen across the country. The links between drug use and crime are clearly established. With crack addiction comes acquisitive crime - street attacks, robberies, burglaries - all carried out to fund a habit. At the most violent level shootings, kidnappings and knifings are carried out by dealers to protect their stash or move in on a rival's patch. At times members of the public are caught in the crossfire, sometimes with fatal results.