Two years ago I picked up my mobile and called Karin Ward. In the course of a long and difficult phone call I heard her account of what Jimmy Savile had done. She had been an inmate of Duncroft as a teenager, and that call triggered the unravelling of the Savile scandal.I'd wondered about him ever since I'd met him at Karin Ward's approved school in Surrey, where my aunt was headmistress in the early 1970s. I'd seen the DJ hanging around the old manor house, and taking underage girls out for drives on his own in his Rolls-Royce. He seemed strange, but they called him "Uncle Jimmy" and everything seemed all right. It was only after that phone call with Karin that I knew for a fact the rumours about him were true.By the time we had gathered all the evidence for Newsnight in early December 2011, it seemed obvious to me that Jimmy Savile was a predatory paedophile who had attacked many children in many locations. As the story unfolded it became apparent that many people in authority had known this for decades and done nothing.The big questions that I'm left with are how he got away with it for so long and, more important, how can we stop other serial offenders like him abusing children now? I have seen compelling evidence that Britain should catch up with other countries, such as the US and Australia, and bring in a law to stop institutions covering up child abuse; that goes for physical as well as sexual assaults. Schools, hospitals, care homes – and the BBC – either failed to see or turned a blind eye to Savile's activities.The Catholic church and the Church of England have covered up abuse in the past but now they have told Panorama they think that should be made a crime. The National Crime Agency – the so-called British FBI – has just asked the government to consider doing just that. There's growing momentum for such a law in the UK.There are now 214 official victims of Savile, including 16 children who were raped under the age of 16, four of who were under the age of 10. I've met a number of the victims, including "Celia", who was just 12 when he raped her in 1978 in a deserted television room at Stoke Mandeville Hospital. She complained to a nurse who was afraid of how the hospital would react. Management had been ignoring complaints of assaults by him since the 1960s. "Celia" thinks people who cover up, like those hospital managers did, should go to jail.That's not a popular opinion at the Department for Education, which is in charge of safeguarding children and opposes mandatory reporting. They accept that some people in authority are still failing to pass on reports of abuse, but they don't think that should be a crime. They think there are better ways to deal with the problem.Of course, mandatory reporting is not a magic wand. I know of victims who went to police stations to report Savile after being attacked who were sent away by the man on the desk. I also know of policemen in three forces who were convinced by victims, but could not persuade higher ranking officers to pursue an inquiry. Even worse was what happened at West Yorkshire police. Savile made sure that he had the Leeds force in his pocket. For some, the West Yorkshire police report into Savile appeared to reek of collusion despite the conclusion that he was not protected by Leeds area police.Savile had what the Russians call "a roof" – protection. The recently released transcripts of his interview about Duncroft with Surrey police in 2009 suggests officers were overawed. He told them he owned Stoke Mandeville hospital, "because if I wasn't here, they wouldn't get the quarter of a million pound a year they need to keep it going".His celebrity and charity work were shields in themselves, but the DJ made sure he had even more powerful connections. Between 1979 and 1990, the prime minister was Margaret Thatcher, and he was the perpetual New Year's Eve house guest at Chequers, the PM's country residence. I know of two senior NHS officials who were invited to Highgrove for health summits with the Prince of Wales. On each occasion they were introduced to Savile as the prince's "senior health adviser" .Who was going to take the word of a frightened 12 year-old girl, like "Celia" in Stoke Mandeville, or of Karin Ward in Duncroft, against a major celebrity with those kinds of connections?The media also failed Savile's victims too, repeatedly. In 1965 a reporter on the Sunday People went to his editor with a story exposing Savile as a paedophile. The story was spiked. A former BBC Radio 4 journalist told me that Savile's abuse at Stoke Mandeville was brought to the attention of the Checkpoint team in the early 1980s, but again nothing emerged. The Sun and Mirror likewise killed stories for fear of libel action.The lesson of the last 60 years is that again and again schools, hospitals – all sorts of institutions – will find reasons or excuses not to pass on embarrassing allegations to the police or authorities. But other countries have found that mandatory reporting works well. Research in America suggests a reduction in the death rate from physical abuse, for instance. The Daniel Pelka case – the little boy in Coventry who was starved and murdered by his parents – is fresh in our memories here. There were failings by several agencies, but the school did not feel obliged to pass on the concerns of teachers to the police or the local authority designated officer.Keir Starmer QC, who has just retired as director of public prosecutions went to Washington DC earlier this year to see how its system of mandatory reporting works, and has returned a convert. He is often portrayed as a liberal, but he would now back a law that threatens prison for concealing abuse.He told Panorama: "I think it is time for a change in the law; I think there should be a mandatory reporting provision," and he thinks we should get on with it immediately. "Now is the time really to plug a gap that's been there for a very, very long time."