Yesterday, as usual, Harold Shipman was woken shortly before 8am. If he followed his normal routine he would have washed and breakfasted before leaving his spartan home in the healthcare centre of Frankland prison, near Durham, for one of the prison workshops.There he is learning to translate written text into Braille, which he has found suits his fastidious ways and his wish to do good - or at least be perceived to be doing good. One of the Harry Potter books is his first project. He is said to have fitted in reasonably well in prison. He has always relished routine and his intelligence sets him apart from the normal prisoner. In all likelihood he did not discuss yesterday's staggering revelations that he was probably responsible for the deaths of at least 236 patients. Nor is it probable he expressed sympathy for the distraught relatives of his victims. For since his conviction almost a year ago he has steadfastly refused to discuss his murder spree. In general serial killers are driven by one of two motives - money or sex. There is little support for the idea that Shipman killed for financial gain. He forged the will of one patient, Kathleen Grundy, but his deception was so clumsy that many who have studied the case believe it was a subconscious signal to the authorities that he wanted to be caught. There is also little to support the idea that Shipman derived sexual gratification from the deaths of his patients. An examination of Shipman's life throws up another possible trigger for his crimes. As a 17-year-old he watched his mother die a slow and painful death of cancer. On the night of her death he ran miles through the streets of Nottingham in the pouring rain, tears streaming down his face. It is tempting to link his mother's death with his series of murders. Was he angry his patients lived longer than his mother, who died at 43? Is it possible to link the injections he gave to his victims with those administered to his mother to ease her pain? At the trial the prosecution suggested Shipman killed because he enjoyed the sense of power it gave him. Psychiatrists who have examined Shipman while awaiting trial have come to the conclusion that his killings were an example of "classic necrophilia". The condition takes many more forms than the desire to have sex with a corpse. Some sufferers simply take pleasure from being in the presence of death. A number of Shipman's traits - such as his love of order and of lists - fit in with this theory. Necrophiliacs often immerse themselves in the inanimate world, replacing love of people with love of things. When the Shipman review was published yesterday its author Richard Baker said he could not say for certain the Shipman case was unique. David Canter, director of the Centre for Investigative Psychology in Liverpool, raised the chilling possibility that it could be a forerunner of cases to come. The theory is that as the human race in the 21st century thinks of itself increasingly as nothing more than a collection of physical bodies in an evermore materialistic society, then there will be individuals on the extremes who come to believe they are dealing not with people but with objects. He said: "This is one of the arguments for the increase of serial killers." Is it possible Shipman came to see his patients as nothing but objects, no more valuable than his lists? Professor Canter believes he may talk. He said: "Who knows, in 10 or 15 years when there's nothing else in his life he may think it interesting to talk about what he has done."