Tony Blair provoked a mixture of scorn, anger and scepticism last night after he proposed on-the-spot fines for Saturday night hooligans - who could be marched to their cashpoints by police and forced to hand over up to £100.The prime minister chose the unlikely forum of a debate on ethics in one of Germany's most eminent seats of learning to argue that police should be given an unprecedentedly free hand to deal with "nuisance crime" caused by what frustrated Tory ministers once dubbed lager louts. He said he wanted on-the-spot fines for "drunken, noisy, loutish and anti-social behaviour" - much in the way that errant cyclists, parking offenders and pavement-fouling dogs attract instant fixed penalties that are also subject to legal appeal and court cases if defendants so choose. The proposal, mooted initially by Home Office ministers, drew a wary response from senior policemen, some of whom will meet Mr Blair for discussions at No 10 on Monday. Blair aides later stressed it was only an idea for wider debate. Addressing an audience of students at Tübingen, the prime minister explained: "A thug might think twice about kicking in your gate, throwing traffic cones around your street or hurling abuse into the night sky if he thought he might get picked up by the police, taken to a cashpoint and asked to pay an on-the-spot fine of, for example, £100." Mr Blair added: "If the police want that power - and I believe they will, and the public will support it - they should get that power." Ann Widdecombe, the Tories' home affairs spokesman, dismissed the proposal as "just another headline-grabbing gimmick". Simon Hughes, for the Liberal Democrats, said: "There is a basic principle of justice: if you commit a crime you are punished. But punishing people who are not charged and not found guilty is fundamentally against civil liberties." The radical QC Michael Mansfield said he was "very concerned" because it suggested that ministers "can't be bothered to take this through the courts and want police to act as judge and jury to fine people on the spot". Police were cautious about the idea. The Police Federation, which represents the kind of beat policemen who would be empowered to fine drunks and other miscreants, said the move might be welcome in principle. But a spokesman warned that it might also breach the European convention on human rights, which will come into domestic operation on October 1. The Association of Chief Police Officers said it shared Mr Blair's concerns that "loutish behaviour should be firmly dealt with", adding: "We would wish to give further thought on how it could work in practice at street level." Blair aides said afterwards that £100 would probably be the limit. The reference to cashpoints had been intended to stress that "affluent people" were as much in the government's sights as poorer offenders. Powers would not be introduced without consultation. Mr Blair, who was addressing the inaugural session of the Global Ethics Foundation, a body set up by the writer and priest Hans Küng, said: "It is perfectly legal for a private company to put a clamp on a car wheel and demand £100 to get it released. Yet no comparable power exists for our public police force. I believe that should change."