A convicted paedophile has been found battered to death at his home amid fears he had been targeted by vigilantes, it emerged yesterday.Police officers discovered the body of Arnold Hartley, 73, in the early hours of Saturday at his home in Redcar, Cleveland. He had suffered serious injuries to his head and face. A murder investigation was launched. A 28-year-old man and a 20-year-old woman were arrested but later released "unconditionally" after being interviewed yesterday. Police said it was not possible to establish whether Mr Hartley was a victim of a vigilante attack. His neighbours said there had been a number of incidents when his house and car had been damaged. Detective Superintendent Brian Dunn, who is leading the investigation, said at a news conference Mr Hartley had lived at his home for many years and he was well known in the close-knit community as a convicted sex offender. He had last been jailed for 12 months in August 2001 at Teesside crown court on eight charges of making indecent images of a girl under 14 and on one charge of gross indecency. Det Supt Dunn said Mr Hartley was on the sex offenders register and was considered a "medium risk". On his release from prison in April 2002, Mr Hartley had returned to the area and moved back to his previous address where he had been harassed. There was a disturbance shortly after midnight on Friday and police are appealing for information so they can piece together what had happened. Det Supt Dunn said: "This is a murder inquiry and obviously Mr Hartley's previous conviction will form part of the inquiry. But whatever he has done in the past does not give people the right to attack and kill him." Cal Birkbeck, owner of the Castle hotel, opposite Mr Hartley's two-storey terraced house, said the pensioner had given up replacing his broken windows because they had been smashed so often. "It is common knowledge he was a paedophile," said Mr Birkbeck. "He looked very meek and mild and wore glasses. He got his car smashed up about 18 months ago and it looked like somebody had been jumping up and down on the roof. "I said somebody must have a grudge against him because they hadn't attacked any other cars. "But he said: 'Oh no, I haven't got any enemies.'" Mr Birkbeck said he thought Mr Hartley lived alone, but he recalled seeing teenage girls going into the house. "It is quite strange, but we just thought it was his granddaughter or something. Then it came to light that he was a paedophile." Another neighbour said: "He hadn't been welcome in the area since his release from prison." But another neighbour said: "He had become a target of local youths who called him a paedophile and a pervert. "They often threw stones at his property. He was a weird character, but whatever crime he has committed, he didn't deserve to die in this way." Three police vans were guarding the front of the property and a car was parked in a back alley yesterday. The house, near Redcar's seafront, is less than 100 metres from a children's nursery. Uniformed officers have been carrying out house-to-house inquiries in the area and other officers were patrolling on horseback. Three floral tributes had been left at the front of the house. One card read: "God bless."