Scotland Yard is to ask Asian businesses to hire vulnerable youngsters from their own communities in an attempt to divert them from crime.Police say that although many Asian families in Britain encourage their children to work hard and be successful, and there are more than 300 millionaires of south Asian origin in the UK, some young Asians hit a glass ceiling at work, or find it difficult to get a job at all. This leads to increased alienation, particularly in deprived areas. A small but worrying percentage are getting sucked into gangs involved in a wide range of organised crime, from fraud to drug dealing. The Metropolitan police launched Operation Quadrant last year to tackle serious crime within London's Asian community and now aims to ask the capital's 30,000 Asian companies - one in 10 of all companies in the city - to give teenagers a chance. The Metropolitan police aims to get 2,000 to 3,000 vulnerable youngsters into a job as soon as possible. Officers will identify vulnerable youngsters through youth offending teams and put their names forward to businesses take them on. Quadrant is also working with Asian religious groups on drug education schemes to try to stop youths drifting into drug abuse. The Met is sending Asian youths on confidence-building outdoor adventure-type courses. Twelve teenagers from the Bangladeshi community in Tower Hamlets, east London, are the first group to take part. It will also approach international firms with offices in the City, where there are few Asian employees at any level. Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, in charge of combating serious crime, said: "From the conversations we have had with them, we think that businesses will be keen to help. "We want to help them to fight crime, and to divert their youth away from crime." Lord Ahmed of Rotherham, a Labour peer with a business and trade union background, praised the move. "Serious crime has become a worrying phenomenon in the Asian community, with a lot of drug-related crime, shootings, kidnappings and extortion linked to the Asian subcontinent. "A high percentage of young Asians are unemployed but there is also a growing Asian middle-class, entrepreneurial business community and there is no reason why they shouldn't take on more Asian youth. Engaging communities to help police to help young people and provide jobs is an excellent idea." Lord Ahmed said that while many firms were well-intentioned towards Asian staff, relations were sometimes hampered by misunderstanding cultural and religious differences. He said a choice of halal and vegetarian food in canteens, more sensitivity towards clothing issues, and, where practical, offering prayer rooms would be helpful. Detective Chief Inspector Michael O'Keefe, who heads Operation Quadrant, recently visited India to see how businesses operate there: "In India there is an idea of corporate social responsibility. "But it's more than that. It's a legal requirement of businesses to put something back into the community. "We want to persuade Asian businesses over here that this is something positive they can do."