Three paedophiles who met in an internet chatroom have been jailed for using the web to hatch a plot to rape two young sisters.In the first case of anyone being convicted of such a serious offence through online exchanges only, David Beavan, 42, from Bransgore, Hampshire, Alan Hedgcock, 41, from Twickenham, London, and Robert Mayers, 42, from Warrington, Cheshire, were given indeterminate jail sentences yesterday at Southwark crown court, London, after they were convicted of conspiracy to rape.The court had heard that Hedgcock, a film makeup artist, had referred to "doing a Holly and Jess" in chatroom exchanges - a chilling reference to the Soham murders. He suggested kidnapping the 13- and 14-year-old girls as they walked through woods to school and raping them. He talked of administering a date rape drug to one of the girls.Police became involved after Beavan, a greeting card salesman, apparently got cold feet and walked into Bournemouth police station in Dorset on January 3 2006, clutching a computer disc containing thousands of indecent images of infants and children. He told officers: "I have got indecent images on this disc. I am a vigilante" and claimed he was gathering evidence against paedophiles.Officers did not believe his story and he was arrested for possession of indecent images, his house was searched and his computer seized. Dorset police contacted the Metropolitan police for help. The Met's paedophile unit and hi-tech crime unit uncovered a plot involving three men, who had never met each other except for their virtual discussions.Sir Allan Green QC, prosecuting, outlined one "conversation", in which Beavan told Hedgcock: "Hope she will be wearing a skirt. i love to c legs."Hedgcock then sent a picture on to Beavan adding: "She has amazing legs, she's only 13 but already ..."Beavan replied: "I will get u to rape her at gunpoint as well. so horny."The jury heard that Hedgcock told Beavan: "I don't care what you do, I just want them done in like Holly and Jess."Sir Allan said: "If there is any misunderstanding about what he meant, and I very much doubt it, he was referring to Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells."It emerged that the trio had been communicating for two months on a site which features depraved images of children involved in sex acts. All three admitted various charges including 50 sample counts of distributing, making and possessing thousands of indecent images of children. After Beavan's arrest, officers found more than 4,000 pornographic images of children on his computer, 1,249 of which were downloaded in a single session. The three were made the subject of sex offenders' prevention orders closely controlling their future contact with young children, access to the internet and possessing photographic equipment.Sentencing them, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin said the chatroom logs of their discussions were "most lurid and disgusting". He told them: "You were drooling over the prospect to take these children into the woods and rape them." The judge said they posed a "serious risk of physical and psychological harm to children".The judge said Beavan was "very deeply committed to the sexual exploitation of young children".Detective sergeant Nick Duffield, of the Met's paedophile unit, told the Guardian yesterday: "The contents of the chat logs caused us great concern and overstepped the mark of fantasy. They were able to identify two girls, they had an exact location where they planned to abduct the girls. They were one step away from pulling it off. They were going to meet in London to finalise their plan - but by that time they were in custody."