The conviction of Maoist cult leader Aravindan Balakrishnan could trigger a fresh investigation into the death of Sian Davies, the mother of his daughter, who was a member of his commune until she fell from a first floor window in 1996. The south London coroner in 1997 recorded an open verdict on the death of Davies, 44, and described it as a mystery. The police were never called at the time and she died eight months after the fall.Maoist cult leader guilty of rape and child cruelty The jury in Balakrishnan’s trial heard that only the day before she fell she had been bound and gagged inside the Brixton commune house after she began to behave oddly. The next day she was found in a pool of blood on concrete below the bathroom window.A spokesman for the south London coroner, Dr Andrew Harris, told the Guardian he would now “consider whether there is fresh evidence which should be brought to the high court to decide whether to quash the former inquisition and whether to order a new inquest”.On Friday Balakrishnan was convicted of the rape, assault and sexual assault of two commune members as well as false imprisonment and child cruelty in respect of his daughter. Cult leader Comrade Bala's daughter: 30 years as a 'non-person' The move to open a fresh investigation is being backed by Davies’ family. “I want justice for my cousin,” said Eleri Morgan, 66, a retired teacher from Eltham. “If something is wrong it needs to be made right. There was an open verdict, but now we know more.”Scotland Yard said that the available evidence about the incident had been assessed and it did not consider it a homicide. It said it had referred the case back to the coroner. The family of a second commune member who died, Oh Kareng, a Malaysian, are also seeking closure. Oh hit her head on a cupboard and died from “massive internal bleeding” in 2001, according to Scotland Yard. An inquest found she died of natural causes and homicide had been ruled out, police said. The Malaysian embassy is seeking the return of her ashes, which police found in a raid on Balakrishan’s lock-up in Norwood.Balakrishnan’s daughter, 32, whom he kept virtually imprisoned in the commune her whole life, is now living in semi-independent accommodation with a new identity. She has joined some community groups and become a member of the Labour party. She intends to study for the formal education she was denied in the collective.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Daughter describes life in the communeThe members who escaped have taken time to shake off fears that Balakrishnan could still harm them through the powerful satellite and electronic warfare machine called “Jackie” which he claims to control in collaboration with China.“He had these inherent beliefs and he has used those as a tool to torment and frighten the people with him,” said DS Paul Wiggett, who led the police investigation. “When [his daughter] finally left, she honestly thought she was going to explode. She thought her world would come to an end.”Josephine Herivel, who made the initial call to a charity to get Balakrishnan’s daughter out, remains loyal to Balakrishnan. She has told the Guardian his prosecution was “political persecution”.“Aravindan Balakrishnan is a unique, heroic and inspirational person who is suffering on behalf of so many others because he dares to speak the truth,” she said before the trial. “I left the collective only to help [his daughter].”After the verdict on Friday, she said: “I am angry about what happened.”The Brixton sect where paranoia and cruelty reigned When detectives arrested Balakrishnan at Peckford Place in November 2013, they seized nearly 3,000 exhibits, including “thousands and thousands of diary entries” written by members. Balakrishnan’s room was stuffy, piled with newpapers and books, the heating was on high and the curtains pulled tight. There was no electronic equipment.Wiggett said that during his first police interview, Balakrishnan “felt ‘what have I done wrong? [My daughter] had an education’.”Balakrishnan’s daughter tried to run away in 2005, going to Streatham police station. But the Met police have now admitted that her case was handled by a civilian front desk officer and there was no record of it being referred to a police officer. The civilian urged her to call her father and Balakrishnan came and picked her up.“Now, the police and all our agencies are more alive to the triggers of safeguarding in child exploitation cases or people missing from home,” Manson said.There were questions on Friday over why the cult had not been picked up by local authorities. Some of the 13 properties the commune used were council houses and one of the members used a wheelchair and had carers from Lambeth social services coming in regularly.But police said Balakrishnan’s daughter was hidden away in her room.“Lambeth had no records in terms of her about housing, education, doctors or anything like that,” Wiggett said.