A police officer found yesterday by an inquest jury to have unlawfully killed an unarmed man five years ago, has been promoted by his force, the Guardian has learned.An inquest jury yesterday recorded a 7-2 majority verdict that Harry Stanley was unlawfully killed by police in September 1999, just yards from his east London home. Two firearms officers opened fire at Mr Stanley, believing a table leg he was carrying in a blue plastic bag was a shotgun. The jury rejected their claims that they believed Mr Stanley, 46, had posed an imminent threat to their lives. The verdict has implications for police use of guns, and after the verdict the St Pancras coroner, Dr Andrew Reid, said he would ask the Home Office to review firearms policy and practices. The Crown Prosecution Service said they would consider charging the officers, having refused to do so twice before. The Metropolitan police suspended Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan. Mr Sharman, an inspector at the time he shot Mr Stanley, was promoted this year to chief inspector. Yesterday's verdict, which came after more than seven hours of deliberation, triggered emotional scenes. Mr Stanley's family cheered, then sobbing could be heard from Mr Stanley's widow Irene, and others, and a jury member later burst into tears. Afterwards Mrs Stanley said the pain of losing her husband had been made worse by having to battle the authorities for five years and demanded the officers now be charged: "You've lost a loved one and you should not have to fight for justice, it should be there for you." A previous inquest recorded an open verdict which the high court quashed after finding the coroner had wrongly refused to allow the first inquest jury to consider an unlawful killing verdict. On his last day alive Mr Stanley had gone to his brother's house to repair a broken table leg. He had recently had surgery for stomach cancer which left him in such pain he could not bend to tie his shoelaces or raise his arms, and was able only to walk slowly. After leaving his brother's house Mr Stanley visited several pubs on his way home, and was twice over the legal drink-drive limit at the time of his shooting. After he left a pub in Hackney carrying a table leg, a fellow drinker called the police at 7.44pm, saying an Irishman had left the pub carrying a gun. Eight minutes later Mr Sharman and PC Fagan were in an armed response vehicle, and spotted Mr Stanley walking along the street. The two officers said they opened fire after shouting at Mr Stanley: "Stop, armed police." The officers had approached him from behind with their weapons drawn. They claimed the painter and decorator had turned round and faced them, and raised the object they believed to be a gun in a classic gunshot pose, as if he was about to open fire. PC Fagan told the inquest: "The realisation struck me that I was about to be shot at 15ft with a sawn-off shotgun." He said he shouted "drop it" only to be faced by Mr Stanley in a "boxer's stance". PC Fagan claimed Mr Stanley then moved his left hand to grip the object so he carried it with both hands. Inspector Sharman said he shot Mr Stanley fearing he was about to shoot his colleague. Mr Stanley's family say ballistics and forensic evidence show the officers' accounts to be untrue. The jury declared he was not facing the officers and "had begun to turn" when the shots were fired. The fatal shot fired by Mr Sharman entered the left side of his head, just above his ear. Daniel Machover, solicitor for the Stanley family, said: "The family have sympathy for the officers up to a point. But this jury did not accept they told the truth about facing an imminent threat to their lives, the reason given for opening fire. These officers' accounts have not been believed. " In the last decade inquest juries have found that police unlawfully killed eight people in cases where the CPS had initially decided not to prosecute. Subsequently no officer has ever been convicted. Deciding in 2001 not to charge the officers, the CPS said that scientific evidence "may provide some support for the conclusion that the police officers may have been inaccurate or even lied about their respective positions in the street". But prosecutors said there was insufficient evidence for a jury to conclude they were acting unlawfully. In a statement the Met said: "The officers were called upon to make a split-second decision while confronting what they believed to be an imminent threat to their lives. They did not have the benefit of hindsight." It added: "We will carefully consider today's inquest verdict and any implications it may have for future firearms policy." The coroner, Dr Reid, said he would ask the Home Office to review how police challenge suspects who have consumed alcohol or drugs or have mental problems, and also to re-examine armed police challenging suspects from behind.