Sir John Stevens, the Met police commissioner, yesterday rejected suggestions that his officers had been heavy-handed during the pro-hunting protest in Parliament Square. "No one got cracked over the head for no reason," he said.Nineteen people, including two police officers, were injured, but Sir John insisted none of the injuries was serious. His comments came as the Independent Police Complaints Commission said it would examine com plaints from the public. The IPCC chairman, Nick Hardwick, said: "Allegations were made to the media that members of the public had been assaulted. Official complaints have also now been made. "Both the protesters and police officers can have confidence that our investigation will be an impartial, timely and proportionate search for the truth." Alan Duncan, a Conservative MP in favour of hunting, said he was one of those who had written to the commission. "The police were spoiling for a fight," he said. But Sir John said: "Police worked very hard with the organisers to ensure a peaceful protest and it was a small core of determined troublemakers bent on conflict with the police who I believe were responsible for the violence. "There were fireworks and missiles thrown at police, but it was vital police held the line and stopped protesters getting through the barriers and several hundred protesters rushing on parliament." He admitted he was "extremely worried" about violence in relation to hunting, and agreed it was time to consider whether access to parliament and the square should be restricted. A senior Scotland Yard officer said there was a lack of police intelligence about violent factions within the pro-hunt lobby, and officers had been caught unawares by the flare-up. Tim Godwin, the Met's assistant commissioner in charge of territorial policing, said: "We don't know enough about various factions and groups within the Countryside Alliance. "We have had very positive negotiations with the organisers [of Wednesday's demonstration] in the past and we were not expecting the numbers who were using violence." Questions were also raised over why security at the Houses of Parliament was not tightened two months ago after recommendations from Sir John and the MI5 director-general, Elizabeth Manningham-Buller. They launched a review after the incident in May when Fathers4Justice protester Ron Davies threw purple flour over the prime minister on the floor of the Commons. The two gave their interim report to the Serjeant at Arms, who is in charge of security at Westminster, at the end of June. The final report will be handed over in two weeks. Sir John would not be drawn yesterday on the contents of the reports. But, given the level of terrorist threat, he is believed to be pushing for urgent change. A senior Scotland Yard source admitted there was "immense frustration" at present security arrangements. It is believed that the report will propose that a pontoon or barrage be thrown across the Thames near the Palace of Westmin-ster. It may also propose that roads leading to parliament be pedestrianised. Yesterday Peter Hain, the leader of the Commons, and Sir Stuart Bell, a Labour MP on the ruling Commons Commission, signalled that Labour would use Wednesday's invasion both to rearrange security and wrest power over parliamentary management from the traditionalists. Crucially the report will propose that the Commons Commission, the Serjeant at Arms (an office dating from the 1300s) and Black Rod, his Lords counterpart, be required to take security advice from a new professional director of security. A large pruning of the 14,000 or so parliament pass holders - notably the army of young research assistants - is also likely. The Speaker, Michael Martin, voiced concern that the eight protesters could not have found their way through the Palace of Westminster without help from a pass holder. The police, guarding key points with guns last night, are in no doubt that the intruders must have had a "huge amount of help" from inside.