Pity poor Steve Green. For five days the chief constable of Nottinghamshire has been castigated for saying publicly that his force cannot adequately investigate all the shotgun murders it is confronted with. But if the chief constable made a mistake it was not in speaking out. It was rather that he gave the impression that he could keep a lid on gun crime and the associated ills if only he had more money and officers.The problem in our inner cities is not that there are too few police and too many guns. It is that with all this firepower sloshing around, there are too many people who are of the mindset to get a gun and use it. By the time we have cause to call Mr Green and his police colleagues around the country, the trigger is already cocked, the result a formality. We know a lot about the gun and drug crimes being committed on the streets of major cities, but much less about the people committing them and the attitudes that drive them.The polarisation of our society into the haves and have-nots, the connected and the disconnected, is such that those of us at one end of the scale can barely begin to think in the same way as those at the other. Community cohesion is a laudable concept for policy wonks, but the very notion raises a laugh among activists who work at the sharp end. They have to deal with the parallel universe of deprived communities, where the concerns and norms of mainstream Britain scarcely register. Recently, by speaking to men convicted of gun crimes, researchers from Portsmouth University were able to shine a light on the attitudes and behaviour that bedevil Mr Green and all those unable to comprehend the community corrosion occurring away from the public gaze. One man, for example, spoke cogently to them of his profession. "It's intimidation," he said. "I intimidate you to the point where you can give me nine bar [nine ounces of drugs], all of your worth and your money and that leaves you flat broke and means you're bankrupt; you have to start from scratch. If I can do that then I have intimidated you enough." For many years after I left my secondary school in east London, I saw similar if less seasoned examples of the type - old schoolmates - on the street, close to stations or outside pubs. Our conversations were always the same. "Ah, Hughie," they would say. "Are you still on the newspapers?" as if I had opted to join a mysterious sect. I would ask them: "What are you doing?" and watch them shuffle. "You know, bit of this, bit of that. Hustling!" Twenty years ago, hustling was a cottage industry. But now in an infinitely more lucrative and brutalised form, hustling is open to anyone with enough vigour and nerve. It is an accessible and viable option. Little wonder so many people are taking it. One of those involved in the Portsmouth study explained the dynamic. "People are trying to make as much money as they can to live a better life. They see a lot of things happen on TV, famous people, rap stars, gold, big cars, houses; they all want it but everyone ain't got the same means of getting it, so they are going about getting it in other ways." Another man, reflecting on the hard decisions his cohorts make, said: "Most of the criminals out there, they're not stupid, they're smart people, they just ain't had opportunities ... it's just, they do the easiest, like, the easiest thing that's there. Like me, for example, it was robberies and that. Robberies are easy, easy stuff. I could have done much, I could have maybe been a doctor, I could have been a lawyer, but it's just the way I grew up." Certain groups have always been estranged from legal, civil society. For much of the last century, many of Britain's major cities were plagued by old-fashioned criminal gangs. But they posed a markedly different threat. They were organised in such a way that membership was limited, as was access to weaponry and products to sell. But now, anyone who wants to can find drugs to sell and the guns, real or imitation, which allow them to participate in what researchers have dubbed an "unregulated cash-rich market". Most of the participants are black, but not all. Status-poor, cash-rich, the market doesn't discriminate. Mr Green is overstretched because our mainstream society has lost its bargaining chips. I grew up with the understanding that one either conformed or risked being unable to obtain the benefits and luxuries available in a modern capitalist society. No work, no job, no money, no house, no car, no status. But try telling that to someone who knows full well that he can, without a GCSE to his name, "hustle" to the tune of £10,000 a week trading in products which have virtually unlimited demand and high profit margins. We need solutions that go beyond employing more police officers. We need to give marginalised families in these deprived areas more support, better schools, and more access to skills and to role models, who prove that there is risk-free money available for those who deserve it. One man told the Portsmouth researchers that he was "more likely to see a rich person in the neighbourhood that's made money from drugs than somebody that's made money from being a doctor". That has got to change. But what has to change most is that we must stop thinking of this troubled cohort as chaotic oddballs and psychopaths, because the evidence is that many are normal people, with ambitions we usually commend, who make ruinous but logical decisions about how to achieve them. An excluded schoolboy with no education and few prospects will nevertheless try to have the things and the life that we all aspire to. It is just that he might buy a gun, sell drugs or shoot someone on the way. We are required to show personal responsibility, but desperate people do desperate things. If we don't like the way these young men play with cards they have been handed, perhaps we need to think harder about how we shuffle the deck. hugh.muir@theguardian.com