The gyrocopter which killed a hunt enthusiast on Monday was already being investigated by aviation authorities after complaints it was disturbing livestock.Trevor Morse, 48, a gardener from Alderminster, near Stratford-on-Avon, died after being struck by the light aircraft on the taxiway at Long Marston airfield.Two men who were arrested on suspicion of murder were still being questioned by Warwickshire police yesterday. The gyrocopter, which has an open cockpit and space for two people, was reportedly hired by the animal rights group Protect Our Wild Animals, which had been monitoring the hunt for the last three weeks. The group campaigns for a complete ban on hunting with dogs and collects video and photographs of hunts.Sam Butler, joint master of the Warwickshire hunt, said the aircraft had been following the last day of the hunt, before disappearing."The gyrocopter had been following us for a couple of hours between 12pm and 2pm, as it has been over the past two to three weeks, and as with other hunts. It comes out and then disappears again, we assume to refuel. The airfield is a considerable number of miles away from where the hunt was."Trevor was a passionate supporter of the Warwickshire hunt and all things countryside. He was a supporter, he didn't ride, but he followed on his feet or in his vehicle. Why he was at the airfield is a matter for the police," Butler added. According to some reports, Morse had gone to the airfield to discover who was piloting the aircraft.Butler said the hunt had made a formal complaint about the aircraft 10 days before the incident. "[It] had been following us for a couple of weeks and we had made a formal complaint to the Civil Aviation Authority 10 days ago," he said."We had enough concerns about the safety and concerns about flying over people and property and people were concerned about the welfare of their horses and livestock." The authority said: "The CAA can confirm that it has received a complaint regarding the operation of the gyrocopter involved in [Monday's] incident. The CAA is investigating that complaint in conjunction with the police. We can confirm that the complaint was received 10 days ago and an investigation had commenced prior to [the] incident. The CAA had been in contact with the police and the complainant before yesterday's fatality." A source connected to Long Marston airfield said the gyrocopter was not local or based there.Butler added: "It is a tragic accident; our first and foremost thoughts are with Trevor's family. This man was the most loyal and most high quality supporter of hunting you will ever find. Outside his family, it was the most important thing to him." The aircraft was taken from the scene yesterday. Police said a postmortem was due to be carried out yesterday.