The police obtained new powers on 31 May 2007 that enable them to enter premises - using reasonable force if necessary - in order to assess whether or not the person living there was about to commit a crime at some point in the future. It has all the hallmarks of the pre-crime unit in Spielberg's film Minority Report.The Violent Crime Reduction Act 2006 section 58 made an amendment to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 by inserting a new section 96B. This new section allows the police to apply to a magistrate for a warrant to enter premises where a registered sex offender lives in order to carry out a risk assessment.So the new powers are not to be used on anybody. Just those offenders on the sex offenders register. That group of offenders that nobody has much sympathy for. That group that is somehow 'different' to other offenders and thereby deserving of different treatment.It makes no difference if the sex offender is fully compliant with all the requirements registration places on him. He may be fully up to date with his 'notifications' to the police regarding changes of address, changes of name or annual verification exercises. This is all about the police need to assess the likelihood of future offending.The main criteria for getting the warrant is that the person is on the register and access has been refused or no one has replied, on at least two occasions.The magistrate might presumably ask why a third or fourth visit is out of the question, especially when these visits are by their very nature meant to be unannounced. Why the urgency that conjures up images of speeding police cars with blue lights flashing on their way to - not a crime in progress but - see if a crime is likely in the future.A 2005 HM inspection report did find risk assessments being not as regular as they should be and often done "late". "The difference between planned and actual visits could have been because the police officer had to visit the home more than once before finding the sex offender at home," said HM Inspectorate of Constabulary 2005 Managing Sex Offenders in the Community report.Could it be the new law is to enable certain targets to be met?Risk assessments themselves are a combination of information on an individual and information on their social environment. Presumably the need to get inside a household is to add information to the latter category. An accompanying Home Office press release cites the example of a child's bike being found in a house where no children live.Once assessed the offenders are classed as high, medium or low risk. The presence of a bike might take you up from medium to high. Whilst presumably the absence of any bikes, or similar items, means the assessment is unchanged - or goes down from - say - high to medium.Either way these risk assessments have been criticised in the past for being poorly carried out by basic grade constables. The report referred to above, found many to be "not dated or signed or detailing the name and the rank of the person who had completed the assessment". The "assessments were rarely countersigned which would have been evidence of management oversight".Yet it is presumably these same officers who will be instigating the need for an application to a magistrate for the new warrants.If the police do re-categorise someone as high risk the truth remains that no offence has been committed yet. So, what can the police do now?More surveillance might be one answer, or informing someone who might be a possible victim - or the parent of victims. Applying for a SOPO (sexual offences prevention order) might be another way forward. A civil order resembling an ASBO.Risk assessment is an imprecise art. It is about trying to predict the future. That new laws now allow the police to enter households - using force if necessary - for no other purpose than to make a risk assessment is to elevate the status of this imprecise art to a level we have not seen before.· Terry Thomas in professor of criminology, at the school of social sciences, Leeds Metropolitan University