A library assistant who stole ancient and rare books worth £175,000 to sell on the internet walked free from court today.Norman Buckley, 44, took more than 455 ancient books, posters and other documents while working at Manchester's central library. He was sentenced today to 65 weeks imprisonment, suspended for two years, and told to perform 250 hours of community service.His haul included a 16th century edition of the works of Geoffrey Chaucer worth £35,000 and a 1654 publication of romantic poet John Donne's elegies that he sold for £1,800. Most of the books were recovered by police at Buckley's flat in Hulme, Greater Manchester.Judge Clement Goldstone QC said the sentence was suspended because Buckley had helped police find the books and so many had been recovered. He said the books were part of the city and the country's "literary heritage".Some were of such value they could not be viewed except by appointment, he said."Every time you offered a book for sale, you were breaking the trust that had been placed in you," he said. "It appears that the extent of the loss to the city is less than it at first appeared. Of the 455 books that you stole, 44 were sold, the remainder were recovered."The ultimate loss to the city and its heritage may have been measured, if it can be measured at all, in the thousands of pounds rather than the tens or hundreds of thousands of pounds. You have bought shame on yourself and your family by your behaviour."Buckley nodded as sentence was passed and then left the dock in silence.The judge, sitting at Manchester crown court, said Buckley had got a "buzz" from selling the books online, but was not motivated by greed."It is said, and I accept, that you were not motivated by the pursuit of financial gain," he said.Denise Fitzpatrick, mitigating, told the court her client became depressed after his girlfriend left him."It was emotional release from the turmoil he found himself in after the breakdown of a relationship at Christmas 2004."She said he was "filled with remorse and shame" about the thefts.Police were alerted to the thefts when a rare book dealer in Somerset saw the library's stamp on one of the books on sale online. Buckley, who was an amateur photographer, had uploaded pictures of such quality that the seal was visible to the naked eye.When police raided his high-rise flat, they found more than 400 books, carefully indexed by Buckley on his own card system. The haul included a book of letters about the death of Louis XVI and a 1675 edition of English historian Willam Camden's The History of the Most Renowned and Victorious Princess Elizabeth.Officers also found a volume of political writings by Coleridge, Shelley and Keats. Between January last year and March this year, Buckley took the books in twos and threes from the library's private collection. A security system failed to alert library staff to the thefts.