Just over four-and-a-half years ago, on a furiously hot afternoon off the Horn of Africa, a 28-year-old Briton, Alan MacLean, was brutally murdered on board a 40ft French yacht. A single bullet scattered parts of his skull and brain across the boat's deck.Only two other people were on board the Correlation at the time - the French captain, Philippe Sorel, and his Moroccan mistress, Badiaa Lemniai. No Mayday signal was raised and less than 12 hours later his body was pushed overboard - because, Sorel said later, of the extreme heat and distance the boat was from a safe port - and the yacht sailed on. MacLean's family, originally from Aberdeen, have yet to square his death on 11 September 1999 with the few facts that have been unearthed. They do not know if, as the captain said, MacLean was shot during a pirate attack or if something else happened. 'There are few nights in the past four years when I have not dreamt about Alan,' his father Neil, 64, said. 'We thought at the time that we would find out, that the pirate attack might be confirmed or the captain's story would be proved a lie. But we have been told almost nothing. All we know is that our son is lying off the coast of Africa.' The family first heard the news when the Correlation docked in Aden, Yemen, five days after Alan's death, when Sorel reported that his crew member had been shot as five Somali pirates attacked the boat. A search by port authorities failed to find anything to prove or disprove that pirates had attacked or boarded the ship. Suspicion intensified when the MacLeans revealed Alan had sent an email to his brother a few months earlier saying that he 'feared for his safety' after the captain had become aggressive with another member of crew. At the time of the murder, everyone promised the riddle would be solved. Even Tony Blair waded in, his private secretary, Philip Barton, saying: 'The Prime Minister is very concerned to ensure a full investigation into Alan's death does take place.' The MacLeans left Scotland to start a new life in New Zealand. Since then, the Foreign Office has refused to return any of their phone calls asking for information or help. 'The British authorities could have helped us get information from Somalia and Yemen,' said Neil. 'At the very least, it could have helped us understand what the French authorities were doing.' A French inquiry was launched soon after the murder, but an examination of the boat was not carried out until four months later because Sorel had continued his voyage. So far, the only evidence of the pirate attack has been a bullet cartridge and telescopic site which Sorel says he found rolling around on deck. Forensic examinations have proved only two things: traces of Alan's blood were found on both the boat and the didgeridoo with which he was supposed to have defended the vessel. The bullet casing has been traced to a 1978 Kalashnikov made in Bulgaria. 'Knowing the type of gun used or the fact that Alan's blood was found does not help us know who shot him,' said Neil. The only information the MacLeans feel has helped has come in a report from UN representatives in Africa. They discovered that at the time of Alan's death there were other pirate attacks on yachts in those waters. But in each case, pirates either shot at the hull of the boat or boarded to rob it of its contents. However, nothing was stolen from the Correlation and no marks were left on the boat. An investigation by UN officials has now concluded that at the time of MacLean's killing there were none of the usual celebratory rituals by Somali bandits carried out after an attack on a yacht. Pirate chiefs in the area whom officials talked to reacted furiously when told they had been blamed for the murder. 'Every picture we paint in our minds seems more plausible than the one of piracy given by Sorrel,' said Neil, a former Navy petty officer. The two witnesses - Sorel and Lemniai - have stayed silent. In her first interview on the subject, Lemniai told The Observer she had little sympathy with the family: 'The parents have been badly behaved throughout and above all have told lies regarding the Correlation and us. They have thrown away any sympathy we had for them. You can't imagine what effect this deep wound is having. And for me, being asked about it means reliving it all.' Sorel has said little. The MacLeans accuse him of being indifferent to their son's death. 'When we met him in France once, he turned to us and said, "Why all this fuss about Alan?". 'He also told us how he hates the police and believes they are all stupid. It just felt to us he was gloating. That is why we don't believe him. We have the feeling he knows everything, but that we will never really find out how our son died.' The French authorities are expected to release their final report into MacLean's death within the next few months. Whether its findings will satisfy his family, however, will be a different matter.