Police hunting the killers of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence today arrested a man on suspicion of his murder.The 27-year-old suspect was detained at his workplace in south London this morning and is being questioned by detectives at a police station in the capital, a Scotland Yard spokesman said. The man is not thought to have been arrested before in connection with the murder of Stephen, which led to criticism of the way the police investigate racist killings. Stephen, a bright 18-year-old who wanted to be an architect, was stabbed and fatally wounded when he and his friend Duwayne Brooks were attacked by a gang of at least five white youths in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993.Shortly after Stephen's murder, five men - brothers Neil and Jamie Acourt, David Norris, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight - were arrested. However, proceedings against Neil Acourt and Mr Knight were later discontinued by the crown prosecution service following a meeting with the senior investigating officer. Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen Lawrence, took up a private prosecution against the five following the CPS's decision, but the case against Jamie Acourt and Mr Norris was dropped at the committal stage. Neil Acourt, Mr Knight and Mr Dobson eventually stood trial for murder at the Old Bailey in April 1996. However, a week after the start of proceedings, the jury was ordered to find the defendants not guilty after the judge decided Mr Brooks' evidence was unreliable. The inquest into Stephen's death ended in February 1997 with the jury deciding that the teenager had been "unlawfully killed in a completely unprovoked racist attack by five white youths".The following day the Daily Mail printed a front page labelling the five suspects as "murderers" and challenged them to sue the newspaper.The failure of the Metropolitan police to bring Stephen's killers to justice has been a major source of frustration and embarrassment to the force. An official report by Sir William Macpherson into the initial murder inquiry branded the Met "institutionally racist". In July this year the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, who was appointed in January 2000, said during an interview that he knew who killed Stephen.Arrests for the murder itself had not been thought to be imminent but the investigation has not been scaled down. Commenting on today's arrest, Scotland Yard said: "This step is part of an ongoing and vibrant investigation."