Labour's five-year crime plan, announced yesterday, seeks to move justice away from defendants and in favour of victims. But how liberal is our system and how far does it need rebalancing?There's no doubt that the sentencing of offenders has become much tougher in recent years. There are 30,000 more people in prison than when Tony Blair became Labour leader 10 years ago, costing the Treasury an extra £1bn annually. Research carried out for Rethinking Crime and Punishment* found that this does not reflect an increase in crime - recorded crime is at its lowest since 1984 - or a rise in the numbers sentenced. Nor, as far as we can tell, are offences more serious. It is simply that judges and magistrates are imposing longer prison sentences for serious crimes and are more likely to imprison offenders who 10 years ago would have received a community penalty or even a fine. Their decisions reflect an increasingly punitive political and media debate about crime.Patrick Carter's review of the correctional services, undertaken for the prime minister's strategy unit earlier this year, concluded that further rises were unsustainable and undesirable. Surprisingly, the government accepted the conclusions. The Home Office is looking to cap prison numbers at 80,000. New sentencing options in the Criminal Justice Act 2003, judicial guidelines on how they are to be used and a new offender management service to supervise community orders are intended to act as a brake on the rate of imprisonment. There are signs that the prison population may have levelled off, but it is by no means certain that the strategy will work. Tougher community penalties with automatic enforcement for non-compliance could see more people enter prison than are kept from it at the sentencing stage. Stubbornly low clear-up rates mean that most victims never see an offender brought to justice. Poor police performance and resulting lack of public and victim confidence has driven the government to prioritise the catching and conviction of more offenders. In order to achieve this, local agencies have been set demanding targets - particularly for persistent offenders, who are thought to commit a high proportion of crime. Moreover, substantial changes have been made to charging arrangements, the rules of evidence and the conduct of trials to encourage successful prosecutions and raise the conviction rate. The government has thus far retained the central principles of criminal justice - that a person is innocent until proved guilty, and that the prosecution must prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Yet there is a growing sense in government rhetoric that these and other elements of due process can all too often unreasonably frustrate efforts to punish offenders and bring down crime. At the end of last year, the Together initiative made it clear to police and councils that they should make more use of their powers to tackle low-level crime and disorder. Measures such as anti-social behaviour orders can be imposed when a court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that an offender is involved, rather than on the criminal burden of proof. Breaching asbos is a criminal offence which, if proved, can lead to imprisonment for up to five years. Alongside such powers, naming and shaming measures routinely see photos of miscreants as young as 10 in local newspapers. Subjecting young people to injunctions to stay away from people or places for long periods is already starting to see breaches brought before the criminal courts, with detention an increasingly common outcome. The government has made much of the need to reduce the protections afforded to defendants in the criminal process on the assumption that this is a zero-sum game - weaker rights for defendants means a better deal for victims. Yet no one, least of all victims, has an interest in the miscarriages of justice which may well result. In fact, defendants' rights have been steadily eroded over the past 20 years, alongside the increasingly punitive sentences handed down to those who are convicted. An alternative approach, which would cut the number of victims, would be to give much greater priority to preventing youngsters offending in the first place, and treating the hard-drug addicts who make up more than half of those arrested. There are only 1,700 residential rehabilitation places for the country's half a million addicts. The government could also invest in the kind of problem-solving approach known as restorative justice. Borrowing heavily from mediation routinely used in civil disputes, RJ provides an opportunity for offenders to take responsibility for the loss, damage or harm they have caused and do something to make amends. RJ allows victims to let the offender know how the crime affected them and put a bad experience behind them. Pilot schemes show that victims who participate in RJ are much more satisfied than they are with conventional criminal justice. Our own research** has found substantial public support for an approach based on getting offenders to pay back rather than punishing them. Shifting the balance of the system in this direction could be the way forward, together with serious investment in the education, health and social programmes which can reduce the numbers of victims as well as of offenders. · Rob Allen is director of Rethinking Crime and Punishment *The Decision to Imprison, by Professor Mike Hough (2003) **What does the Public Think About Prison? (2002) www.rethinking.org.uk