Ministers are to outlaw "grooming" of children for sexual abuse on the internet and offline, despite criticism that it amounts to the creation of a "thought crime".The child protection measures form part of the sexual offences bill published yesterday, which marks the most radical overhaul of Britain's sex laws for 50 years. Most of the measures, which include reform of the laws on rape, repealing Victorian gay sex crimes, and targeting the commercial sexual exploitation of children, were welcomed by civil liberties campaigners. "The current law on sex offences is inadequate, antiquated, and discriminatory, and does not reflect changes in society, social attitudes, and what we now know about patterns of abuse, particularly the extent and nature of child abuse," said the home secretary, David Blunkett. "We are dealing with difficult and sensitive issues. The new offences in this bill clearly set out what is and what is not acceptable behaviour, together with the appropriate penalties, giving the public confidence that they are adequately protected." The Home Office minister, Hilary Benn, said the government considered but ruled out granting anonymity to those accused of rape, and had decided not to create an offence of "date rape", on the grounds that "rape is rape and cannot be divided into more and less serious offences". The limited criticism of the bill yesterday centred on the introduction of a civil preventative order on the "grooming of children", which will enable restrictions to be placed on people "displaying inappropriate sexual behaviour before an offence is committed". The bill creates a separate criminal "grooming" offence based on meeting a child, through the internet or not, with the intention of committing a sex offence. John Wadham, director of Liberty, warned that the civil order would amount to prosecuting people for what someone thinks they might do, and not for something they have actually done. He also criticised the failure of ministers to remove from the sex offenders' register people convicted of consensual adult gay sex before the age of consent law was equalised. But the bulk of the bill's proposals were welcomed by civil libertarians, including the controversial reform of the law on rape. The bill confirms that ministers are to clarify the law on consent in regard to rape. It writes into law the circumstances where it is presumed that consent was not given, including instances of use of violence or the threat of violence, or where the victim had been abducted, or was asleep or unconscious, possibly through drink or drugs. The bill proposes that the accused can continue to use the defence that he "honestly believed" that consent was present, but it will have to be a "reasonable" belief. The legislation was also welcomed by the National Association for Care and Resettlement of Offenders. Paul Cavadino, Nacro's chief executive, said that the bill enshrined the principles of public safety and protection of the vulnerable without resorting to populism or knee jerk reaction. "The campaign for public notification of paedophiles must now surely be dead in the water," he said. Main points· New offences to tackle sexual abuse of children, including assumption in law that under 13s cannot consent · New offences to protect those with learning disabilities or mental disorders from sexual abuse · Redefinition of incest to reflect modern family life · Reform of the sex offenders register · New offences of voyeurism and sex in public · Clarification of law on rape