A carpenter described today how he cradled Damilola Taylor in his arms as the schoolboy lay dying from a stab wound.Guillermo Casal said the 10-year-old's last words were: "I'm OK, I'm OK."Mr Casal told the Old Bailey: "I knew he was not OK."As Damilola was bleeding to death from the wound in his thigh, Mr Casal said three boys came along."I was cradling the boy all the time. I was waiting for the ambulance to arrive," he said."I saw three boys. They were young, small boys. They were all black - nice-looking boys. They looked Caribbean."Stepping out of the witness box, Mr Casal was asked to demonstrate what one of the boys gestured to him.With his left hand, he drew a line across his left thigh. The boys, who were all dressed in black and had hoods on, walked away, he said.Two males now aged 17 and 18, who cannot be named for legal reasons, and 20-year-old Hassan Jihad, all from south London, deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Four other youths were cleared of the charges in a trial in 2002. Nigerian-born Damilola had been in Britain three months when he was stabbed with a broken bottle in Blakes Road, Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000.Mr Casal told the court he was returning to his office on the first floor of the building when he noticed a trail of blood. After following it up two flights of steps, he came across Damilola, bleeding and leaning against a wall.He said: "I saw a little boy. He was standing up. He was leaning against the wall. I looked him straight in the eyes. He looked at me. I saw he was falling down and ran quickly and grabbed him."I kept asking him if he was all right and if he needed help," said Mr Casal."I was calling an ambulance with my phone. I screamed. I was getting angry at them because they were asking questions."He said he realised Damilola was seriously injured and did all he could for him.He also called for help from workmates. One took over the call to the ambulance as they waited for help to arrive.The case continues.