Young teenagers face on-the-spot fines of up to £40 from this week for antisocial behaviour such as vandalism and underage drinking, the Home Office announced last night.The new police powers to fine 10- to 15-year-olds are to be used in seven forces including Merseyside, Nottinghamshire and the West Midlands. Ministers hope parents and guardians of the teenagers, who will be liable for the fines of between £30 and £40, will do something about their children. Refusing to pay the fines could mean parents facing prison but is more likely to result in an increased fine or a court order instructing them to take a course in parenting skills. The pilot scheme, which will run for a year, extends fixed penalty fines for antisocial behaviour to those under 16 for the first time. The Home Office minister Hazel Blears said: "Fixed penalty notices are particularly appropriate for 10- to 15-year-olds, as police can deal firmly and quickly with first-time, low-level offending in a way that avoids the young person going through the criminal justice system." It would also send a strong message to parents or guardians about their responsibilities because they would be liable for the penalty. "Parents cannot be spectators, and have to take responsibility for their children. They cannot stand by whilst their children cause damage and distress to law-abiding citizens." Ms Blears said young teenagers were behind a significant proportion of offences involving disorder. "I have heard shocking cases involving minors vandalising property, harassing neighbours and terrorising communities. "Antisocial behaviour is a scourge on society and giving police the tools to tackle it head-on, even when the offender is at a young age, is one of the ways we can help to deliver a safer, more secure and respectful society." The on-the-spot fines will be issued for underage drinking, vandalism, misusing fireworks and harassment. The new police powers were approved by parliament on September 10 and formally came into force yesterday. On-the-spot fines for antisocial behaviour by those aged 16 and over were introduced across the country in April. They range between £50 and £80 and can be used for 21 offences. More than 40,000 have been handed out by police and community support officers. A pilot scheme showed they were far more effective than the traditional court fine, with an overall payment rate of 70%, and did not involve the police officer going back to the station to complete paperwork. But Harry Fletcher, of the probation union, Napo, warned: "It is far better to try to persuade parents to take more responsibility for their children. Coercive measures such as fines or parenting orders are more likely to backfire, resulting in parents being in even deeper financial difficulties and resenting their children."