Newcastle United footballer Joey Barton was released from jail last night, after spending a week on remand on an assault charge. He was granted bail by Judge David Swift after an hour-long hearing in chambers at Liverpool crown court.He was collected from Liverpool prison by his solicitor Daniel Weed and Peter Kay, the chief executive of the Sporting Chance clinic in Hampshire. Members of Barton's family were also waiting outside the prison. Barton made no comment as he passed out through the gates and got into a waiting car.No conditions of bail were released by the court. Weed said: "Joseph Barton has been granted bail with conditions until he appears at Liverpool magistrates court on January 16."It was the day's second hearing. Earlier magistrates had refused to grant bail to Barton, 25, from Widnes in Cheshire, and told him he had to remain in jail. During that hearing the assault charge against him was upgraded from common assault to assault occasioning actual bodily harm.The court also decided that a charge of criminal damage against Barton following an incident in a taxi in March 2005 would also be heard on January 16.It has been alleged that Barton and friends were involved in two separate incidents after a row with another group at a McDonald's restaurant in Church Street, Liverpool, at 5.30am last Thursday.The player's brother, Andrew Barton, 19, from Widnes, is charged with actual bodily harm and affray, and Nadine Wilson, 27, from Huyton on Merseyside, is charged with common assault and affray. They did not appear yesterday, but will stand alongside Barton in the dock at Liverpool magistrates court on January 16.Barton appeared before magistrates via a video link from prison. He wore a grey prison-issue jumper and jeans.Outside the court one man showed off a mobile phone picture which appeared to show a shirtless Barton in the jail's gymnasium with his arm around a fellow inmate. The man refused to identify himself or the other prisoner, who he said was a friend on remand. He claimed to have been told during a visit that Barton had been a regular at the prison gym, where he led circuit training sessions.The footballer missed his club's Boxing Day game against Wigan because of an ankle injury. He joined Newcastle United last summer on a £5.8m transfer from Manchester City, but was then out of action for several months after breaking his foot before the season began. His contract is due to run for five years. The Tyneside club is said to be considering its options should he be found guilty.His troubles have added to the worries of Newcastle United's manager, Sam Allardyce, who is coming under increasing pressure from fans because he has failed to find at Newcastle the kind of success he enjoyed with Bolton Wanderers.The Sporting Chance clinic, founded by former Arsenal and England captain Tony Adams, offers "a safe, dedicated environment, where sportsmen and women receive support and counselling for the kinds of destructive behaviour patterns that are all too common in the world of competitive sport".