The public was asked today whether television cameras should be permanently allowed into English and Welsh courts for the first time. The lord chancellor, Lord Falconer of Thoroton, issued a consultation paper just hours before a pilot scheme begins in the court of appeal. On the most controversial question of whether criminal trials should be televised, Lord Falconer pledged he would make no changes that adversely affect victims or witnesses. He said filming of criminal trials could make them unwilling to report crimes or testify. Lord Falconer said: "The time is right for a full public debate of these issues - technology and public attitudes have moved on since the legislation controlling the broadcasting of courts was passed in 1925. "That said, there remain powerful reasons and arguments for protecting victims, witnesses, jurors and the justice process in general from the impact of cameras and microphones in court." He added: "No change to make our courts more open and accessible should worsen or jeopardise in any way the position of witnesses and victims or make witnesses reluctant to appear. "Cameras in the courtroom would be a big step. We have to make sure that any such step would benefit justice, not burden justice." The minister revealed plans in August for a limited TV pilot at some criminal and civil appeals. Cameras will be allowed to film a small number of hearings at the court of appeal at the Royal Courts of Justice in the Strand, central London, from tomorrow. Footage from the pilot - organised in partnership with ITV, the BBC, Sky, ITN, Channel 4 and Five - will not be broadcast and will be used only for evaluation. Broadcasters will concentrate on cases that are of media and public interest, but each application must be approved by the judge. Lord Falconer said in August the time was ripe for a debate on the issue. But he insisted: "We will not have OJ Simpson-style trials in Britain. We must protect witnesses and jurors and victims. We don't want our courts turned into US-style media circuses." Today's paper runs through the implications of broadcasting for participants in court cases, and the issues it could raise for distinct groups such as witnesses, jurors, defendants, judges, lawyers and other parties. It also suggests that broadcasting may allow greater public scrutiny of courts and increase confidence in the justice system. People will be able to respond to the consultation paper by completing a questionnaire online. Lord Falconer said: "I know these are difficult and delicate issues. I know that broadcasters and others will press for change. "But my responsibility is to consider the issues fully and carefully, focusing on the prime goal of justice being done."Today's document does not contain any firm proposals on whether courts should be televised. But it does note that the arguments in favour of allowing cameras into court are "attractive". People who respond to today's consultation will be asked to fill in a tick-box questionnaire that details a wide range of options. It asks whether cameras should be allowed in the crown court, magistrates' courts, the civil courts, appeal courts and others, with the option of broadcasting being allowed, prohibited or allowed in some circumstances. The paper also sets out options on whether only part of proceedings should be televised, such as opening and closing statements by lawyers, the summing up by the judge or the delivery of a verdict. The document says the consideration of witnesses is central to the debate on whether to allow cameras into court. "One key concern is that potential witnesses may refuse to appear if they know that their testimony is going to be broadcast, which could lead to delays, cracked trials, or miscarriages of justice," it says. "There are often difficulties in persuading people to testify, for example if they fear intimidation, and it has been argued that the prospect of a case being broadcast would be a further obstacle in this process." One option laid out in the report would be to allow sound broadcasts only, in a similar style to early broadcasts from the Houses of Parliament. The possibility of using only text coverage is also considered, making use of the computerised transcription service which is used in most larger courts. The paper notes that some witnesses may be tempted to "tailor their evidence to make it more acceptable to the viewing public". It suggests the face and voice of a witness could be distorted so that they cannot be identified. Another proposal would be to leave out the more sensitive parts of a hearing such as the examination and cross-examination of witnesses."Many jurisdictions either prohibit camera coverage of victims, or give victims an absolute right to protection of their identity through voice and face distortion," it says. The document also notes that all other countries which allow broadcasting in court prohibit camera coverage of jurors. There may be restrictions on how a court case could be broadcast, the paper adds. It asks whether the type of programme in which footage could be used should be limited to documentaries or news reports, for example. There may also be a case for a delay in broadcasting material, it says."It is important that justice should be seen to be done - in whatever sense - and showing court proceedings on television could be seen as the modern way of ensuring this," the paper concludes. "However, it is even more important that courts should be able to function effectively - that justice should be done - and broadcasting might interfere with this. "The arguments in favour of relaxing the prohibition on broadcasting court proceedings are attractive. "On the other hand, allowing court proceedings to be broadcast, particularly on television, might risk turning some trials into media circuses."· To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857· If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".