Aim"An act to establish a National Policing Improvement Agency; to make provision about police forces and police authorities and about police pensions; to make provision about police powers and about the powers and duties of community support officers."Main provisions• Establishes the National Policing Improvement Agency.• Grants the home secretary additional powers to intervene over underperforming police forces.• Allows the police to demand passenger manifests on domestic flights.• Creates an internal border within Britain: passengers on domestic flights and ferries can be required to carry identity papers. • Empowers police officers to stop and search individuals and vehicles at airports.• Allows the police to impose electronic tags and curfew restrictions when they grant conditional bail.• Permits the home secretary the authority to widen the list of professions granted the power to issue fixed penalty notices, without seeking further parliamentary approval. BackgroundA part of the government's much-vaunted Respect Action Plan, the Police and Justice Act was intended to deliver a police reform programme. The act makes wide-ranging changes to police governance and policing powers. It also allows the home secretary to more tightly manage local police forces, a change sought after the Soham inquiry, when David Blunkett had difficulty suspending the chief constable of Humberside. Plans in the bill to merge the five regulators of the criminal justice system into one super-inspectorate, responsible for inspecting the police, courts, probation, prisons and the crown prosecution were savaged in the Lords and were scrapped by the government in favour of "enhanced joint working". As the bill passed through parliament, a political row blew up over the extradition of three UK bankers – the so-called NatWest Three – to the US on fraud charges. Critics claimed the Anglo-American Extradition Treaty, signed by the government in 2002, was weighted in America's favour because although America does not have to provide prima facie evidence, Britain must provide American courts with evidence of "probable cause".In response to the outcry the Tories tabled a series of amendments in the House of Lords, which if adopted, would have modified the Extradition Act to end America's fast-track extradition privileges. The amendments were passed by the Lords and received support from the CBI's director general, Richard Lambert, who called on parliament to protect Britain from these "unjust extradition proceedings" but the government later succeeded in overturning these changes in the Commons. CriticismCivil liberties groups argued that granting the Home Office power to exercise control over operational policing matters would politicise policing. These charges were echoed by attacks from the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Association of Police Authorities, who expressed "considerable concern" that the bill would reduce the number of checks and balances designed to prevent politicians from directly interfering in policing in England and Wales.Liberty described the decision to place conditions such as electronic tags and curfews on conditional bail (pre-charge) as amounting to "police summary justice". The group also expressed concern that power to impose punitive conditions on cautions would create a "two-tier criminal justice system" in which those who are unable to pay the fines attached to a conditional caution end up with a criminal conviction.