"I was a slop, a slag and a whore," says 41-year-old Zaina•, in a broad northern accent, of how her violent ex-husband viewed her. The love marriage of her 20s soured when her gentle Pakistani husband took up drugs and metamorphosed into an abuser.Zaina, of Asian heritage, claims her husband beat her up on instruction by his mother who thought her daughter-in-law too westernised. "I couldn't talk to him, he was changing," says Zaina. "He had a temper, he was beating me up, pulling my hair, spitting, my food was never good enough for him and not as good as his mother's."Yet despite 12 years of violence, including having a knife put to her throat and her young children nearly kidnapped by those to whom he owed money, she says the police and support charities initially failed to help. That third and fourth generation Asians are now largely assimilated in the UK made little difference to how Zaina was treated by both statutory and voluntary agencies. "I went to [a support charity] and they'd listen to my story, write it down and I wouldn't get any help afterwards," she says. "The police didn't help either. I would sit in the station for hours and they'd just take a statement then never come back to see if I was dead or alive. Or they would tell my ex-husband to leave instead of arresting him while I was there black and blue with bruises from punches. They didn't take my domestic violence seriously." The situation would be more credible if this were the 1970s but Zaina encountered it only three years ago before finally fleeing.The extra barriers that black and minority ethnic (BME) women have to hurdle when fleeing domestic violence is the topic of a national conference next Tuesday, November 25, to coincide with the United Nations' International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Moving Forward: Positioning Culturally Sensitive Provision is being held by Ashram Housing Association, which runs domestic violence services, and the University of Wolverhampton. The conference will explore why, despite prevalence of domestic violence being similar across all communities, BME women are less likely to access statutory services and then struggle with those they do receive. "Some of the women we talk to are put off by presenting to larger statutory organisations [such as the police or council domestic violence services], because they feel they won't understand or respond sensitively," says Amanda Nicholls, deputy chief executive of Ashram, who is speaking at the conference. She describes large, mainstream groups as "giants" who often, "lack sensitivity, understanding, knowledge and skills" that smaller, specialist grassroots groups can provide – groups she would like to see receive better funding.And changing demographics in new immigrant communities from such countries as Somalia and Congo also threaten to reverse recent successes in reporting figures, she says. Unclear immigration status and new language barriers stifle both reports and agency responses."Our client base is becoming increasingly diverse by the day," says Nicholls. "We don't want to go back to where we've come from [in the 1970s and '80s] where there was a lack of reporting from these communities as a result of them not being dealt with sensitively."Funmi Johnson, national lead for the domestic violence project at the crown prosecution service, agrees that immigration worries may gag women. "Often there's an additional barrier preventing people reporting because they are concerned about their immigration status," she says. "Where this is not settled, that becomes something the perpetrator can use as an additional method of control to say, 'if you report this, I will tell the authorities, you will be deported and you'll never see your children again'." Nicki Norman, deputy chief executive of Women's Aid, says there might be religious or cultural pressures not to seek help, such as rejection from their own community, as well as a valid fear of racism from authorities. "And where an organisation may not directly discriminate against them they may not take account of their individual needs," she says.Norman adds that mainstream groups may tiptoe around BME women if they don't properly understand the different forms of abuse they experience such as sexual or physical violence from extended family, forced marriage and honour-based violence.There are other issues that agencies need to consider when dealing with BME women fleeing abuse, claims Priya Chopra, coordinator of Saheli, which works with Asian women fleeing domestic violence with no recourse to public funds.Legal sponsored spouses coming to the UK to join their husbands or fiancés cannot claim welfare benefits for two years. If their marriage breaks down into violence within this time and they cannot meet evidential requirements of this violence or if their sponsor does not renew their visa, "they get trapped within the immigration guidelines… and face the choice of living with life-threatening violence or facing destitution [or deportation] if they leave", she says. Zaina is an example of someone who has managed to escape successfully, picking up her life in a new town. She commends her local police service now where she has a liaison officer and strong support from local charities. But she wants authorities to reassure Asian women too frightened to act that, "something will be done and that they can speak up". "Don't be scared of no man," she says. • Not her real name