Crime victims and other witnesses could be arrested and even jailed if they fail to turn up to give evidence in court under a government proposal issued yesterday.Witnesses who defy a proposed new "witness order" summoning them to court could face up to three months in jail for contempt of court. The proposed measure, on which ministers want views by January 2, would be a way to deal with witnesses subjected to "low level" intimidation by alleged offenders, the Home Office suggested. Witnesses' failure to show up led to the abandonment of 30,000 cases in 2001, according to Home Office figures. In 2002-03, 23% of crown court trials collapsed and of those a quarter were lost because witnesses failed to attend court. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, attacked the proposal as "utterly unbelievable", while Victim Support, the charity, said it "completely ignored" victims' needs. Under existing laws, courts in England and Wales can issue a "witness summons" if information suggests a witness is unwilling to attend. They can also issue a warrant for arrest. The penalties are the same but the courts have to be satisfied that the witness can provide "material evidence". A Home Office spokeswoman said under the proposal there would be no requirement regarding the quality of evidence the witness might provide. The court had to simply be satisfied that the witness might fail to turn up. Lady Scotland, a Home Office minister, said: "Witnesses are key to the entire success of the criminal justice system. Each time a case is not brought to trial, or a trial collapses, a victim's suffering is made worse and public confidence in the system is undermined. We are exploring a wide range of options on how best to ensure more witnesses come to court." Mr Letwin said: "I thought the home secretary was telling us that he wants to make life easier for witnesses and victims. Now we have an announcement... which tells us they are thinking of making life tougher." A spokeswoman for Victim Support said: "If they [witnesses] get a summons saying they have to be there it is not going to help things at all. In fact, it will leave them with a very negative feeling about the whole criminal justice system." The Home Office yesterday launched an online "witness walkthrough" which aims to make the criminal justice process easier to understand, telling witnesses what to expect.