Detectives hunting Abigail Witchalls' attacker believe he has a history of violence and a detailed knowledge of the pathways around the Surrey village where she was knifed.A list of 32 suspects, derived from more than 700 calls from the public, is being checked by 100 officers. Two of the names have come up twice. Hopes that Surrey police would be able to produce an efit picture of the assailant at the weekend were set back because Mrs Witchalls, who can now only communicate via facial expressions or by mouthing yes and no, remains too ill to endure long interviews with detectives. She was returning from a mother and toddler group with her 21-month-old son, Joseph, on Wednesday, April 20, when she was stabbed in the neck and left for dead in a quiet country lane in Little Bookham, Surrey. "We have been speaking with Abigail and her family and they want to be with each other at the hospital. She just needs rest. It's been fairly slow progress but we are working on an efit and hope to one as soon as possible," said a Surrey police spokeswoman said. Officers have described Mrs Witchalls' attacker as between 20 and 35 years old, 5ft 10in to 6ft 2in (1.77 metres to 1.88 metres), with scruffy dark hair, a long thin pale face and prominent cheekbones. He was wearing silver hoop earrings. A 25-year-old man arrested in connection with the attack last week was released but then remanded in custody on a separate offence. Despite police pleas to the media not to identify him he was pictured in several newspapers. Surrey's assistant chief constable, Mark Rowley, called the attack on the 26-year-old "shocking and emotive", adding: "Officers are working 14-to 16-hour days. It is a crime that has touched the nation and also touched my officers. They cannot help but take their jobs home with them. There is a real determination to solve this case." Mrs Witchalls, in hospital in Tooting, south London, remains at the centre of the investigation, and police say she will help compose a computer-generated image of the attacker. She will also be shown photographs of cars to help determine the vehicle the attacker drove along the lane before stopping to follow her on foot and then plunge the knife into the back of her neck. She was left with a 3in wound and paralysed. Joseph, who was physically unhurt, was found out of his buggy by his mother's side after the attack.