Injured patients could lose the right to legal aid to sue the NHS, and divorcing spouses on low incomes could be forced to borrow against family assets under government proposals to shave £41m off the £695m civil legal aid bill. Legal aid would be available only for investigating a medical negligence case, and patients who wanted to sue would have to find a lawyer to take it forward under a "no-win, no-fee" deal. The plans, outlined in a consultation paper from the Department for Constitutional Affairs and the Legal Services Commission, aim to shift the emphasis of legal aid from court battles to settling cases through mediation and other forms of dispute resolution outside the courts. Methods of paying lawyers would be changed to make it more attractive for them to settle without litigation "so that early and effective resolution outside the courts will become the favoured outcome for most cases". The rule that allows the first £100,000 of equity in an applicant's home to be disregarded in deciding eligibility for legal aid would be abolished, with exemptions for the most vulnerable. Civil legal aid has come under pressure from the ballooning cost of aid for criminal and asylum cases, where the government's human rights obligations make cuts hard to impose. One of the main aims of the consultation paper is to curb spending on divorce and family cases. About 28% of civil legal aid costs goes on battles between separated parents over their children. Ministers hope proposals issued this week to divert parents in child contact disputes away from court and into mediation will produce substantial savings in legal aid. Yesterday's consultation paper estimates that up to 60% of such cases which now go to court "need not and should not really be there". Other proposals "to encourage amicable and early resolution of family cases and to discourage unreasonable or wasteful behaviour" include restricting legal aid for multiple applications over children, to stop parents rushing back to court each time a problem arises. Instead of legal aid funding, a divorcing wife or husband fighting for a share of the family home and money could be told to borrow lawyers' fees on a credit card or, with the family assets as security, from a bank. Funding would no longer be available for drafting a divorce petition or finalising the paperwork needed for a divorce decree, which "many clients should be in a position to complete without the assistance of a lawyer". The charity Action against Medical Accident said the proposal to restrict legal aid in medical negligence cases would "seriously damage access to justice". The chief executive, Peter Walsh, said: "Solicitors would take on only the most clear cut cases and access to justice would be denied to many with more complex cases, who can be most in need and deserving of compensation." Patients applying for legal aid would have to go through the NHS complaints procedure first before their case could be considered for aid. And anyone wanting legal aid to sue the police would first have to make a complaint to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. The legal aid minister, David Lammy, said: "We want to ensure that funds remain available for the most deserving cases and for those who face social exclusion." The consultation ends on October 15, and any changes would start to be introduced from the end of the year, he said.