The star of the original Yorkie chocolate bar adverts, who killed his terminally ill wife, has walked free from court after a judge showed mercy on him.Stuart Mungall, 71, ended the life of fellow former actor Joan, 69, at their home in Tooting, south London, last December.The prosecution had accepted his plea of guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility caused by depression following the strain of caring for her.Mungall smiled at the Old Bailey after he was given a 12-month sentence suspended for two years.He was also placed under supervision for two years and the judge ordered regular reports so that any recurrence of his illness could be "nipped in the bud".Asked if he understood the sentence, Mungall replied: "Yes, I do."His solicitor, Laurence Imrie, said: "Mr Mungall would like this opportunity to thank all of those who have provided overwhelming support during this particularly difficult time. He is relieved that this matter has finally been concluded and he respects the court's findings."Joan is at peace now and without pain. The family now request that their privacy be respected whilst they continue to grieve."The recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, was told there had been fears that Mungall would kill himself after being arrested for killing his partner of 40 years. The judge told Mungall he had led a "trustworthy and distinguished" life. He had been devoted to his wife and cared for her while she suffered from a degenerative brain disease which left her bedbound and in pain. The judge said: "You were not only her sole carer but you were caring for her most basic needs with unstinting devotion."Mungall's plea did not extinguish his responsibility and "you will have to shoulder that responsibility for the rest of your life". The judge added: "You cannot take the life of another with impunity."Miranda Moore QC, defending, said Mungall had served the equivalent of six months in custody before being granted bail. She said: "They were totally devoted to each other. They were each other's lives. At the time of her death, she had weeks to live. She was keen to stay in her own home with her husband."The court was told at the earlier hearing that Mungall smothered his wife with a pillow as she lay in bed in what he saw as a "mercy killing".Mungall found fame in the 1970s as the handsome lorry driver in the ads for the chocolate. He went on to appear in Casualty, The Bill and other television series.In later years the couple ran a garden centre in south London. The business was sold because of Mrs Mungall's failing health. Mungall was said to have shunned offers of help in looking after her, although she received medical support at home.Mrs Mungall had been an actor with the Royal Shakespeare Company and was said to be "realistic and sanguine" about her condition.