The cost of dealing with a prolific teenage offender - in terms of crimes committed and the expense of locking them up - is officially estimated at £80,000 a year.But after 10 years of Labour's youth justice policy, designed to tackle the most prolific offenders, reoffending rates are largely unchanged and remain high. These are the conclusions of an unpublished joint presentation on the juvenile justice system by the Ministry of Justice and the Department for Children, Schools and Families seen by the Guardian.Despite the fact that most offenders say they want to get away from crime, reoffending rates average 70% for those given community penalties and 76% for those sent into custody. These rates are even higher for the worst offenders, reaching 96% in the case of those with between seven and 10 previous convictions. It is difficult to compare international reoffending rates but one study quoted said these rates compared with 45% in Denmark and 38% in Australia.The analysis also says that responsibilities for dealing with young offenders are not always clear. It notes that when offenders are locked up it is difficult to ensure that there is personalised provision because there is such a high turnover of children and they come from the most disadvantaged backgrounds, with half having been in care.About 10% of the boys and 6% of the girls themselves have children and their mental health needs are typically three times higher than in the general population. There is no formal care for a young offender at the end of the sentence. The police have no direct welfare responsibilities for young offenders and 16- and 17-year-olds released from custody have no entitlement to housing. Education providers can often refuse to take them and up to 58% have no education or training provision one month after release. Yet lack of aftercare is often a big factor in whether somebody reoffends after coming out of custody.But it is not all doom and gloom. The paper notes that effective interventions - the head of the youth justice board yesterday praised intensive fostering schemes - can reduce recidivism by 10-12%. It says that what does not work is unstructured counselling and interventions that are too brief.