Tony Blair and David Cameron clashed yesterday over the south London shootings as the prime minister rejected the Conservative leader's claim that they were symptomatic of a "badly broken society".As the father of the latest teenager to be murdered pleaded with witnesses to come forward, Mr Blair responded to increasing anxiety with a promise of "specific solutions". This may include support for Scotland Yard's call for a lowering of the age limit from 21 to 17 on the mandatory five-year sentence for gun crime.Builder Tommy Cox said his son, Billy, 15, who was shot dead in his home on Valentine's Day, was not perfect but was dearly loved. "We and all his family will miss him so much," he said.As other ministers acknowledged that there were broader issues to be tackled, Mr Blair rebuffed Mr Cameron's claim that they showed the need for a profound cultural shift in the way parents - particularly fathers - treat their children."What has happened in south London is horrific, shocking and for the victims and their families tragic beyond belief," Mr Blair told Labour's youth conference in Glasgow. "However... this tragedy is not a metaphor for the state of British society, still less for the state of British youth today, the huge majority of whom, including in this part of London, are responsible and law-abiding young people."But it is a specific problem, in a specific criminal culture amongst specific groups of young people. It will require specific solutions ..."His remarks came after Mr Cameron identified parenting failures as the root of the killings. "We need to recognise our society is badly broken and we need to make some big changes, starting now," he told GMTV."When you look at the people caught up in these events, what you see is a complete absence in many cases of fathers, and a complete presence of family breakdown. That, I think, is what's at the heart of it."In a speech in his Witney constituency, Mr Cameron said the murders were far more than a failure of government, questioning claims that the young people in the area roamed the streets because community centres had been closed down."Young people have more leisure opportunities than ever before in our history. What they don't have is a sense of responsibility which is imparted to them at a young age ... " he said.John Reid, the home secretary, acknowledged that policing and prisons were only part of the problem. "These are terrible, awful, tragic crimes and no one must look for any excuses," he said in Merseyside. "We have to use a whole array of methods to tackle it, from police and prisons right through to demanding family responsibility." Afterwards, he said Home Office lawyers are considering how best to strengthen the gun crime laws.In south London new theories emerged about possible motives for Billy's murder. Friends claimed the killing resulted from a drug feud and killers who "did not like competition." Unlike other victims, he came from a stable family and lived with both his parents.Yesterday more than 30 community leaders had a charged meeting with Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner. Over two and a half hours, the Sir Ian witnessed an outpouring of anger and concern about the drift of young people into drugs, guns and crime but also dissatisfaction with the performance of many of the social agencies in the area.Cindy Butts, deputy chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said the leaders would make a key contribution to the work of the temporary task force sent into south London by Sir Ian yesterday. But the meeting also called for a much more cohesive performance in the longer term from councils and voluntary agencies.The Rev Nims Obunge of the London Criminal Justice Advisory Group said the problems varied "but we are looking to the Met to be the lead agency. They are leading the troops."Statement from Billy Cox's father"We are missing Billy so much. He was not perfect but he was dearly loved as a son and brother. He was waiting for a place at college where he could continue working for GCSEs. He lived at home with his parents and his sister. We and all his family will miss him so much. I've been watching news about the two other boys shot and thought these are only kids. They don't deserve that. The way they get hold of guns now is unbelievable. We need to catch my boy's killers."