A fivefold increase in the maximum fine for antisocial drinking in public places and a battery of new sanctions on supermarkets and off-licences that sell alcohol to underage drinkers are to be announced by ministers today.The package comes with the publication of the official Culture Department review of the impact of the changes in the licensing laws, which receive a verdict of "7/10 - good but could do better".Ministers believe the relaxation in the opening hours has given the responsible majority greater freedom. But that has been matched by only a patchy improvement in the enforcement of the laws to curb underage drinking and antisocial behaviour.A Home Office study of the impact of the licensing changes on crime and disorder also to be published today will confirm that later closing times have led to a spike in incidents of drink-related disorder which have been displaced to between 3am and 6am. Ministers hope the new measures will tackle this problem.But there will not be any announcements today of action to legislate over cheap supermarket alcohol promotions, which have led to police complaints that lager is sold cheaper than bottled water. Instead ministers will make clear that the industry will be expected to stop such irresponsible promotions. An internal government review under way into possible links between pricing promotions and crime and disorder is not due to report until June. It may well lead to changes the licensing laws and competition laws later in the year if self-regulation proves to fail one last time.The measures to be unveiled include:· A new "yellow card, red card" alert system for supermarkets, off-licences, pubs and clubs that repeatedly breach the terms of their licences. At present the enforcement authorities only have a "red card" sanction of revoking a licence if there are repeated failures. The "yellow card" sanctions would encourage the authorities to take earlier action. In the example of supermarkets selling to underage drinkers or drunks, they would be restricted to one checkout till only for alcohol sales.· A sharp increase in fines for drinking in designated public areas which have had a history of antisocial behaviour. The maximum fine for refusing to comply with a police request to stop drinking is to be increased from £500 to £2,500.· An extension of the use of juvenile acceptable behaviour contracts - short of an Asbo - for drink-related behaviour.· A curb of underage sales of alcohol in shops through tougher enforcement action. The "three strikes and you're out" penalty against shopkeepers who commit three offences in three months is to be increased to two in three months.· The drinks industry taking action to stop irresponsible promotions. On the eve of the publication of the government review into the licensing laws, a spokesman for the prime minister, Gordon Brown, said: "It is important to see this as a staging post rather than the final word on the matter."The government has been under fire, notably from the Daily Mail, over the reforms to the licensing laws, which were aimed at reducing rowdy scenes by allowing bars to stagger closing times.David Cameron supported the staggering of closing times yesterday. "We don't want to go back to the situation of every pub shutting at the same time and having huge problems in our market squares where everyone came out of the pubs and started fighting," he said.