For almost a decade, the debate on criminal justice has been dominated by two soundbites from politicians. They both emerged in the same month, February 1993, arising out of the moral maelstrom that greeted the murder of toddler Jamie Bulger. In a speech that now seems rather mild, Tony Blair, then shadow Home Secretary, shocked Labour-voting liberals by saying that a Labour Government would be tough on crime as well as the causes of crime. For too long, he said, socialists had abandoned individual morality and allowed responsibility for social control to pass to the State. Meanwhile Prime Minister John Major was launching a 'crusade on crime' by telling a Sunday newspaper that society should condemn a little more and understand a little less.What is now striking is that the two major party leaders were, in fact, saying much the same thing - the difference was one of emphasis, not of ideology. In suggesting a shift in attention away from the perpetrator towards the victim, both politicians were expressing a deep disquiet with what criminologists call 'penal modernism'. In short, this concept, which has its origins in the penal reform movement of the 19th century, holds that the state has responsibility for the punishment and rehabilitation of offenders; through the eradication of poverty and the improvement of social conditions it was believed that criminal behaviour could be minimised. This was David Garland, Professor of Law at New York University, in his definitive work on 20th century crime policy, The Cuture of Control: 'The State was to be an agent of reform as well as of repression, of care as well as control, as welfare as well as punishment.'But for all their claims of radicalism, neither Blair nor Major, completely abandoned penal modernism. Blair believed (and to the best of my knowledge still does) that we should tackle the social causes of crime as well as crime itself. Even John Major's moronic exhortation to ignorance was not suggesting we should give up 'understanding' altogether. Penal modernism remains the consensus because we have not found anything with which to replace it.There is little evidence from the forthcoming White Paper on Criminal Justice that new Labour thinking on criminal justice has moved on since 1993. The consensus remains that ever tougher punishments should be introduced to protect victims and deter potential criminals. At the same time, the social causes of crime are to be dealt with by an increased use of community punishments and so called 'restorative justice', designed to bring perpetrator into direct contact with their victims. The details of the White Paper leaked over the weekend, show a touching determination to cling on to the wreckage of the post-war liberal consensus. But what is truly unsettling for the Left (and in this I would still include the ever more-centrist Labour Government) is that the era of penal modernism coincided - certainly in Britain and America - with a period of high crime and ever-increasing fear of crime. It is simply not the case that increased affluence and the improvement of the living conditions of the poorest in society has led to a fall in crime, at least not yet. Every ten years since 1955 the crime rate has doubled and with it the prison population. Our penal institutions are now bursting, while other criminal justice instituions (the courts, police and probation) are struggling to cope. But what is more worrying is that a very real everyday crisis is matched by an ideological vacuum. The future is relatively bleak. The Home Office is committed to a philosophy of 'What Works' based on research into new initiatives on punishment and rehabilitation. But what if nothing works? What if, as is increasingly the case in the United States, criminal justice professionals begin to lose faith in the penal modernism model and instead begin to develop a 'lock-down culture' where a merciless State in alliance with the private security industry sees it as its sole task to track down inveterate criminals who are deemed beyond salvation and lock them up out of harm's way? Professor Garland dubs this "the New Iron Cage" in which an inexorable rise in crime is met with more and more repressive penal legislation. There are obvious contradictions and some serious errors of judgement in the Government's plans for the future of criminal justice. It is depressing that the Government intends to lock more people up, including childen, for persistent minor offences. It has long been accepted that incarceration should be a punishment of last resort as because it generally has the effect of making criminals less able to reintegrate into society and more likely to reoffend.But, oddly, this White Paper may also be the last chance for penal modernism. Its emphasis on training and treatment for drugs offenders, for example, and the determination to develop a new range of community punishments alongside practical help such as parenting classes have their origins in the social optimism of the late 19th century. If these work, we may see the early seeds of a new liberal ideology of criminal justice, with the Government still condemning a little more, but, perhaps, understanding a little more too.· Martin Bright is Home Affairs Editor of The Observer and writes a regular monthly online commentary on home affairs as part of our coverage of Crime and Justice issues. Send us your viewsEmail Observer site editor Sunder Katwala at observer@guardianunlimited.co.uk with comments on articles or ideas for future pieces. You can write to the author of this piece at martin.bright@observer.co.uk.About Observer Comment ExtraThe Observer website carries additional online commentary each week, with articles responding to recent pieces and offering additional coverage of the major issues. Please get in touch if you would like to offer a piece and see Observer Comment for this week's pieces. Online commentaries are also trailed in the print pages of the newspaper. 