A young mental health worker who was stabbed to death at the home of a patient was described by her parents last night as a 'role model' daughter. The body of Ashleigh Ewing, a 22-year-old who worked for a mental health charity, was discovered by police on Friday, after a man walked into a police station claiming that there was a dead woman at his home.Ashleigh was found, covered in stab wounds, in the kitchen of a local man who was being questioned by police last night. Ashleigh had been working for the Mental Health Matters charity in Newcastle since December after gaining a degree in psychology.Part of her job was to visit people suffering from mental illness and help them develop social skills and integrate into the community. It remains unclear how such a routine visit could have gone so wrong.Her parents, Jeff and Aileen, were too upset to speak about the tragedy but issued a statement through Northumbria Police in which they told how their unassuming daughter's spirit would live on in their hearts.'Ashleigh was cherished and admired by her loving family and friends and she was a wonderful role model for the youth of today,' said the statement. 'She was unmaterialistic, unassuming and full of care and compassion for others less fortunate than herself.'Her family will remember her with love, pride and joy. Her tragic loss is hard to bear but Ashleigh's spirit will live in our hearts for ever.'Her death is likely to renew calls for the introduction of increased protection of mental health workers who visit patients in their homes. Community psychiatric nurses working for NHS trusts make several million visits each year to see patients and check that they are managing to take their medication. There is, however, a strict protocol for defining risk, and staff will be accompanied by others if they believe that a patient presents any danger.It is not known whether the 34-year-old man that Ashleigh was visiting had recently been in hospital or had suffered some kind of relapse. A full inquiry is likely to be carried out by the local NHS mental health trust into whether or not there were warning signs that he was not being adequately cared for within the community.Last night police revealed that Ashleigh, who lived in Hebburn, South Tyneside, had suffered multiple stab wounds and was found in the kitchen of the property on Friday morning in the Heaton area of Newcastle. Detective Superintendent Steve Wade, who is leading the investigation, said: 'A man walked into Clifford Street police station claiming that a woman was dead at his home address.'A post-mortem examination is due to be carried out. House-to-house inquiries were continuing yesterday and forensic tests were being carried out at the house.Mental Health Matters was formed in 1984 to provide individually tailored solutions for people with mental illness. A spokesman for the charity said: 'The effect on all the people Ashleigh worked with has been devastating.'I know Ashleigh's family were extremely proud of her and her choice to use her psychology degree to help others. She was extremely well liked by everyone and all of our thoughts right now are with her family.'