Extracts from police interviews with a teenager who bludgeoned his parents to death - in which he said he could not believe they died so easily - were released yesterday.Brian Blackwell, then 19, appeared to be a model son. He was a talented student nicknamed Brains by his peers at his £7,000-a-year public school in Liverpool and was going to study medicine at university. But he was suffering from narcissistic personality disorder, which gave him a grandiose self-belief and an obsession with money, success and power.After the killings in July last year, he fled to the US and the Caribbean with his girlfriend, Amal Saba, who did not know what he had done, where he spent £30,000 on luxury hotels funded by his dead parents. Their bodies were not discovered for three weeks until neighbours became suspicious about a foul smell.At Liverpool crown court in June, Blackwell admitted the manslaughter of Sydney, 71 and Jacqueline, 60, from Melling, Merseyside, on the grounds of diminished responsibility. He was jailed for life with a minimum 12-year tariff and may never been released because his condition is currently not treatable.In police interviews, he told detectives: "I couldn't believe someone would have died so easily."In the first interview, he denied responsibility for his parents' deaths. "I've been asked what I consider to be slightly irrelevant questions and the main topic, or the sole reason, why I'm here is to question whether I've done it or not," he said, adding that he should be dealt with "more as a witness than a suspect".Later, he sobbed when asked about arguments with his parents over university, his performance at school and his relationship with his girlfriend, whom he had convinced he was a professional tennis player with a £70,000 deal with Nike.In a later interview, he told detectives that during an argument he had hit his parents with the soft part of the hammer he had been using to hang pictures in his bedroom. "My dad grabbed me," he said. "She [his mother] came towards me and I moved backwards towards the lounge. She was in the process of going for me."DC Ian Lockie asks: "What with?"Blackwell: "A knife ... took the knife and, erm, I think I hit her with it quite badly."DC Lockie: "You stabbed her?"Blackwell [sobbing]: "Yes."DC Lockie: "To which part of her body, Brian?"Blackwell: "To her chest. It didn't seem like ..."After a break, he was asked: "You stabbed her repeatedly?""Yes, but it didn't seem hard. It didn't seem like it was doing anything. I've never stabbed anyone but it didn't feel like it was going in or anything," he said.Asked how many times he stabbed his father, he replied: "A few ... it didn't seem to have much effect on him and I had to push him away to stop him. He pushed back an awful lot. [Sobbing] I couldn't believe what I'd done. I just couldn't believe what I'd done."DC Lockie then says: "You said last night that you wanted it all to go back to how it was before, but your mum and dad wouldn't allow that to happen."Blackwell: "No they didn't love me any more. I stood back and spoke to my dad for a bit. I think he moved his hand slightly ... he kind of collapsed. I sat in the corner by the TV. I couldn't believe what I had done. I didn't look at him. I expected him to go to hospital ... I couldn't believe that someone would have died so easily."