A boy aged 15 has been found guilty of murdering 20-year-old Sophie Lancaster, who was kicked to death in a park because she was dressed as a goth.Brendan Harris attacked Lancaster when she begged him and a gang of four other youths to stop beating her boyfriend, 21-year-old Robert Maltby.Preston crown court heard the assaults were unprovoked and the couple from Bacup, Lancashire were set upon because of their appearance.Lancaster, a gap-year student, died from serious head injuries two weeks after the attack in Stubbylee Park, Bacup last August. Her injuries were so severe that when paramedics arrived they could not tell whether she was male or female.The trial heard that the couple were walking home from a friend's house when they walked past a group of teenagers in the park. The group was initially friendly and chatted to them, but five of the youths then turned on Maltby.Harris took a flying kick at the art student's head before others members of the gang punched, stamped and jumped on his head until he was unconscious. They laughed and encouraged each other all the while.Lancaster knelt down, holding her boyfriend's head on her lap and calling for help. She was then attacked. Paramedics found them lying side by side, covered in blood and unconscious.Maltby was in a coma and has not fully recovered. Today he said he had lost his "entire world" and wished the gang had killed him instead. "I just really wish that she had just legged it and got out of there and waited until they had left and come back, but I just wish she had left me to die if I'm honest."Lancaster's mother, Silvia, described the murder as a tragedy not just for her family and those responsible, but for society."I am convinced Sophie was killed simply because of the way she looked. She did not necessarily conform to the ideals of those who took her life. If we are to make any sense of Sophie's death, perhaps we should see it as an opportunity to examine how all of us, particularly younger people, can become blinkered."I believe that today, more than ever, we need to show respect, compassion and tolerance for those whose appearance and culture differs from our own."After the verdict, the trial judge, Anthony Russell QC, lifted an order banning identification of Harris, and of Ryan Herbert, 16, who pleaded guilty to Lancaster's murder.Harris denied the murder charge but pleaded guilty to causing grievous bodily harm to Maltby. He had drunk two litres of cider, a bottle of lager and "quite a lot of" peach schnapps, the court heard.Herbert admitted the murder before he was due to go on trial, and pleaded guilty to assaulting Maltby.