The UK government has been strongly criticised for its "continued failure" to meet its international obligations on tackling "foreign bribery" in a damning report published today. An international watchdog called for swift measures to introduce foreign bribery legislation in Britain and to "establish effective corporate liability for bribery as a matter of high priority". The demands are made in a 75-page inquiry report by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's working group on bribery. The OECD, the only international body enforcing anti-bribery accords, launched a review of UK anti-bribery measures in the wake of the 2006 decision of the Serious Fraud Office to drop an investigation into BAE Systems over an arms deal with Saudi Arabia. The result is a hard-hitting condemnation of government failure to implement the OECD's "anti-bribery convention", due in force nearly nine years ago. Today's report said: "The working group is disappointed and seriously concerned with the unsatisfactory implementation of the convention by the UK. "The continued failure of the UK to address deficiencies in its laws on bribery of foreign public officials and on corporate liability for foreign bribery has hindered investigations. "The working group reiterates its previous 2003, 2005 and 2007 recommendations that the UK enact new foreign bribery legislation at the earliest possible date." The SFO decided to drop the investigation into BAE Systems after being told that this could result in Saudi Arabia refusing to cooperate with British anti-terrorism investigations, with the result that lives could be put at risk. This decision was challenged in the courts, but the House of Lords eventually ruled that the decision was lawful. In its report, the OECD said the government "did not engage in sufficient efforts to develop and explore alternatives to dropping ... the investigation".It also said the SFO should consider reopening the investigation if in the future it was satisfied "that the circumstances that led to the decision to discontinue the investigation sufficiently changed". The report expresses strong regret about the "uncertainty" surrounding the UK's commitment to establish an effective corporate liability regime in line with the convention, as recommended in 2005. It acknowledges measures taken by the UK government to strengthen the fight against foreign bribery, including allocating "significant" funds and national jurisdiction to a specialised City of London police unit dealing with foreign bribery investigations. And it notes the UK's first convictions of an individual for foreign bribery in international business transactions came only last month. The government also has introduced an "anti-corruption strategy" to improve and strengthen UK foreign bribery laws and structures. However, the report states "reforms are urgently needed and should be dealt with as a matter of political priority. Recent cases have also highlighted systemic deficiencies that make clear the need to safeguard the independence of the Serious Fraud Office and eliminate unnecessary obstacles and prosecution". Jack Straw, the justice secretary, said the UK was "fully committed" to tackling corruption and would study the report's findings carefully. Straw, who was appointed the government's "anti-corruption champion" this week, said: "The government welcomes the working group on bribery's report and will now carefully consider its recommendations, alongside the Law Commission's imminent proposals on bribery law reform. "Reform of our bribery laws is a key part of the strategy I announced to parliament this week, on my appointment as anti-corruption champion. "It is crucial that we get these reforms right and I appreciate the OECD's contribution to this process. "The UK is fully committed to combating foreign bribery, which hurts honest companies and raises the costs of doing business."