The prison service is set to end a 50-year-old tradition of distributing free newspapers to prisoners. Reformers describe the move as penny pinching at a time when illiteracy rates among prisoners are soaring.One governor said yesterday that it was essential that the service should continue. A prison service instruction. (PSI) gives governors the discretion to abolish an order which allows one free newspaper to be shared by ten prisoners each day. It describes the change in policy as the "result of a money saving proposal from a member of staff" and as "reflecting the increasing availability of in-cell television as a source of information". Sid Golder, 82, a former prisoner last released in 1971 after serving 15 years for bank robbery, said the few newspapers that found their way into prisons before the service was formally introduced in the 1950s were heavily censored. "Staff would black out any reference to sex in case our passions got aroused," he said. References to crime or penal issues, were cut and radios were banned. "Because we had little access to papers, the chaplains would read out the football results after the Sunday service," said Mr Golder, now a theatre producer. John Podmore, governor of Brixton prison in south London, said he would continue to supply papers as part of Brixton's policy of raising standards of literacy. "We must ensure our choice of newspapers reflects the diverse culture here in Brixton," he said. "The proposed ban is a penny-pinching measure that will restrict prisoners' access to information about the outside world and will do nothing to aid resettlement," said Juliet Lyons, director of the Prison Reform Trust. "Budget cuts have already put paid to prisoners receiving their own copy of the information booklet produced jointly by the prison service and the trust." "If it were not for access to stage papers, all those years ago, I would not be writing for the Guardian now," added Guardian columnist and former prisoner Erwin James. A spokesman for the prison service said that prisoners have become less dependent on newspapers provided by prisons as a means of being kept informed. "Some buy their own newspapers, many have radios and the majority have televisions in their cells," he said. "It may therefore be reasonable to reduce or stop the supply of communal newspapers without detriment to prisoners' ability to keep in touch with world affairs."