Throughout the inquest they were named only as "Family A", Bardon Road's most notoriously troublesome household.The children were key players in the anguish of Fiona Pilkington, police officers and council workers told the hearing, while their parents rebuffed all attempts to address the situation.But on the street in question, or even within a wider radius of the 1930s semi-detached home where Pilkington and her children, Francecca Hardwick and Anthony Hardwick, were subject to years of harassment, abuse and even physical attack, no one had to ask who Family A really were.Even some of those who count the Simmons family as friends concede that their four sons, now aged between 12 and 20, are often noisy and boisterous.Plenty of locals happily – if anonymously – identify the Simmons children as being at least partly responsible for the harassment of a family who were seemingly targeted for no other reason than disability making them different.The Simmons boys, neighbours say, were often spotted among the gangs of youths who would gather outside Pilkington's home, particularly on weekend nights, throwing stones, flour and eggs and screaming cruel taunts.Legal proceedings were started to evict the Simmonses from their home, the inquest heard, but the action lapsed this April.The family are still free to live on the street, even though in the council's own testimony they remain a menace "to this day".The Simmonses themselves – parents Steven and Suzanne, Ross, 20, 16-year-old Alex, and two other boys aged 15 and 12 – don't see it quite like that.On a mild, bright evening this week, Steven Simmons smoked a cigarette on the driveway of the house where he has lived for almost 20 years. Alongside were Ross and Alex – the latter a slight, long-haired boy who looks considerably younger than his years and holds a squirming pet polecat on a lead.Alex gives his view on why the family are disliked by some neighbours. "We live life to the max, not like some round here." Ross, meanwhile, denies involvement in the trouble "as I was in prison at the time".Steven refuses initially to discuss Pilkington and her children before becoming more effusive."You really want to know the truth? Well I'll say this – write this down. Young Anthony used to come here for Sunday lunch. Him and Alex were mates. We saw Anthony in the shop the other week and said hello, it was friendly. Does this sound like what you've heard? Does it sound like we made his life hell? I tell you what else – any time he wants to come for Sunday lunch again he's welcome. Why's everyone talking about us? He's the one left behind. He's the one they should be thinking about, not us."Maria, 41, a neighbour, defended the Simmons family, whom she regards as friends."They can be a bit loud – especially if they've had a drink – but nothing really worse than that," Maria said, adding that her son works for Steven's tarmac and fencing business while the Simmonses youngest boy does her gardening.Other neighbours fear Bardon Road is fast acquiring a reputation that it does not deserve, and that while there are problem families many tend carefully to their homes and children."I grew up in New Parks," said Donna Glover, 39, tending her neat front garden, referring to a suburb of nearby Leicester. "That's like Beirut in comparison – burned cars, the lot. You get a few noisy people here but no one bothers me. I like it here, lots of people do."Bardon Road, on the far edge of Barwell, is undeniably a long way from being a slum. The houses are generously sized and many are well kept. The open countryside is a few minutes' walk away.The uncomfortable truth is perhaps that while the consequences of the harassment were particularly horrific, the events that led up to it – bored youths, with little other outlet for their energy, picking relentlessly on a family marked out as isolated and unlike others – were remarkably commonplace.With unemployment above average and rising, and new estates of redbrick houses springing up close by, there is no shortage of young people with time on their hands but with little to fill it."When I grew up here there was the youth club at the YMCA, lots of things for us to do," said Maria. "That's closed now. If you're too young for the pub all there is to do is hang around."She worries about the increasing sight of children and teenagers from nearby streets, whom she does not recognise, congregating near her home. "Bardon Road's getting a bit of a name for itself, and that's bringing in trouble."