The Great Train Robbers went to the Cambridge Union yesterday and turned out to be a flop. Only about a hundred students heard their words of wisdom and a speech from their shepherd and biographer, Piers Paul Read.A notice on the union board complained that the annual cricket match with the Oxford Union had been cancelled because of Oxford's indolence and indifference. The same vices seemed to have smitten Cambridge although the union's president, Robert Harris, explained that many undergraduates were deep in examinations.The six-strong gang was invited by Mr Harris, who is 22 and in his final year studying English at Selwyn. Protest followed and accusation of publicity seeking and bad taste.Mr Harris dismissed these yesterday. "If criminals have served their term they have a perfect right in a democracy to say whatever they want to say." There was no question of Mr Read's book being sold or signed after the meeting and no-one from the publishers had come.The robbers, meanwhile, fenced some hostile questions and left Mr Read to collect the hisses. The author was defensive on the question of earning royalties from crime and suggested that the union should see him just as a sort of modern Agatha Christie. Most of the robbers had literally nothing to say although Jimmy Hussey and Roy James were quite perky. Mr James made the point that little public disgust had attached to the members of the Hungarian Circle recently convicted of world-wide fraud. "Investors may have committed suicide because of them," he said. That brought the meeting to Driver Mills, whose head got in the way of one of the Cambridge celebrities' coshes. The robbers were indignant at the idea that Mr Mills's death several years later had anything to do with them. "He was discharged from hospital after 24 hours and the coroner's verdict was that he died of leukaemia," said Mr Read, who made clear his own uncertainty about links between the coshing and the death. "I don't know what happened to Wills," he said. "It is a mystery."That did not seem to satisfy the audience, and the author, who got quite annoyed when someone suggested that he should make a contribution to a fund for victims of crime, went down much less well than his charges. Whether he deserved to is another matter but certainly the East End syndrome (thinking that anything between Whitechapel and Dagenham is automatically charming) came into play.The meeting was swayed from its early hostility as the robbers talked of "doing bird," sportingly wished Ronnie Biggs good luck, and generally behaved like good-hearted Cockneys obliged, by some uncontrollable natural force, to turn to crime.Martin Wainwright