Geraldine Winner, widow of late film director Michael, has said she feared she might die when she was hit over the head with a kettle, tied up and blindfolded during a robbery in her home.Winner, 77, said she was beaten so hard she “saw stars” during the three-hour raid at her flat in Knightsbridge, central London.She was blindfolded and had her hands and feet bound with cable by a female robber, and suffered serious head injuries and a broken finger during the ordeal on 9 October.Winner, who was due to see her sons on a trip to Paris the morning after the attack, told the BBC’s Crimewatch show that she was putting some old newspapers out of the back door and about to go to bed when “all hell broke loose”, and the woman burst in.She said: “You can’t believe it, you think, ‘This isn’t happening, it’s just not true, I just don’t believe it’.“I went to grab her hair and to bash her if I could, and it was a wig – it came off in my hand.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   CCTV still of a woman police would like to speak to in connection with the burglary. Photograph: Metropolitan police/PA“But I was fighting. I was petrified but at the same time I was, you know, I wanted to get rid of her. I went to grab the kettle, to hit her with the kettle and then she grabbed it out of my hand and hit me on the head. She hit me so hard I saw stars.”Winner said she thinks she was protected from the full impact of the blows by the curlers in her hair.She added: “I think that saved my head, but she caught hold for my forehead twice and that’s when it started to bleed, and that’s when I thought, ‘Right, I better stop fighting now because I could end up dead if she hits me harder’.”As she lay on the floor, the intruder stifled her cries for help by binding and gagging her.Winner said: “She put her foot on my back, pressed very hard and said: ‘Shut up, don’t make any noise otherwise I’ll kill you’.“She said, ‘I’ll knife you’.”Winner was left on the floor, blindfolded and bleeding, as her attacker combed the apartment for jewels and money. “With my hands behind my back I was in terrible pain,” said Winner. “My back was agony and my shoulder was agony and I had broken my finger.  The female suspect seen in Kensington after the assault. Photograph: City of Westminster police“All you want is for her to take what she wants and to go, just go, just leave me alone, go.”The robber asked for a specific heart-shaped piece of jewellery that Winner’s late husband had given her. She told her attacker the number of the safe where it was kept.“It was a little heart Michael had bought for me. Nearly all of that jewellery, the monetary value was not what counted, what counted was the memory of it, the sentimental – that Michael had bought it for me,” she said . The burglar left at 1am.Winner said she has been left deeply shaken by the attack. “I feel vulnerable,” she said. “It’s just made me realise there are really evil people in the world. It’s the trauma of what’s happened to you. If I wake up in the middle of the night I’m terrified somebody is going to hit me over the head again.“My memories with Michael and everything I have done with Michael, nobody can take that away, and that is all really that matters. And Michael would just be turning in his grave.”The attacker fled the house in a wig and hat, but without her disguise she has short strawberry blonde hair, is white, around 5ft 7in and speaks with an eastern European accent, police said. CCTV shows her walking on Kensington high street after the attack.She stole a heart-shaped pendant, a diamond-encrusted Cartier watch and diamond anchor-shaped earrings, officers said. Police are offering a £10,000 reward for any information that leads to the identification, arrest and prosecution of the those responsible for the aggravated burglary.Anyone with information should call Westminster CID on 020 7321 7680, Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111 or go to crimestoppers-uk.org