The Criminal Justice Act 1991 made provision for the complete abolition of prison remands for children, and in so doing it appeared to signal real progress to those who had consistently raised concerns about the practice of remanding children in prisons for the best part of the previous twenty years. Although the provisions of the 1991 Act have never been implemented, few people could have anticipated what was to follow. A radical and reactionary shift in public mood and political priorities served to dampen their optimism. In the ten years that have succeeded the 1991 Act, the practice of remanding children in prisons has not only endured but has been substantially extended. The most recent legislation, the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 opens the floodgates: a further massive increase in the numbers of children remanded to locked institutions is certain.It is not only penal reformers who are concerned by such developments. Indeed, many of the prison officers and other prison personnel who I interviewed, themselves raised serious concerns which were expressed under five interconnected themes: The first theme specifically relates to untried children in prison and a typical comment included:'They're not guilty of anything necessarily, it isn't an appropriate place for them, not at that age' (Prison Officer)...The second theme emphasises the limitations of prison custody when measured against its own stated objectives to look after its young charges, to deter them (and others) from committing offences and to offer constructive rehabilitative interventions. Here some Prison personnel suggested that penal remands are at best ineffective, and at worse damaging:'We cannot guarantee their safety if we are honest. We fulfill a function for society I suppose, in holding them until the courts decide what they want to do, but in honesty, we do a very limited job' (Senior Prison Officer)'Prison is the last resort. With some there is no alternative. With others I look at them and think there is no way they should be in here, they need more one-to-one counselling and support. In secure accommodation you might have five staff to eight kids. Here you have four staff to sixty five kids. As far as prisons go this place is not too bad, but prisons are not really any place for most of the kids we see on remand' (Prison Officer)'They are mixing with people who have been found guilty and they tend to learn and adopt inappropriate role models, but more than this, it is the trauma of coming into this environment and being locked behind a door. Bullying, of course, is also a major problem. There is no way these kids should be here' (Prison Nurse).The third theme overlaps with the second, in emphasising the iatrogenic nature of penal remands whereby the 'treatment' compounds the problems, thus placing not only the child at greater risk, but ultimately the general public too. Typical comments included:'I would say that looking around the prison as a snapshot on any day there is probably quite a lot of kids in here who could be dealt with better outside in the community. Are we the right people to look after these lads without any specialist training? I doubt it, because I think there is a real need for specialist training. We are expected to be parents, child psychologists, and nurses, all without training. I don't know what the alternative is, it's all down to cost and we are more cost effective than secure units, but it doesn't necessarily mean that this is the right place for them to be. Yes, they have committed crimes, but in all my experience I can tell you that prison is not a deterrent. We are just locking them up and keeping them off the streets for a few months, but they go straight back out to exactly the same situations that they have left. We had the perfect example today, a sixteen year old lad left here this morning with nowhere to live and no money. He'll soon be back in here. I don't think it does them any good to be in here, if anything, it changes them for the worse' (Senior Prison Officer)'I have had prisoners who I do not think should be in prison, but you have others, and the only way to stop them committing crime is to put them in custody, but I do not think that it does any good in the long run. I have had kids who you think just shouldn't be here, those who have done one-off crimes or others with mental health problems. For juveniles it just makes them worse people in the long run' (Prison Officer)...The fourth theme explicitly acknowledges that some children pose significant risks not only to themselves, but also to others. Although interviewees felt that it might be necessary to restrict the child's liberty in such circumstances, they also acknowledged that prison generally remained an inappropriate means of doing this. The two Prison Officers quoted below captured this theme rather well:'It's a grey area. I can see the argument for both sides. Some of these lads need to be off the street, they are into heavy things, and need to be removed for public safety. But I also see the side that says it isn't doing them any good in here. We need to look at all these kids individually, but there's a massive amount of work to be done. There are many kids and I just think, there is no way they should be in here. But there are others who should be right off the street' (Prison Officer)'I don't like the idea of locking kids up, and you are far more effective in working in the community. I also acknowledge though, that there are some kids who are dangerous and who need to be contained to reduce the risk both to themselves and to others. Some prisons can do that quite effectively. Others don't. If kids do not feel safe you increase all the problems. The regime that we are trying to develop here is an improvement, but it's far from ideal' (Governor Grade Prison Officer).The fifth theme introduced the difficult question of alternatives to penal remands and the perceived need to provide more imaginative, child-centred and effective responses. Typical comments included:'I am not sure that we think hard enough about non-custodial options. We pander to the media, pander to the public, and don't take full account of non-custodial options. Thereis not a will to look at non-custodial options. I think we need to be really radical and start the whole process again. There has to be other options for these lads. There is some likelihood they may not get sentenced to custody at all, so why are we putting them through the whole trauma and drama of passing through the prison gates?' (Prison Chaplain)... Similarly, throughout the course of the interviews the child remand prisoners themselves also identified each of these themes. They too raise powerful and probing questions of justice. They too understand the ineffective nature of most custodial interventions. They, perhaps more than anyone, comprehend the corrosive and damaging impact of custodial regimes. However, despite their problems and irrespective of their pain, these children are generally not blind to the wider questions of criminal justice and community safety. Indeed, they too recognise that the public have a right to expect protection and in satisfying that right, it is sometimes necessary to restrict the liberty of those whose actions threaten it. They too believe that alternatives must be sought for this purpose, because they too realise that prison is no place for children:'I reckon they should put us in a children's home or something. I don't reckon they should put us in proper jails for adults. That is what this place is you know. We need more support, more people who can talk to us and help us and that. I've had a bad enough life and so have most of the kids in here. Some of us have done bad things but I don't think it's right that we are locked up in here. Bad things are done in here as well. What's the point in just doing bad things to us 'cos we've done bad things. Some kids can't handle it and can't cope. The one's that cope just get worse like. What good is that?" (Boy aged 16yrs)'Last night this kid, I don't know why, I think he was getting bullied but I don't know. One of the Officer's opened this kid's door and he just shouted "get the nurse" and we were all put behind our doors. No-one knew what was going on, but we all knew if you see what I mean. We heard them all rushing around and I reckon we all knew. I knew. I thought about it all night, I couldn't stop thinking about it. This morning when we came out for breakfast the screws said that he had tried to kill himself and he was in hospital on a life support machine. At dinner they said he was dead. He was sixteen, the same age as me. Everyone was very quiet' (Boy aged 16yrs).Barry Goldson is a Senior Lecturer at the Department of Sociology, Social Policy and Social Work Studies, The University of Liverpool (b.goldson@liv.ac.uk). Vulnerable Inside: Children in secure and penal settings is available at £14.95 from The Children's Society, Publishing Department, Edward Rudolf House, Margery Street, London WC1X OJL. Tel: 020 7841 4415. You can also order on line at www.childrenssociety.org.ukChildren behind bars campaignIf you wish to lend your support to our campaign, write to Children Behind Bars, The Observer, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, or email: childrenbehindbars@observer.co.ukb.goldson@liv.ac.uk