There are three things wrong with the home secretary's plan for reform of the police. First, the rush with which it is being introduced; it is only three months since Denis O'Connor, the chief inspector of police, produced his analysis of the current structure of policing in England and Wales. Second is the tactic being used by the home secretary to achieve the radical restructuring he seeks; all forces hoping to get even some help with a merger have to sign up by today to an agreement that some Labour backbenchers describe as a form of bribery. Third, most serious of all, is the greater centralisation that the change could introduce.There are not going to be any voluntary mergers announced today. Even with the new "bribes", police authorities are refusing to engage in shotgun marriages until the home secretary clarifies the three crucial issues of finance, governance and accountability. Yesterday a first possible merger involving four West Midland forces was announced. But even then only three of the four (Staffordshire, Warwickshire, and the existing West Midlands) signed up. The fourth, West Mercia, currently rated the best in the country, refused to join. There has been no announcement but the home secretary has been forced to extend the deadline for merger plans by another month.The first round then goes to the police authorities. To their credit they mainly accept the analysis that Mr O'Connor set out. In terms of second level policing (murder, organised domestic crime, large scale fraud) some smaller forces currently do have a capacity problem. A single event can overload small teams set aside for dealing with a big crimes, requiring officers to be pulled off neighbourhood policing duty. What the police authorities do not accept is Mr O'Connor's solution: a restructuring that would mean no police force had fewer than 4,000 officers. Currently 36 out of the 43 have fewer than 4,000 with 19 less than 2,000. Charles Clarke, who endorsed the report on its day of publication, has not denied the number of forces could shrink to 12.The police authorities have produced some powerful arguments against the plan. In terms of overall force efficiency, there is no correlation between size and effectiveness. An unpublished 2004 Whitehall review showed this conclusively. Even Mr O'Connor's report noted some smaller forces were almost as successful as the largest, while two large forces received "surprisingly low scores". Research which West Mercia commissioned from Warwick University concluded that Mr O'Connor's preferred solution did not flow from his analysis.The modern police service has to deal with three levels of crime. The bottom level (anti-social behaviour, burglary and car crime) is the responsibility of basic command units providing neighbourhood policing. The top level (terrorism, international drug or people trafficking) is the remit of a new national body, the serious organised crime agency which starts next year. There is more than one option for dealing with the middle level. Better co-ordination between forces is one obvious solution. A massive restructuring would seem to be the worst option. Not just because of two years' diversion of top management time, but also in the light of research on size. Police management specialists talk of the danger of overstretch. Worse still, 12 super regional forces would be much further away from the neighbourhoods where community policing is promised as well as being much easier to control from Whitehall. In his letter to the Guardian today the home secretary insists he does not have a secret agenda. Indeed he welcomes a debate - a call which the Metropolitan Commissioner made in his recent Dimbleby lecture. Let us have one. This requires more detail on the implications of change - on finance, governance and accountability. Right now, though, the priority is to stop the unnecessary rush to reform.