Punishing the parents of tearaway teenagers by taking away their child benefit is a proposal that owes more to American "tough love" ideas of welfare reform than it does to British criminal justice practice.The proposal comes from the street crime action group, which has been meeting weekly on the sharp rise in street robberies. There has been no shortage of eye-catching initiatives from this cabinet taskforce, ranging from new security measuresby the mobile phone companies to plans to lock up persistent young offenders before they are convicted. Tony Blair has always been taken by Clintonite balance between rights and responsibilities, or the contract between the individual and society. In recent months, propelled by the rise in street crime and the messages coming back from the government's local election focus groups, Downing Street has been determined to make progress on the issues surrounding youth crime, truancy, anti-social behaviour, graffiti and parental neglect. Mr Blair wants to be seen "on the side" of communities fed up with young vandals. Education ministers have been struck by the pressure coming from Downing Street for initiatives on discipline. The education secretary, Estelle Morris, working with education welfare services, has been anxious to put the stress on cooperation between parents, police and teachers. The precise timing of the latest initiative, however, is an accident. The proposal to dock child benefit was revealed "prematurely" by the Times columnist Mary Ann Sieghart on Friday, and then picked up by some Sunday newspapers following confirmation of the plans from Downing Street on Saturday. The idea of docking child benefit has Blairite precedents. It is, for instance, a relative of the proposal from the former social security minister Frank Field to cut off housing benefit to tenants who persistently engage in anti-social behaviour. His private members' bill has already received limited government support. The idea is also reminiscent of the government's proposal to dock housing benefit from landlords who do not maintain properties. Since 2000, benefit, all jobseeker's allowance and 40% of income support can be docked by a social security administrator if an offender is deemed not to be complying with a community supervision order. It is not as though the courts do not already have a battery of powers to use if they think there is the faintest chance that they can persuade the parents of errant teenagers to take a more responsible attitude. The Education Act 1996 requires parents to ensure their children attend school. Magistrates courts can fine parents whose children persistently play truant and if they fail to pay those fines the courts can make an attachment order deducting money from their earnings or welfare benefits. The 2000 education act increased max imum fines on parents from £1,000 to £2,000. At that level parents could be obliged to attend court or risk arrest, whereas currently 80% of these parents ignore a court summons. Separately, the 1999 Children Act gives local education authorities powers to apply to the family proceedings court for an education supervision order if they believe a child of school age is not being properly educated. Orders are supposed to reinforce parental responsibility over the child's education. The courts already impose, with a measure of success, parenting orders under which people have to attend classes in managing their children. The courts are reluctant, however to use these powers. They recognise that too often they are faced with a single parent living close to the poverty line for whom loss of benefits is a particularly heavy blow. In some cases the father figure is absent because they are in prison. Penal reformers, Labour backbenchers and opposition voices argued yesterday that simply pushing these parents deeper into poverty would do nothing to cut youth crime.