The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, confirmed in the Lords last week that the government was "actively considering" removing the right to anonymity from women who falsely accuse men of raping them. He hoped for a decision "soon". I trust the decision will be a firm rejection of any such reform. It is unnecessary, it is unworkable, and it would inevitably result in even fewer women reporting that they had been raped, and therefore more rapists remaining at large.There is already a machinery for revealing the identity of a woman who makes a wholly fictitious allegation, possibly for malicious or revenge reasons, claiming a sexual encounter that has not taken place at all. In such blatant cases, she can clearly be prosecuted for perjury, or for wasting police time. Once she is charged, the media are legally entitled to name her. (True, the woman in the case that provoked the attorney general's inquiry - who had a history of making false accusations - has not been prosecuted, but many similar fantasists have.)How, other than in obvious cases where the woman is shown to have invented the story entirely, can one be sure she has made a "false" allegation? What will be the criteria?Most rape cases come down to a conflict of evidence - notoriously difficult to resolve - between the only two parties present. But when a jury returns a verdict of "not guilty" to a charge of rape, or other sexual offence, it is in no way stating that the man did not do it, or that the woman has falsely accused him of the crime. The jury is merely saying that it is not absolutely certain, on the evidence it has heard, that the man is guilty. This is a jury doing its job correctly, under the law. But even if a jury, or a judge, disbelieves the woman's evidence, that does not mean that she has made a false allegation justifying loss of her anonymity.The government must not allow one highly publicised case - awful though it was for the man wrongly convicted - to drive it to tinker with a sensible law providing much-needed protection to vulnerable victims of nasty crimes.Judges, only 300 years late, are to jettison their most distinctive and silliest appurtenances, their wigs. But not all judges. Those in the civil courts will be bare-headed; in the criminal courts it will be wigging as usual. Why? The story goes as follows. The judge sentences a young thug to prison. The accused's friends vociferously demonstrate their displeasure. Later, the judge is on his way home, on the same bus as the thug's burly friends. Shorn of his wig, he escapes unnoticed. Result: he does not risk a beating.That is the perception shared by many judges in the crown courts, though there is no evidence at all that the lack of a judicial wig would endanger their safety. Judges in criminal trials virtually all over the world manage to remain unscathed without covering their heads.It is also argued that the wigs give judges and trials dignity and gravity. And a survey finds the public wants them in criminal cases, by a majority of two to one. Those are not good reasons for keeping a tradition that no longer has any practical or symbolic validity.