Gordon Brown called yesterday for communities across Britain to 'rise up' and help end the spiralling violence of knife crime by making the carrying of weapons socially unacceptable.Speaking at the Edinburgh International Book Festival, the Prime Minister admitted to author Ian Rankin, creator of the fictional detective Inspector John Rebus, that the law alone was not enough to bring order to the streets and end the epidemic of fatal stabbings.'Young people are thinking it's acceptable, fashionable, necessary for them to protect themselves, to carry a knife,' said Brown who called for parents and community leaders to help get across the message that carrying a knife put people at greater danger of violence than not carrying one. Just like we made guns unacceptable, we should make knives unacceptable.'You need, not just young people but parents and other people to say that knives in Britain, like guns, like bullying, like racism, all these things are unacceptable.'Brown interrupted his holiday to appear as a mystery guest at the festival, which is celebrating its 25th year, and talk about his own 'second career' as a writer. 'There are certain boundaries in a decent society you don't cross and these boundaries are cultural. In America it is acceptable for many people to carry guns, it's not in Britain. We've got to make it as unacceptable to carry knives. Most decent people would want to do that and I think what you will see over the next few months is this sort of campaign, which is led not just by government but people in the country, to say "get knives off our streets".'The Prime Minister said one of his biggest ambitions before leaving politics was to see Burmese dissident leader Aung San Suu Kyi released and in power. 'I want Aung San Suu Kyi not only to be released but to be in power in Burma. That's one of the great causes of the 20th century, every country should be a democracy and Burma is one of these countries that has been prevented from doing so. There is a need for China, India and the other countries around Burma to bring pressure to bear on the Burmese government to embrace democracy and respect human life."Brown told a packed audience that he had been inspired to write about the dissident Burmese leader in his book of essays Courage: Eight Portraits about great figures who epitomised the great causes of the 20th century such as the anti-apartheid movement, the struggle against fascism, the civil rights struggle in the US and against persecution of the Jews in the Holocaust. Brown said his definition of courage was to have a belief and passion more important than fear and the will power to see those ideals through. 'Twenty-five years ago nobody would have thought that apartheid would have ended by now. Nobody would have thought that Nelson Mandela would be free or that the Cold War would have ended. You can be kind, dignified, humble, altruistic and a dreamer but without courage you can't achieve anything.'In a tribute to US presidential hopeful Barack Obama, Brown said the Democratic contender was a champion for change with a very powerful message in creating the idea of global citizen. 'In the 20th century we got rid of apartheid, racism and fascism. 'In the 21st century the real issue is how can we create a global citizenship? We're finding that the barriers that used to exist between countries, religions and traditions are far less important than we thought they were. Global politics can never be the same again.'In a similar vein Brown said the credit crunch, along with rising fuel and food costs, was a worldwide problem that could not be fixed by one government acting alone. 'The problems we have at the moment can only be sorted globally,' he said. 'The problem of oil prices, you can't just deal with that in one country, you've got to get co-operation globally to get the price of oil down and to get a change in the way we use oil. ' Brown said his next book, scheduled to be released in March would look at the question of national identity. Being British is a series of interviews and discussions with a number of leading personalities about what being British means to them. The Edinburgh International Book Festival runs until 25 August, with more than 800 events featuring authors and personalities as diverse as Salman Rushdie, Sean Connery, Alan Sillitoe, Menzies Campbell, Louis de Bernières and Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond.