A sudden punch in the stomach of everyday existence can lurk around the most familiar corner, changing your life for ever. Two and a half years ago, I was an ordinary 27-year-old, who had just spent a night out playing records and dancing with my friends. Sharing a cab home, I was dropped off at the corner of the road, which is pedestrianised. I declined the offer to be accompanied on the one-minute walk to my front gate, and waved my friends off.With my door key in hand, I suddenly realised that a man had followed me up my front path. I also realised that the double lock was on, and my three flatmates were still out. As I opened the door, this man forced me into the house and put a knife to my throat. I was too terrified to scream. A Londoner for most of my life, I had always been cautious, confident and streetwise, and even at this stage part of me hoped he just wanted to mug me. That hope died quickly. As he pinned my struggling arms to the staircase, burning my elbows on our old red carpet, I knew I would never be the same again. He unbuttoned his fly with one hand, twisting my arm behind my back with the other. I tried to get away, but my attempt was met with a couple of punches and the cold, hard touch of the blade against my neck. "Do that again and I'll kill you."Time paused; I found myself suspended between something dreadful that was about to happen and the second when it actually would. I remember repeating to myself, "It hasn't happened yet", and trying to appreciate that - my psyche was the only part of myself that I still had some control over. How far was this man prepared to go? How much was this going to hurt? Would one of my housemates come home and startle him into doing something even worse than he had in mind? Would this man actually carry out his threat to my life? I kept repeating to him the lie that I was pregnant, hoping that I could appeal to some sense of humanity; if he didn't care about raping a woman, then perhaps he might have some qualms about harming a developing baby. It may have worked - I don't know. It's possible that he attacked me less violently than he had planned to.Once it was over, he went through my bag and made off into the night with my mobile phone. I shut the door, hands shaking, and walked into the kitchen before bursting into tears. Picking up the house phone, I dialled 999. I remember noticing my record-filled bag, abandoned by the staircase. I must have clutched it until the very last minute. A bizarre thought occurred to me: thank God he didn't share my love for 60s and 70s country-folk and had left those albums untouched. Then, sitting in the kitchen, in stunned silence, I waited for the police.The rest of the night is a blur of scenes played out on autopilot. The police came within minutes and the house became a crime scene, with police tape around the front gate for all the passersby to wonder at. We had to go immediately - if I wanted to report the attack, they had to get a statement from me as well as whatever DNA evidence they could recover. I stared down at my ripped tights, my knee-length boots still miraculously zipped all the way up. I guessed they'd be needing my clothes, so I asked to be let upstairs to my bedroom to grab a pair of jeans. Then we left. At this point, the situation improved. This is when I met Suzie, the officer from the Metropolitan police's Sapphire unit (the designated sexual assault unit) and one of the people for whom you are grateful beyond words. Professional, compassionate and only a year older than me, she was honest and totally unpatronising as she took my initial statement in a small room at the local police station. This was to be the first of many meetings and updates. My statement was taken in my own time, breaks offered when I needed them and reassurance given when I hadn't even known to ask for it. I was reasonably calm while talking through the evening's events, trying to make sense of them, recollecting the minutiae probably far more than was expected. As someone who works in the media, immersing myself in other people's stories each day, it was weird to be asked to talk through my own. Would those investigating the case think I did something wrong? Would they think it was my fault because I'd had a few drinks? Would they think me foolish for not being walked to my front door? I wasn't breaking down in tears with every sentence - would they think I was unmoved or making things up? I shouldn't have worried. I was assured that no one can be blamed for being raped. It is a criminal attack. And there is certainly no set way to react to trauma; it was the job of the police to establish what had happened to me and find the attacker, not to judge how I coped. As soon as my statement was complete, Suzie drove me to the Haven in Whitechapel (one of three designated sexual assault referral centres in London) for forensic tests and examinations. The Haven aims to provide both holistic care for a victim of rape or sexual assault and to collect the best available evidence. First I had to get the forensic part over with. A doctor and nurse - both female - welcomed me into a small examination room and asked me to undress in an adjacent cubicle. I wasn't allowed to go to the toilet or even have a glass of water, but was handed a small towel. They dabbed, pricked and swabbed me for DNA evidence and sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) - I was told they would test me for everything including hepatitis and HIV - and checked my bruises, drawing them on to a person-shaped diagram that would later form part of the evidence if the attacker was ever taken to court.I was checked from head to toe, new bruises announcing themselves on my body throughout. But I was so happy to be among people I trusted in this warm, safe, white room that I would have cartwheeled if they had asked me to. After they had got what they needed, even cutting some of my hair out, I was given a small washbag and allowed to shower. I was also given a new white sweatshirt and black gym plimsolls to wear with my jeans as they would be sending my clothes away for further analysis. Once inside the shower I let the warm water run and run, enjoying the peace and safety and quiet. I knew that after leaving the shower I'd have to face the full reality of what had happened, so I put it off for a few more solitary minutes. Once dressed, I was handed a pile of follow-up information (counselling options and repeat appointments for STD results and further tests), and was reassured that the tests would not appear on my GP's medical records or be disclosed to anyone outside the investigation. They told me I could also keep the sweater and plimsolls. Looking down at those items - which made me look like an eight-year-old in a PE class - I think I managed a smile. Suzie then drove me in an unmarked police car to the spot where my housemate and best friend were waiting, a few streets from our house. The police had left and we tried to walk down the road nonchalantly, so that people would not necessarily think that we were involved in the night's events.The next few weeks were taken up with more meetings, recorded statements, tests and results. Appointments were made according to my availability, and the uppermost levels of discretion were always adhered to. I waited a day to break it to my parents, initially telling them I'd been mugged and that was why I had no mobile phone. I didn't have the energy to deal with their grief, anger and worry. But I knew I'd have to tell them soon, as I was advised that I should leave my flat. (Although the attacker was believed to have been an opportunist, he was likely to have been a local man, and so I was still potentially in danger.) Until I found a new place to live, moving back to my parents' home seemed the most obvious, if not an entirely perfect, option. I kept working, as I had neither the money nor the headspace to take time off and dwell on what had happened. I just wanted control of my life back. I also didn't want people to suspect anything more than that I had been violently mugged. This was to be the start of my somewhat double life. I told a few friends, including those who had been in the cab with me, but no one apart from that. It was not just because I didn't want to be seen as a "victim" but also because I know that some people, perhaps unwittingly, revel in this kind of drama. I didn't want this event to define me for good or bad in anyone's eyes; I didn't want to be their sob story or hero, nor the subject of their gossip, however well-meaning. I also began to notice just how much rape and sexual assault is a theme of our television dramas, our cinema releases. I noticed how much the word rape crops up innocently in the English language; we have yellow fields of rape and whenever I write the word therapist I realise I am writing "the rapist". I hear how colloquial the term rape has become; "Ugh, I feel like I've been raped," cringed a colleague of mine when a not-so-attractive boss invaded her personal space. I read in the newspapers time and again how low the conviction rate for rape is (the current figure is below 5%) and how unsympathetically the police allegedly treat women who report it. I noticed all of this, and I kept uncomfortably silent. By now the investigation had gone quiet as well. Even though my attacker's e-fit made the papers and the local news, his DNA didn't match any on the database. Unless he was picked up for another offence it was going to be very difficult to find him. I recorded a voiceover for a reconstruction on the BBC's Crimewatch programme, but after it aired the leads didn't really go anywhere. And all the while my life went on, as normally as possible. I got the all-clear from my HIV test while working away in Liverpool (snatching time in a car park to return the call from the Haven), I got together with my unbelievably wonderful boyfriend, found myself a flat that I loved and realised I was enjoying my life again. All this, admittedly, with a personal alarm firmly in my handbag and an avoidance of walking alone after dark. I even got used to the idea that my attacker was still at large. I kept in touch regularly with the Sapphire Unit. Suzie and I were, and are, in regular contact, and we would often meet up for a coffee where I could ask questions or air concerns. She was someone I could really talk to, who I could even, to my relief, have a laugh with. Then, almost exactly a year after the attack - on Friday 13, of all days - I got the call. They had arrested a man on another, unrelated charge, and his DNA was a match. I remember sitting in the local park near my work, the sun shining, the grass warm. I didn't know what to feel. But I did know that this man was now going to be prevented from doing to someone else what he had done to me. The situation was not as simple as I hoped. In the ensuing months he conjured up all sorts of excuses and alibis, wasting a year of police time and delaying the trial date as his story kept changing. Fortunately, he was refused bail. As frustrating as all this was, as the trial date finally approached there were still processes in place to make it easier for me, the witness. For example, I could choose to give evidence either from behind a screen (so he could not see me) or via a video link. Suzie also took me to meet a smiley lady from Witness Service, who had offered to show me around a courtroom comparable to the one I would be in. She pointed out where I and everyone else (including the jury and, of course, the "defendant") would be seated. Suzie also reassured me that it was OK if I couldn't remember every single detail of that evening, that I should simply do my best. After all, by now it was two years since the attack.Then, on the first day of the trial, I got a call from Suzie. I had decided to attend court only on the days I was required to give evidence, so I was at work. I took my phone into the stairwell of the office block and she told me the news: he had changed his plea from not guilty to guilty. A wave of stunned relief washed over me. I would not be required to give evidence, as my attacker would be sentenced in court a few weeks later without the need for a full trial. A few weeks later, on a sunny spring afternoon, the judge handed down a total of 10 years imprisonment. After it was over, I decided that I wanted to write this. To reassure people that rapists can, and do, get caught and convicted. That, in my experience, reporting rape can be a better experience than it is often painted. That there are some wonderful, compassionate people working in our police system. That if all the resources are in place, then the system is a good, if admittedly not a great, one. We need to make it better, yes, but by bashing it in the press with crude statistics and generalisations we do nothing to encourage victims - who are already vulnerable and scared - to come forward and report such crimes. When my attacker forced his way into my flat that night, I don't think he thought that his path would eventually lead to prison. I hope that after writing this, a few more like him might be led in that direction too.