Police today charged a waiter, Joseph Sheehan, with yesterday's brutal axe murder of a married father-of-two in a smart north London residential street.Brian Messitt, 67, died after an attacker set upon him yesterday morning not far from his home on Haverstock Hill. Witnesses said his head turned to "mush" following a sustained attack with a 60cm axe. The attacker shouted at Mr Messitt "you've had this coming for 20 years", witnesses said.Police arrested Mr Sheehan, 37, at the murder scene on Eton Avenue yesterday, not far from his home on Belmont Street in Chalk Farm. Scotland Yard said local officers arrived yesterday to find the attacker standing over Mr Messitt's body with an axe in his hands. The attacker then surrendered to police without resistance.Today Mr Messitt's family said they were in terrible shock, and would remember him with affection and respect. "Brian was an average, peaceful and polite pensioner. During his past time he enjoyed long walks in nature, reading, football and telling funny stories," his family said in a statement released through Scotland Yard. Mr Sheehan will appear tomorrow at Highbury Corner magistrates court charged with Mr Messitt's murder. "Officers believe that this is unlikely to have been a random attack, but an open mind is being kept as regards motive at this stage. Inquiries are under way to establish any relationship between the victim and the suspect," Scotland Yard said. Sussex University student Nick Blackford, 20, witnessed the aftermath of the incident from a third floor window after being woken by screams. He saw the attacker, his hands covered in blood, drop the axe when he was arrested at gunpoint.Mr Messitt was lying on the ground with a dustbin lid near him which he may have been using to protect himself. Mr Blackford said: "I saw a guy lying down with a huge flat red mushy mess instead of a head, just across the road. I didn't notice it at first because it was there on the street, not in a book or a film. I was so taken aback that I had to second take. It is horrific." A neighbour, Margaret Mikkelsen, 29, said: "I heard shouts and I saw a couple who had stopped their car and were shouting at the man who was just standing there with an axe. He was just standing there, I could see the victim was dead and he was lying face down. "A man who lives in my building was telling him to put the axe down then two men grabbed scaffolding poles to try to stop him hurting anyone else. But he didn't respond to all the people shouting at him." Police said Mr Messitt had suffered severe head and facial injuries but had not been decapitated. Eton Avenue was sealed off while detectives carried out a forensic examination of the scene. Police said a murder inquiry had now been launched and an incident room opened.