Cyber criminals and terrorists will win an "arms race" against law agencies unless action is taken, a government-commissioned report said yesterday. It said governments, businesses and manufacturers had to work together to make computer systems and the internet more secure or risk the public losing faith. The report put forward a series of visions of the future if moves are not made to tackle ever more sophisticated criminals. In one nightmarish scenario, poor investment in information and communication technologies (ICT) leads to the police being unable to counter cyber criminals by 2018. Under another, mistrust of government intrusions into privacy leads to people taking individual responsibility for cyber security but leaves the country open to attack. A major part of the research was the drawing up of three scenarios - visions of problems which could be faced by 2018 if moves to increase trust in technology and reduce cyber crime are not taken.  Knowing it all Law enforcement agencies gain substantial powers to access and analyse information on individuals who could post a threat. Some online crime almost eradicated. But amount of data becomes unmanageable. Criminals may be able to disappear in the mountain of data.  Touch me not Citizens are intolerant of intrusions into their privacy by government, so take individual responsibility for security. Crimes which might have been stopped by large-scale monitoring and surveillance are committed.  Frog boiler Lack of investment leaves government unable to provide secure electronic services, allowing criminals to exploit them. Criminal gangs steal fortunes and base themselves in places from which they cannot be extradited. Youngsters hack into computer systems for fun. The report, by the Office of Science and Technology as part of its Foresight programme, warns that some people will become so mistrustful of and disillusioned by developments that they will become "digital hermits". The Home Office minister Hazel Blears said the internet had brought benefits but added: "Unfortunately, like all advances, these have also been abused." The report says ICT-related crime has had a "significant impact" on businesses, governments and organisations. Two-thirds of businesses in the UK have suffered at least one security breach in the last year. The most common involved viruses but 49% of companies had suffered fraud or theft and 39% complained of hacking. Some action has been taken. In her preface to the report Ms Blears cited legislation to tackle the online grooming of children and a strategy to combat electronic crime. In addition, many police forces now have well-staffed hi-tech crime units. But the report said: "If we carry on as we are, we are likely to run into problems." Co-operation across the globe was crucial because online crime often straddled boundaries. It said that "attackers and defenders get similar advantages from the technology", hence the "arms race" idea. "The rapid pace of change, innovation and uptake of many new services all mean that those trying to reduce crime are having to move more and more quickly to respond effectively." The report also suggests that many people will be willing to immerse themselves in the virtual world "well ahead of understanding the issues it raises" and that new systems of trading - for instance virtual currency - could be introduced ahead of legal structures for them. The report also considered the vulnerability of the internet, which could be brought down by "very knowledgeable people". The technical community which "holds the keys" to the system needs to be made more aware of its responsibilities. Sir David King, the government's chief scientific adviser and director of the Cyber Trust and Crime Prevention project, said he hoped the findings would help "plan today for the UK of tomorrow".