The last time I gave some money to a woman sitting outside a cashpoint at a supermarket, she explained that she needed it for an electricity bill and that everything had been cut off. A lot of things in her world were cut off. I doubt she had an electricity bill or an address. I also doubt she earned the £200 a day that successful beggars are said to earn. Or that she was going to spend the money on nutritious lentils and kale. She was going to score.And we know the score, which is why people don’t give money to beggars. It only encourages them in their habits and keeps them sleeping rough. Part of the problem is hostels not taking in those who are clearly using drugs and drink – but, really, what are the alternatives here?The latest appears to be to arrest them under the 1824 Vagrancy Act. Prosecutions have gone up dramatically in some areas. In the past year in Merseyside there has been a 400% increase in charges, from 60 cases to 291. In the far wealthier Thames Valley the number has risen from 20 to 92. In Manchester the number of prosecutions has doubled. Local community support officers now have the power to issue a summons.What does this achieve? Beggars bother us apparently. They bother shopkeepers and residents. They are not good for business. They annoy us when we are only trying to spend our hard-earned money. We know what they need, even if they don’t. They are often difficult people to help. I don’t kid myself here, but what is the point of further criminalising them?One argument is that this is a way to help people access the services they actually need. Yeah, right. Very often, these people have been through the deteriorating services for substance abuse, mental health issues and homelessness, and another criminal conviction is not exactly going to lead them out of trouble.Sure, there may be the odd perfectly well-adjusted pan-handler making a killing, but the stories of the folk who gather on the streets of our city centres or increasingly by local shops are all different, and we turn a blind eye to them. All the stories end up in much the same place. Begging, though widely despised, is quaintly entrepreneurial, with its swapping of pitches and techniques.The demand to arrest beggars is said to be because some are aggressive and intimidating. But surely this is an attempt to cleanse and hide the increasing numbers. The connection between the regime of benefit sanctions and the decimation of basic services has led to a rise in food banks, shoplifting and begging.When Thatcher cut housing benefit to young people in the 1980s there was a sudden influx of young rough sleepers into cities. We are going further down that route, and teenagers on the run from abusive families do not find streets paved with gold.As we load up for Christmas, it really would be nicer not to encounter these hopeless, zoned-out specimens. They are the cities’ human graffiti, reminding us that inequality is not some abstract notion. But is it really the job of the police to arrest them, fine them and call this “help”?This is being done in the name of tackling antisocial behaviour. The clearing of litter from public spaces. Obviously it would be far better if some of these people were off the streets, accessing all the mythical services to help them. But can someone explain to me exactly where rehab and drying-out clinics, or even basic mental healthcare, exist any more?This is indeed a dire situation. Thus we have the rise in begging and prosecutions – for poverty is seen now as always self-inflicted and therefore something you can be arrested for. Antisocial behaviour is not sitting by a cash machine asking for spare change. Are we to accept this, as well as the notion that food banks are necessary in a very rich country? To see this as inevitable strikes me as the most antisocial behaviour of all.