Housing officials and police officers who fail to tackle nuisance neighbours or deal with graffiti and begging should face the sack, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday at the launch of the government's new drive against antisocial behaviour."I have got a message for those who think they are big enough to take on not me but the communities they serve and if they don't do the job ... then chief officers should simply get rid of them." Mr Blunkett and Tony Blair set out their "action plan" in London yesterday to tackle the problems of antisocial behaviour including nuisance neighbours, begging, abandoned cars and graffiti-strewn estates. Many of the powers are contained in the new antisocial behaviour legislation which is expected to reach the statute book in January. The results of a snapshot Home Office survey carried out on September 10 published yesterday recorded more than 66,000 incidents of antisocial behaviour and vandalism at an estimated cost of £13.5m per day or £3.3bn a year. More than 1,500 organisations took part. The prime minister and home secretary were very conscious yesterday that the response from local authorities and the police to Labour's first attempt to tackle antisocial behaviour, the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act, has varied widely around the country.Mr Blair told the London launch conference yesterday: "It's not acceptable for these powers to be used in some parts of the country and not others. Loutish behaviour is loutish behaviour wherever it is. And it should be dealt with in the same way wherever it happens. So, not occasionally, not as a last resort, but now, with real energy, in all parts of the country ... If, even after this legislation, more powers are needed we will go further and get you them." He dismissed critics who argued that intervention and help was a more appropriate tool to deal with "neighbours from hell" and rowdy children than criminal justice sanctions, saying that the government was practising both intervention and enforcement. Mr Blunkett put it more directly, attacking those council officials who still argued "this garbage from the 1960s and 1970s" that you should not be judgmental about antisocial behaviour: "You can't be non-judgmental when you live next door to the neighbours from hell." Despite the prime minister's insistence that the new powers, including a wide range of fixed penalty offences, must be implemented nationwide, the publication of the Home Office action plan for the next 12 months made clear that the chancellor, Gordon Brown, has not produced the money to fund its nationwide implementation. Instead, the "action plan" includes £22m of "pump-priming" money and a series of "trailblazing" schemes in selected cities with four focusing on nuisance neighbours, five on begging and two on abandoned cars. The Local Government Association said the government's emphasis on enforcement would not on its own provide a lasting solution to the menace of antisocial behaviour. Richard Grant of the LGA's community safety panel said: "Enforcement is just the filling in the sandwich - the bread and butter mustn't be forgotten, tackling the conditions that lead to antisocial behaviour, and funding the measures to ensure that perpetrators are rehabilitated and don't reoffend." He said that local action against antisocial behaviour had to suit local circumstances and said the resources had to be available to allow successful projects to be adopted by all councils. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, welcomed the aims behind the announcement but questioned whether it would bring lasting improvements. His scepticism was shared by Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten. Homelessness and crime reduction charities were far more critical. Adam Sampson, director of Shelter, said: "There is a glaring hole in the government's strategy. Where are the real solutions that work at changing, rather than just punishing, antisocial behaviour? Where are the measures to make sure people don't offend in the first place?" Nacro, the crime reduction charity, also criticised the government's "heavy-handed and unnecessary emphasis on punishment and enforcement".