The rail journeys of thousands of passengers in eastern England were badly disrupted today after what may have been the fourth attempt to steal cable from the local network in nine days.Travellers were forced to take buses between Colchester and Chelmsford because of a signalling problem caused by vandalism on one of the busiest commuter routes into London.About 100 metres of cabling is thought to have been taken in the incident, the fourth over a 20-mile stretch of line in Essex, which may have been caused by criminals hoping to sell on the wire for scrap.Such thefts cause problems across the British rail network, especially in north-east England, and are thought to have added £5.4m to the recabling bill in the first 10 months of this year. The worst single month was June 2008, when thefts meant more than £2m of replacement cabling was needed."People who do it are risking their lives," said a spokesman for the infrastructure company Network Rail, who stressed the safety of passengers was not at risk because a fail-safe system automatically turned signals to red."We are working very closely with the British Transport police to combat this. There are a lot of unscrupulous metal merchants who sell [wire] on, often to China, we believe. We are stepping up security across the network."Two helicopters were employed to check for suspicious activity, and newly laid wire was being distinctively branded, the spokesman said. In addition, aluminium was increasingly being used instead of copper, which fetches higher scrap prices."We have 20,000 miles of track and you cannot have guards everywhere. We do what we can and we have had some success," the spokesman said.A transport police official said there had been a 40% fall in wiring stolen in Essex, East Anglia and the northern home counties in the last year. "We are making some progress."Metal thefts also cost local councils hefty sums. The Local Government Association said 268 manhole covers – which cost £300 each to replace – had been stolen in Surrey since April and 220 were stolen in Warwickshire over four nights in April. Fifteen were removed near a school in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, in June and 20 were stolen in Accrington, Lancashire, in one night in July.An LGA spokesman said: "It is disgusting that mindless thieves are stooping this low for scrap metal. This thoughtless criminal act is not only selfish but it could lead to serious accidents. With most of them striking at night, there is an increasing worry that pedestrians, cyclists and even cars may not see the approaching danger."