A former soldier arrested over the killings of his uncle, aunt and two cousins was struggling to cope with his experiences in the first Gulf war, it was claimed today.As detectives continued to question the 40-year-old man, named locally as David Bradley, a fellow Gulf war veteran told how Mr Bradley complained to him of having nightmares, cold sweats and other problems.He was distressed by seeing four of his colleagues killed in a "friendly fire" incident in Iraq in 1991, said Larry Cammock, chairman of the Gulf Veterans Association in Newcastle upon Tyne. Mr Cammock never met personally with Mr Bradley, who police have said has a history of psychiatric health problems, but the pair kept in touch by telephone between 1997 and 1999. Mr Bradley walked into a police station in Newcastle early yesterday and police later found four bodies at the family's terrace house in Benwell, in the west of the city. They had been shot at close range by a gun with a silencer. Northumbria police said today that the ex-soldier, who has yet to be named officially, had an argument early on Saturday evening with Keith Purcell, one of his cousins, before he killed him and three other relatives.Police are not looking for anyone else in connection with the killings of the four: Peter Purcell, a retired roofer, and his wife, Josephine, who were both in their 70s, and two of their six children, Keith, 44, and Glen, 42. Detective Superintendent Steve Wade, who is leading the investigation, told a news conference that the father and Keith Purcell were killed first, probably at around the same time. He said the father had probably been watching television when he was shot. Mr Wade said the war veteran than lay in wait for two other members of his family before killing them with the silenced handgun. Ms Purcell, 70, a retired home help, was likely to have been killed when she returned home from babysitting at about 11pm on Saturday, Mr Wade said. Police believe Glen did not die until returning home from a night out in Newcastle city centre at around 2.15am.It is thought the Purcells had raised Mr Bradley as one of the family and he lived with them at the house in Benwell. Northumbria police said the detained man had been a private who served between 1987 and 1995 and had also seen active service in Bosnia and Northern Ireland.Mr Bradley is believed to have served with the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, which suffered the worst casualties in the Gulf war of 1991. Nine of its soldiers were killed by "friendly fire" from US soldiers, including the four colleagues of Bradley who died when an A10 Tankbuster blasted their Warrior armoured vehicle in broad daylight.Mr Cammock told today's Daily Mail that Mr Bradley had been deeply troubled following his experiences in the Gulf war and first contacted him for help in 1997. "He felt as if he had been used and abused by the armed services and then just dumped. He was having nightmares and yet wherever he turned nobody wanted to help," Mr Cammock said.When Mr Bradley walked into the police station yesterday on Wesgate Road, Newcastle, he was carrying a bag containing a handgun fitted with a silencer, a pump-action shotgun and ammunition. He also told officers the bag contained a home-made nail bomb, forcing the station to be evacuated while bomb disposal experts from Catterick in North Yorkshire carried out a controlled explosion.Later, officers found the bodies in the living room and kitchen of the house. This morning, mourners began laying flowers outside the Venerable Bede church. Among them was the daughter of Keith Purcell, who left this tribute: "Dear daddy up above. I will miss you very much with my nanna and my grandad and uncle Glen. The angels will look after you very well. Lots of love and kisses, Bianca." The little girl was accompanied by a woman and two older men, who did not wish to speak as they left the scene. Among the other tributes were bunches of flowers left by neighbours. One card read: "Glen, my true friend. Always with me and in my thoughts."The Rev Catherine Pickford said the church would be open all day for anyone who wanted to seek comfort and solace. "This is a terrible tragedy, which has left the entire community in shock, and I will be praying for the family of those who died," she said.Huma Ahmed, who lives a few doors away from the Purcell family, was in tears as she laid flowers. She said: "They were a really nice family and I am really shocked that something like this could happen. It is really sad and we can't believe this has happened. We used to see them in the street all the time and would always say hello to each other."