The crown prosecution service faced a new wave of criticism last night after it was revealed that around 11,000 prosecutions were wrongly dropped last year, threatening public confidence in the criminal justice system.Some cases were dropped "with little or no record of any analysis or reasons for the decision", according to the first annual report of the independent inspectorate which monitors its work. Inspectors also "highlight instances of premature decisions to drop cases where further investigation ought to take place, either to ascertain why victims or witnesses do not want to give evidence, or to resolve issues in the individual case". Victim Support, the charity which assists witnesses and victims in court, said it was alarming that cases were being dropped without a proper record or analysis of the reason behind the decision. A spokesman said: "These figures are of great concern to Victim Support and also to the witness service which we organise. If 11,000 cases are being wrongly discontinued, then justice is clearly not being done and that effectively results in secondary victimisation of victims and witnesses. "The key thing is to look very carefully at why these cases are being discontinued and reflect on the impression it gives victims and witnesses of the criminal justice system as a whole. It is very important clear reasons are given, otherwise it creates the impression of a shambles." The inspectorate, set up in October 2000, looked at a sample of 2,145 cases between October 2000 and September 2001. Where cases were discontinued, the inspectors disagreed with the decision in 6.8% of cases. Since 13% of cases are discontinued, "this would, if replicated across the whole spectrum of casework, represent around 11,000 decisions which inspectors would consider to be wrong in principle," says the report. "Such occurrences are often a source of real distress to the witnesses and victims involved and may damage public confidence." The CPS has been a beleaguered service since it was launched in 1986 with too little funding. As the market for legal services boomed, it struggled to recruit good lawyers and was a constant butt of criticism for errors and inefficiencies in court. Under the previous director of public prosecutions, Barbara Mills, the service threatened to drown in paperwork. With the current DPP, David Calvert Smith, and extra funding, the service has seen a slow but steady improvement. The report, published yesterday, also calls for concerted action and monitoring of information by police and the CPS to reduce the number of "cracked" and "ineffective" trials in magistrates courts - between 55% and 80% of the total. Cracked trials are those which are scheduled for trial but never go ahead, often because the defendant decides to plead guilty at the last minute. Ineffective trials are put off to another date because the case is not ready to go ahead. Sensitive cases, such as child abuse, domestic violence and racially aggravated offences, were prosecuted well on the whole, the inspectorate says. But "inspectors found instances of decisions being taken in child abuse cases without the lawyers appearing to have watched and analysed video-recorded interviews with the victim", and "racist incident monitoring systems are not fully adhered to in some areas."