A tax consultant, who encouraged workers nearing retirement to cash in their pensions and evade tax worth millions of pounds, was sent to prison for four years yesterday. Anil Kumar, 49, of Letchworth in Hertfordshire used bogus documents as part of an elaborate scheme to gain access to funds locked in occupational and personal pension funds which gave rise to huge profits and cost the Inland Revenue £5.5m in lost tax. The trial judge, Judge Byers, said Kumar had not only taken huge commissions from clients "many of whom were at a vulnerable stage in their lives", but had also "stolen from every citizen". The Inland Revenue said it would attempt to recover tax from Kumar's clients and use the Proceeds of Crime Act to seize his assets, including the home occupied by his wife and four children.The sentence will prove a morale boost for Revenue staff who have faced severe criticism in recent years for failing to prosecute tax cheats. Many of its recent prosecutions have been of low income, single parent families, who have cheated the tax credit system. Kumar's conviction followed a tip-off from the Occupational Pensions Regulatory Authority in 2000. Inland Revenue investigator Peter James discovered that Kumar operated the so-called "Stax" scheme with a partner, Peter Rumball, who was named alongside Kumar and two independent financial advisers.Mr Rumball left the UK to go to the Philippines in 2001. A warrant for his arrest is outstanding. The two advisers were found not guilty. The court heard how Kumar operated the scheme, allegedly designed by Mr Rumball, between 1997 and 2000. Ninety-six clients with funds totalling £16.5m applied to have their pension funds transferred from existing occupational or personal schemes. It is estimated Kumar and Mr Rumball shared commissions worth £2m during this period. Under pension rules, it is possible for people who are over the age of 50 to release a quarter of their pension pot and take the remainder as an annuity. In many cases Stax victims were switched to a trust that issued a loan rather than an annuity, thereby releasing the entire pension value. Unlike income, the loan was not subject to tax. In a later development the money was transferred to Jersey based trusts for the benefit of the client's family.