Two men have been arrested after a fire on a ferry from Newcastle to Amsterdam forced the emergency air evacuation of several crew and passengers.Two crew members and four passengers had to be winched off the North Sea ferry by helicopter after they inhaled smoke. The fire broke out in a cabin while the ship was 30 miles from shore at around 10.45pm on Sunday night.A 26-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of arson and a 28-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of affray, Northumbria police said.RAF helicopters from Leconfield, near Hull, and Boulmer, Northumberland, were sent to attend to the ferry and its 946 passengers, along with RNLI lifeboats from Bridlington and Filey. Rescued passengers and staff were flown to Scarborough hospital and are expected to be released after treatment. A further 15 passengers and eight crew members were treated by doctors on the ship.The fire was put out within about 15 minutes, but passengers could see thick smoke swirling on deck and were told the ferry would have to return to port in Newcastle.Passengers described scenes of confusion and panic as they were called on deck and told to gather around lifeboats. "It was terrifying and I won't be travelling by boat again. I think I will stay in the UK from now on, it's a lot safer," said Julie Bell, from Tyne and Wear. "It was like a scene from a movie, a chaotic mess, horrible."Karl McMurrough, 18, from Pennywell, Sunderland, said: "We all got rushed on to the deck, there were helicopters, kids squealing, life jackets. They were telling us to keep calm but they weren't giving us any information."Gert Jakobsen, a spokesman for the ferry operator DFDS Seaways, said police were speaking to people on board the King Seaways cruise ferry, and the next ferry would leave as scheduled on Monday morning. He said the company would try to help passengers find alternative crossings."We are very sorry for those passengers who have not only been affected by the fire but now by these delays," he said. "We are looking at how we can help them. The cabin that was burnt is very damaged and there has been some smoke damage to surrounding cabins, but the ship's function has not been affected in any way and is safe to travel."One passenger, Steven Basford, described the ferry – which has room for 1,500 passengers and has several restaurants, bars, a nightclub and a casino – as a "party boat", and said a fight had broken out on deck."We were in our room at about 10.40pm last night when they raised the general fire or emergency alarm with seven high-pitched siren noises. We were told to evacuate outside the ship and when we got outside they asked us to converge around the lifeboats," said the 28-year-old."The fire was on our floor but on the other side of the ship. When we climbed up to the communal area we could see the smoke. It wasn't thick but it was definitely noticeable. People were generally pretty calm. Obviously people had had a lot to drink. It's a bit of a party boat. Two big blokes started brawling."Police said they received a call from the coastguard at 12.05am informing them of suspected arson on board the ferry. A spokeswoman said: "Officers from Northumbria police are working with DFDS Seaways and other partners to assist with the situation. Two men have been arrested – a 26-year-old man on suspicion of arson and a 28-year-old man on suspicion of affray. Both men are helping police inquiries."