So, Mr Blunkett would like to sell a few prisons. Not a bad idea: we have far too many, and few of them fulfil their primary purpose, which, in case the powers-that-be have forgotten, is to "rehabilitate offenders and teach them to lead good and useful lives".Apparently, Holloway, Brixton and Wandsworth ought to be the first to go. Having spent time in the last two, and knowing plenty of the horrors of Holloway, I can assure the home secretary that the razing of the jails will cause few regrets among those who have lived in them. Wanno and Brixton are dustbins, nothing more, nothing less. Grim and unforgiving, they stain the minds of their occupants, along with the landscape. Their only saving grace, as far as I was concerned, was that you knew exactly where you were with them, from the moment you stepped into the reception. So you were at least on your guard. Why these three, though? If the authorities want to scrap the really decrepit nicks they should start with Dartmoor. The Moor was built during the Napoleonic wars and its closure has been recommended by virtually every inspectorate report since that office was established. It's cold, dark and damp. Situated in Princetown, seven miles from Tavistock - from which there is no bus service at weekends (when most visits take place) - it has long been regarded as the end of the line. I wonder what the price of land is in Princetown compared with, say, the London boroughs in which Holloway, Brixton and Wandsworth lie? And what does Mr Blunkett intend to do with the money? Build more prisons? If so, he's going against the trend; the only new prisons in the past 10 years or so have been built with private money. However, one must not carp as the closure of any jail is good news. If the Prison Service wants to continue along these lines and wishes to reduce costs, then I'm confident that, given reasonable notice, I could organise any number of ex-residents, at the lower end of the penal-estate market, who would help them do the job for nowt. ·  Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent ·  e.allison@theguardian.com