The high court judge heading the inquiry into the crimes of family doctor Harold Shipman said today that the systems which should have safeguarded his patients had failed."It is deeply disturbing that Shipman's killing of his patients did not arouse suspicion for so many years," Dame Janet Smith said in her interim report. It continued: "The systems which should have safeguarded his patients against his misconduct, or at least detected misconduct when it occurred, failed to operate satisfactorily." In 1996 Shipman had obtained, in the name of a dying patient on a single occasion, enough diamorphine to kill 360 people. How that could happen and how the system should be strengthened would be considered by phase two of the inquiry, which resumes in the autumn.Dame Janet said in the report that the esteem in which Shipman was held ensured that very few relatives felt "any real sense of disquiet" about the circumstances of the victims' deaths. "Those who did harbour private suspicions felt unable to report their concerns," she said. She said that phase two of her report would consider how to ensure that unexpected or unexplained deaths were reported and that their causes were properly investigated. "By the end of the inquiry, I hope to be able to make recommendations which will seek not only to ensure that a doctor like Shipman would never again be able to evade detection for so long, but also to provide systems which the public will understand and in which they will have well-founded confidence," she said.The inquiry found today that Shipman had killed 215 of his patients. Inquiry: procedures provided 'no safeguard at all' Dame Janet said that the majority of deaths were followed by cremation. Procedures that required a second doctor to sign the certificate and a third doctor employed by the crematorium to check were intended to safeguard the public. But even with those in place Shipman was able to kill 215 people without detection. "In reality, the procedures provided no safeguard at all," said the report. Shipman had also managed to avoid referring deaths to the coroner that should have been referred, in all but very few cases. He had been convicted of drugs offences in 1975 and had declared his intention never to carry controlled drugs again. Yet he was able to obtain large quantities. Dame Janet's analysis of Shipman's killings revealed that in his single-handed practice he claimed one victim in 1992, 16 in 1993 and 11 in 1994. In 1995 and 1996 he killed 30 patients in each year, and 37 in 1997. During the first three months of 1998 he killed 15 patients, after which there was an interval of seven weeks, before he went on to murder three more patients before his arrest in September.