If they were nervous, they did not let it show.Accused of the gravest offence in what may be the most high-profile criminal case of the year, the four boys sat in between their lawyers and relatives, listening in silence as the jury heard they had committed a "terrible, cruel deed". Earlier in the hearing, they were asked to stand so the charges could be read formally to the jury. This was also their chance to object to any of the seven men and five women chosen to try them. Boy A, wearing a grey suit, turned to face the panel square on, as if he wanted to show he had no fear. Behind him was Boy B, hands folded in front of him. He looked around court 12, a modern room which has been rearranged to make it child-friendly. He looked at the judge, Mr Justice Hooper. Then turned 180 degrees in one go to look at the reporters, who were working from what is normally the dock. Boy B looked up, down and around. He seemed to fidget. The youngest and smallest of the defendants, boy D, was on the other side of the court. He stood with hands in his pockets, head bowed slightly to one side. On the table in front of him sat a pack of coloured pencils. It has been 14 months since Damilola died, but the prosecution recreated as best it could the fateful early evening when the 10-year-old was attacked, with words, diagrams and photographs. The victim's parents, Richard and Gloria were in court yesterday to hear how their son was stabbed and how he staggered, bleeding profusely, to the stairwell where he died. They were given some of the documents that were presented to the jury. A photograph of the bloodstained concrete floor where Damilola collapsed was among them. Another showed shards of glass found at the scene. Mark Dennis, prosecuting, explained there was forensic evidence to show how the bottle had been broken, then thrust into Damilola, twisted and removed. Somehow the couple remained composed, although at one point Mrs Taylor, 50, was handed a tissue. When the court was told that her son had been crying and "jumping up and down in pain", she shook her head. Because of the ages of the defendants the court itself was informal, with the judge and barristers dispensing with wigs and gowns. The judge explained to the jurors that the cameras and microphones in the court were set up to relay proceedings to a press annexe. "There is no question of the cameras focusing on you," he assured them. He said that the case would "inevitably attract a considerable amount of attention", but warned them to resist talking to friends and relatives who might want to offer opinions on the case. "You are now judges ... you try the evidence in this court."