A former police officer filled out his own death report on official police paperwork and then killed himself after being left “in a very dark place” following the brutal murder of his two colleagues by gangster Dale Cregan, an inquest has heard.Andrew Summerscales, 46, is believed to have been one of the first on the scene after Cregan killed his “very good friends” PC Nicola Hughes, 23, and PC Fiona Bone, 32, on 18 September 2012.His 21-year-old son, Joshua, has told an inquest that his father’s life “changed that day” and he sank into depression and suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).The former officer – who had also been at Hillsborough on the day of the disaster – went back to work after receiving treatment for depression, but eventually left the police in November 2015 after 15 years’ service, Stockport coroners’ court heard.He suffered a relapse in his mental health, the court was told, and in the early hours of 30 August last year he sent emails and text messages to friends and colleagues telling them he intended to take his own life.Summerscales had filled out his own death report on official police paperwork, tucked in his pocket, when he was found dead in Cheetham Park, Stalybridge, the inquest heard. He was also wearing a bracelet used by police for identifying bodies, which read “Andrew Summerscales”, the court was told.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   PC Fiona Bone (left) and PC Nicola Hughes, who were murdered in a gun and grenade attack. Photograph: Greater Manchester police/PACregan was jailed for life in June 2013 for the fatal gun and grenade attack on PCs Hughes and Bone, described as the worst police killing for a generation.Summerscales’ former girlfriend, Carly Weston, told the inquest: “Our relationship had been going really well but that changed on 18 September 2012. He was in a dark place and struggled to cope with what had happened. He spent 12 months on sick leave.“I did try to get him to engage with a mental health team, but he wouldn’t go and we separated eight months later. We regularly spoke and I saw him nearly every day. “When he returned to work he was very disillusioned and said he didn’t like the job any more, and he made a comment that he was going rock climbing in an area where people had thrown themselves off before. “I was so concerned that I called the police. His colleagues found him and talked to him but he said he was visiting a friend and that he was OK.’’DI Ian Hammett, who investigated Summerscales’ death, told the inquest that his former colleague was found in the same spot where he had discovered a person hanged in the park five months earlier.The inquest also heard that the former officer, an avid Liverpool fan, had been in the Leppings Lane end on the day of the Hillsborough disaster on 15 April 1989. His son, Joshua, told the court his father attended memorial events at Anfield and spoke about the tragedy “now and again”.Dr Marie Ellis, who was Summerscales’ GP, said he had been diagnosed with PTSD and prescribed antidepressants after the death of PCs Hughes and Bone. She told the court that Summerscales said he had been thinking about leaving the police force because “leaving that environment was the only way he could recover from what had happened”.Ellis said he had spoken to her about suicidal thoughts “on several occasions”, but said he had never done anything.Delivering a ruling of death by suicide, the coroner, Joanne Kearsley, said the former officer had “endured a number of tragedies in his life”. “I have no doubt the events of September 2012 affected him greatly,” she said.Kearsley added: “We have heard that he had some help from psychiatrists and he returned to his work as a police officer, but then took his leave in November 2015. “He had struggled in life and it is probable he relapsed at the time he died. It was the beginning of a difficult time of the year for him, and no doubt at that time he was suffering a relapse of symptoms from what he had experienced since September 2012. “I am satisfied that he was having a difficult time following the deaths of his colleagues.’’Following his death, Summerscales’ family paid tribute to “an amazing father, friend, brother and son who will be missed by all of us”.In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here