1.32pm: Alan Johnson has been busy this morning. He was touring the television studios first thing publicising the new clampdown on dangerous dogs. Then he gave a speech on crime and antisocial behaviour that he used to describe the Conservative claim that Britain has a "broken society" as a "big fat lie". And now he's about to put the boot in even more. He'll be hosting a press conference at Labour's HQ where he will apparently be urging us "to take a long, hard look at the Tories' policies on crime".Chris Grayling, the shadow home secretary, launched a pre-emptive strike last night. He released some figures apparently showing that violent crime has increased by 44% since Labour came to power. The method used to record official crime statistics was changed in 2002 and last month the Tories got into trouble because they issued a leaflet comparing pre-2002 crime figures with post-2002 – even though any expert will tell you that such a comparison is not valid. This time round, Grayling got someone to validate his figures. He consulted statisticians working for the House of Commons library and he even got the UK Statistics Authority to send him a letter saying the Commons library gave "sound professional statistical advice". Using Home Office figures suggesting that the new methodology had inflated the violent crime statistics by 23%, the Commons library worked out that there would have been 618,417 violent crimes recorded in 1998-99 if the current system had been in use. Last year 887,942 violent crimes were recorded.But this wasn't good enough for the UK Statistics Authority. On Monday Sir Michael Scholar, the authority's chair, wrote to Grayling, saying that the Commons library figures did not give the full picture. The letter, which is on the authority's website, says: A more balanced commentary on national trends in violent crime would, in the view of the authority, also make reference to the estimates given in the British Crime Survey, which in our view provide a more reliable measure of the national trend over time.The BCS, which measures crime by surveying people and asking them if they have been a victim, shows that violent crime has gone down by 41% since 1997. But the Tories believe that the recorded crime figures are more reliable because the BCS does not include offences like gun crime, knife crime or rape.The press conference starts at 2pm.2.02pm: I'm at Labour HQ now and I've just been reading the full text of the speech Johnson delivered earlier. In it he said that he had written to Sir Michael Scholar today pointing out the "contempt with which his edict [about crime figures - see 1.32pm] has been treated" by Grayling.2.10pm: We're about to start. We've been handed a three-page press release. Mostly it's devoted to criticism of the Conservative plans to scale down the DNA database.2.12pm: Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, comes onto the platform to open the press conference. She says we are here to "take another look" at the Tories. Labour policies are producing results, she says. Rape convictions have risen by 45% over the last 10 years.On DNA, she says the DNA database has allowed "cold case" crimes to be solved.She's going to show us a video that will be used in Labour campaigning.She introduces Alan Johnson.2.15pm: Johnson says that 20 years ago people would have seen the Tories as the party of law and order and Labour as more concerned with civil rights. That has now changed, he says.He mentions various Tory votes against tough crime measures, such as David Cameron's vote against a measure to allow the police to take DNA samples from people arrested of a recordable offence.On DNA, the Tories are committed to the so-called "Scottish model" - ie, the retention rules introduced by the Scottish executive as their attempt to bring in the DNA database into line with human rights law. Johnson says that this policy - which would only allow DNA to be held for three years - is not supported by research. Johnson says that Labour's proposal - for DNA to be retained for six years - is more sensible in the light of research about re-offending.2.20pm: Questions. The first is to Harman. Does she feel uncomfortable, as a former civil rights campaigner, not being on the civil rights side of this argument?No, says Harman. She says believes DNA evidence is particularly important in relation to sexual offences.Q: But where does she draw the line?Harman says it's about securing convictions.Johnson says DNA evidence can be used to prove people innocent.He says the evidence suggests DNA should be kept for six years.There's no evidence for three years. Three years was just plucked out of the air.2.24pm: Q: Would "hundreds of murderers and rapists" walk free under the Tory plans? (It's a question from the Daily Mirror.)Johnson says the number in the Labour press release - 23 murderers or rapists going free in the last year alone if the Tory policies had been in force - is about right.2.26pm: On crime figures (see 1.32pm), Johnson says the Tories introduced the British Crime Survey. He says the UK Statistics Authority describes it as a more reliable indicator over the long term.Last month the Tories were claiming violent crime had gone up by about 70%, he says. Now they are saying 44%. It's gone down 30% in a month, he jokes.He explains why he thinks Grayling's methodology is wrong. The 23% figure used by Grayling and the Commons library was based on figures for one year. It did not properly measure how the new methodology changed the figures.Johnson says "however you cut the figures" violent crime is down.2.30pm: Q: Are you playing politics with the crime figures?No, says Johnson.It's the Tories who have been talking about a 70% increase in violent crime.What I am saying is we are entitled to stand on our record ... If you are going to have an honest debate with the public, you cannot ignore the British Crime Survey.2.32pm:Q: Is David Cameron 'the burglar's friend"?Johnson says that when asked recently about giving prisoners the vote, he joked that he did not want to because they would all vote Tory.Asked again if he is saying the Tories support criminals, Johnson says: "That's my answer."Q: Why are the Tories ahead on law and order?Johnson says the Tories were always traditionally ahead of law and order. But the ICM poll in the News of the World showed them just nine points ahead.He also says the public does not really understand what the Tory policies are on law and order.2.36pm: Q: Why has it taken Lord Paul so long to say he would give up his non-dom status?Harman says the Lord Paul case is quite different from the Ashcroft case. Ashcroft gave undertakings about his tax status. Cameron appears to have been misled. I think that the issues are completely different. One looks ahead to changing the law. The other is a fundamental question of judgment.2.38pm: Q: Is being on the DNA database a civic duty? Should the cabinet volunteer their DNA?Johnson says there's a difference between the government's policy and making being on the DNA database a civic duty.Saudia Arabia is moving towards that policy, he says. But he cannot see Britain following.2.40pm: Q: Does Harman now know if Labour takes money from non-doms? (At the weekend she was unable to say whether various donors were non-doms.)Harman says she pointed out that Labour accepted donations that were legal.Q: On dangerous dogs, why should the "little old lady" have to pay insurance to cover the cost of irresponsible pet owners?Johnson says the plans he has announced today are going out to consultation. Some ideas will survive the consultation; some won't.2.42pm: Q: Does the Facebook murder concern Johnson?Johnson says Merseyside police are looking into what went wrong.The child exploitation and online protection centre needs to consider if there are any more measures it can take to protect children. In a number of areas we need to look at whether there's more we can do to protect young girls like Ashleigh.Parents need to monitor their children too, he says.2.45pm: That's it. I'll flag up the main points in a moment.In his final answer Johnson mentioned the possibility of installing some kind of alarm indicating when a known paedophile goes online. This attracted a flutter of interest, but afterwards a Johnson aide appeared to stress that this was all highly speculative. It's "some way off", he said (with a sense of understatement, I think.)So, not story there. And no real story in any of it. But I'll post some conclusions in a moment.3.14pm: I've just seen a full copy of the letter Johnson has sent to Sir Michael Scholar today (see 2.02pm). Here's the key quote:I have no doubt in my mind that [Grayling] is deliberately misleading the public about violent crime for political advantage.3.23pm: The Labour video is on the party's website now. I was too busy typing to pay full attention when they were playing it in the press conference. But I've watched it again and I have to say that - as these things go - it's quite good. If you watch it, you'll see why one journalist told Johnson he seemed to be describing Cameron as "the burglar's friend".3.26pm: Here are the main points from this afternoon.• Johnson claimed that 23 serious crimes would have gone unsolved last year if the government had adopted the restrictions on the DNA database proposed by the Conservatives.• He claimed that evidence about re-offending supported the case for DNA being retained for six years. (The government plan - see here for more details.) He said three years - the figure used in Scotland - had been "plucked out of the air".This DNA issue is an interesting one, and we'll almost certainly here a lot more about it as the campaign goes on. Gordon Brown made a speech about it last week. It did not get much coverage, because it coincided with the announcement about Lord Ashcroft's non-dom status, but it included a powerful attack on the Tories. As Paul Waugh pointed out, Brown used it to introduce a Willie Horton figure into the election debate.One other thing: I haven't seen Johnson at a news conference like this for some time and I had forgotten how accomplished he was. He's got the knack of being able to sound reasonable - a surprisingly rare skill in politics, and an important one. If I were Gordon Brown, I would be putting him up more often.That's it. Thanks for the comments.4.30pm Update: Chris Grayling, the shadow home secretary, has issued a comment on the press conference:We will take no lessons on law and order from a government that let 80,000 prisoners out of jail early leaving them free to commit some horrendous crimes, including three murders, when they should have still been behind bars. Gordon Brown's administration has been soft on crime and soft on the causes of crime. No amount of political rhetoric will change that.