Scotland Yard is setting up a new unit to track down organised criminal gangs from London's growing ethnic minority communities.Detectives have identified almost 200 crime networks operating in the capital that are dominated by particular minorities, such as Turks, Chinese, Indians, Pakistanis, Sri Lankans and those from eastern European countries. The victims often come from the same communities as the criminals - for example, Asian gangs targeting wealthy Asian businesspeople in burglaries and kidnappings, and Turks running protection rackets against Turkish restaurants. This can make it difficult to get victims and witnesses to come forward, but police believe the new unit will enable them to act quickly in order to stop gangs getting a stranglehold on their communities. Tarique Ghaffur, the assistant commissioner in charge of the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate, said: "The impact of globalisation, which involves technology and the movement of people, is in no doubt reflected in organised and serious crime in London. "We are absolutely committed to identifying the methods used by these criminals and dismantling their networks. We will continue to work with our communities to make London safer and this new unit will give confidence to all Londoners." Chief Superintendent Dick Gargini, who is organising the 120-strong unit, said: "We've taken action against these new kind of criminal networks already, and we've had particular successes, with Sri Lankan crime for instance. "But we've recognised that the quicker we identify the problem, and the quicker we act, the more chance we have of nipping the problem in the bud." One of the problems is that victims from the same ethnic community as the perpetrators are more likely to be fearful of contacting police. But the new team will coordinate intelligence and be ready to conduct swift operations with the full back-up of the Yard's specialist serious crime squads. They will also be monitoring events in the countries from which the criminals originated. For example, some political groups in Turkey bolster their funds by "persuading" kebab shop owners to "contribute". Political changes in Turkey could lead to a surge of extortion demands in London. Certain criminal trends are becoming associated with certain networks. A lot of Chinese and Asian criminals are importing fake electronic games and many eastern European gangs are trafficking women to use as prostitutes. Ch Supt Gargini said: "Every week between five and eight women trafficked to London come into police stations to be repatriated. Many go back to eastern Europe. "It's a big problem. But we now have agreements with police in several dozen countries. It means that if women go back to Albania, for instance, the local police will be watching out for them." These links - which involve hi-tech video-link presentations on policing beamed out from Scotland Yard - are part of cooperation which the Met believes will help them clamp down on crime in London. It could also save money. Inter-gang warfare generates murders which police say cost £1m a time to investigate. Police are increasingly using the confiscation laws to claw back money earned through crime. Their initial annual target is £20m.