Police in Manchester are searching for a stolen silver cross that was taken from Manchester Cathedral. It would seem that metal thieves have sunk to a new low, targeting the most important religious in the heart of the city.It is believed that the thief, or thieves, went into the cathedral purporting to be a visitor, but then took the silver cross which was attached to a shelf by a chain. Church staff later realised it had been stolen, sometime between 2.45pm and 5pm on Friday, January 13.The Greater Manchester Police force is appealing for anyone with information about the theft, to contact them. Sergeant Christopher Clarke says:The religious significance of this cross cannot be overestimated and the cruel theft has caused a great deal of distress. Understandably, they are desperate for its return.He urged scrapyards or metal dealers to be vigilant and if offered the item, to contact police andplease do not allow the thief to further profit from their callous actions and call us straight away.The force has launched Operation Alloy to target the problem of metal thefts across the county, and they are continuing to make arrests for those who steal metal for a quick buck.Clarke addsThis theft will cause outrage in the community because of the religious significance of the cross, and I would urge people to help us find the culprits.Operation Alloy involves specialist operations and neighbourhood policing officers in conjunction with telecoms engineers and utility companies to retrieve metal thought to have been stolen and to make arrests when they suspect people are involved in the metal theft.  Manchester town hall. if the cathedral is targeted, how many other public buildings are safe? Photograph: Peter Barritt/SuperStock/CorbisAt the end of last year, in a separate operation launched by British Transport Police, I accompanied officers and utility companies in raids of scrap yards in the north west, searching for stolen scrap metal. The government has vowed to clamp down on the industry, which leads to huge delays for rail commuters, and costs the industry millions of pounds each year. It is also an issue which especially affects churches, which are regarded as 'easy' targets by metal thieves.