In his first policy speech as the new voice at the top of the Home Office, David Blunkett set out his ideas on sentencing and prisons yesterday.Contrary to earlier spin, it was not a hardline, blood-chilling call for locking more people up. Speaking to the first conference of the new national probation service - on the same day he released the Halliday report, his department's review of sentencing policy - Mr Blunkett emphasised the importance of rehabilitation. In an early morning interview he told the BBC his aim was not to push up prison numbers. Indeed, the use of prison for relatively minor crimes might be reduced. ("I question whether sending someone to jail for less than six months, costing them their job and in some cases their family, is helpful in rehabilitating and stopping them offending.")His focus was on trying to prevent young people going to prison in the first place. Better still, he explained why this did not mean he was going soft. As an MP for a deeply deprived inner-city community in Sheffield, he recognised the devastating effects of crime, but set out to reassure such communities why prevention and rehabilitation gave them more protection.  He did not go as far as a Tory predecessor, David Waddington, who spoke of prisons being "an expensive way of making bad people worse", but he did concede prisons were colleges of crimes. ("Undoubtedly people learn more about crime in prison than they will learn any where else in their lives.") This welcome break from nine years of hardline rhetoric from Michael Howard and Jack Straw was warmly received by probation officers and penal reform groups. It was not all sweetness and light.  There was a tough section as well as a tender one to the package: abolition of the early release scheme; longer sentences for violent and dangerous offenders, who will no longer be free after serving two-thirds of their sentences; sterner punishment for the 100,000 persistent offenders who account for 50% of recorded crime.  But there were also new community sentences, a new custody-plus sentence - half spent in prison but half under strict supervision in the community - and possibly a custody minus - no prison unless supervision rules are breached. The emphasis will be on tackling the factors which cause crime - like the poor literacy and numeracy skills which mean two-thirds of all inmates are ineligible for 90% of job vacancies. There is a sad history of penal reform packages producing regressive unintended consequences. This one is no exception. Courts may be tempted to make much more use of custody-plus because of its rehabilitation programmes and stricter supervision, thus pushing up prison numbers. Serious breaches to custody-minus rules could have the same effect. Tougher penalties for persistent offenders raise serious civil rights issues. Courts can already take previous convictions into account when sentencing. Any further powers risk people being sentenced for what they are, rather than what they have done. This can lead to serious injustices, including heavy sentences for trivial offences. Judges have resisted such moves since the habitual offender acts of the 1860s. There was one final misconception in the tough part: his call for sentences to deter. Sentences do not deter in a criminal justice system in which 98 out of every 100 crimes do not end up with a conviction. What deters is detection. That is why Mr Blunkett's drive to make the police more efficient is so important. Better detection will deter.