Police found Ian Huntley's hair in a bin mixed with the partially burned clothing that Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman had been wearing on the day they died, his Old Bailey murder trial was told today.All the girls' clothing - from trainers to underwear - was cut from their bodies, and efforts were made to burn the clothing in a bin at Soham Village College, prosecutor Richard Latham QC told the court.The prosecution showed a photograph of the blackened remains of the Manchester United shirts the girls had been wearing when they disappeared. Mr Latham said police made the grim discovery on Friday August 16 last year in a bin in a hangar at the college after finding the keys in Mr Huntley's house. Mr Huntley, 29, the college's former caretaker, denies murdering the two girls but admits conspiring to pervert the course of justice. The court heard that his fingerprints and hairs from his head were found inside the bag with the clothing in it. Mr Latham said: "We place very considerable reliance on the fact that Mr Huntley's fingerprints were on the inside of the bag. "We say the clothing was in the bottom of the bin, and after the clothing was there the bin liner had been put in it and spread and his fingerprints are on the spreading process, as it were, of the bin liner." Mr Latham said there were numerous links between the clothing found at the bin and Mr Huntley, his Fiesta and 5 College Close. "The links include the fact that within the clothing in the bin, mixed up with the clothing, were found head hairs which were later found to match those of Huntley," he told the court. The court watched a 3D graphic reconstruction of how police discovered Holly and Jessica's clothes in the dustbin. A police officer searched the five yellow bins in the hangar. In one of them, after removing a bag of rubbish and a second bin liner, he found the girls' clothing. He said there was evidence that an attempt had been made to burn them. Cobwebs hanging over the bins were found to have smoke residue in them. Mr Latham said Mr Huntley had access to the hangar as part of his job as caretaker and might have picked up a pile of bin liners "for perfectly innocent reasons". But hairs from his head were found mixed in with the clothing in the bin, and his fingerprints were inside the bag. Huntley 'tried to sanitise car'Earlier the court heard that Mr Huntley made a major effort to "sanitise" his car on the day Holly and Jessica disappeared. All four tyres on the red Ford Fiesta were changed, the carpet was taken out of the boot, and he was seen thoroughly sanitising the vehicle outside his home in the Cambridgeshire town, the court heard. The counsel said that Mr Huntley drove to a garage in Ely to have the Fiesta's tyres changed on the afternoon of Monday August 5 last year. It was less than 24 hours after the girls had vanished. The accused slipped a mechanic £10 to put a false registration number in the paper record of the work, the QC said. "More particularly, one of the mechanics noticed the tyres coming off were in surprisingly good condition," he added. In his second day of giving evidence, Mr Latham also said that Mr Huntley had made a tearful phone call to his then girlfriend, Maxine Carr, on the morning after the 10-year-olds went missing. He told her he was afraid that he would be "fitted up" for the crime, the court heard. While talking about Mr Huntley's car, Mr Latham said that tyres driven on soft ground would leave marks. He said that only a "guilty" person who knew what treadmarks had been left at the scene where the bodies were dumped could be assured that they could change their tyres to exclude their own treadmarks. "That's the person who went there with the bodies," Mr Latham said. Mobile phone records also placed Mr Huntley in Ely, Mr Latham said. He added that there was no receipt for the new tyres at Mr Huntley's home, despite the defendant keeping many other receipts and documents. The actions of Mr Huntley, who denies the schoolgirls' murders, showed a man "who is thinking calmly and carefully and is calculating his way forward", the prosecution said. Mr Latham said that his acts suggested "a devious and calculating mind which was well able to think about what he needed to do to distract attention away from himself". On that Monday evening, when people were out searching for the missing girls, Mr Huntley was seen washing his car. Many people thought this was "insensitive", but the prosecution suggested that there was a more "sinister" motive. Mr Latham said that when Mr Huntley bought the car, it had a professionally fitted carpet in the boot. When the car was seized by police, a piece of domestic carpet had been cut to fit inside. Police visiting his house also noticed washing on the line, even though it was raining. They described the ground floor as being "immaculately tidy" and smelling of lemon cleaning liquid, the court heard.'Maxine was sobbing'On the next day, Tuesday August 6, Mr Huntley drove the Fiesta to Grimsby to collect Ms Carr, who had been visiting her mother. A witness, a neighbour of Ms Carr's mother, saw the pair standing near the car. Describing what the neighbour saw, Mr Latham said: "The car boot was open, and both of them appeared to be looking into it. Maxine was sobbing and Ian just looked really thin and pale. "As she opened her gate it made a noise and they both looked round and at her. Ian closed the boot. Maxine put her head down and continued to cry." Mr Latham said that Mr Huntley's actions before he went to Grimsby often followed telephone contact with Ms Carr. "We attach significance to contact followed by action," he said. Mr Huntley, the former caretaker at Soham Village College, denies the murder of the girls but has admitted a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, 26, a former classroom assistant at the girls' school in Soham, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The court heard yesterday that Mr Huntley was unlikely to deny that the girls had died in his house while he was the only other person there.  The case was adjourned until Friday.