Max Clifford, the celebrity publicist, has agreed to represent a Norfolk farmer accused of murdering a 16-year-old youth during a suspected burglary.The PR fixer has been brought in by Tony Martin's lawyer to co-ordinate a media campaign for him even though criminal proceedings are active. There are strict laws governing media coverage of criminal proceedings to remove the possibility of jury members being influenced by sources outside the courtroom. Last night Mr Clifford said he did not believe he was stepping into a legal minefield. "I was approached by Mr Martin and his solicitor to help them deal with the media. My job will be to make sure there is as much information passed on to the British public as possible." He added: "Tony cannot do interviews himself. But the media can speak to his mother, his friends, people who know him and who care about him. That is what I will be doing." Martin, 54, has been charged with the murder of Fred Barras, a market trader from Newark, Nottinghamshire, during a suspected break-in at his 350-acre farm, Bleak House, in Emneth on August 20. He is also accused of causing grievous bodily harm with intent to another man, Brendon Fearon, also from Newark. An inquest last week heard that Barras died from a shotgun wound. Fearon was treated for shotgun injuries to the leg. Mr Clifford said he would not be helping the farmer to sell his story, and had become involved because he sympathised with what had happened. In the past Mr Clifford represented OJ Simpson, who also had been accused of murder, and he was prime mover behind a series of scandals to befall Conservative ministers. It is a contempt of court to publish anything which carries a "substantial risk of serious prejudice to the course of justice". Lawyers say that, although the safeguards are there primarily to ensure that the defendant is given a fair trial, it is also possible for the defence to prejudice the prosecution's case. Fearon and a third man, who has not been named by police, were arrested on suspicion of burglary after the shootings. They were freed without charge on police bail, but if charges are laid against them, their defence team may claim that Martin's media campaign has made it impossible for them to receive a fair trial. Martin was released from prison yesterday after being granted conditional bail in a closed hearing at Norwich crown court.