Channel 4’s decision to air The Paedophile Hunter, a documentary about a vigilante who tries to entrap and humiliate paedophiles, has been the centre of debate this week. It raises many important questions about the relationship between the public and law, while providing a chilling insight into the dark world of paedophilia.It also did an excellent job of demonstrating why the character at the centre of the documentary, Stinson Hunter, should desist from his activities.A large amount of police time is dedicated to obtaining prosecutions for paedophiles: since 2012 almost 100 people have been charged for sexual offences against under-18s in Warwickshire alone. However superficially attractive, Hunter’s methods risk jeopardising a lot of that work.One of the extremely misleading impressions created by the programme is that the police are not addressing these issues. Following the broadcast, many people on social media have questioned the effectiveness of the police in investigating the online exploitation of children.However, that is simply not the case. Since January 2012, 164 people have been prosecuted for committing 404 sexual offences against people under 18. In the past 12 months the force has launched 33 separate investigations into online exploitation, including working with the National Crime Agency on the high-profile national investigation Operation Notarise.Following the Oxford revelations about child sexual exploitation in 2013, I ordered a review of all of the policies within Warwickshire and made clear that I favoured the setting up of a multi-agency safeguarding hub (Mash), where all the relevant agencies sit together and share intelligence and information about vulnerable children. Together with our partners in West Mercia, we are committing in excess of £2.5m to protecting vulnerable people, and child protection will be a major beneficiary of that investment.Warwickshire police have met Hunter on a number of occasions and tried to find a way to work with him. If he was genuinely concerned about public good, he would hand over his evidence to the police, rather than exposing people online, so that officers with the right training can take it forward. By making their identities public he makes it difficult for the case to go to a fair trial, and so his work cannot always lead to a conviction.The programme finished with a list of the offenders trapped and the sentences they received. This could have all been achieved without the ritual humiliation on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube which Hunter seems to revel in. The fact that the family members of the offender, including children, can also be seriously damaged by such public humiliation is clearly of no concern to him. It simply serves to achieve a greater public profile for him.Is this how we want justice administered in this country? For obvious and perfectly justifiable reasons paedophiles and paedophilia generate huge anger, but that must not be allowed to cloud judgment and produce outcomes that are completely unacceptable. To get sufficient evidence to prosecute paedophiles – and particularly the hugely dangerous paedophile rings – takes thousands of hours of dedicated covert police work, and Hunter could jeopardise one of those operations. He has no idea of what he might be stumbling into, and as with so much of his work, he blasts on oblivious to any damage he might be doing elsewhere.Hunter has a choice: he can present evidence to the proper authorities to deal with judiciously, or he can continue to try to whip up the mob.Extreme emotions and justice make very poor bed fellows. What is apparent from the programme was that the humiliation and rabble-rousing are essential drivers for Hunter, but neither has a place in the pursuit of justice.There is no doubt that paedophilia and child sexual exploitation has to be confronted, but it must not be confronted this way.