It is better to tackle the behaviour of nuisance neighbours head on than evict them and move the problem elsewhere, the Home Office has admitted after carrying out new research.The findings, based on a review of the impact of official programmes on the behaviour of 67 of the most difficult nuisance neighbour cases, came as the Home Office minister Hazel Blears renewed the "last resort" threat of eviction. More than 1,000 problem families across the country are to be targeted by the government's neighbourhood nuisance programme over the next 12 months. They will be offered a last chance to accept support and turn around their behaviour, or be told that they will have to face the consequences. The package of support includes intensive parenting programmes, treatment for drug and alcohol abuse, money management advice, and liaising with schools to get truanting children back into education. It will be backed up by measures including acceptable behaviour contracts, parenting orders, anti-social behaviour orders and on-the-spot fines leading up to eviction. A review published yesterday of 67 of the toughest cases reported to the national neighbourhood nuisance expert panel - which includes police officers, criminal justice workers, social services and local authority experts - showed that progress was possible. It said that in 44 of the 67 behaviour had improved, with family support identified as the main reason for the change. Two thirds of the cases involved families with children, around half of which were lone parents. The most common cases involved threatening and intimidating behaviour. In a quarter of cases the perpetrators had moved into their current home after being evicted. "In dealing with nuisance neighbours it is sometimes easier to move them on, to clear up their mess or repair the physical damage they cause rather than tackle their behaviour head on," says the Home Office background briefing on the review results published yesterday. "But the solution lies in confronting and changing the behaviour so that it is dealt with and not displaced." Ms Blears, who yesterday announced a further £1.25m to improve the provision of intensive family support schemes in 50 "anti-social behaviour action areas", said: "Having nuisance neighbours may sound trivial to some, but the reality can be pure hell for the individuals and communities affected. "In the worst cases, the anti-social behaviour of one or two families can hold whole streets to ransom, causing residents to live in fear of vandalism, abuse or harassment day in, day out." The expanded programme would mean that parents who persisted in letting their children run wild or behave like yobs would face intensive rehabilitation. Shelter, the housing charity, said that the threat of eviction was only the right course of action as a last resort in cases of serious and persistent non-violent harassment, or where violence was threatened or actually used. "By moving on the problem there is a fresh cost to the public purse, as there then needs to be fresh housing provision and a new social services intervention," it said. "It is better to deal with the problem as it is."