It was a dull morning compared to the sunny day a year ago on the last, murderous journey of deranged gunman Derrick Bird.But the weather was warm for west Cumbria and the warmth was reflected by over 500 people who gathered in silence in Whitehaven to mourn the massacre's 12 victims and console the 11 who were seriously hurt.A baby mewled as the names of the dead were read out, before her mother hushed her for a two-minute silence that was broken only by one passing car and much birdsong, including the keening of the little port's seagulls.The rector of Whitehaven, Rev John Bannister, who conducted one of the hardest services of his life after the killings last June, spoke of the dignity and compassion which had been almost universally shown since the tragedy. The blameless family of Bird, whose first victim was his twin brother David, stood close to relatives of Darren Rewcastle, a murdered colleague on Whitehaven taxi rank, where everyday joshing unwittingly fed a persecution complex as Bird lost his mind."Now we must begin to move on," said Bannister. "This anniversary, I pray, will give us all strength and support as we take the long and painful road of recovery." A local poet's verse in the Whitehaven News, whose modest coverage echoed the muted nature of this week's memorials, repeated the theme.Invoking the unfailing ebb and flow of the Irish Sea tides, it spoke of Whitehaven's past recoveries from disaster – "again and again and again". Those conscious of the town's terrible history thought of the day in 1910 when 104 men and boys were killed by an explosion at Wellington pit; or of 1947, when 103 miners died in William pit whose sealed-off tunnels still creep from the filled-in shaft by the train station far out beneath the bay.Mourners were hesitant to draw any positive lessons from the aftermath of the Bird tragedy, which was partly an act of revenge for imagined family injustices and partly a slaughter as random as a lightning strike. Bannister, the leader of Copeland council, Elaine Woodburn, and Cumbria's chief constable Craig Mackey all spoke of the effects on community spirit and resilience. But west Cumbria has been a byword for both for centuries.Whitehaven's ceremony in the pretty grounds of St Nicholas church, an informal garden amid the precise Georgian plan of the centre, was mirrored in the small town of Egremont and the seaside village of Seascale. Both were stages along Bird's final drive to the lovely hamlet of Boot where he shot himself, just over the fell from another little paradise, lower Ennerdale, where he spent his childhood.On Friday night candles will shine from windows in Whitehaven and Saturday will see traditional fetes in the town and at Seascale enhanced by tributes to the victims. One of the most seriously injured, hotelier Harry Berger, who has played a major part in regenerating Boot, meanwhile issued a blanket invitation for a money-raising mountain epic in September."There is no point sitting around moping about it," he said of learning to live with a severely damaged arm and the loss of two fingers. "You do not do anyone any favours like that. Life is too short and I just want to get on with it." In spite of severe elbow pain, he will lead a climb up Scafell Pike, Scafell, Helvellyn and Skiddaw, the highest of the peaks which rise behind Whitehaven, in aid of the Cumbria air ambulance.Those who died on 2 June 2010 were: Bird's twin David, 52; the family's solicitor Kevin Commons, 60; taxi driver Darren Rewcastle, 43; mother-of-two Susan Hughes, 57; retired security worker Kenneth Fishburn, 71; retired Sellafield employee and part-time mole-catcher Isaac Dixon, 65; retired couple James and Jennifer Jackson, 67 and 68; farmer and rugby league player Gary Purdham, 31; estate agent James Clark, 23; retired Sellafield worker Michael Pike, 64; and pensioner Jane Robinson, 66. The last nine were entirely unknown to Bird, who asked most of them the time from the window of his grey Citroen Picasso, and when they pottered over to help, shot them dead at point blank range.