The plot was meticulously planned and executed with cruelty and cold-heartedness.Factory worker Rafal Nowak charmed his way into Catherine Wells-Burr's life, bought a house with her and then, supported by his secret lover and her uncle, murdered her and burned the body to pick up more than £100,000 of life insurance.In an attempt to avoid detection, the plotters wove a web of callous lies around Wells-Burr, pretending she had a mystery lover who could have killed her, and even placing fake profiles for her on websites used by people to find casual sexual partners.To make matters worse, Nowak allowed himself to be comforted by Wells-Burr's distraught parents who believed he was also grieving for a young woman he had loved.Nowak, 31, and Wells-Burr, 23, met while working on the Henry vacuum cleaner production line at Numatic International in Chard, Somerset, in the summer of 2010. He had moved to the UK after his marriage in Poland failed and was living with Anna Lagwinowicz, 32, at a flat in Taunton. Nowak and Wells-Burr began to date, though he continued to see Lagwinowicz.Wells-Burr graduated with a first from Bath Spa University in 2011 and secured a better job as a business analyst at Numatic, where her mother, father and sister also worked. She and Nowak decided to set up home together and bought a new-build terraced house in Willow Way, Chard.  Catherine Wells-Burr's sister, Leanne, mother, Jayne, and father, Philip Wells-Burr. Photograph: David Hedges/SWNS/PABut while Catherine was dreaming of marriage and children, Nowak was hatching a plot to murder her, leaving him – and Lagwinowicz – with a life insurance payout and the house.Nowak killed Wells-Burr in the early hours of 12 September last year, probably smothering her with a pillow as she slept.Lagwinowicz and her uncle, Tadevsz Dmytryszyn, 38, who also lived in Taunton, are believed to have driven Wells-Burr's body in her Ford Focus to a remote spot 7 miles away. They set the car on fire at 6am, by which time Nowak had clocked on at work, giving him a cast-iron alibi.Nowak did a decent acting job once Wells-Burr was missed. He told her mother, Jayne: "I've lost my world, I've lost my future" and, more cryptically, "I begged her not to go". After the body was found he told Catherine's sister, Leanne: "Don't worry, she'll be back."The plotters had gone to enormous lengths to hide their crime not only by setting fire to the body but by inventing a completely false backstory for her.Among their tactics was the creation of a fake trail of text messages with a mystery man, implying she was having an affair with a lover who may have been responsible for her death.One of the plotters sent a text message from Wells-Burr's phone at 5.17am, supposedly to this fictional man on the day she was killed in an attempt to suggest she was on her way to see him.Lagwinowicz had also set up false profiles of Wells-Burr on "casual" or "local" dating sites, often used by people wanting sex with strangers. Some of the images she used were fake pornographic pictures of Wells-Burr.Nowak went further, telling Jayne Wells-Burr that her daughter had been receiving emails and text messages from a former boyfriend who was saying that if he could not have her, nobody could. To cover all bases, he even claimed she had talked of suicide.But as police probed Nowak and Lagwinowicz, the lies began to unravel.Forensic scientists established Wells-Burr had been wearing a pair of shorts when the fire was lit – her preferred nightwear, not the sort of outfit she would have worn to meet someone. They discovered a pillow was missing from her bed and a single pillow case had been washed and was hanging on a clothesline, leading officers to think she had been smothered.Detectives also found the SIM card associated with the number that Catherine was supposed to have texted on the morning she was killed – in Lagwinowicz's car. And discovered in a bin at Lagwinowicz's flat were notes she had written as she sought inspiration for the texts the "mystery man" was supposedly sending.Once Nowak and Lagwinowicz realised the game was up, they both claimed the other had enlisted the help of a hitman to kill Wells-Burr.A week before the trial was due to start, Lagwinowicz asked a prison cellmate to smuggle out a fake confession to the crime by an invented hitman who said he had been paid £20,000 by Nowak to kill Wells-Burr.The story, written by Lagwinowicz, may have given a frightening insight into what happened to their victim.According to this fictional hitman Wells-Burr's body was in the boot of the car. "Nowak was very pleased that he had killed Catherine," the hitman was supposed to have written. "I helped him to sit her in the driver's seat. Nowak ripped off the tape from her mouth and put some shoes on her. He put a seat belt round her and kissed her goodbye. At 6am I drove up to Catherine's car and as instructed by Nowak I set it alight."