Two brothers accused of murdering 10-year-old Damilola Taylor would have had to run the "four-minute mile" if they were using their mobile phones on the day the schoolboy died, the Old Bailey was told today.The judge, Mr Justice Hooper, told the jury that the prosecution's case was that the 16-year-olds would have around seven minutes to run just under 1.8 miles. He said: "To run that distance would, on my calculations, require a speed of 15mph. It is the four-minute mile which was first broken by Roger Bannister a long time ago." He said that even a fast runner would still have to negotiate roads and rush-hour traffic in London along the route. The route by road would take 2.4 miles and would need a speed of 20mph but no evidence had been produced to suggest the brothers could have used anything "faster than their feet". Mr Justice Cooper was explaining to the jury why he had ruled out "impermissible speculation" about whether the brothers could have covered the distance between Blakes road, Peckham, where Damilola was injured and Bermondsey, both south London. He told the jury that if they were sure the brothers were using their phones, they could not have been involved in the death of Damilola. Five calls were made between 4.47pm and 4.52pm on November 27 2000, the time a 999 call was made to police summoning help for Damilola. Four calls recorded on the brothers' phones were credit or time checks while the other call was to a phone owned by the mother of one of their friends. No further evidence was produced about this call. The judge said the prosecution case was that evidence from staff at Feltham young offenders institute claiming the brothers had admitted their involvement in the attack was enough to discount the youths being in Bermondsey. The SIM card from one of the phones had been recovered from the home of a relative in Bermondsey after his arrest and it was common for youngsters to lend their phones to friends. The defence said there was no evidence that they were not using their phones themselves and it was unlikely they would have both lent their phones, which were then used at the same time. Damilola died from blood loss from a bottle wound to his leg. The brothers deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob.The trial continues.