Emergency plans to house convicted prisoners in police cells are being drawn up by the government as jails in England and Wales come close to overflowing.The last time cells were used was in 2002 when 23 police forces were ordered to provide space for up to 600 inmates at a cost to the Prison Service of £10.4m.A Home Office spokesman yesterday confirmed a plan had been drawn up to reactivate this scheme, Operation Safeguard, but stressed that 'the National Offender Management Service is doing everything it reasonably can to avoid' this. But while Home Office insiders stress the scheme is a last resort, they admit it now looks increasingly likely. On Friday the prison population touched 79,285 - just 1,015 places below full capacity.Last week the director-general of the service, Phil Wheatley, told the prison governors' conference that the jails could only find room for another few hundred prisoners. This raises the troubling prospect that the prisons will be full in weeks leaving the Home Office with no room for manoeuvre. 'When we are full we are full,' Wheatley told the conference.Last night the Prison Reform Trust issued figures showing that 88 out of the 142 prisons are operating above levels that the service accepts as allowing a decent standard of accommodation. Of these 18 are breaching their operating capacity, raising fears that security is being jeopardised, the trust said.Juliet Lyon, its director, said the mounting crisis was caused by the government's enthusiasm for locking people up: 'The prison population is mushrooming out of control, the tabloids have the whip hand and the government is still trying hopelessly to build its way out of a crisis of its own making.'Lucie Russell, the director of SmartJustice, a charity campaigning for community-based punishments rather than jail, said too many people were in prison for relatively minor crimes.'We need prisons to keep us safe from dangerous and violent offenders but three out of five prisoners are serving time for non-violent crimes such as shoplifting,' she said. 'Many of these offenders are mentally ill and have major drug and alcohol problems.'A Home Office spokesman disputed the trust's claims, saying there was often more prison space than the raw figures suggested because some inmates were out on home leave or for hospital appointments.But with courts now sitting again after the summer, the total is expected to start rising in the coming weeks, triggering a crisis. 'The next month is going to be critical,' said Charles Bushell, leader of the Prison Governors Association. Plans to add up to 1,000 places - including the conversion of an army barracks near Dover into a jail - would have no impact until next year. 'By which time we'll have been in a bit of a mess,' he said.The government also wants to release more prisoners on tagging orders to offset the crisis. But new figures obtained by the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo) show that the companies operating the scheme have been plagued by technical problems and communications breakdowns which mean violators are often not returned to court for breaching their orders.In the 10 months leading up to last January, Group Four Securicor failed to meet its service levels 19 times, and its rival Serco did so 21 times. The failures brought the two operators large fines.'By 2009, over £250m worth of probation business could be contracted out,' said Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo. Yet the tagging scheme - 'the existing major private sector initiative - is expensive, fails to meet service level agreements and the orders are regularly breached'.