This has turned into a winter of discontent for the Data Protection Act and for those who are charged with enforcing it. Two very high-profile recent cases - the Soham murder trial of Ian Huntley and the deaths of an elderly south London couple whose gas had been cut off - have led to an open season for attacks on a system of control which, by and large, has worked well for many years. In some rightwing quarters, the Data Protection Act has been elevated to a hate status not far short of that reserved for traffic cameras or higher-rate income tax.In fact, neither the act itself nor the Information Commission that supervises its enforcement deserves to be dumped on in this way. If there are faults in our system of information protection, then the finger of blame should mainly be pointed not at the law, but at the managerial jobsworths who have applied it so boneheadedly so often. In their incompetent hands, data protection has become an asphyxiating blanket of political correctness, rather than a sword and shield to protect the interests of law-abiding citizens. Neither the police in the Huntley case nor British Gas in the disconnection case applied the law as it was meant to be applied. As the Information Commissioner, Richard Thomas, pointed out this week, it is ridiculous that any organisation should hide behind data protection for practices which no reasonable person would ever find acceptable. Mr Thomas is making vigorous efforts to reverse the tide of abuse that has been coming his way recently. He deserves to succeed, both for the sake of individual privacy and for the sake of freedom of information, which he also supervises. This week Mr Thomas announced some practical measures - strengthening the data-protection helpline, making his commission's guidance more user-friendly, and a commitment to plain English - which go some way to remedy the potential for confusion that exists in many organisations. But, as the Soham and British Gas cases showed, the main thing lacking in the national approach to data protection is not too much legal jargon, but too little managerial common sense.