Senior business leaders have warned that last week's riots could send some of Britain's most troubled high streets into a downward spiral if traumatised shopkeepers decide to walk away.Hundreds of stores were looted and in some cases destroyed by fire during the spree of violence and theft that insurers say will cost £200m to mop up.The boarded-up windows on Queensway, a usually smart parade of shops in north London, told their own depressing story of the riot that swept through the area last Monday. A small florist, a Starbucks and an unassuming branch of Maplin are among the stores to have had their windows smashed and shelves ransacked.Vin Vara, one of the shopkeepers who kept vigil in his shop, is facing a bill for more than £4,000 to replace his DIY store's windows. The Tool Shop's shelves of bolt cutters, hammers and white spirit must have seemed like the perfect weapons arsenal for the looters."Our windows are reinforced glass so they shattered but didn't break," says Vara, who along with his partner Jay Patel survived the Brixton riots in the 1980s. Last week the pair had the foresight to hire three vans, load them up with stock and park them in an underground car park until the storm passed.The entrepreneurs, who own 10 shops, say their repair firm is asking for payment up front, a demand any retailer already struggling in the downturn will find hard to meet. Patel said a new shopfront costs £12,000 to £15,000: "If I were a one-man band, I'd think I might as well go and work on a check-out in Tesco for £7 an hour – why bother?"Last week the government announced a £20m relief fund to prevent retailers whose stores were destroyed during the riots from going out of business. Patel, however, is worried the wheels of government will turn too slowly, and although banks such as HSBC are said to be pitching in with 0% loans, he's doubtful that they will will step into the breach: "If you have a turnover of £3,000 to £4,000 per week, who is going to lend you £20,000 to do repairs?" he said. "We wanted to buy another business but shelved the idea because of the bank. If you are a small shop with debts you just won't survive."One of the most dramatic images of the riots is the fire that engulfed Carpetright's store in Tottenham and the homes of the families living above. Carpetright's chief executive, Lord Harris of Peckham, says it will be hard to coax retailers and shoppers back into marginal areas."Would you want to go to shopping on [Tottenham] high street this Saturday?," he says. "There are shops boarded up and you might feel intimidated." For retailers who did not have insurance for their stock, starting again simply might not be an option, he added.The recession has accelerated high street decline, with a government-sponsored review, led by retail guru and TV presenter Mary Portas, charged with coming up with ideas of how to foster "more prosperous and diverse" town centres. With one in seven UK shops lying empty, the clock is ticking.Stephen Robertson, the director of the British Retail Consortium (BRC), says: "Our biggest fear is that otherwise successful retailers are pushed into insolvency by the events of last week. The retail sector has been battling difficult trading conditions for much of this year and sadly for some shops these attacks will be the final straw."Figures from the Local Data Company, which tracks high streets and retail parks in the UK, suggest that more than 48,000 of the 476,000 outlets it monitors were affected either through direct attacks on their premises, or indirectly through lost trade. There are no official figures yet but the looting was directed against chain stores such as Argos, Dixons and Carphone Warehouse, as well as independent retailers.Robertson said it was likely that stores which were "borderline profitable" would not reopen – or would opt to open in a safer location after the trauma of seeing their business destroyed. The BRC has studied how high streets can reach a tipping point, where rising crime leads customers and shops to leave an area, creating a spiral of decline."Shoppers will not be attracted to a high street if they feel unsafe," said Robertson. "What this has shown is that the retail sector is very vulnerable. Stores are designed to be attractive and inspiring, they're not banks with vaults, and I'm not just talking about property – people in retail are vulnerable to assault and abuse as we have seen on a grand scale."Terry Duddy, chief executive of Home Retail Group, which owns Argos, has said that some of its staff were threatened during the rioting, which affected 18 of its stores. "We were telling them if they needed to close the store, close the store," he told Retail Week. Industry charity the Retail Trust has started a campaign to raise funds for affected shopworkers, with £50,000 already released from its reserves to help with emergency cases.The government's high street support scheme, which is drawn from the coffers of the departments for Communities and Local Government (CLG), and Business, Innovation and Skills, is to be marshalled by councils who can use it to reduce business rates bills and pay for repairs.A CLG spokesman said more details would be released soon: "The government's priority is to get local communities back on their feet, get businesses up and running again and make sure nobody is left without a roof over their head."