A man who sexually abused his daughter for more than three decades, fathering two children by her, was jailed for 12 years yesterday for incest, rape and indecent assault.The 68-year-old from Harlow, Essex, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, was described as depraved and wicked by the judge."You dragged your daughter into a grotesque fantasy world of your wicked making," said Judge David Turner QC at Chelmsford crown court.As the daughter wept in the public gallery, he added: "You held her in your psychological grip, limiting her freedom, her movements and other relationships, curtailing her autonomy, exploiting her vulnerability, conditioning compliance. This was a grotesque breach of trust. Her childhood was horribly betrayed."The defendant, who has other children and grandchildren, had changed his plea to guilty on the day his trial was due to start in August.The judge said he did not believe that the man had any real remorse or empathy for his victims. The daughter is now 45 and is the mother of children aged 13 and 16. Both believed the defendant was their grandfather, not father.The judge condemned the defendant for the way he had revealed his identity to their two children, after repeatedly threatening to do so. The court heard he had "screamed" it through the letter box to one of them. The children were unprepared and had been left frightened and angry, said the judge.The man pleaded guilty to 18 charges covering the period 4 July 1971 to 3 July 2004, including incest, rape, and indecent assault.Samantha Leigh, prosecuting, told the court sexual activity began when the girl was aged seven, became full sex when she was about eight, and continued until she was 40, when she moved out of the home they shared with their two children. The woman's mother had separated from the father in 1993 and died four years ago.Last year the woman confided to a friend who urged her to report the abuse to the police, which she did last September. Leigh said the victim was conditioned to accept the abuse as normal. Sometimes her father used ordinary balloons as condoms but generally they had unprotected intercourse.Detectives praised the woman's courage and said they were satisfied with the sentence."The victim in this case showed incredible courage," said Detective Constable Emily Monk of the Essex police child abuse investigation unit. "This was an extremely serious case, where a man had abused his daughter over a very long period of time. She was not physically imprisoned but he controlled her and she felt she could not leave. The crimes came to light when she spoke to a friend and that friend persuaded her to contact us. Her courage is a lesson for all women in similar situations."