The conviction of Isa Ibrahim is seen by police as a model of how communities and law enforcement agencies can work together to root out would-be terrorists. Ibrahim, a Muslim convert from a middle-class background, was not known as an extremist to the police or the security services. Detectives only got to him because the Muslim community in Bristol went to officers with their concerns.Avon and Somerset police say it is the first time in the UK that an Islamist terrorist has been caught after both the tip-off and the identification of the suspect came from the community. The force believes this co-operation prevented Ibrahim from launching an attack on the Broadmead shopping centre in the city after experimenting with homemade explosives for several months.Detective Superintendent Kevin Hazell, of Avon and Somerset police, said: "This is the first time that from start to finish all the information about a terrorist suspect came from the community. They raised concerns about his behaviour. They provided a name and description. They even eventually came up with a photograph of him."Born Andrew Philip, Ibrahim is from a well-to-do family. His father, Nassif, originally from Egypt, is a consultant pathologist at Frenchay hospital in Bristol and his mother, Victoria, works for a university. Both are church-going Christians.Ibrahim was a bright but troubled school pupil. He was expelled from two independent schools for taking drugs, the first time when he was only 12, and thrown out of a third for smacking a girl on the bottom. As a teenager he experimented with drugs ranging from cannabis to the horse tranquilliser ketamine, and on to heroin.He became interested in people with extreme views, counting the movie American History X about white supremacy in the US as his favourite. Ibrahim experimented with his own look, once sporting a mohican haircut like Robert De Niro in the film Taxi Driver, and at another point opting for bright red hair in honour of a favourite heavy metal singer. He had the abbreviation HTID – standing for "Hardcore till I die" – tattooed on his arm.When he was 16, Ibrahim's parents split, driven apart partly by their son's bad behaviour, according to friends. At the same time, Ibrahim converted to Islam. He moved into a flat paid for by his parents and began to wear Islamic dress. He claimed the Qur'an forbade him from drinking alcohol but did not stop him taking drugs.When the tenancy expired on his flat, Ibrahim declared himself homeless. He lived in St George's House, a homeless hostel, for a year and sold the Big Issue outside the Broadmead shopping centre, the place he was later to target.At St George's House, Ibrahim was initially seen as a devout and serious Muslim. But then he pinned a picture to his wall depicting the 9/11 attacks, grew a beard and took out books on Islamist extremism from the library.In February 2007 Ibrahim changed his first name by deed poll to Isa. He went back into education at the City of Bristol College, where he studied biology and chemistry. He once asked a visiting lecturer in microbiology about the "best" bacteria to kill people.Around Christmas 2007, classmates noticed him changing dramatically. Ibrahim said he admired Osama bin Laden and liked what radical preachers such as Abu Hamza stood for. He viewed the 9/11 attacks as a "justified response" to US and UK aggression against Muslims. He said he wanted to go to Iraq or Palestine to join the fighting and that he felt living in the UK was like "living in a dirty toilet with a minefield outside". He said he sympathised with suicide bombers.Ibrahim often searched the internet to research the teachings not only of Hamza but of the cleric Omar Bakri and the group al-Muhajiroun. He investigated bombings in London and Glasgow.In January 2008 the local housing authority moved him to a one-bedroom flat in Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol. There he set about making homemade explosives. He bought hydrogen peroxide, an ingredient in the explosive HMTD, from branches of Boots. He collected other parts for a bomb – circuitry and batteries to make a detonator, ball bearings and airgun pellets for the ammunition. And he made a suicide vest that police were to find hanging on the back of his bedroom door.On 7 April 2008, 10 days before his arrest, Ibrahim made what police are convinced was a reconnaissance of the Broadmead shopping centre in Bristol. He took notes of his visit on his mobile phone and seemed to be picking out the food court as a possible target. It is a "dense area", he wrote.Ibrahim experimented detonating small quantities of HMTD at his flat. One experiment went wrong. The explosion created was fiercer than he anticipated and Ibrahim was left with shards of glass in his hands.By this time Ibrahim was a familiar, if not trusted, figure at several mosques and community groups in Bristol. His increasingly radical views had begun to worry fellow Muslims. When he appeared with cut hands, alarm bells rang.The initial call to Avon and Somerset police about Ibrahim was taken by a member of the force's special branch community engagement unit – as it happens on his mobile while he was on leave on a canal boating holiday on Monday 14 April last year. The informant did not know Ibrahim's full name but said he was a white convert called Esa.By Wednesday evening, the community had come up with his full real name and a photograph. Police pounced. His reaction was: "My mother is going to kill me."HMTD was found in a biscuit tin in the fridge. The neighbourhood was cleared and three controlled explosions were carried out.The puzzle that remains is why Ibrahim turned to Islamist extremism. Police sources don't really know, but they point out that he was an "obsessive" – in his mid and late teens his obsessions were heavy metal and then dance music and drugs. Later it was religion. "He did everything to extremes," said one source. Some officers close to the case think he turned to Islamism because he craved attention and a sense of belonging.Police in Bristol are continuing to try to build on the good relations with the Muslim community that led to Ibrahim's arrest. Detective Superintendent Nigel Rock, who led the investigation, said: "He was an unknown. Without the information from the community we may not have got to him. Without the community's help he could have killed dozens of people."