It was the news John Reid didn't want to hear. 'It's unacceptable,' said the Lord Chancellor on Wednesday. And in two words, the Home Secretary's room for manoeuvre became ever more restricted.'It' was the Home Secretary's plan to house prisoners in the cells of inner London crown courts, a desperate measure born out of desperate times. With prisons full to capacity and with newspapers calling for his resignation, Reid's options were more limited by the hour.He had already re-activated Operation Safeguard, the controversial plan to house prisoners in police cells. Now he needed more space. But Falconer was clear: court cells were off limits. 'It's just dangerous to house prisoners in them,' said one prison governor. 'Many need medical treatment or support for alcohol and drug problems. You just can't put vulnerable people in court cells. They're not designed for it.'It will not be the last piece of bad news for Reid on the prisons crisis. The Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, is expected to wade into the fray on Thursday when he gives the Prison Reform Trust annual lecture.Williams will say that overcrowding damages the system's ability to rehabilitate prisoners and claim there is a sense of 'drift' in the criminal justice system. The archbishop's intervention in such an overtly political matter is unusual but not unprecedented. It will, however, guarantee acres more unhappy newsprint.Another blow for the Home Secretary will be delivered in the annual report of the Chief Inspector of Prisons. Anne Owers will this week raise concerns about the huge rise in the number of prisoners serving 'indeterminate sentences' - those with no fixed end for the most dangerous offenders. There are now around 2,000 such prisoners in the system - far more than the government anticipated when it introduced the sentences.Owers will also highlight the number of foreign national prisoners held in Britain's jails who have completed their sentence but who have yet to be released because of deportation issues.The overall impression is of Reid fighting a losing battle. And last Friday, the scale of the fight became all too apparent. Figures slipped out quietly by the Home Office showed the prison population had jumped by a record 627 in just one week. Even seasoned prison experts were taken aback.'To put it into context, the prison ship Weare held fewer than 400 people,' said William Higham, head of policy at the Prison Reform Trust. 'John Reid could buy one ship a week at this rate and moor a whole armada of them around the coast without solving the crisis.'The reference to the Weare will embarrass the Home Office. Last year the department sold the creaking hulk, condemned as uninhabitable, for a rumoured £2m. Now the Home Office is in the ignominious position of trying to lease it back from its new owners, a Nigerian oil exploration company which wants to talk to the British government - providing it will pay the firm £10m a year for it.Yet officials say prison ships are not the real answer: they are unlikely to comply with modern human rights standards and too easy to escape from. New 'flatpack' prison blocks on order will not be ready for months, nor will HMP Kennet, the ex-mental hospital on which the prison service has just signed a lease. Months of negotiations with the Ministry of Defence over co-opting old military bases have gone nowhere. There are no easy answers.Yet Reid is running out of time. According to the Home Office's internal estimates, the prison population will hit a record 83,500 by the start of the summer. The number assumes all 800 foreign nationals in cells awaiting deportation are removed by July - unlikely given the chaotic state of the records.The present maximum usable operational capacity is 80,716, meaning that unless Reid finds more places fast, the system will go into meltdown in the next few months or even weeks.The 2,000 prison places due to come on stream this year are mainly not available until June, when Home Office officials had forecast the prisons would hit the crisis level they have in fact hit six months early.Why did they get it so wrong? The traditional dip in the prison population around Christmas, when crime usually falls and magistrates appear more reluctant to put people away, did not come this year for unknown reasons. None the less, the prison population hit an all-time record last October: this crisis should hardly be a bolt from the blue.'This demonstrates only too clearly that the result of years of neglect by the government and incredibly slow action by John Reid is that the Prison Service is dragging the whole criminal justice system into a spiral of decline,' said the shadow Home Secretary, David Davis.In desperation Home Office officials have had to think the unthinkable - allowing thousands of prisoners to be released early. The move is politically unpalatable for Reid and for Downing Street. But The Observer can reveal that early release is just one option the worried officials have tried to bring to the attention of the Home Secretary. Other plans discussed by officials include:· Dramatically increasing the amount of electronic tagging.· Borrowing an idea from Sweden which sees prisoners given custodial sentences for minor offences placed in a queue for a place. When one becomes available he or she goes inside.· Reducing 'the tariff' that some prisoners serve behind bars. Currently most offenders are released after serving half of their sentence. But there are suggestions this could be cut to 45 per cent or 40 per cent in some cases.Home Office sources said the last two ideas were unpopular with Reid, whose focus continues to be on finding more places. In addition to reopening a wing of a prison in Norwich - again condemned as uninhabitable - the department has identified other former jail spaces that could be recommissioned. These include disused wings at prisons in Winchester, which now has no floors, and at Leeds, which has no roof.Campaigners also want to draw the Home Secretary's attention to the huge number of people on held remand. During any one year, 50,000 people - 20 per cent of whom are eventually found not guilty at trial - are detained on remand in prisons, many for minor offences that do not constitute a risk to the public.Whether Reid will listen is debatable. Last week's decision to plug the gap by writing to judges reminding them of non-custodial alternatives to prison only antagonised them, although it is unclear whether sentences actually changed as a result. Possessing child pornography, the offence for which Derek Williams was controversially freed by a judge who blamed Reid's instructions, is not necessarily a custodial offence. But the judges now hold the aces.'It's heads they win and tails we lose: if we attack [judges] for doing the wrong thing, they can fill the prisons in 10 minutes flat, and if we don't the impression is left that Reid ordered paedophiles to be released,' says a senior Whitehall source.Yet tomorrow Reid will confront another branch of the judiciary in a speech to magistrates, highlighting concerns about the Criminal Justice Act 2003 which has resulted in more serious offenders locked up for longer. This law also offered new community sentences supposed to balance the prison population by seeing fewer minor offenders jailed, but judges and magistrates have proved reluctant to use the powers.'He wants to see more offenders serving tough but credible sentences working in the community and giving something back,' said a Home Office source. Privately, ministers argue that the judiciary are too aware of the risk of being pilloried in the tabloids to have confidence in community services.But any perceived criticism of magistrates is likely to draw a stinging rebuke. 'We are aware of the prison population problem but magistrates have a duty to administer justice fairly and properly, said Cindy Barnett, chairman of the Magistrates Association.Reid's best hope may be salvation from an unlikely quarter, the police. The Home Office is privately pinning its hopes on them switching to on-the-spot fines for more offenders, rather than arresting them and sending them to court where they could be jailed. Reid has no powers to order a change in police tactics but Whitehall sources say he expects all parts of the criminal justice system to be aware of the crisis.But the police are not well disposed to the Home Secretary at the moment. They are concerned about a freeze in police funding - capped at a 2.7 per cent increase for the next few years at a time when demands on the forces are growing. The Police Federation, the body representing Britain's 140,000 rank-and- file officers, is becoming increasingly vocal and has criticised the use of some fixed penalties.Reid hopes the long-term solution is a Whitehall shake-up transferring prisons and sentencing policy into the same department, a new Ministry of Justice. That would co-ordinate more closely what police and judges do with the impact on jail populations. But such reforms might not bring results for years - even if Gordon Brown, who has plans of his own for reshaping Whitehall, agreed. Brown has been, say MPs, 'noticeably chirpy' all week about the woes of the man once tipped to run against him for the Labour leadership.And unfortunately for Reid his in-tray is now full. In a further escalation of the crisis, the Prison Officers' Association, representing some 35,000 of them, is also on a collision course with the Home Office.To staff the recommissioned prison wings, Reid needs to use existing prison officers who will be placed on special contracts. But the association has instructed its members not to recognise the contracts, and complains that there are now 1,000 fewer prison officers than when Labour came to power. Home Office lawyers have given the POA until 4pm today to drop their opposition or face legal action.In a sign of its increasing militancy, the association has said it will not meet to discuss its response until 6pm. 'We believe we are morally right on this matter,' said Colin Moses, chairman of the POA. 'Morale in the Prison Service is at an all-time low and still the Home Secretary won't meet with us.'But then maybe Reid is now simply playing for time. The precarious nature of being the head of the Home Office is not lost on the present incumbent. He even jokes about it. 'I am your Home Secretary,' he likes to tell people. And then with a rueful smile he adds: 'For now.'