A 57-year-old man was arrested today in connection with the abduction and murder of schoolgirl Amanda Dowler.Surrey police said they detained a man from the Greater London area this morning."He is currently at a Surrey police station being questioned and an address in Greater London is being searched," said a police spokesman.Amanda - better known as Milly - went missing on her way home from school in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey in 2002. Her naked body was found in a Hampshire wood six months later. Her killer has never been caught.The 13-year-old was last seen by a friend walking home from school on March 21 2002. A homemade video of her dancing round an ironing board was shown repeatedly on television in the weeks after her disappearance. Her body was discovered six months later by a couple picking mushrooms in Yateley Heath woods, near Fleet in Hampshire, about 20 miles from Walton-on-Thames.On the third anniversary of Milly's disappearance in March, her family made a fresh public appeal for help in catching their daughter's killer."Three years on, we would urge anyone to come forward with any information that may help Surrey police with their investigation. We need to know the name and see the face of the person who murdered our beautiful daughter. It feels like a very painful waiting game but one day we feel confident that the diligence and hard work of the police will pay off," the Dowler family said in a statement.Since her disappearance, Milly's family have set up a charity, Milly's Fund, to raise awareness of personal safety issues in children and young adults. They have also backed a safety campaign encouraging parents to learn to use text messaging to keep in touch with their children.The inquiry into Milly's murder is the largest of its kind undertaken by Surrey police. In March this year detectives revealed that since 2002 they had questioned 2,885 people, taken 4,288 statements and carried out 127 searches.Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 0845 125 2222. There is a £50,000 reward for information that leads police to the killer.