Fugitive gunman Raoul Moat called police to warn them he believed they were persecuting him, and to say he had already shot one officer having an affair with his former girlfriend, whom he had also shot, and he that intended to kill himself.Minutes later he shot PC David Rathband with the result he was blinded, a court heard.A transcript of the five-minute call while driving round Newcastle was played to the jury at the city's crown court.Moat, 37, said he had not intended to seriously wound his girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, 22, though she was critically ill in hospital, but he had intended to get her partner, Chris Brown: "He deserved it."In fact Brown, 29, was not a police officer but a karate instructor, although Stobbart had pretended he was an officer to keep Moat away after he got out of Durham prison, the court was told earlier."What I'm phoning you about is to tell you exactly what I have done, right?" Moat told the Northumbria police call handler. "Now, my girlfriend has been having an affair behind my back with one of your officers." He had been "hassled and harassed" by police for years though he had gone straight for six years while with Stobbart, but he had not been left alone for "five minutes" by police.Rathband, 42, described to the court how he was shot twice at close range; he thought the gunman tried to execute him with the second shot: "I just had to lie there and literally play dead because it was quite clear Moat wanted me dead."Moat's alleged accomplices, Karl Ness, 26, of Dudley, North Tyneside, and Qhuram Awan, 23, of Blyth, Northumberland, deny charges of the attempted murder of Rathband, conspiracy to murder, robbery and a firearms offence. Ness also denies the murder of Brown.Rathband was shot on 3 July as he parked at the A1 and A69 junction. He told the court he managed to raise his left arm after the first shot struck his right eye. "I felt my right eye being sucked out. It was like if you have a balloon of water and pull it through your hand," he said. "So I tried to stop myself breathing, because I was making a lot of rasping noises because of the amount of blood spraying out and going down my throat."He managed to raise the alarm using a gearstick microphone on his patrol car.Moat, 37, shot himself on 10 July following a six-hour standoff in Rothbury, Northumberland. He had been on the run for almost a week after killing Brown and critically injuring Stobbart.The transcript played to the court:"Hello there, this is the gunman from Birtley last night."What I'm phoning about is, is to tell you exactly why I have done what I have done, right?"Now, my girlfriend has been having an affair behind my back with one of your officers."Yous have hassled us, harassed us, yous just won't leave us alone."I went straight six years ago when I met her and I have tried my best to have a normal life and you just won't let up."Yous won't leave us alone for five minutes.""I can't drive down the street without the blue lights flashing.She has had an affair with one of your officers."If he had not been a police officer I would not have shot him. It's as simple as that, right?"I went to jail for something I didn't do; I could have taken a community order, right, but what "Meanwhile, while I'm in there doing that for my missus, right, she's having an affair with one of your officers, right. She's winding us up, saying that yous are going to stitch us up using him."Right. And I know that he is this and that, is going to, cause he's a multiple black belt, that he is going to kick me arse all over the place.""And I have had nothing but grief ... but I have had a genuine relationship with her for six years, which is why we have stayed together, and I have gone straight."I have had a totally legit life with her, I have opened a business, and I have been shafted."Yous won't leave us alone. And now yous think you can take me missus."Now, I didn't mean to shoot her like that, right, that was..."Call Handler: "Okay, okay."RM: "Right. He deserved it, right, but she, right ... you can run ballistics — I was altering those cartridges, right."That one was half the powder, that ... it was meant to get her compensation because obviously I'm not going to be around in a few days, right, it was meant to just give her a little injury so she can get lots of comp Now that I have found out that she's critical I'm not happy about it..."But the fact of the matter is I'm not coming in alive. Yous have hassled me for so many years. If you come anywhere near me I'll kill yous. I have got two hostages at the moment, right — come anywhere near me and I'll kill them as well."I'm coming to get yous."I'm not on the run — I'm coming to get you."