Emerging into the dazzling sunlight, his dark grey suit hanging off his skinny frame, Sean Hodgson faltered, leaning on his brother and sucking in gulps of air.For one long minute the scene froze; photographers were silenced, his family held their breath and his solicitor was poised to usher him back inside. After 27 years in the British prison system, most of which was served in a hospital wing under psychiatric care, it seemed that this choreographed moment of release might be too much.But it was only a brief pause as if he was taking it all in, then Sean Hodgson lifted a finger deeply stained by nicotine, pointed down the steps of the Royal Courts of Justice to where the media waited 10 deep, and whispered in his north-eastern accented tones: "I want to go down there."He walked down the steps to a roar of voices and spontaneous applause. "How does it feel Sean? Give us a smile.""Ecstatic," came the whispered reply. "It's great to be free again." And then silence once more until Peter Hodgson, whose arm was thrown protectively around his brother's shoulder, stepped forward to help him out."On behalf of my brother I would like to thank the solicitors a million, million times," he said. "I have had a dream for 27 years. It's a hell of a long time but it's finally come true."At the prompting of the photographers, Peter Hodgson held his brother's fist and thrust it skywards, aping the likes of Paul Hill, Gerry Conlon and more recently Stephen Downing, and the tableau was complete.Moments before, away from the cameras, the two brothers had shared their private moment, when Hodgson was brought up from the cells shortly before lunchtime and led into the main hall of the high court. Walking unsteadily, he crossed the tiled floor towards his brother, grasped him by the shoulders and fell into his arms. Both men wiped tears from their eyes and uttered not a word."Both my ma and pa have gone to their graves without seeing this moment," Peter Hodgson had said as he waited to be reunited with his brother. "I can't believe it's happening now."It had taken just an hour inside court 4 of the royal courts to fulfil what Hodgson's parents had wanted to witness, the quashing of his conviction for murdering 22-year-old Teresa de Simone; a conviction that happened a lifetime ago when police did not tape interviews, psychiatric assessments were rarely made and DNA testing was science fiction.From Albany prison Hodgson had been brought to the dock where he sat accompanied by one of the solicitors who had helped secure this, his second attempt at an appeal. She was, the court was told, "a friendly face in a somewhat unusual environment".He was wearing a suit, a pale green shirt and a dapper tie. Marked out by his prison pallor, he seemed lost in thought as the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, lost no time in pronouncing the vital words to a courtroom filled with journalists, interested members of the public, police and lawyers: "On February 5 1982 the appellant was convicted of murder and sentenced to life. Today, 27 years later, his conviction will be quashed. It is not safe and we must now face reality."The first inescapable and appalling consequence is that he [Hodgson] has been in custody for 27 years as a consequence of an unsafe conviction, old wounds have been reignited ... for the victim's mother in particular, and there will be understandable public concern about the extraordinary circumstances of this case."Hodgson stood as the judges filed out, before one of the longest serving victims of a miscarriage of justice in Britain was led down to the cells to prepare for his release. On his wrist, hidden from view, was a silver watch presented to him two years ago by the governor at Albany to commemorate his 25 years in prison. Had he stayed there to mark his 30 anniversary, inside he would have received a gold one.