  Vincent Tabak's home is being searched by police.Police investigating the murder of Joanna Yeates are searching the home of her next door neighbour, architectural engineer Vincent Tabak, 32.Officers set up a tarpaulin supported by scaffolding outside Yeates's garden flat in Clifton, Bristol, and that of Dutch national Tabak. He works in Bath for a company called Buro Happold, and moved to Bristol in 2009 from Bath. Calls from the media to Buro Happold were referred to the Avon and Somerset police press office.The search was launched after police announced this morning that a 32-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of murdering the landscape architect.Announcing the arrest, Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, of Avon and Somerset police, thanked the public and paid tribute to Yeates's family and her boyfriend, Greg Reardon.Jones, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "I would like to thank the public for their continued support for the investigation and the information they have provided to us."I would also like to pay tribute to Jo's family and to Greg, who continue to be unfailing in their support to me and my team at what is an incredibly difficult and painful time for them."He told the media that no more details could be given."Proceedings are active and you are all reminded of the Contempt of Court Act, and therefore you will understand that we cannot discuss any more details at this stage," he said.The arrest took place early this morning but Avon and Somerset police did not say where.Activity had intensified around the Clifton address where Yeates lived. A large green tarpaulin, supported on scaffolding poles, was set up at the back of the building covering the area behind her basement flat and one next door to it. A van carrying forensics equipment and officers pulled into the drive.Yeates's 63-year-old father, David, speaking at the family home in Ampfield, Hampshire, said: "We are pleased that the investigation is moving forward."We know as much as you do. We were told at 6am that someone was arrested on suspicion of Jo's murder and their age."The man is the second to be arrested on suspicion of the murder of the 25-year-old. Her landlord, Chris Jefferies, was arrested on 30 December, five days after her body was found. He was released after questioning.Yeates was last seen on Friday 17 December. She left the Ram pub near Bristol city centre, where she had been drinking with colleagues and walked back to her flat, stopping at three shops and buying a pizza and two bottles of cider.The coat and boots she was wearing were found at the flat she shared with 27-year-old Reardon, along with her keys and phone.Reardon reported Yeates missing when he returned on 19 December after a weekend away. Police always emphasised that he was a witness rather than a suspect.A missing person's search ended when Yeates's body was found on a rural roadside verge three miles from her home. She had been strangled.Police have since revealed that one of her long ski socks was missing, prompting speculation that it might have been used to strangle her.