A staff nurse who predicted correctly what time one of his patients would die was found guilty yesterday of murdering four elderly patients in hospital on his shifts by administering lethal insulin injections.Colin Norris, 32, of Glasgow, was also found guilty of attempting to murder a fifth patient by a jury at Newcastle crown court. Norris's colleagues at Leeds general infirmary became suspicious after he predicted correctly what time 86-year-old Ethel Hall would die in November 2002, telling a colleague she would die at 5.10am on his shift. Robert Smith, prosecuting, told the court that Norris also told his colleague that whenever he worked nights someone would die, and it was just his luck that he would have to do the paperwork. Hall, who was recovering well after a hip operation, was found in a coma later on the same shift. A colleague, Dr Emma Ward, ordered blood tests on Hall. When the sample showed she had 12 times the normal level of insulin, an investigation was launched which also looked at the deaths of Doris Ludlam, 80, and Bridget Bourke, 88, who both fell into comas on the same ward that Hall had been in and later died in June and July 2002. The death of 79-year-old Irene Crookes at St James's hospital, also in Leeds, while Norris was working there in October 2002 was also investigated. All three women had been in hospital for hip operations. The prosecution had also told the court that Norris had said he did not like looking after "geriatric patients" while he was training to be a nurse. He was also found to have given Vera Wilby an unnecessary dose of morphine followed by insulin in May 2002. Wilby, who was also in Leeds general infirmary for a hip operation, fell into a coma but did not die. Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Gregg said after the verdict was delivered that more people could have died had it not been for the actions of Norris's colleague. "Were it not for the prompt actions of one doctor, Dr Emma Ward, following the unexplained coma that beset Ethel Hall, then I am convinced that other people would have lost their lives at his hands," he said."Within a six-month period Norris murdered four women and attempted to murder another. His confidence was growing to such an extent he clearly felt he could kill with impunity." Gregg described the former nurse as an "extremely arrogant individual" who was "looking for opportunities to kill" and said he faced a lengthy prison sentence.He said the case was "a complex medical investigation" based on circumstantial evidence: "There hasn't been the hard evidence, you know, where a witness has seen this man with a syringe going under the bedcovers and literally injecting anybody. It hasn't been as clear-cut as that." Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS trust said that while it had brought in changes such as a permanent police presence at the hospital since the patients' deaths, "it is important to stress that none of these actions would have prevented Colin Norris's crimes".Dr Hugo Mascie-Taylor, the medical director, described Norris's crimes as "disturbing" and apologised to the victims' families for the deaths. West Yorkshire police issued a statement from the victims' families: "We are pleased with today's verdict, which brings to an end a lengthy investigation which has been like a black cloud hanging over us for five long years." They said Norris had "cut short their [relatives'] lives and their precious time with their children, grandchildren and in some cases great-grandchildren."Norris will be sentenced today.