Masked gunmen shot dead the son of a village postmaster during a raid on a family-run store this morning.West Mercia police said the man died after being shot in the chest at 8.20am during the raid in Fairfield, near Bromsgrove, Worcestershire. Neighbours identified him as Craig Hodson-Walker. His father, Ken, was in hospital after being shot in the leg.Three robbers were on the run after the raid at Fairfield Stores, a combined post office and shop."The offenders are dangerous and must not be approached," said Detective Superintendent Jon Groves of West Mercia constabulary's major incident unit.Police said the three raiders wore balaclavas and had a handgun and a sledgehammer. It was believed they used a silver VW Golf, which was later found abandoned nearby. Detectives appealed for witnesses who had seen the car this morning. Groves, who is leading the investigation, said the vehicle had been stolen from Solihull on New Year's Eve and had false number plates.Eddie Bretherton, 76, a villager, said the postmaster's wife, Judy, had run to a neighbouring house after the shooting."They live over the shop. We understand Ken has been shot in the leg and Craig has died," said Bretherton, who lives a few doors away.He said the family came from south Wales and that Craig was engaged to be married. "They are very nice people," he said.David Green, 59, a builder, said the Hodson-Walker family moved to the area some years ago.He said Ken and Judy Hodson-Walker were in their 50s and Craig was in his 20s. "Everybody knows everybody here. They are a lovely family, just lovely people really. We always have a little chat," he said.The Rev Barbara Mapley, the vicar of St Mark's Church in Fairfield, which is opposite the post office, said the community was in shock."It is a horrible, horrible thing to have happened," she said. "Everybody is shocked. You do not expect something like this to happen."Richard Lynton, 27, the bar manager at the nearby Swan Inn, said there had been a robbery at the post office in the nearby village of Romsley in the last few months."We are near the [M5] motorway so it is a quick getaway," he said.Gordon Witcomb, who lives two miles from the scene of the shooting and is chair of the neighbouring parish council, said he was shocked but not surprised. "It is funny because around here there are a lot of little shops and there seems to be a programme of them being attacked by armed robbers," he said.Fairfield first school, a primary school opposite the post office, was shut after the shooting. A Post Office spokesman said: "We are shocked and appalled at this terrible attack against hardworking people serving the whole community and we are very concerned for the family and will be doing all we can to help them."