Two men were today ordered to serve at least 35 years each in prison for the "absolutely ruthless" murder of PC Sharon Beshenivsky.Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah, 25, of London, and Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, of Small Heath, Birmingham, were both given life sentences at Newcastle crown court.Mr Justice Andrew Smith told them they must both serve at least 35 years before being considered for parole for the "callous" killing.Shah had admitted murder; Jamma had denied murder but was convicted by a jury at the end of a complex 11-week trial.The men were part of an armed gang that robbed a travel agents in Bradford city centre on November 18 last year. PC Beshenivsky, a 38-year-old mother, was shot dead at point blank range as the gang fled the scene.Two other members of the gang were brothers Faisal and Hassan Razzaq, both of Forest Gate, east London.Faisal Razzaq, 24, who was cleared of the officer's murder but convicted of her manslaughter, plus robbery and firearms offences, was given a life sentence. He was told he must serve at least 11 years before being considered for parole.Hassan Razzaq, 26, will be sentenced in January after pre-sentence reports are completed.Ahead of the sentences, which were handed down today, the court heard details of how the murder had affected PC Beshenivsky's family.She was the mother of three children and two stepchildren and was killed on the day of her youngest daughter's fourth birthday. Robert Smith QC, prosecuting, said: "To say the lives of all the members of that family were devastated beyond belief is probably an understatement."Mr Smith said that her colleague PC Teresa Milburn, who was also shot during the robbery and seriously injured, was completely unable to understand why the men needed to shoot the officers.She said simply threatening them with the guns would have been enough, Mr Smith told the court. PC Milburn, who was in court, sobbed as she heard her statement read out.Diana Ellis QC, for Shah, said he had come from a good family background but his personality changed after he suffered a "very serious assault" by two youths in 1998 which left him with serious head injuries. She said he had told his solicitor he was sorry in the days after he was arrested in connection with the murder.Ms Ellis said Shah, who is married with a 14-month-old son, did not know anyone would ever hear his words in court. She said that on December 14, last year, he said: "I'm sorry. Sorry for the two police officers. I've got a mum and sisters; they have children. I know what they have lost."If I ever get a chance many years down the line I will go to her tombstone and say what I feel ... I wish it had been my life, and not her life. I wish she had not been there."Jamma's counsel, Peter Griffiths QC, said his client was not an "unfeeling individual" and had expressed his "profound remorse and sorrow".But outside court after the sentencing, Detective Superintendent Andy Brennan, said their expressions of regret were "too little, too late".He said Shah and Jamma were "very dangerous" individuals who would have continued to commit crimes if they had not been caught. "My hope is that they [the sentences] act as a deterrent to other people who might consider carrying out this kind of robbery," Mr Brennan said.Paul Beshenivsky, the dead officer's husband, and PC Milburn were happy with the sentences, Mr Brennan said.Two other men, Jamma's brother Mustaf and Piran Ditta Khan - who the prosecution claim was the "architect of the robbery" - are wanted by officers over the murder and remain on the run.