Yesterday morning I was rung by the Jeremy Vine show with the news that Lincolnshire police have apparently asked Christians to pray for them to help in their investigations. Yes, of course I'll come on the programme, I said, feeling quite upset that this could be happening in the British police.After a Christian leader had extolled the virtues and good works of his faith and the value of prayer, I simply gave some facts about recent research on religion and prayer.One rather scary but important finding concerns the relationship between societies' health and levels of belief. A study by Gregory Paul compared developed nations and found that higher levels of belief were associated with higher levels of murder, violent crime, suicide, teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases.Of course this correlation does not prove that one causes the other, but it does weaken the common claim that if everyone believed in God we would all behave better: these measures are precisely the kinds of thing that most religions try to prevent.Then there's the vexed question of whether prayer has any effect. There are really three questions here. One is whether praying can affect the person who prays; the second is whether it can affect people who know they are being prayed for; and the third is whether it can affect people who do not know they are being prayed for.The answers to the first two are, almost certainly, yes. Praying can be calming, much like meditation, and can encourage kindly thoughts. Then there's the placebo effect, which will help people who know they are being prayed for, as will the feeling of community and support that they get.The really controversial one is the last. For a start, it seems pretty unlikely. As I said on the show, it seems a rather curious kind of God who would count up how many people are praying and only cure people or solve crimes if enough people asked him to - if, that is, it's a he. And how is he supposed to do it? By reaching down from a place in the sky or using the heavenly equivalent of psychokinesis ? But ridicule is beside the point. I could be wrong: there could be mechanisms we are all unaware of or new forces of nature to be discovered. So we need the research to find out. Happily, some very good research has been done on the medical effects of prayer, and the answer is clear: it is no - prayer does not cure people.There have been many studies, including several that claimed positive results, but several were badly flawed (no control groups, badly matched control groups, inadequate statistics and so on; there's a good review in the Skeptic magazine). Then there was the famous experiment on fertility rates, whose main author, Daniel Wirth, was found guilty of fraud.Since then a large study has been conducted by Herbert Benson in which more than 1,800 coronary bypass patients were divided into three groups who were prayed for (or not) by three large congregations, including Carmelite nuns. Patients who were prayed for but did not know it recovered at exactly the same rate as the control group (oddly, the ones who did know they were being prayed for fared worse).It is not surprising. If someone, somewhere, muttering words under their breath, or having good intentions or kind thoughts could really affect someone far away who knew nothing about it, then much of our science would have to be overthrown, and quite rightly. That's why I am glad people are doing all these difficult experiments to find out the answer for sure. But we now know the answer: distant prayer does not work.We have, as a society, fought long and hard to throw off the burdens of superstition and blind faith. Belief in God may (or may not) help individual people, but it certainly does not help societies, and it does nothing to bring world peace (in fact, quite the opposite); and prayer will not help the police solve their crimes. Let us not follow the example of the US and let faith creep back into our public services.