In 2010 a 40-year-old man was convicted for making lewd comments to two women on the London Underground, groping their breasts and running away. Why should anybody be subjugated and made to feel so vulnerable while going about their daily business?Sadly, their experience, though extreme, is not an isolated one. Many women have experienced unwanted sexual attention and sexual harassment such as aggressive staring, touching, rubbing, groping, lewd comments and flashing on public transport. A recent survey carried out for the End Violence Against Women campaign found that 31% of women aged 18-24 have experienced unwanted sexual attention while on public transport, 24% of women aged 25-34 have experienced unwanted sexual attention and 14% of all women aged 18 and over have experienced unwanted sexual attention.These statistics do not, and cannot, convey the impact on the women that are harassed in this manner. Through my work I have encountered many women who have been the victim of unwanted sexual attention or sexual harassment.One was Katie, who was travelling by bus when she was harassed. A man approached her and persistently pressed himself against her while she was seated. She moved down the bus to get away from him. The man then harassed another woman, who also moved away, at which point he walked back over to where Katie was standing and proceeded to press himself against her again. Katie shouted, expecting help. No one helped, including the driver. She left the bus at the next stop. Katie said she felt objectified and completely indignant. This happened in broad daylight and even worse, he got away with it. She told me that it was bad enough that this had happened, but that no one stepped in to help made her feel completely powerless.Katie did not report her harassment, which is common in many episodes of sexual harassment and unwanted sexual attention. It is clear that many of London's women have developed coping mechanisms. From initially laughing it off to changing behaviour, for example by cutting journeys short or avoiding certain carriages when alone or late at night. From the women I've spoken to there's a belief that this is just what you have to put up with, and while not normal, it's at least not surprising and the best way to deal with it is to endure and ignore it.But having to change your behaviour and daily routine through fear is unacceptable. This problem needs to be tackled on a number of levels, for a start all incidents need to be reported to the police and the perpetrators prosecuted. We all need to say "enough". This kind of behaviour has no place anywhere at any time. The vast majority of men share our disgust. However, there is still a minority who think this behaviour is acceptable. Extreme cases may indicate someone with complex issues. However, the "lower-level" behaviour is equally unacceptable. Like Katie, many women probably don't even consider it to be harassment or unwanted sexual attention.Lambeth council in London recently launched a "Know the Difference" campaign which has shown real results. They discovered a high incidence of unwanted sexual attention and sexual harassment in parts of their borough. Working with the local police, traders and licensees they developed a range of publicity materials such as leaflets and posters put up across the borough and at transport hubs. These bluntly told men to know the difference between flirting and crossing the line to unwanted sexual attention and sexual harassment. This campaign, with posters in key locations in the borough, and on licensed premises, has been followed by a drop in 30% in sexual offences in the borough. However, not all public bodies are as forward thinking as Lambeth council – for the past three years I have tried to get Transport for London to adopt this approach, so far with no success.Lambeth's initiative will not stop all incidents, but it is an important step that should be adopted across the London transport network. Why should women be subjugated and made to feel so vulnerable while going about their daily business?• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree