On the sprawling Twinbrook estate in west Belfast they are known as "hood huggers" - because they talk to criminals instead of kneecapping them.The volunteers and staff who run Community Restorative Justice (CRJ) stand accused by other critics of operating an alternative policing system promoting republican interests. The future of these pioneering schemes, which sprang up across Northern Ireland after the IRA ceasefire, could be decided today when the government publishes draft guidelines about their conduct.Without public funding the 14 CRJ projects - which last year dealt with 1,700 cases - are in danger of folding. Generous grants from an American philanthropist will end shortly. To obtain official support, however, the organisation will have to accept some degree of police involvement, but distrust of the force still runs deep in the republican community. The issue, moving swiftly up the political agenda, has sharpened divisions between Sinn Féin and the rival nationalist Social Democratic and Labour party. Looming behind is the larger question of whether Sinn Féin will eventually join the province's policing board.The chief achievement of CRJ, which started in 1999, is that, in close negotiation with the IRA, it helped break the grim repetition of punishment beatings and kneecappings by the Provisionals. Police figures show that in the last six months there were 54 punishment shootings in Northern Ireland - 50 by loyalist groups, four by republicans. The republican category includes those carried out by dissident groups not on ceasefire.In a sparsely furnished office in Twinbrook, Deirdre Groves, the local CRJ project coordinator, deals with a wide spectrum of casework, from window breaking and children loose on the streets through to violent feuds between families.Car theft and joyriding, once the traditional pursuit of antisocial teenagers, or "hoods", in west Belfast are being increasingly replaced, she says, by kids driving runabouts - clapped out vehicles bought for as little as £50. She is one of four CRJ "practitioners" who have completed an NVQ course in community justice and community safety. "It's about resolving disputes," she said. "There is a feeling here in the community that the police are unacceptable."Restorative justice schemes, which generally involve offenders confronting their victims and making amends, exist in many countries. Jim Auld, director of the CRJ, said his organisation had already gained acceptance among many social workers and probation officers.The fears about restorative justice practices in Northern Ireland focus on the CRJ's relationship with the IRA and alleged attempts to resolve more serious cases, such as sexual offences.Mr Auld, who was interned at the start of the Troubles, spent years working with young offenders to wean them off joyriding. He acknowledges the CRJ emerged following talks with the IRA and that some members are ex-prisoners. He is adamant that it does not deal with sex offences.Case study'There has to be respect'When Paul was 16 both his ankles were broken by an IRA punishment squad wielding sewer rods. He had been accused of joyriding and drug dealing.Local republicans forced him to leave his west Belfast home. He was allowed back on to the estate a year ago. Deirdre Groves at the Community Restorative Justice project helped to negotiate his return.Paul (not his real name), now 19, signed a contract promising he would not steal cars or get involved with criminals. His mother and Ms Groves signed too."We had several meetings with local IRA officials," she explained. "I made it clear [to Paul and his family] that when they were in here their safety was guaranteed. We had one person speaking at a time. There has to be respect. There is no justification for hurting these people."Paul is about to move into a new house with his girlfriend and young baby. "There was a feud between our family and a republican family," he recalled. "I was accused of being menacing. But now I have been back here for a year and I have changed my behaviour."