"Get that camera out of my face." It was a familiar response, usually with more choice language and the occasional shove, as I wandered around a Hackney that had descended into chaos by last Monday afternoon.It was clear that normal ways of covering this in video would not work. There were widespread reports of photographers being attacked, and many of the TV news channels were carrying footage shot from helicopters, or with camera crews that had security.I had on my hooded top and a small hand-held camera set to "auto" mode, which I kept hanging by my side or packed away in my rucksack. I stayed with a small group of rioters and protesters, talking to them off-camera and gaining their trust. When a police dog went for me as well as them, I thought I had earned the chance to start filming with them. From that moment on, I didn't film anyone up close without asking them first.People have said it was brave to film during the riots, but I was extremely careful. I was not going to try to get the most dramatic pictures, or capture everything that was going on with a fast-moving story. I decided to stay as low key as possible, get a sense of what was happening without my camera, and decide when to capture key scenes in microcosm that would tell a story.In Hackney that afternoon, I tried to capture the resentment that many on the streets felt towards society, and particularly the policing in their area. It was also important to show that there were a range of people on the streets doing a range of things. Not all of them were young, and not all were "wanton criminals".Twice I had to wrestle for my camera. Once I was on the verge of giving it up for fear of the attack getting worse when some others I had built a rapport with jumped in to protect me. One of them later came up to me and apologised, saying "I don't know what came over me."Later that night in nearby Dalston, the street was lined with Turkish and Kurdish men, and an uneasy sense of quiet hung in the air. A Spanish TV crew asked me where the "action" was. I sent them to Hackney, but decided to stay in Dalston with the feeling that something different was happening.I spent 15 minutes talking to the men, with the camera down discreetly, but not hidden, by my side trying to gain their trust, yet always rolling in case something happened.When something smashed near us, all the men started charging towards a gang of youths to defend their shops. My camera was already rolling, and I just started running with them. I had a story that would lead the news the next day and marked a turning point in community responses to the trouble.The following night, in predominantly white, working class Eltham in south-east London, there were similar scenes. By now people were talking about vigilante gangs, and some were suggesting a racial element to the clashes.Again, it was important not to rush in and antagonise or sensationalise things. By talking to lots of people there, and building up a sense of what was happening first, I was able to film some interviews and scenes. The film tried to strike a very delicate balance between what tension and overtones there were, while being fair to the overall motivation of people, which was to defend their community.In Birmingham on Wednesday night, fears were mounting of racially charged violence after three Asian men had been killed in a hit and run attack. I turned up to film a vigil held by the Muslim and Sikh communities. Candles were lit, followed by prayers and a speech.Then something remarkable happened – a debate broke out about whether to go home or march peacefully to the centre. Most of the other cameras had turned off by now, but for me, this was the key moment.The resulting film captured what seemed to be a turning point when the restraint and dignity of a community won out over some people's to desire to protest or gain revenge.John Domokos is a Guardian video producer