The government's latest street crime initiative appeared to have backfired last night when a minister admitted that it could lead to problem drug users committing crimes simply to get on to treatment programmes. The admission from the Home Office drugs minister, Bob Ainsworth, came when the government announced that "drug-fuelled street robbers" in the 10 street crime hotspots would be sent on treatment programmes within 24 hours of release from the police station. The initiative - which is part of the Department of Health's contribution to Downing Street's street crime action group - was trailed in the Commons on Wednesday by Tony Blair. Drug treatment charities pointed out that other problem drug users who had to wait up to five months to get help would see it as 'queue jumping'. "Are we really telling people with drug problems that to get help they first have to commit a crime?" asked DrugScope director Roger Howard. He added that there was no new money behind the scheme and it would be difficult for treatment services to respond to the demand in such a short period. When Mr Ainsworth was asked if addicts waiting for treatment would commit a street crime just to be referred to therapy, he said: "I can't say that in any circumstances somebody wouldn't want to do that. We need to close the gap between the estimated number of problematic drug users and the number of treatment places we have available." The Home Office also announced a separate plan to extend a pilot scheme under which those charged with theft, robbery or drug-related offences are tested for heroin and cocaine to six more areas. Under the scheme offenders will have to provide saliva samples rather than urine and those who test positive will be offered treatment. It is being extended to Bedford, Blackpool, Doncaster, Torquay, the Wirral and Wrexham. The Department of Health insisted that the lack of new money behind the "treatment within 24 hours" scheme for street robbers would not create a two tier treatment service: "There is only a very small number of people who are going to be treated in this way. It is not a vast number of people. The initiative can be managed within existing resources without disruption to the current service provision," said a spokeswoman. She added that there was no evidence that existing criminal justice initiatives which provided offenders with access to treatment services had led to drug users committing crime to get onto the programmes. But Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers doubted the value of the intiative claiming few street robbers were chronic drug abusers. He predicted that only a handful of robbers in inner London would be referred to drug treatment. The prime minister yesterday launched a £12m expansion of a scheme to keep youngsters off the streets this summer in the 10 worst street crime hotspots. Some 300 housing estates will get extra sports and arts facilities as a result of the Summer Splash scheme. The number of schemes, which may include some leading footballers, is to rise from 65 to 600 and will involve about 48,000 youngsters in an attempt to divert them away from crime. "Boredom and the lack of anything to do is too often the starting point for street crime. More and better sports and arts activities can help us focus on preventing crime at source."