A man who claimed more than £22,000 in disability benefits and told officials he could only walk using two sticks or a frame was jailed yesterday after it emerged he was a competitive marathon runner.Paul Appleby, 47, told officials that he was largely confined to a wheelchair and needed help eating and going to the toilet. But the court heard that the former miner from Kirkby in Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, was actually a club runner who regularly completed full and half marathons across the country.Sentencing Appleby to 10 months in jail at Nottingham crown court, Judge David Price said: "Your offending amounted to blatant dishonesty and that is the sort of dishonesty that affects every taxpayer in this country. They funded what must have been for you a very pleasant lifestyle."The court heard that Appleby made a legitimate claim for disability living allowance in March 1994, when he was forced to give up work with a back injury. However, he had recovered enough by 2001 to join a running club and register himself as an endurance runner with the Midland Counties Athletics Association.Ben Mills, prosecuting, told the court: "By 2001 he was running 10km races, representing the Sutton Harriers. He was running half marathons and full marathons. In 2002 he ran the London marathon, all the while claiming disability allowance off the state."According to the Sutton Harriers' website, Appleby finished the 2005 London marathon in three hours and 37 minutes. In 2004 he completed the same race in three hours and 35 minutes. He was also running regular half marathons.Mr Mills said the Department for Work and Pensions started investigating Appleby in 2005, secretly filming him warming up for races and running with the athletics club.Appleby was interviewed by the DWP in September 2005, when he admitted joining the running club and agreed that by doing so there was a "massive change" in his circumstances. "He also admitted he didn't deserve benefits," Mr Mills added. The court heard that Appleby, who has one previous conviction for dishonesty, told investigators that he didn't report the change in his health because he "didn't think it was a problem".Sarah Munro, defending, told the court that all money raised by Appleby when he competed in marathons was given to charity, including sizeable donations to the Marie Curie Cancer Trust.She said his original claim was genuine, but he continued to claim, instead of finding work, because it enabled him to care for his wife - who suffers from depression - and train for races. "He does concede that what he did was wrong," Ms Munro said.Appleby admitted failing to notify a change in circumstance between 2001 and January 2005. The court heard that he received more than £22,000 over a four-year period. Judge Price said: "You regularly ran long distance races. In 2002 you completed the London marathon. You still continued to make claims for disability allowance ... you clearly found a lot of time to run, and one wonders how much time you did devote to your wife."