Men will be forced to prove they have made efforts to ensure their sexual partners are willing, in a government crackdown on 'date rape'.This will close a legal loophole that allows rape suspects to walk free by saying they 'honestly believed' the woman involved wanted sex, even if she was fighting them off. Under the reforms, men could use this defence only if they could show a court they took steps to ensure the 'voluntary and genuine agreement' of a partner to sex. They could no longer argue that a woman's sexual history alone, for example, entitled them to think she wanted to sleep with them. The move follows the furore over the TV presenter Ulrika Jonsson's claim that she was raped as a 19-year-old by a fellow celebrity, but lacked the courage to report it. The man denies the allegation, saying she consented. 'We do not expect everyone to sign a contract before they get into bed with someone - that is a complete nonsense - but date rape is not about any kind of consensual sex,' said one Home Office source. 'It is important that people see rape as something that is not only about a stranger attacking you.' Critics will argue, however, that the proposals would turn dating into a politically correct minefield, with suitors having to negotiate women into bed in a way that would withstand scrutiny by a court. But Ministers say falling conviction rates show too many men are getting away with 'acquaintance rape', now the commonest form. The Home Office insists it is not targeting ordinary seductions, but a macho culture of men who believe buying a girl dinner entitle them to sex. The crackdown will also restrict defendants' ability to dredge up a woman's sexual past. Juries are reluctant to convict in cases where the attacker is a friend, or a former or present partner of the victim. The 'honest belief' defence allows a man to argue he thought the woman was consenting, even though she was not. She might, for example, have said no or struggled, but he was confused by mixed messages. The victim's own testimony that the man seemed convinced he was doing nothing wrong may even be used by the defence. Under the proposals, based on Canadian law, consent would be tightly redefined as 'voluntary and genuine agreement'. 'Defendants argue "either she was consenting, or if she wasn't, I didn't believe it",' said Vera Baird, a Labour MP and leading barrister. 'Women who have been raped are not getting criminal justice.' Ministers have taken no final decisions yet. Home Secretary David Blunkett will announce a sex offences bill, including rape reforms, in next month's Queen's Speech. Detailed proposals will follow later. The Home Office is privately worried about a male backlash because of entrenched attitudes. Focus groups run by the University of Surrey this year found many men unclear where lines should be drawn. One insisted that sex with a woman on a date could not be rape 'because you know her... she know [sic] why she there'. Another said that 'when a woman says no she means yes. You understand what I'm saying: it's too contradictory.'