I very much hope the Probation Service does survive for another 100 years, but for it to do so it needs to become what it started out as, much more local and responsive. The thing that has happened to the service is that it has become managed from the centre, from Whitehall. It has ceased to be responsive to the needs of local communities; it has less of a presence in local communities. Twenty or thirty years ago there were sub-offices in the places offenders lived. They got to know families, neighbours, and we know less about communities now.I suppose if you were after a soundbite it would be "places as well as cases". We know where the majority of our clients live: it's rundown estates and the most deprived neighbourhoods. If it's going to survive we need to re-emerge in these neighbourhoods by creating alliances with local authorities, wider civil society, churches and faith groups. Sheffield is the fourth largest town and there is just one downtown probation office. We need to go back and look at the things we pioneered and did very well. Rob Allen, director, International Centre for Prison Studies· The Probation Service will continue for as long as there is a criminal justice system and offenders to support and be rehabilitated. It needs to change and bring in a wider range of organisations to provide the service, which the current bill is set to do. I think that this will bring in more voluntary sector organisations and perhaps local authorities that are already well placed around education, training and housing needs and can play a role in supporting offenders. I am not sure of the extent that a lot of the local probation boards were really in touch with the communities that they served.Private sector organisations will also come in, but the experience in other areas is that they do not neccessarily have the skills or experience themselves and hire the same people that are already in the service. Social enterprises will also have a place, but we shall have to see how that area develops. If you look at the huge growth of housing associations and social landlords, this may also be an area that could take on probation service work. John Denham MP, former Home Office minister and chair, Commons Home Affairs select committee· A substantial core of the probation service should remain with the service in the public sector, with commissioning best undertaken at a local level where resources are known and needs best understood. A public sector core would ensure a solid platform for the delivery of individual plans and packages, allied to the motivation of and support for offenders required to ensure their optimum use of resources. It would also contribute to the provision of a seamless service required for public protection, with strong links in each area to the police and other criminal justice agencies, together with health and local authorities.A public sector core should comprise advice and information to courts (court duty officers and the writing of pre-sentence and other court reports) and offender management. Without such a strong and stable core, there is a real danger of fragmentation and of competition fostering a culture of secrecy. Regional commissioning would distance decision-making from communities where the work to reduce reoffending is undertaken. It would also create an additional layer of bureaucracy with attendant costs. Local area agreements should be used to develop preventive work and community solutions to crime, on the one hand, and to resettle ex-prisoners in the community on the other. The strengths of probation should be valued and used as the basis for reform. Geoff Dobson, deputy director, Prison Reform Trust· The view of many commentators on probation is often out of date. This is frequently an obstacle to a reasonable debate on sentencing and community orders. Weak enforcement of court orders is now a thing of the past, for instance. Probation is addressing some of our big crime problems, such as drug misuse, changing individual's behaviour and attitudes and organising millions of hours of unpaid work. The reconviction statistics released in March show there were promising signs that there has been a steady dipping of reconviction figures. Staff are working hard. We have invested from the government side with a real terms increase of 40% since 2001/02 and 6,000 new staff since the start of the decade, bringing numbers up to 21,000. Every one of these people has been needed, especially to increase the intensity of supervision with dangerous and persistent offenders. I know from my contact with staff, no one is having an easy time at the moment but we are determined to get the best out of the service. There is still untapped potential to cut crime. In recent years, two things have become clear: that offenders are to be closely managed throughout the entirety of their sentence, with no gaps or breaks; and that growth and our desire to keep innovating can be met by widening the pool of contributors on which the National Offender Management Service can draw, especially pulling in expertise or efficiencies from people in other sectors. This has not been a comfortable development for the probation service - especially as it hits 100 - but we are doing it for the public and victims, and to get more for the taxpayers' money, if we can. And probation is responding well. As a public sector provider, they look like they will be a tough challenge in a competition or, better still, a strong partner in the collaborative working we want to encourage. As a minister, I'm impressed but still probably rather demanding as well.Gerry Sutcliffe, Home Office minister· The privatisation agenda that was started with the advent of the National Offender Management Service (Noms) is a complete waste of time and money. There is pressure on agencies that have always been described as well-meaning voluntary agencies that seem to be turning into politically acceptable versions of private companies that want to take over probation officers' jobs and seek to do them better when they can't. The Labour and Conservative policies of "jail more" will put greater emphasis on probation officers personally being inclined towards becoming officers of the court rather than social workers. We have a great deal of time for probation officers and know how difficult their jobs are, but turning them into officers of the court with a more punitive outlook will mean they cease to serve the best interests of those coming out of prison.People that look to changing things in this way have a ridiculous expectation of the service. Our hostility to Noms has made the POA and Napo work together against a common enemy. We have suggested that prison officers have closer ties with the probation service - perhaps outside prison walls in what we have described as attendance centres. More initial and ongoing training is needed for probation officers, and given that within the 200,000-plus offender community there are high levels of personality disorder, drug dependence and mental illness, the service needs better access to the agencies that can help. I want a good socialist government to fund a properly run probation service that does not depend on the private sector for survival. Brian Caton, general secretary, Prison Officers Association· The probation service is going through its biggest crisis in its history, with unprecedented threats from the government which could see it fragmented or even abolished. The values of the probation service have been so distorted over the last 15 years that it no longer knows where it's going. If the government continues to look at the probation service as an agent for punishing people that can be run by the private sector, then we are finished. Rehabilitation and reintegration of people back into society is what the service is all about. I want the government to listen carefully to the House of Lords debate later this month on the second reading of the offender management bill and take account of the fact that the overwhelming view of the probation service for the future is that it must focus on rehabilitation and re-integration. Harry Fletcher, general secretary, National Association of Probation Officers· The expertise and quality of this country's probation service are the envy of nations throughout the world. Following its outstanding achievements over the last 100 years, the probation service will remain the lead agency responsible for the supervision of offenders in the community. However, it will work much more extensively with voluntary organisations, which provide offenders with help in areas such as accommodation, education, employment, mentoring, family work, addictions, mental health and community engagement. These are all crucial to reducing reoffending and they require the service to develop and maintain strong partnerships with voluntary and community agencies.More worryingly, the emphasis on "tough" community sentences will put the service under increasing pressure to load more and more requirements into the sentences and licences of supervised offenders. This risks setting offenders up to fail. Probation staff now have limited discretion to refrain from breaching offenders for forms of minor non-compliance like being late for appointments, and this is fuelling a large increase in breaches and recalls to prison. The service should work with other organisations to lobby against this trend. This means working to increase understanding of the time and persistence which is needed to turn round the lives of offenders with chaotic lifestyles. Paul Cavadino, chief executive, National Association for the Care and Rehabilitation of Offenders· There has always been a close relationship between magistrates and probation officers that is based on confidence and trust in terms of advice and enforcement, and that is a two-way thing which must continue for the service to succeed over the next 100 years. We have always valued local accountability, local involvement and knowledge. The offender management bill suggests the creation of probation trusts. We feel that magistrates could not be members of these organisations as there would be a potential for conflict of interest. Cindy Barnett, chair, Magistrates' Association· We're facing colossal challenges and urgently need to find a coherent way to unlock reoffending rates, ease the pressure on our prisons and reduce the fear of crime. This calls for more openness, transparency and inclusion. It also means cross-sector partners working with people in the heart of communities. Probation must now start to take a critical look at their 'make or buy' decisions which will mean allowing other sectors in to deliver services. Only when we embrace this core principle will we start to see the true benefits of services being delivered by a range of providers, particularly the third sector. This key structural change will allow the community to take centre stage and community sentences to work for neighbourhoods and victims as well as for offenders.But we have to be creative with community sentences so they become more meaningful and relevant to the neighbourhoods in which they are served. So far, we've seen the word "community" taken out of "community service", so that we now call it "unpaid work". What's more, too many offenders drop out of probation programmes which are invisible to victims and the wider public. It's fine to work on offenders' attitudes and behaviours, improve their skills, tackle their debt and substance misuse problems, but we have to get the community more involved by informing and engaging local people and businesses. By opening the system to new partners and shifting the focus to community safety, rather than solely concentrating of the offender's needs, we can look to the future with confidence. Graham Beech, director, Crime Concern· I hope probation gets to return to its roots over the next 100 years. That would see a focus on engagement - the modern equivalent of an old principle to 'advise, assist and befriend'. It would also see probation officers encouraged and able to consider the full range of issues affecting offenders. A look at the early log books from the London Police Court Mission (which became both the Probation Service and Rainer) shows time spent on finding employment, on tackling family issues, as well as the court work. Similarly, those early years saw a major contribution from charities and particularly volunteers. I hope that in the future these will again be allowed to play their part. The early work of the LPCM was partly credited with reducing the prison population from 33,000 to 11,000. Effective community sentences offer our only hope of avoiding the tried, tested and failed mass incarceration approach of the US. If modern probation officers, working alongside the voluntary sector, were able to achieve a similar feat to those first few missionaries, the next 100 years could be well worth celebrating. Joyce Moseley, chief executive, Rainer· I spent 22 years as a probation officer and manager, and I know that people working in the service are often confined by legislation. At Turning Point I now have the potential to be more creative, by helping to develop services, for instance by supporting substance users into treatment. In Sunderland we have a lot of experience in this area and we hear the voice of the service user. We engage with the community and go on to offer people the chance to prevent substance misuse. For instance, we do community-wide initial assessments which provide greater treatment uptake. Services like ours can also help to reintegrate vulnerable people back into the community, with the appropriate support and access to services. It would be great if the third sector could do more work with the Probation Service in the years to come, because we have expertise, both inside and outside the criminal justice system. Partnerships between the third sector, the Probation Service and other organisations would help to significantly reduce drug-related crime. Susan Cox, Turning Point arrest referral project manager, Sunderland