The Association of British Investigators ended its conference at Scarborough yesterday with the feeling that an elusive quarry it has been tailing for years is a little nearer capture: respectability for the private eye. The private eye believes that down those mean streets a man must go who is not himself mean, and would like an Act of Parliament to prove it.To this end, the Institute of Professional Investigators, to which many members of the association belong, has parliamentary draftsmen working on a bill for the registration of private eyes. This would allow them to regulate their own affairs through a controlling body rather like the Law Society.After years of campaigning for licensing for private eyes the association has dropped this demand in favour of registrations. "Dogs have licences, and we are not dogs," Mr Barrie Peachman, the retiring president said. "Who would be the licensing body?" he asked. "The police, when we are often employed on criminal defence work? Or the local authority, when we often investigate local authority corruption?"What the association wants to eliminate are the "cowboys" who pocket fat retainers for the surveillance of errant spouses or the tracing of missing persons and do nothing. The private eyes at Scarborough looked models of pinstriped respectability. Even so, they still have to go down Raymond Chandler's mean streets."I went recently to serve a guy with a court order," said Mr Norman Smith, who has a business at Carshalton, Surrey. "The front door was flung open and there he was, holding a 3ft sword over his head and saying, 'One move and you're a dead man.' I said – and it sounded feeble – 'I'm from the court.' He said, 'If you value your life, go'."At the other end of the mean streets lies high technology for the private eye. Mr Norman Jackson, a director of the Peter Heims agency at Leatherhead, Surrey, uses "a psychological stress evaluator," or lie detector. Invented by two former CIA men, this electronic device cost £2,200.The association holds professional examinations for its members. Books to help them with their studies were on display in the hall – Espionage, Terrorism and Subversion In an Industrial Society, whose contents include: "How to prevent being 'burned' when tailing"; and Employee Theft Investigation, by J. Kirk Barefoot. Now there is a man to send down a mean street.These archive extracts, compiled by the Guardian's research and information department, appear online daily at gu.com/fromthearchive