It is almost eight years since Tony Blair stood in the garden of Downing Street in the aftermath of the 7 July 2005 London bombings and declared the "rules of the game have changed", announcing a package of anti-terrorist measures.These included deporting "hate preachers", banning extremist groups and detaining terror suspects for up to 90 days without charge. At the time it appeared a politically tough response but some of those hasty measures now seem ill-conceived.The 90-day detention proposal never made it through the House of Lords and in fact since then no terror suspect has needed to be held for longer than 28 days. Despite the appearance of immediate action, it is only now nearly eight years later that Abu Qatada, the "hate preacher" Blair had in his sights then, looks finally to be on his way back to Jordan.It is no wonder the official reviewer of the terrorism laws, David Anderson QC, is wary of endorsing calls from former Labour home secretaries, terror law watchdogs and security ministers demanding tough new laws: "We have strong laws," he says. "We have excellent intelligence. We have excellent enforcement. These people want us to panic. Let's hold our nerve."David Cameron and Nick Clegg appear to have been restrained so far with the prime minister promising that all the extra possible measures will be examined but saying there will be no knee-jerk response to the Woolwich attack. The message was reinforced after the Cobra emergency meeting by Tory abinet ministers Eric Pickles and Baroness Warsiwho both said there was nothing in the discarded "snooper's charter" bill that would have prevented the Woolwich attack.As was widely expected, Theresa May, who was infuriated by Nick Clegg blocking her communications data bill, has launched a bid to get it back into the government's legislative programme. Some of the old warhorses, including Alan Johnson and Lord Howard, raised the prospect that the Tories and Labour could combine to push it through parliament in defiance of the Liberal Democrats.But the suspects in the Woolwich attacks have been known to the security services for some time, so the police and intelligence services would already have been able to get a warrant to track their internet and phone use and could also have listened to what they were saying to each other. There are half a million such requests a year to deal with everything from suspected terrorism to fly tippers.May said the enhanced ministerial committee to tackle extremism and radicalisation would consider further measures. She revived one of the ideas floated by Blair – banning groups that promote political extremism per se. At present it is possible to proscribe organisations that are involved in violence or glorify terrorism. One example is Anjem Choudary's al-Muhajiroun, whose successor organisations, al-Ghurabaa and Islam4UK, have both been proscribed. The debate over whether to ban organisations that, in the words of the 2010 Conservative manifesto, "advocate hate or the violent overthrow of society" is likely to centre on Hizb ut-Tahrir, which professes to be the non-violent face of the political Islamists in Britain. Cameron was committed to banning it but the idea was quietly dropped in 2011 on the grounds that it was better to deal with groups with "nasty opinions" through debate than bans. That judgment will now be revisited.One area in which May is unlikely to back major changes is the Prevent programme to tackle radicalisation, which has already seen more than 200 teenagers go through its Channel Project. Its budget had been halved from £60m to £30m. Not because of the "cuts" but because it has targeted its efforts on those individuals most at risk of radicalisation rather than on funding general efforts to build community organisations. The latter was sometimes misinterpreted as a spying operation. May acknowledged that remains a problem. More likely is increased work in the prisons to step up newly developed deradicalisation programmes.The home secretary highlighted the long-held security services assessment that there are 2,000 to 3,000 potential Islamist extremists on their "worry list". That figure was first put in the public domain in 2006. The security services budget and MI5's staffing has doubled in the past 10 years and it employs more than 4,000 people. Is there really a need to panic?