Harriet Harman's response to the Daily Mail's claims about the historic indulgence of paedophiles by the organisation that she worked for as a young woman has not been elegant. After days of silence, there was an unnecessarily evasive turn on Newsnight on Monday, and then finally,on Tuesday, a move to concede "regret" without saying sorry, which would have sufficed initially but sounded contrived so late in the game. The Labour instinct was to assume that the Mail was working itself into the same frenzy as it had over Ralph Miliband last year. In the week of Ukraine's great convulsion, the disproportionate run of four front-page splashes about the 40-year-old dealings of the National Council for Civil Liberties inflamed this tribal conviction. Ms Harman failed to spot the difference between the two cases – this time the Mail was not demonising a dead father, but posing questions it would have been shrewder to answer without delay.If Labour's deputy leader has found it tricky to handle a conversation about paedophilia, she is not the only one. It hardly needs saying that abuse is a horror that can mar young lives for good, a reality that demands interrogation of how it takes root, including in the scenario where the abused becomes abuser. There is no place for that in a discourse about individual evil, where any attempt to understand is seen as tantamount to making excuses. There is a need, too, to discuss freely how to police paedophiles most effectively, and in this connection where to draw the necessary (but necessarily arbitrary) line of the age of consent. Prosecutors routinely have to make judgment calls about when pursuit of a case is in the public interest, based not only on absolute age but also on age differences and other indicators of exploitation. There is scant room for any wider airing of that in a country where a paediatrician was once caught up in a witch-hunt.The defensible part of what the NCCL was doing in the 1970s and 80s (and the only part that has been personally linked to Ms Harman) was to warn that crude attempts to legislate against perverts could have perverse consequences. The 1995 questioning of newsreader Julia Somerville over family photos of bathing children was one example of where zealotry can lead, and the sort of case that the young Ms Harman was concerned about in proposing changes to the protection of children bill.But these were the Citizen Smith years, where 1,000 tiny tinpot organisations bloomed, and pronounced their own weird and sometimes warped version of liberty. One was the Paedophile Information Exchange, which, thanks to a shameful failure of NCCL governance for which somebody (though not Ms Harman) really ought to apologise, was allowed to affiliate with it. PIE styled itself as being allied to the struggle for gay liberation, a link that seems unbelievable now, but – at the time – it was not only paedophiles but also the law that implied such a connection. An equal age of consent was still 20 years off, and the Putinesque section 28 that effectively warned "homosexualists" to keep away from the children was still in the future. While PIE was never more than a fringe player at NCCL, whose chief energies were elsewhere, for a brief time there were a few misguided policies, which may have reflected its influence.If nothing else, Ms Harman is a consistent feminist, and – as such – has always been mindful of power imbalances in sex relations. So it simply doesn't ring true that she would ever have been an apologist for paedophiles. Her husband – Jack Dromey, who was NCCL chair from 1976 – can demonstrate that he took them on and marginalised them within NCCL. But the broader NCCL, which has today evolved into Liberty, should never have allowed itself to get into such a mess. The wild libertarian spirit of the times lacked the contemporary compass of human rights, within which every freedom must be tempered by the duty to protect. Calm discussion about how to tackle paedophilia may not be easy, but at least today's liberals have the benefit of a rights framework that is clear about what is wrong.