Friday July 29: Mr Walker, who was enjoying the summer break after sitting his AS-Level exams, spent the evening at his Huyton home with girlfriend Louise Thompson. They were babysitting his two-year-old nephew, Reuben.At around 11pm, Mr Walker and his cousin Marcus Binns offered to walk Louise to her bus stop, close to the Huyton Park pub. Standing outside the pub was Michael Barton, dressed in a hooded top with a scarf or ski mask covering his face. He began hurling racist abuse at Mr Walker and Mr Binns, telling them: "Walk, nigger, walk".Mr Walker, a devout Christian, walked away. He intended to take a short cut to a different bus stop through McGoldrick Park.As they walked away, Barton told his friend Paul Taylor that he had "lost face" during a row.They got into a car, drove to the entrance to the park and hid in bushes before ambushing Mr Walker and his friends. Ms Thompson and Mr Binns escaped but Mr Walker was trapped. Taylor drove a mountaineering axe into the teenager's head with such force that the adze end was embedded 6cm into his skull.While their victim lay unconscious on the ground, Barton desperately tried to retrieve the weapon, but it was stuck fast in Mr Walker's skull. Even doctors struggled later to remove it.Barton fled with his hands covered in Mr Walker's blood. By the time Mr Binns returned with help, there was little anybody could do. Mr Walker was taken to Whiston hospital, then transferred to Walton neurological centre.Saturday July 30:  Mr Walker died at 5.25am, with his family at his bedside. He had effectively been brain dead within seconds of the fatal blow being struck.Merseyside police immediately branded the murder racist and launched a hunt for his killers. Already the names of Barton and Taylor were being whispered in Huyton as the likely culprits.Friends and relatives packed into the Walkers' three-bedroom home to lend their support to the devastated family. Sunday July 31: Despite their grief, the Walkers were determined that the killers would not get away. They took part in a press conference to appeal for help from the public. Mr Walker's 20-year-old sister, Dominique, shook with anger as she described him as a "loyal, reliable, loving and fun brother".Mr Walker's parents Steve and Gee Walker, sisters Donna, 29, Stephanie, 26, and Angella, 16, and brother Daniel, 14, all wept as Dominique spoke.Monday August 1: News of the savage murder shocked the nation, and hundreds of people visited the murder scene. Many left tributes at a growing shrine of flowers, cards and football and basketball shirts.Among the flowers, an anonymous well-wisher left a card with the words: "I feel deep shame for having to share our world with the evil vermin that took your life. RIP Anthony, we are not all like them."By early evening, Merseyside police took the unusual step of naming Taylor and Barton as suspects. The pair had fled the country within seven hours of the attack. They drove the 300 miles to Dover in time to catch a 6am ferry to Calais and then drove to Amsterdam.By now it had emerged that Barton was the brother of Manchester City footballer Joey Barton, and Taylor was his cousin. Tuesday August 2:  As news of his brother made international headlines, Joey Barton made a televised appeal for him to return home. In it, he was careful to distance himself from his brother. Although they share the same parents, they were raised in separate homes.He said of the killing of Mr Walker: "My side of the Barton family is sickened by his death. "Although I was not brought up with Michael, I urge him to come forward."You must do this for the Walker family, so they can mourn Anthony and because you know it is the right thing to do."It emerged in court that Mr Barton had already spoken to his brother on a mobile telephone.He had refused his plea for £1,000 and told him to turn himself in.Aware that the scandal could impact on his football career, Mr Barton had also contacted his agent and Manchester City press office to explain the situation.That evening, thousands of people gathered at St George's Hall, in Liverpool city centre, for an anti-racism vigil. Mr Walker's mother bravely spoke for the first time, shielding her tear-swollen eyes with a pair of sunglasses as she addressed the crowd. Wednesday August 3: Rumours began to circulate that Barton and Taylor had been arrested in Amsterdam. Merseyside police insisted the rumours were untrue, but by 6pm a large media pack gathered at Liverpool John Lennon airport to await the return of the 6.20pm easyJet flight from Schiphol airport. The pair emerged from the plane, in handcuffs, trying to shield their faces with tracksuit tops and caps.Although accompanied by officers from Merseyside police, they were not officially arrested until they set foot on UK soil.It later emerged that Merseyside police had denied the rumours as they wanted the pair to return to the UK voluntarily and hence avoid lengthy extradition procedures. Friday August 5: At 7am, Merseyside police announced that Barton and Taylor had been charged with murder. Three hours later, they appeared at Knowsley magistrates court, in Huyton, and were remanded in custody. That night, as Barton and Taylor languished in the cells, more than 4,000 people showed their support for the Walker family in a candle-lit walk to McGoldrick Park.As the pair awaited trial and the police investigation continued, the Walker family ensured that Mr Walker's death had not been in vain. Two weeks after his death, they launched a basketball tournament in his memory. The prize was the Anthony Walker Trophy, inscribed with the words: "Don't feel ashamed of your race. Feel guilty only if you stand by and do nothing to unite and bring change to the human race." Mrs Walker told the young basketball players: "Don't forget what was inscribed on the trophy. If you've not seen it, then read it. Let this be your strength. Live and let your light shine for my son Anthony."