The award-winning comedy actor Chris Langham systematically groomed and repeatedly abused a 14-year-old girl who came to see him in a hit London musical as a birthday treat, a crown court prosecutor alleged yesterday.The jury at Maidstone crown court was told that the 58-year-old star of television's The Thick of It befriended the girl as she waited for autographs at the stage door of the Palace Theatre in London. He took her for expensive meals and gave her acting lessons before repeatedly assaulting her over a four-year period, the prosecution alleged.Richard Barraclough QC, prosecuting, said Langham had an "interest in young girls", and said police had discovered 15 images of child pornography when they examined computers at the actor's home in Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent. Detectives rated some of the video clips "level five" - the most extreme category of child pornography.Yesterday Langham pleaded not guilty to 10 counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. He also denied 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child between September and November 2005. He admitted having oral sex with the girl once, when she was 18, and said he had downloaded the child pornography only as part of his research for the BBC television comedy series Help, in which he co-starred alongside Paul Whitehouse.Yesterday Mr Barraclough told the jury: "This case concerns an allegation by the crown of grooming and systematic abuse ... Mr Langham has an interest in young girls. The crown alleges that he corrupted this young girl."He said the actor, who won a Bafta for best comedy performance after his role in The Thick of It, took the "vulnerable teenager" to the Ivy restaurant in London and introduced her to his family after she came to see him in Les Misérables more than 50 times with her mother. Langham went on to have sex with the girl in his dressing room at the theatre, in hotel rooms and in cars between 1996 and 2000, the prosecution alleged.The court was told that the youngster, who can not be named for legal reasons, was vulnerable and had psychological problems. "Her childhood, I think, she would describe as unhappy and devoid of affection," said Mr Barraclough. "Her parents had split up ... She developed an eating disorder, anorexia."Langham took advantage of her problems. He first kissed her on the lips "under the guise of teaching her the correct way to breathe", Mr Barraclough said. Later at a hotel in Kensington, London, the abuse went much further and he had full sex and oral sex with the girl, the prosecution alleged.When police raided Langham's home in 2005 they removed computers which contained downloaded video clips in which young girls were "degraded and sexually abused," he said. "The defendant told the police that he downloaded them for the purpose of research for a programme he was making. The crown say that this is a spurious explanation."Defending, David Whitehouse QC said his client admitted having a sexual encounter with the woman when she was 18. "After that he tried to distance himself from her. This was a big mistake, as big a mistake as having had sex with her in the first place, because she cannot cope with rejection. The sexual relationship she says she had with him never happened, apart from that."He said Langham did take the girl to expensive hotels and restaurants, but they did not have sex. The actor, a recovering alcoholic, had merely been trying to help the girl with her problems. He said Langham downloaded the child pornography while writing Help. The material had been downloaded on four specific dates, and on them alone, because his client was writing an episode involving a paedophile.The hearing continues.