From the outside the Haven could pass for a normal Victorian terrace home. But inside the red brick walls highly-trained staff help victims of some of the worst crimes in London. The Haven, discreetly attached to King's College hospital in Camberwell, south London, is one of 18 sexual assault referral units in England and Wales.Jointly funded by the Metropolitan police and the NHS, it provides forensic examinations, emergency contraception, advice about sexually transmitted diseases and emotional support to victims of sexual assault in the painful period following an attack.Before it opened in 2000 examinations were often traumatic affairs. Victims had to wait in police stations for up to 12 hours to see a forensic specialist who, more often than not, was male. They could not go to the toilet, have a drink or smoke a cigarette for fear of contaminating DNA samples. Jo Delaforce, clinical nurse specialist at the Haven centre, says the treatment could leave victims feeling desperately undervalued. "The Met realised they weren't providing the best care," she says. "It just wasn't good enough."At the Haven they deal with "clients" not "victims". "We don't want our clients to feel labelled," she says. "Our role is to empower them and give back some of the power which was taken away during an assault."The Haven aims to see clients within an hour, no matter the time of day. The whole process is over in around three hours.Although there is necessarily a clinical feel to the centre, staff strive to make clients as comfortable as possible, providing a hot shower, new clothes and a patient pack with toiletries. "It's the little things that make a difference," says Mrs Delaforce.The Haven not only helps victims of crime but plays a role in catching its perpetrators. In 2004 Mrs Delaforce was awarded a commendation from police after bringing similarities in the stories of two rape victims to their attention. Thanks to her help serial rapist Dominic Adimorah was jailed for 18 years for three rapes and one sexual assault.The government aims to increase the number of sexual assault referral centres to 30 by April 2008, but for Mrs Delaforce that only scratches the surface of the problem."Every area needs a sexual referral unit," she says. "Why should the quality of support you receive after a sexual assault be decided by your postcode?"