As Polly Toynbee implies (Forget being tough, it's time to get realistic on crime, 22 June), Labour's record on crime reduction was creditable. A pity, then, that this success, partly due to initiatives like neighbourhood policing and community support officers, was overshadowed by Labour effectively running against its own record and thereby ratcheting up the fear of crime.In these straitened economic times a key objective must be to reduce the billions of pounds lost by the cost of reoffending. The Social Exclusion Unit estimated this at £11bn a year as long ago as 2002. The latest figures put the cost of reoffending of people serving short sentences alone at £10bn a year. Greater use of community payback, restorative justice and justice reinvestment schemes – coupled with early intervention and better mental health services and rehabilitation – would cut the reoffending rate and its huge cost.Jeremy BeechamLocal Government Association• Polly Toynbee is right to call for cuts in wasteful spending on law and order. Around £3.2bn is now spent annually on the bloated prison system in England and Wales, with billions more already allocated to building new prisons in the coming years. Yet we know that prison, and short prison sentences in particular, do little to rehabilitate offenders, with nearly half of ex-prisoners, and more than 60% of those given a sentence of 12 months or less, convicted of a further offence within a year of release.We simply cannot afford to warehouse thousands of people in prison who could be dealt with more cheaply and more effectively in the community. Less use of prison would reduce crime, save money and free up space and resources in the prison system to better rehabilitate those people who do need to be there.Jon CollinsCriminal Justice Alliance• Polly Toynbee is right to point to the obscene waste of public money involved in short-term prison sentences which achieve nothing. She might also have mentioned the folly, waste and injustice of indeterminate sentences for public protection, which adds massively to shameful overcrowding in our prisons. They keep in prison thousands of people who have served their sentences imposed for punishment, rehabilitation and deterrence but who can't prove to a parole board that they won't reoffend if released, often because there are no places for them on the behaviour courses which they need to attend as a virtual condition for release.These people are in preventive detention, being punished for future offences they haven't committed, often with no hope of release. It's inhumane, unjust and a monumental waste of taxpayers' money. All parties should now insist that the system is swept away.Brian BarderLondon