The first details about the woman pictured leaping from a burning building in Croydon on Monday night have emerged.Friends have told how they rescued Monika Konczyk from her smoke-filled flat in a moment that has become the defining image of the riots.The terrified Polish woman, who only arrived in Britain in March, was shouting for help from her first-floor window as the fire that destroyed the neighbouring Reeves furniture store threatened to engulf adjacent buildings.  The now famous picture taken by photographer Amy Weston on Monday night. Photograph: WENN.comApparently defying orders from police not to get any closer to the blaze, friends said they ran through thick smoke and intense heat to the Victorian terrace on Church Street and laid mattresses and pillows on the ground for her to land on.Onlookers shouted "jump, jump" as Konczyk, 32, was coaxed out of the sash window, sliding down the awning of the discount store below and then jumping into the arms of a Romanian man called Adrian. Police in riot gear also moved in to help.According to Vaz Juresco, owner of the neighbouring Pain Divine tattoo parlour, Konczyk was unable to escape down the back stairs like other residents because the building had rapidly filled with thick smoke."You have no idea – the smoke was like a thick cloud," said Juresco. "It wasn't just ash but hot rocks and bits of brick. They were spraying out like a shower."In the smoke and confusion there were conflicting accounts of who caught Konczyk. Several onlookers believe a riot policeman caught her when she jumped, but Adrian insisted he caught her.He said she was weeping with shock but was not taken to hospital and instead was met by her boyfriend and taken to stay with her sister. Konczyk, who is from Koronowo in Poland and was working in a local Poundland, was described as fine but too shaken to talk."We are neighbours. Nobody is a hero," he said.But the rescuer was critical of the authorities and claimed that after she was brought away from the scene by a group of police there was no one to check on her. "I caught the girl. Afterwards nobody was asking if she was OK or calling an ambulance."Konczyk's friends said she was still too traumatised to talk about her ordeal. She may change her mind when she is told about the PR companies and picture agencies touting to represent her and the media organisations offering money for her story.The ruined remains of the Reeves building were demolished in an hour-an-a-half as local residents struggled to come to terms with the disappearance of a family firm that has been trading since 1867. One woman was in tears. "All my furniture came from that shop," she said.After 36 hours waiting in nearby hotels, where they were placed by Croydon council, other residents were allowed through police cordons to inspect the damage to their homes. One man was still wearing the clothes in which he fled the fire: one training shoe and one sandal.Businesses on the street where Koncyzk jumped remained closed, some having suffered badly from smoke damage. Naveen Khosla, owner of Barker's pharmacy next to where Konczyk jumped, said he was concerned for his customers, who included the elderly who would not have got their medication. "My priority in all of this now is patient care," he said. "We are letting down the elderly patients who are homebound and the disabled who can't get out."Deliveries had to be suspended during two days of disturbances earlier this week and a nearby pharmacy which was dispensing medicines for patients of fire-damaged Barker's had to close early.