A third man suspected of involvement in the murder of Stephen Lawrence was arrested yesterday as detectives from Scotland Yard's elite racial and violent crimes taskforce continued to question two others about the brutal stabbing seven years ago.Although police refused to give details about the three men and the operation was shrouded in secrecy, there was optimism within the Metropolitan police that the team had achieved a breakthrough. The three men are not among the five previously identified as prime suspects - Jamie and Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and David Norris. Significantly, the trio all have fair hair. Detectives believe that a mystery sixth member of a gang that attacked and killed Stephen as he waited for a bus in Eltham, south London, was blond. Yesterday's arrest came 12 hours after another appeal for help on BBC's Crimewatch by Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, director of the taskforce, and Stephen's parents Doreen and Neville. Scotland Yard said yesterday that detectives had received more than 70 calls after the programme, and that six had provided "good information". On Tuesday two men were arrested in connection with the murder. The first, a 24-year-old, was seized in Glasgow in a joint operation with the Scottish crime squad, and the second was arrested as the Crimewatch programme was being broadcast at 9.35pm. The three men were questioned at an unnamed station in south London. Although police say they have challenged every assumption made by previous inquiries into Stephen's death, it is likely that the men are associates of Neil Acourt, Dobson and Knight, who were cleared of Stephen's murder in 1996 when a private prosecution failed. Several names of potential suspects were published by mistake in the index of the Macpherson report into the murder last February. After the failures of the original murder investigation, Scotland Yard was loth to reveal details that might jeopardise the current operation, which has involved 90 officers working from a secret location in south London. "We are at a very, very delicate stage of the investigation," a source said. After questioning, the three men were released last night on police bail. Mr Grieve said his officers were hoping to trace a man who boasted to his girlfriend that he had "direct knowledge of who was responsible for the murder". The couple spoke about the stabbing at the Globe Bar in Larnaca, Cyprus, in September last year. He also revealed that advanced DNA tests were being carried out on a yellow lined jacket and a 2ft knife found in Eltham soon after the murder. The taskforce believes the ties that bound the suspects together have loosened, and that ex-partners of those involved might come forward. "We can solve this. There is no place these racists can hide from justice. Clear your conscience and tell us what you know, any conspiracy can be broken," said Mr Grieve. The third arrest yesterday morning coincided with an unrelated anti-racist operation by the taskforce which led to more than 70 arrests, and news that three of the original Lawrence suspects had been arrested on Tuesday in connection with an alleged racket to smuggle illegal immigrants into the country in vans through the Channel tunnel. The Acourt brothers and Dobson were released on police bail pending an investigation by special branch officers in Kent. A friend of the Acourts, John Anthony Caetano, 26, of Dickson Road, Eltham, was charged with assisting the illegal entry of im migrants and is due to appear at Folkestone magistrates court tomorrow. "None of these arrests is connected in any way with the new leads in the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry," a spokesman for Kent police said.In another development, the taskforce co-ordinated the arrests of 70 people in a series of raids across London and the home counties. Officers from the Met's 32 community safety units, which were set up to investigate hate crime last year, pooled intelligence on alleged racists suspected of offences ranging from criminal damage to grievous bodily harm. The operation began at 6.30am with raids at addresses in Newham, Dagenham, Havering and Greenwich, in east and south-east London; Staines, Hounslow and Richmond, west London; Barnet, Brent, Islington, north London; and Reading, Berkshire. Useful links The Metropolitan police's operation Athena The Stephen Lawrence campaign