A group of youths, including boys thought to be as young as 12, gang raped two 15-year-old girls and indecently assaulted a third in a "horrendous attack" on a south London council estate, police revealed yesterday.One of the victims has told detectives she was raped on 10 occasions, the other believes she was raped five times. They also described how other members of the gang pleaded with the attackers to stop, saying they had "gone too far", but their protests were ignored. Police found one of the raped girls hiding in a stairwell on the Alton Estate in Roehampton, south-west London. She was being comforted by a resident. The other rape victim was found in a distraught state near some garages. Scotland Yard said the teenagers had been put through a "terrifying ordeal". The attack took place on Monday between 10.45 and 11pm when a group of about 60 youths aged between 12 and 18 approached the three girls and offered them alcohol. The group then split into three, taking a girl with them. One of the teenagers was raped in a play area in Holybourne Avenue. The second was raped in nearby High Cross Way. The third girl was groped. None of the boys involved was armed. Residents who heard a commotion called the police but the gang had dispersed by the time officers arrived. The girls were treated in hospital but have been released. Detective Inspector Jonathan Spink, who is leading the inquiry, said: "The girls had been drinking at a location and were joined by a much larger group of boys. Everything was OK at first but, as the evening progressed, either through accident or design, three groups of boys were split up with a girl each and that is when the offences took place. "It makes it even more sinister if it was pre-planned. Some very serious offences were committed and we have got to do our very best to identify the offenders and lock them up. "They could do it again if they are not caught." Mr Spink said both girls were distressed but officers were trying to get as much information from them as possible. "They were very upset and had been drinking heavily but we have no reason not to believe them. The attacks must have gone on for some time. "But I'm hoping that means there is more chance there will be some eyewitnesses." Police will carry out house to house inquiries in the area and have recovered cctv tapes from the estate to see if the attacks were caught on camera. Anyone with information should call the police on 0208 247 8711 or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.