Mr. E. Norris, of Christ Church Upper School, Salford, who was installed as president of the Salford Head Teachers' Association at Halton Bank School last night, addressed the members on "Juvenile delinquency." He expressed his fear that publicity given to the subject had created an exaggerated idea of the prevalence and increase of juvenile crime. He thought they ought to take into consideration the two distinct types of delinquency, one arising from irresponsibility and mischievousness and the other from moral depravity. With regard to the former, he wondered how many of them, if the police had been as vigilant and numerous in their day, would have escaped the juvenile court.With regard to the second type, the increase seemed to be real enough, although statistics were difficult to compare because of the Children and Young Persons Act of 1933, which caused a tremendous leap in the numbers. It was also reasonable to assume part of the increase was due to the bulge in the childhood population, resultant upon the increase in births in 1920 and 1921. Despite those extenuating circumstances there remained the disturbing fact that there had been some increase.He recounted the usual reasons given – decrease in moral and religious instruction in the home and school, the cinema, open stores, lack of playing spaces, juvenile unemployment, lack of parental control, poverty, and modern methods of education – and said they, as teachers, would probably be concentrating on the last-named. They should bear in mind with it the love of picture-going, lack of parental control, and poverty, with its consequent restriction of pleasure. The basic idea behind those was one of pleasure and amusement, and it seemed to him fair criticism of the modern generation that it was too pleasure-loving.How far had they as teachers been responsible? They knew that the good teacher was the one who held attention not so much by insisting on concentration as by making the lesson interesting and possibly amusing. There were many pleasurable activities within school, and out of school everything possible was done to give the children a good time. "The idea behind it all is admirable, but are we not tending to make things just a little too easy, and are we not sapping away those virtues of manhood which denote grit and determination?" The time had come to examine their modern methods and see whether they had not gone too far in the other direction.These archive extracts are compiled by members of the Guardian's research and information department. Email: research.department@theguardian.com