It was after reading Chris Mullin's book, Error of Judgement, in 1987 that I was first drawn to the horrific realisation that there were innocent people locked up in prison in the country I lived in, and not in some far off shore.At that time, the wrongful convictions were seen as politically driven, the individuals scapegoats, political pawns caught up in the dirty war that was taking place, in what was known euphemistically as the Troubles. Surely after these people were released, that would be the end to the scandal. It was three years after the release of the Birmingham six in 1991, that I ran into one of them, Paddy Hill, purely by chance, at Camden tube station in north London. It was a day that would change my life for ever.On that fateful day, not only did I find out that Paddy was continuing to fight for other individuals whom he believed passionately were also innocent, I also discovered that he had received no psychological counselling since his release, and that his life was a living hell.I was shocked. Even back then, I knew that this was fundamentally wrong, although I did not realise at the time how wrongful incarceration followed by sudden release could have such a damaging effect on the individual. But I was soon to find out. As I got to know Paddy better, he introduced me to more and more cases of innocent people still fighting to win their freedom.Out from the appeal court they came. The list is a long one and growing all the time. But so far, only one person has been afforded the correct psychological counselling that this level of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) requires, and that is Gerry Conlon, one of the Guildford four. Gerry only started to receive this two years ago – 18 years after his release, thanks to a dedicated councillor, Barry Walle, who fought to get him treated by Professor Gordon Turnbull, the man who had treated the Beirut hostages, and is world renowned for his knowledge of the condition.Getting people freed after wrongful incarceration is only half the job. Without the correct back-up and support for their trauma, they all face the same future – a living hell. From lawyers and journalists to campaigners, all we are is a salvage team rescuing the diver from the bottom of the sea.If we knew that bringing them up too quickly – effectively, releasing someone so suddenly would give them the bends – we would stop the practice. After all, this is the reason that guilty offenders are slowly released over a three-year period.So why is it, after 20 years since the release of the Guildford four, the state still continues the practice of sudden release of now hundreds of innocent men and women?We at the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation, which I set up with Paddy Hill to assist innocent prisoners before and after release, are pleading for the introduction of a specialised trauma facility for those involved in such cases.If it does not happen, I can only say one thing, perverse as it may sound: if we are going to continue to release the innocent in the way that Sean Hodgson was recently released, don't bother, keep them in prison.An alternative to the current situation has to be found. What we are doing is the equivalent to releasing a caged animal suddenly back into the wild. It's not compensation that is required but reparation through trauma counselling to help them come to terms with their horrific experience and to show them how to adapt to the world they come out to.Only if such a course is undertaken will they be able to live a "normal" life.•  John McManus is project co-ordinator for the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation 