In what was seen as a revolutionary piece of legal dexterity, Anthony Scrivener QC acted for Florence Siddons, the grandmother of the teenage Lynn Siddons, stabbed to death on a Derbyshire towpath in April 1978. The police investigation was not well handled and a case was brought against a 15-year-old boy, Roy Brookes, who was rightly acquitted.There were no further proceedings until, in 1991, in a civil action against Michael Brookes, the boy’s stepfather, Scrivener had the chief constable of Derbyshire subpoenaed to produce evidence from the investigation. Now he asked the judge to apply the criminal standard of proof, of beyond reasonable doubt as opposed to the usual balance of probability. The judge found against Brookes and five years later, at a belated criminal trial, he was convicted. Scrivener, who has died aged 79 after suffering from Parkinson’s disease, believed that in the Stephen Lawrence case, the correct way to have proceeded, before the double jeopardy rule was abolished, would have been to have brought a similar civil action.The only child of Edna and Frank Scrivener, a Kentish ironmonger, Anthony was born in Canterbury. He was educated at Kent college, Canterbury, where his history teacher, Sidney Haines, suggested, because Scrivener was at the bottom of the class, a career either as a goalkeeper or a bank clerk. Nevertheless Haines instilled in him the confidence to enter the law. He pulled himself together and from the age of 12 developed academically, eventually gaining a law degree at University College London. In 1958 he was called to the bar as a member of Gray’s Inn, where he had been in receipt of the Holt award, a scholarship dating back to the 1870s designed to attract students. For the next two years, he taught law in Ghana.His first brief – a driving case – was from a firm of solicitors in Sussex, and they continued to brief him for many years until, in 1998, he was instructed by them in the case of Siôn Jenkins, convicted of the murder of his foster daughter Billie-Jo. In a subsequent unsuccessful appeal, Scrivener argued that the scientific evidence against Jenkins was open to serious challenge. He did not continue on the case after that, but Jenkins was subsequently acquitted on a second appeal, and in February 2006, after a retrial, was officially declared not guilty. In 2005, Scrivener was invited to lead the defence team of Saddam Hussein, but he did not do so.By then the names of his clients, both paying and on legal aid, in which he was a great believer, included such diverse figures as Tony Martin, the farmer convicted of shooting a burglar; the Virgin tycoon Richard Branson; Jack Lyons in the Guinness case; the paratrooper Lee Clegg, sentenced to life imprisonment for his part in the shooting of two joyriders in Belfast; Gerry Conlon of the Guildford Four; and Winston Silcott, for whom Scrivener acted in his successful appeal against his conviction for the murder in 1985 of PC Keith Blakelock.Scrivener was a champion of the bar’s so-called and often breached “cab-rank” rule in which a barrister is required, subject to availability, to take on any case, however unpopular the defendant or party might be. Eyebrows were however raised when he represented Dame Shirley Porter in her fight with the Westminster city council auditor when in 1996 she was surcharged £42m over her “homes for voters” scandal; and Asil Nadir, founder of Polly Peck, who in 1993 was accused of false accounting and theft and fled to Northern Cypus. His defence in 1974 of the disgraced police commissioner Peter Godber took him to Hong Kong, where later he received his first £1m brief. In 1975 he was made a QC.To an extent, Scrivener eschewed many of the traditions of the bar. He did not favour pinstripe trousers and dining at his Inn – he preferred Orso’s, a nearby Italian restaurant. Not being educated at public school and Oxbridge, with a slight London accent and a sometimes abrasive manner, he was seen as something of an outsider. Nevertheless, in 1991, at the Bar Council’s first contested election, he became chairman with, as he saw it, the necessity of pulling an outmoded bar into a new world.He wanted to make sure the bar was receptive to increasing calls for reform and to provide what the customers, and not simply the members, wanted. He believed that “we are all servants of the community”, championed the appointment of female and non-white judges and urged informed criticism of the judiciary. He pushed through a regulation that barristers’ chambers should recruit 5% of members from the ethnic minorities. He was opposed to the abolition of the double jeopardy rule that an acquitted person could not be retried, believing that a retrial should only take place when there was new DNA evidence.He firmly opposed the reduction in jury trials, believing not only that this was done to improve the conviction rate but that it severed a link with the community. Over the years, he attacked the police over their way of obtaining confessions; and the judiciary for uncritically accepting police evidence. In 2002 he faced off with the Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir John Stevens, suggesting that Stevens’s view of an ideal judge was a senior police officer.Scrivener’s vision of the bar was one of shirtsleeves rather than horse hair, silk (for QCs’ gowns) and stuff (the cloth used for other lawyers’ gowns). Keen to present a positive image, he pointed out that life there was not all roses and that barristers were judged on their last case, saying that he worked five nights a week, but not on a Friday when, he said, he was too exhausted. He thought the five days he took off at Christmas represented a long break. The chairman of the Bar Council is often rewarded with an appointment to the high court bench, but Scrivener did not wish to become a full-time judge.A charismatic and photogenic man, he was prominent in the Labour party during the Neil Kinnock administration and for a time his name was suggested as a future Labour lord chancellor, but he was too much of a maverick for that to happen. However, losing sympathy with Blairite policies, such as the reforms of the criminal law and the Iraq war, he resigned from the Labour party in 2007.Away from the courts, he presented a number of television programmes, including two on old murder cases that he believed could now have been solved with modern scientific techniques. Very much a country man, he enjoyed playing cards and chess, walking his dog and driving fast cars. Asked in 1997 where he saw himself in 10 years’ time, he replied, “driving across the Sahara desert”.Scrivener is survived by his wife Ying Hui Tan, the barrister and law reporter, whom he married in 1993; and by the son and daughter of his first marriage, to Irén Becze, which ended in divorce.• Anthony Frank Bertram Scrivener, barrister, born 31 July 1935; died 27 March 2015• This article was amended on 23 June 2015. Anthony Scrivener represented Siôn Jenkins in his original trial and during his first appeal, but did not represent him at his second appeal or retrials.