The father of a policeman killed by an illegal immigrant during Michael Howard's time in the Home Office today accused the Tory leader of "gross hypocrisy" for making political capital from the Kamel Bourgass case.Colin Walters's son Phillip was 28 when he was shot dead in the line of duty 10 years ago. When his killer Ray Lee was jailed for manslaughter in 1996 it emerged that he was an illegal immigrant who had several aliases. Mr Howard was home secretary at the time, but Mr Walters said he had done nothing at the time to take up the case. He said it was "disgusting" that the Tory leader had now seized on a similar case to make a political point.Mr Howard last week said failures in the asylum system were shown up by last week's conviction of Kamel Bourgass for conspiring to cause a public nuisance. Bourgass, whose application for asylum had been rejected, was convicted of plotting to use ricin poison in the UK.Bourgass was jailed for life for stabbing Detective Constable Stephen Oake to death on January 14, 2003, two years after his asylum application was rejected. Mr Howard used the case to highlight the "chaos" in Britain's asylum system under Labour.But Mr Walters today told London's Evening Standard: "Ten years ago my son was also murdered by an illegal immigrant he was trying to arrest. But there was no public outcry from Mr Howard then."At the time he was home secretary, responsible for the safety of police officers and the control of illegal immigrants, so any blame then was his."Criticising Mr Howard's intervention, he said: "It is disgusting. Obviously the man has a short memory to make a political issue out of the grief that DC Oake's family must be suffering."That sort of intrusion ... by a politician for electoral gain beggars belief. It is gross hypocrisy."PC Walters had been in the Metropolitan police for 18 months when he was shot in the chest as he tried to handcuff Lee during a violent struggle at a house in Ilford, Essex. Lee was given a 10-year jail term for manslaughter and a further eight years for firearms offences.Responding to Mr Walters's criticism today, Mr Howard said there were differences between the cases of Lee and Bourgass.He said Bourgass could have been deported as an illegal immigrant six months before he stabbed DC Oake, when he came to the attention of the authorities after being arrested for shoplifting.