It was the murder that prompted retailers to pull the controversial computer game Manhunt from their shelves.But as Warren Leblanc, 18, was given a life sentence yesterday for luring his 14-year-old friend to a park and killing him, Leicester crown court was told the murder was not a re-enactment of the game but the result of gang culture. Leblanc confessed to killing Stefan Pakeerah with a knife and claw hammer, but claimed he had planned only to rob him to repay a £5 debt. The then 17-year-old, from Braunstone Firth, Leicester, had taken Stefan to Stokes Wood Park, where he attacked him on February 26. After the prolonged attack, his victim was left with at least 50 wounds. Leblanc was said to be in a trance when he began to hit his victim and panicked when he saw the blood. Stefan's mother, Giselle, has been staunch in her belief that the killing mirrored scenes from Manhunt, in which each player earns points for stealth murders. She says Leblanc was obsessed with the game. "To quote from the website that promotes it, it calls it a psychological experience, not a game, and it encourages brutal killing," she said. "If he was obsessed with it, it could well be that the boundaries for him became quite hazy." Rockstar Games, the maker of Manhunt, has rejected any link between the game and the killing, saying it is clearly classified as an 18 certificate by the British Board of Film Classification.Yesterday, Roderick Price, QC, defending, said his client had, instead, been motivated by fear of a gang to whom he owed a small amount of money. "The reason he killed Stefan is rooted not in video games, but in fear - in desperation born of fear." Mr Price said Leblanc owed £75 to a member of the Crusaders gang. "Both Stefan and the defendant are victims of a gang culture that creates fear in the minds of young men and, in the case of this defendant, a young man who was not a gang member and who was out of the loop. "He considers that he was in imminent danger of serious bodily harm, and it is against this background that he committed the offence that he did." Judge Michael Stokes, QC, ordered Leblanc to serve a minimum of 13 years in prison, saying he had committed a truly appalling crime, and that what happened was far beyond what was necessary for a robbery. "You have taken the life of a 14-year-old boy in a most brutal fashion," he said. "One thing is clear - you and you alone were responsible for this prolonged, vicious and murderous attack on someone who thought of you as a friend." Outside court, Stefan's father, Patrick, said the game Manhunt had been an "instruction manual" for his son's killer. "It gave him an idea," he said. "It gave him some idea of how to go about what he did. "It has left an empty void in my life, I don't think any sentence would have been long enough for me."