As the general election looms, the numbers game starts. Improvement? Deterioration? Call the ref? But what if the ref can't decide because the data is duff? The National Audit Office (NAO) has just reported on waiting times for appointments for preplanned (elective) hospital care in England and found errors and misreporting. Another ref, the UK Statistics Authority, has just announced that the crime figures routinely put out by the police in England and Wales don't pass its threshold test for reliability. And Paul Johnson, director of the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies, has been subjecting government claims about rising household budgets to trial by statistical evidence.Should there be refs on this particular pitch anyway? Public bodies (such as NHS trusts) have audit committees and pay auditors good money to check their books – why aren't they keeping the data honest? As for police, don't we now have the apparatus around police and crime commissioners – if they aren't activists for accuracy from their force, what's the point?When the public sector's basic numbers are called into question, you get a queasy feeling. Whatever you say about trends or performance is questionable. With crime, the big sample survey whose annual results have just come out is a reliable guide to crude trends – which continue heading down – even if it misses e-crime and, until very recently, the experience of young people. But for anything more detailed or local, Bernard Jenkin, chair of the Commons public administration select committee, says: "We can have little confidence in the data." His committee's recent hearings expose a persistent problem. Public managers can't be trusted with figures. Give them a target and suddenly, in the words of the chair of the UK Statistics Authority, Sir Andrew Dilnot, "people who are responsible for that organisation are subject to a temptation to manipulate the data". He adds: "It is no good to achieve a target that you are able to manipulate; there is only credit in achieving a target if it is independently measured."If a public body collects data and that data is used to assess its performance, danger looms. That's one reason why some GPs are worried by NHS England's grand project to extract from practices "cradle-to-grave" information about patients and mash it in a giant database. As a result, we could learn about the prevalence of illness and links with place and socioeconomic circumstance. But in theory, patient outcomes could be used to grade GPs, or pay them by "results". Oh no, says the NHS information centre in Leeds, the data will be pseudonymised.It's not quite a matter of "would you trust Jeremy Hunt not to sell your precious personal data to an insurance company, which would then double your premiums because of what your GP's notes say about you", more a question of faith in a system in which we can rely both on professional integrity and on checks and balances.The trouble, as debate swirls around Big Data and the multiple opportunities offered to manipulate and exploit our digital identities, is that there is no system. Watchdogs jostle over who is responsible, and there is no single authority on the accuracy of the numbers underpinning services."That is why independent, rigorous audit is an absolute essential," says Dilnot. But who are the data auditors? The government has killed off the Audit Commission, which checked data accuracy locally. But the UK Statistics Authority has neither the reach nor the resources, and its boundary with the NAO, in particular, is fuzzy. For now, with data, take the utmost care.• David Walker is contributing editor to the Public Leaders Network and former director of public reporting at the Audit Commission