The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Thursday October 2 2003In the article below, we were wrong in saying Winston Churchill destroyed the portrait of him by Graham Sutherland. Though Churchill was said to have disliked the painting, it was his wife Clementine who had it destroyed. Priscilla Coleman got her first sight of Rosemary West at an early remand hearing in Gloucester. "Big ole baggy ole T-shirt," she remembers. By the time West came to trial more than a year later, in 1995, "the most depraved woman on earth", as the tabloids dubbed her, had respectablised herself with an ersatz gentility that she displayed in court every day: the matronly dress and little ankle boots in which one of her daughters had kitted her out; the bows of exaggerated deference towards the judge; the wearing of a poppy the week before Armistice Day. Prevented by an act of parliament dating back to 1925 from drawing even a line in court, Priscilla Coleman jotted notes to herself about this, observing, too, West's habitual notepad and balled tissues and beakers of water. She noted her comparing manicures with the female prison officer in the dock beside her, while the court heard details of child rape, sadomasochism, sexual abuse and torture. Searching for the terribleness of West's "inner being", reporters and court artists scrutinised her for six weeks, hoping to catch a glimpse of the intimate and unintended. Sometimes she showed signs of agitation: her tongue would flick out, a finger would wipe behind her enormous glasses. She appeared to cry in earnest, although reflexively, whenever her daughter, Heather, was mentioned. Called to the witness stand to give evidence, she proved lumpen, intractable, as uncommunicative as the walls and bricked-up windows of the house at 25 Cromwell Street. "I found her easy, to be truthful," Coleman says of the many portraits of West that her contract with ITN required her to make. "Oh, easy. You could almost put on a disguise of Rose West in a way. Her big glasses. Her little boots. Her slightly kinked hair. It got easier. Just automatic, really." In the 1980s, the French artist Christian Boltanski spent a year clipping images of criminals and their victims from Détective, a weekly tabloid that focuses on grisly tragedies. What attracted him to these images was the fact that, once a photograph was separated from its caption, it was impossible to distinguish victim from criminal. "He has the face of a Nobel peace prize winner," Boltanski said of the Nazi war criminal Klaus Barbie. "It would be easier if a terrible person had a terrible face." "One of the most shocking things," the journalist Nicci Gerrard wrote about the trial of Harold Shipman, the doctor from Cheshire who was found guilty of murdering 15 of his female patients, "was how Shipman did not become a figure of horror, the stuff of our nightmares... He is a smallish, thinnish man with a respectable paunch. He has a pale grey beard and dark grey, thinning hair and wears grey-brown suits, conservative ties, thick-lensed spectacles. With his dry and narrow face, his scratchy, pedantic voice, his tetchy manner, he is like an old-fashioned schoolteacher or a middle-ranking civil servant." At the centre of the media spectacle surrounding every sensational murder trial in this country are two near-primitive, inextricably linked, instantly recognisable ritual events. The first involves the arrival at court of the accused - head wrapped in a heavy coat or prison blanket, stumbling, blinded; the nightmare image of a hooded, stooped, creeped-out creature. The second, following hard on the heels of the first, is the creature revealed: the artist's impression, in scumbled chalk and scratchy pastels and deadline-chasing approximations, of what the prisoner looked like in the dock. And what he looked like (it is almost invariably a he) always has a touch of the Madame Tussaud's about it; specifically, the Chamber of Horrors. In the case of both Tussaud's and courtroom art, we are offered a representation modelled directly from an actual body in a tenebrous medium that appears somehow to incorporate sloughed skin and cobwebs and dust. The subjects of these drawings, or waxworks, have travelled temporarily to another realm, one where we hope never to have to follow them. They are experiencing a different consciousness or state of being, removed from the banal circumstances that circumscribe all our lives. Although courtroom art is increasingly under threat, and currently being squeezed by transcripted re-enactments (on Sky) and 360-degree panoramic electronic simulations (ITN, BBC), these archaically handcrafted depictions have earned a place in the visual language of print and broadcast journalism. They declare their independence from the incessant flow of images made possible by the camera, and cut through the astonishing, wearying density of the advertising environment. Curiously, modellers in wax have tended down the years to be women. And all the main British television outlets have traditionally turned to women artists to bring us the news - darker and darker news, in the words of Don DeLillo, of a world of extreme anger and danger - from the back of the cave. "History in a hurry" is an established definition of journalism. And sometimes court artists such as Priscilla Coleman and Julia Quenzler, who works for the BBC, have only 15 minutes to weigh up a defendant (or defendants - in the recent trial of a group of Afghans accused of hijacking a plane from Kabul three years ago, there were nine in the dock) before scuttling off to fix as much as they can on paper before the image begins to dull. In court, they write shorthand remarks about size of head, shape of nose, tie colour, haircut, without taking their eyes off the accused, as well as cryptic comments such as "gt bones... v. pretty silver hair... a v. glam older man... like an eagle" (Priscilla Coleman on Lord Hutton). This year, Quenzler and Coleman spent half their summer at the Hutton inquiry at the Royal Courts of Justice on the Strand. I came across them one morning, hurrying through the courtyard that separates court 73 from the gloomy, lancet-windowed, Victorian gothic dungeon where they were drawing. It was the day the prime minister was giving evidence. After a succession of senior civil servants and distinguished balding men with beards - spooks in suits, tedious to draw - anticipation was high and the adrenaline was pumping. Both artists had to have drawings ready to be filmed by 11.30am, in time for the lunchtime news. "He is so nervous," Quenzler said of Blair, without breaking stride. "He doesn't know what to do with his hands. He doesn't know what he's doing with his glasses. He's wearing new glasses. They're off. They're on... " She flipped open her notebook to a page that seemed to show a flock of seagulls flying in formation. This was a note to herself about the way Blair chopped and sliced, unflaggingly articulating with his hands. "He seems very unnerved and, I have to say, you can hardly blame him. He's the most nervous witness we've had so far." It is a point of honour with both women not to make any preparatory drawings before going into court. They see their task as being about reacting and responding in the moment. The work is not an attempt to recreate something; it's an account of seeing it. "You have to be prepared for changes, alert not to what you're expecting, but to what you see," says Quenzler. "On the day - posture, attitude, body language. There's no point in depending on photographs. Forget photographs. You're in real trouble if you go down that road." Coleman said Blair was somebody she found particularly difficult to second-guess. "Is it going to be the face-lift look, the blond look, statesman grey, tanned, drawn, jowly, new haircut... I think he did a Caesar haircut one time." Coleman's and Quenzler's drawings seem a fair reflection of their personalities. Quenzler: focused, precise, detailed, forensic. She is English, camera-shy (perhaps because she has spent her life invigilating other people's faces), lives in a chocolate-box cottage in a village in Sussex, and has been a court artist for more than 20 years. Coleman's sketches are animated, quirky, boldly coloured within the restraints of such a muted form, with an abundance of surface energy. She is American, born in Houston, Texas, married to an Englishman, and has been retained by ITN for 15 years. Quenzler has a tendency to home in on the principal players in a case: terse two- and three-handers, featuring judge, defendant, counsel for the defence or prosecution, enough to give a TV camera room to roam around within the frame. Coleman's pictures, by contrast, are teeming, Rowlandson-like, even Hogarthian, occasionally verging on the carnivalesque. She has a talent for particularising the large supporting cast in her drawings, as well as the main actors, and is a popular figure around the Royal Courts of Justice and the Old Bailey for this willingness to look beyond the depersonalising court mufti. (There may be a canny business sense at play here as well, of course: barristers and others often request her work for their chambers, and the greater the number of recognisable figures, the wider the circle of potential buyers.) And it always helps to have contacts. On the occasion, in January 2001, when a defendant managed to vault the dock and punch Judge Ann Goddard in the face, Coleman's eyes, as she puts it, were on another case. But the clerk of the court was not only happy to describe to her what had happened so that she could recreate it; he also climbed on the bench and posed as Judge Goddard's attacker for her. "I think there was glass, too. So I had to get shards and water. But Judge Goddard's always easy to do. Motherly-like. And always red lipstick. Bright red lips are almost her trademark." When her drawing of Blair was finished - it had taken her a little under half an hour; her reputation is largely based on her speed - Coleman rushed it over to "the island", the paved area around the church of St Clement Danes between Fleet Street and the Strand, to be filmed. The "island" shares a spit of land with a below-ground gentlemen's toilet and a statue of Samuel Johnson. A Caffè Nero beaker, a balled sandwich wrapper and a plastic mineral water bottle had been wedged in the space between Dr Johnson's feet. The church was hemmed in on one side by outside broadcast vehicles, and on the other by the paraphernalia belonging to the half-dozen camera crews bivouacking there for the duration. White lights came on as the reporters, tied and suited above the belt, be-jeaned below, ran through their pieces to camera. Coleman whipped her drawing out of a portfolio and Blu-Tacked it to an engraved tablet set into the church wall. Coleman's fingers were stained from the pastels; she used her thumb to muck around a bit of background colouring, stepped back, and mucked around some more. Her Pradas were deep in pigeon droppings - "pigeon doo-doo" as she calls it - and, as she waited for her cameraman to shoot her drawing, a woman arrived with a bag of breadcrumbs for the birds who descended in a flea-infested grey cloud from the church roof. Coleman's picture belongs exclusively to ITN and cannot be filmed by other news channels. It is, however, available to newspapers, whose picture editors will choose between the artists covering the trial and pay them accordingly; they may use different artists on different days, for different people. Another court artist, Elizabeth Cook, who is retained by Sky, often draws in full public view out on the pavement. She says she has been added to the tourist itinerary, the guides on the sightseeing buses pointing out this piece of street theatre - "All her own work!" - as they pass along Fleet Street. "Fleet Street," Peter Ackroyd notes in his biography of London, "is an example of the city's topographical imperative, whereby the same activity takes place over hundreds of years in the same small area." George Cruikshank drew the condemned cells behind the "dreadful walls" of Newgate prison, which was eventually demolished at the beginning of the last century to make way for the Old Bailey. The most notable painter of the day, Sir James Thornhill, visited the legendary robber, Jack Sheppard, in Newgate in 1724, in order to complete a portrait that was then sold to the public as a mezzotint. Thornhill's son-in-law, William Hogarth, "himself could not resist the lineaments of the condemned", according to Ackroyd: "When in 1761 Theodore Gardelle was about to be hanged at the corner of Panton Street and the Haymarket, Hogarth captured his countenance 'with a few swift strokes'. " Many of the cases Coleman and Quenzler have to sit through involve men terrorising and torturing or murdering women and children. They have to look at the accused and fix his image on their retina; imprint it on their brain with no guarantee that they will ever be able to erase it. In her early years, working for a television station in Texas in the 1970s, Coleman had to do many drawings of prisoners being given lethal injections. These were reconstructions made on the basis of what her cameraman and other witnesses were able to tell her. But she says she would have watched if she could. The company she then worked for put her on a list to witness a lethal injection once, but she didn't get in. "I did the Candy Man, who killed his own son on Halloween for his insurance. I worked from reference photos of him strapped to the gurney. I did Karla Faye Tucker, the axe murderess... Oh, tons of them. But I guess Texas is really so full of this kind of thing that it got so everyday we stopped covering it. Terrible, I know, but it's a fact of life." When I ask whether the evidence of sordidness and corruption to which she was continually exposed had changed her view of human nature, she said, "You want to know have I become a horrible old cynic? Well, the way I see it is it's like dealing with things in the emergency room. There might be blood and guts everywhere, but you still have to get on with it." Priscilla Coleman is not listed under that name in the telephone directory. Elizabeth Cook said she did not want to "answer any questions about my personal life" when I approached her for this article. She is the only court artist with a website, a gallery of her work that announces, with some melodrama, "Elizabeth Cook attends the nation's most notorious trials... She stares at criminals." I had emailed her about an interview, but she had been too nervous to open it. "I do get inundated with, how shall I say, unnecessary messages," she said. "I don't want to encourage anyone." In the US, artists are allowed to draw in court, and even at executions. One of them, Howard Brodie, has achieved talkshow status. Now 88, Brodie started out as a "combat illustrator", covering the second world war, Korea and Vietnam for a services magazine. He then became a courtroom artist for CBS News, drawing the Watergate hearings, the Manson trial and John Hinckley's arraignment for shooting President Reagan. He has been a role model for Coleman ever since she left art school; and also for Quenzler, who encountered him many years ago when she was living in America, drawing the patrons of Beverly Hills nightclubs for $20 a throw. It is Brodie's commitment to objectivity that they have tried to emulate - he is sympathetic without being overwhelmed; engaged but at a distance. Both agree that this is the ideal. But is it art? It isn't portraiture in any accepted sense. Portrait painting belongs to the drawing room. It tends to be consensual, a transaction voluntarily entered into by artist and sitter. It used to be congratulatory, although there are numerous examples of subjects who ended up feeling defamed or deformed by the way they had been fixed for ever in paint - Churchill, for example, who had Graham Sutherland's painting of him destroyed; and, more recently, Prince Philip, after he had agreed to sit for the young portrait painter Stuart Pearson Wright. At the end of the final sitting, the artist asked the prince if he had caught a likeness. Philip snapped, "I bloody well hope not." Earlier this year, three Real IRA terrorists, who were eventually found guilty of involvement in the 2001 BBC and Ealing bombings, were allowed to decide whether or not the drawings made of them in court amounted to "negative impact". They decided that those made by Sian Frances, a freelance, did, and her drawings were ordered not to be used. "One of them," she told the Guardian at the time, "said he felt he looked sinister in my picture and didn't like the way I drew him. What could I do? I couldn't believe it. It smacked of press censorship." Art can be news, but news is different from art. Both Coleman and Quenzler describe themselves as "artist-journalists". Their presence in court adds a human element to the coverage, they think, and the human dimension is what can make the difference between art and news. The bold-stroke style of their drawings, their gropings and approximations, all the technical flaws, speak of "authenticity". In the same way that blurred or smudged or hard-pushed telescopic photographs have become conventions of the tabloids' style, visually stating the technical compromises the newspaper will make in its commitment to presenting the "real" story, court drawings speak to the immediacy of events; the sensationalism of the spectacle. Like the hacks, the court artists come to work with an empty bucket, and somebody fills it up every day.On the opening day of the Hutton inquiry, Geoffrey Robertson QC, representing ITN and Sky News, put the case for allowing the evidence of the inquiry's more public witnesses to be broadcast. He raised a wry smile from Coleman when, as part of his argument, he described her drawings, and the drawings of the other court artists, as "cartoons". (James Dingemans, counsel to the inquiry, would later complain to the Times that the sketches of him were "terribly inaccurate".) "I knocked Geoffrey Robertson out of shape because I did him too heavy," says Coleman, who once drew a fictional 'pre'-construction of him cross-examining Diana, Princess of Wales. "I'd seen him in Neighbours - oh, it was Home And Away [Robertson had a guest-starring role in 1998] - and I remembered him being kinda, y'know, doughy." Roberston had lost some weight in the meantime, but he can't have minded too much: he bought the drawing.