A murder inquiry has begun after a four-year-old girl was found dead at her home and her mother was discovered with severe injuries.Police were called to a house in Bury, Greater Manchester, shortly before 7pm on Thursday, after receiving a call of concern for the welfare of the mother and daughter.Officers found the body of a four-year-old girl, named locally as Chloe Burke. It is understood she had multiple stab wounds. Floral tributes have been laid in the garden by neighbours and friends.A woman in her 30s was taken to Fairfield hospital, where she is semi-conscious and remains in a critical condition. It is believed she is the child's mother and she has been named locally as Dawn Makin.Makin's parents, Sheila and Derek, live three houses away in the quiet suburban close. Friends said they had lived there for a number of years and were a "nice, hard-working family".Chloe's father, Michael Burke, 38, said at the scene: "I got the phonecall at 12.30 last night. I just want to know what's going on. The police won't tell me anything. She was a loving little girl. I had a good relationship with her mother, but we just grew apart."Forensic officers arrived at the house this morning. Chief Superintendent Jon Rush, of Greater Manchester police, said: "We are still trying to establish exactly what has gone on but what is clear is a young girl has lost her life and this is clearly very tragic."I want to reassure residents we have a team of specialist officers at the scene who are trying to establish exactly what has happened."Neighbours described their shock and described Makin, an A&E nurse, as "a loving mother".One neighbour, who did not wish to be named, said: "It's a shock. I came here about 6.50pm last night and the ambulance flew past. As far as I know, she works at Fairfield hospital as a nurse. She treated me once in A&E."I often see them [the grandparents] walking up the road with the little girl. I was hoping it wasn't her and then it was confirmed. It's a severe shock."Neighbour Steve Wheatley said: "I'm a parent myself; it's absolutely shocking. Shocking."Joyce Armstrong, another neighbour, said: "It's not the kind of thing you expect and we are very upset. The police came round last night to tell us that there had been an incident and then we saw it on the news this morning."Another neighbour, who did not want to be identified, said it was an absolute tragedy. "I didn't know the mother very well but I know the child's grandparents and they are lovely people. I know that their granddaughter enjoyed playing with their dog."