This weekend, Steven Roberts, a 29-year-old bricklayer from north-west London, will disappear.His bank and building society accounts will be shut down, his National Insurance number withdrawn, his passport destroyed and his birth certificate deleted. Every possible path that someone might use to try to track him down will be blocked: it will be as though he had never been born. Until his arrest 18 months ago, Roberts was a key member of Britain's most ruthless and prolific gang of armed robbers, led by the violent and unpredictable Sean Bradish. Along with Sean's younger brother, Vincent, and a few others the gang is believed to have carried out as many as 200 raids in the past five years, netting vast quantities of cash. They all lived as millionaires, enjoying a life of fast cars, exotic holidays, designer clothes and staged huge weekend-long parties where drink and drugs were bountiful. Last week Sean Bradish was given four life sentences for his part in the robberies. His brother received 22 years. Roberts, who had turned supergrass and given evidence against the brothers, received only eight years in return for his cooperation. He is now going into Britain's specialist witness protection programme for high-profile criminals who turn on their fellow criminals. Before being spirited away to a top secret 'prison within a prison' to begin his sentence, Roberts spoke exclusively to The Observer about his life of crime and his decision to break the criminal code. 'I first met the Bradish brothers in 1993 when I was drinking in a pub off the Stonebridge Estate [a notorious north London area] which was frequented by at least 18 well-known armed robbers. I was making a living from robbing drug dealers, something I'd started with a couple of old school friends a few years earlier. 'We had become quite sophisticated. I'd got hold of a police badge and walkie-talkie. I would knock on the dealer's door, show them the badge, explain there had been an accident, and ask if I could use their phone because my radio wasn't working. 'As soon as they opened up a bunch of us would rush in, tie them up and threaten them at gunpoint until they told us where the drugs and money were. 'It was a good living. One time we came away with £46,000 in cash, another time we got a kilo of cocaine. It was the perfect crime because they couldn't go to the police.' Through drinking in the pub, Roberts became friendly with the Bradish brothers - Sean, in particular - and was instantly attracted by their lifestyle. He got involved in his first robbery when Sean, unable to obtain a car for the job, asked Roberts to steal one for him. 'He asked if I wanted to come along on the robbery and I agreed. We parked around the back of the Thomas Cook in Edgware. He went in first and I followed, locking the door behind me. Sean then shouted at the cashier: "Open the fucking door!" She turned round and said "Oh God, not you again" - he'd already robbed the place five times before. 'We were in there for less than 20 seconds and came away with £24,000. It was incredible.' The Bradishes had a well-established routine to celebrate the end of each robbery, and he joined in eagerly. 'Most times we would do the robbery on a Friday morning early, at about 9am. Then we would book into a flash hotel and count the money, and have a glass of champagne. 'After that we'd go to the nearest shop and buy a whole new outfit. Everything we had [worn during the robbery] would be thrown away so there would be no forensic evidence. We always bought designer clothes - everything had a label. 'Then it would be off to the pub for a bit of dinner. By 6pm we'd start taking the cocaine and then go out. We wouldn't be back until Monday morning, and would easily spend £3,000 on drink and drugs over the weekend. Sometimes we would do two robberies a week.' The gang soon attracted police attention, but used constant anti-surveillance techniques to ensure they were not followed before a job. Unlike other robbery gangs, they rarely planned raids in advance so the police had little opportunity to catch them in the act. The Bradish gang played jokes on any pursuers by taking tracking devices off their own vehicles and attaching them to buses or trains. The robbers would call 999 to report men acting suspiciously - giving details of the police surveillance team watching them. 'The police would turn up and by the time they realised they were their own, we would be gone,' Roberts said. Although they became good friends, Roberts began to worry about Sean Bradish's increasing violence. 'Sean would never go out without a live weapon because he was always prepared to shoot if he had to. Just the sight of a gun is enough to scare most people but Sean would often use unnecessary violence. 'He is one of the most violent men I have ever seen in my life, especially with drink and drugs in him. One time we were in a pub and a man rumoured to be a rapist came in. A few of us took him outside, gave him a few punches and kicks, and left it at that. 'Sean wasn't satisfied. He took a half-pint glass, smashed it then rammed it in the the man's face about 30 times. I had never seen so much blood. We tried to stop him but he turned on us. He'd become an absolute animal.' Roberts was also having drugs problems. His cocaine use had spiralled from £25 worth a night to as much as £1,000 worth. His only way of funding his habit was to take part in more raids. After a bungled attempt on Barclays bank in Greenford, west London, however, he realised he had to go straight. 'We had just got inside when I saw two men in suits jump out of a car and go to the boot. They were CID who just happened to be in the area for a shoplifter, but my first thought was that they were Flying Squad. I screamed at Sean and we legged it out of there and round the corner to the alleyway where our motorbike was parked. I didn't want them to see the registration of the bike. 'Sean threw me the sawn-off shotgun and I pointed it at the police, and made them get up against the wall until we made our getaway. 'Afterwards our nerves were shattered. We parked the bike, booked into a Holiday Inn and went out on a major drink and drugs bender. Although we had only been in the bank a few seconds, we managed to get £4,000.' During the escape, however, Roberts had lost his hat. It was later found, and he was identified from DNA in a hair found inside. Although they had proof he had been at the scene, the Flying Squad decided to wait. These officers' favourite tactic is to catch robbers red-handed because it minimises the chances of their escaping prosecution. While they waited, Roberts decided to retire. 'I had lost a lot of friends, either murdered or ending up in prison for the rest of their lives. I could see myself going the same way. 'I had pissed off a lot of people with the way I had been behaving, and there were a lot of people who would have been happy to see me dead. I was also fed up with being followed by the police all the time so I went back to being a bricklayer.' Sean Bradish begged Roberts to take part in a raid a few months later. He refused and Bradish was caught during the robbery. Convinced that Roberts had somehow tipped off the police, Bradish started making plans to have him killed. A few days later, Roberts himself was arrested for the Barclays raid and within three days had decided to turn supergrass. 'People talk about honour among thieves, but there isn't any. If you are looking at a 25-year sentence and you have the opportunity to cut it down, you would have to be very stupid not to take that opportunity. 'It meant I had to face Sean in court. At first I was really shaky and felt sick: I just didn't want to do it. But after an hour in the box I started to focus. I knew I had to get the conviction. It wasn't a nice thing to do, but it had to be done. 'It's not just about getting a cut in my sentence, it's also a new start. It's a chance to get away from the lifestyle and all the things that were killing me. If this hadn't happened, I'd be dead now. I have no doubt that the Flying Squad saved my life.'