A child was seriously injured, and there is nothing excusable about that, but I think I have an inkling of what might have driven Peter Harvey, the teacher currently on trial, to batter a boy around the head with a dumbbell. I have to confess that I was once part of a group of very ordinary boys who, in the 50s, drove a history master to a mental breakdown.This was not some horrendous sink school, but a highly regarded institution in Johannesburg, South Africa. One day a new master arrived to teach history to the boys in form 1D. There was something indefinable about the man that made the skin prickle and brought to the surface every latent thrust of casual cruelty of which young teenagers are capable. And from the moment he first walked into the classroom we made his life hell. It didn't help that he had a very short fuse, and a history class was not complete unless we achieved the goal of turning him into a purple-faced banshee who frequently lashed out at his tormentors with rulers, blackboard dusters and fists.The torture took many forms. On one occasion about 20 of us bought from a toyshop those little tin frogs that clicked loudly when you pressed down on them. These we secreted in our shoes, under the big toe, and every time he started speaking, a cacophony of clicking would come from the general direction of the floor, the source of which was completely mystifying to him since all our hands were in plain view. The result was apoplexy.Other ploys were more subtle. One boy would begin by putting up his hand and asking for permission to remove his blazer. Another would follow. Then another, and another, until he shouted that, yes, everyone could bloody well take their blazers off. A few minutes later, the first boy would say he was feeling cold and ask permission to put his blazer back on . . . and the process was reversed.He stuck it out for about a year and a half, and then he disappeared suddenly. The consensus was that he had had a mental breakdown. I don't know if that was true, but there was no question that he had abandoned teaching as a career.I forgot about him until, about 10 years later, I was one of the organisers of a student study week. To my astonishment one afternoon, I saw my old teacher emerge from his car, ready to give a lecture. The young participants there were motivated high achievers of both sexes, who had previously not shown the slightest inclination to give guest speakers a hard time. But when he walked in I saw that familiar ripple of tension and indefinable hostility waft across the room.I still don't know why some of our teachers were victimised, when others managed to keep us in a state of docile terror. Might my unfortunate history teacher have been tipped over the edge one day to the extent that he would have pounded a boy with a three-kilo dumbbell? I have no idea what happened to him in the end, but if he is still around, I would like to take this opportunity to apologise.