Gemma Adams, 25The first of the women to be found, fished out of a stream near Hintlesham by a water bailiff on December 2 2006. She had last been seen in the early hours of November 15 by an unnamed customer, who had picked her up for sex at 12.45am on his way to a night shift and paid her £30.The cherished daughter of a well-off family, she had grown up in a large house on the outskirts of Ipswich, a member of the Brownies who played the piano and was obsessed by ponies. But by the time she left Keswick high school she had started using marijuana, crack and later heroin.Repeated efforts by her parents to help her off drugs failed; she was fired from her job at an insurance company, friends said, after repeatedly leaving work to score drugs. Soon she was working in massage parlours in the town and later on the street, though the other women described her as "one of the good ones".She had been living with her boyfriend, also an addict, when she died, and communicating only very erratically with her family. It was, said her mother Gail, as if Gemma lived "life a world apart".Paula Clennell, 24On December 5, Paula Clennell told a local TV reporter the disappearances had made her wary of going to work, but that she needed the money. A week later, her body was found by Old Felixstowe Road, south-east of Ipswich. Her parents separated when she was 14 and she moved with her mother from Berwick-upon-Tweed to Norwich. By 16 she was living with a man with whom she would have three children and was soon using drugs. The children's grandmother said: "All she ever wanted was to be looking after her children, but heroin destroyed her life." Shortly before her death, Clennell was living a few doors away from Wright with a 51-year-old man. He said she would spend £500 a day on heroin.Anneli Alderton, 23There were two Annelis, her mother Maire said - one with reddish brown hair, the other a peroxide blonde. The first had been an excellent student, who spent five happy years in Cyprus in her teens. The second, however, emerged after her adored father died when she was 17: an increasingly desperate young woman who had such a catastrophic addiction to drugs that even her fellow sex workers called her "Crackhead Annie". Her body was spotted two days after Tania Nicol's, on December 10, by a motorist driving past woods at Nacton. He had initially thought the body was a mannequin; she was the first of two victims whom Wright arranged in a cruciform position. She had a young child, who did not live with her.An addict from her late teens, she had been through several rehab programmes and had served two jail terms, her most recent release less than three months before her death.Maire last saw her daughter on Sunday December 3, as Anneli ran out of her mother's front door with a casual "I love you, mum." After her death Alderton was found to be three months pregnant.Annette Nicholls, 29Annette Nicholls' body was found shortly after Clennell's, a few hundred metres away. According to her friends, he had been using heroin for only a few years. They remembered a lively woman who was close to her extended family and devoted to her child. She had trained as a beauty therapist and had hoped to set up her own business. By the time she died, however, she had a reputation as one of the most desperate addicts on the streets, willing to take great personal risks. Shortly after her death, her cousin Tanya Nicholls described her transformation through drugs as "like flicking a switch".Tania Nicol, 19The youngest of Wright's victims, she was also the first, picked up and almost certainly killed on the evening of October 30 2006. Her father Jim Duell said after she died that she was "a lovely daughter - a caring, loving, sensitive girl who would never hurt anyone". But drugs, he said, "took her away into her own secret world".She first left home at 16 at which point, said her mother, her conduct changed. She had a job at one point as a room attendant at a hotel, but was soon working at Cleopatra's massage parlour, where customers knew her as Chantelle.By this stage she had returned to live with her mother, Kerry, and younger brother, from whom she tried to conceal her addiction. Kerry Nicol said she thought her daughter was working as a hairdresser or in a pub.In fact, according to friends, a month before she died she had been fired from Cleopatra's because of her drug use and forced to start work on the streets. Her body was dumped in Belstead brook, lying in the water for as long as five weeks before it was discovered.