The coroner at the inquests into the 52 deaths at the London suicide bombings accused emergency services chiefs of using too much jargon, adding that frontline workers might not understand the "management speak" used or the role of a counterpart at an emergency scene.Lady Justice Hallett unleashed her frustration at Gary Reason, the assistant commissioner of London Fire Brigade, on the final day of evidence, after five months of daily sittings and hearing from more than 300 witnesses, referring to the consistent use of "management speak" throughout the inquest.On the term "conference demountable unit", used to describe a portable incident room, she said: "As far as I can tell, management jargon is taking over organisations and perfectly sensible, straightforward titles are being changed."This isn't just somebody being pedantic about the use of English, which it appears to be … when it comes to managing incidents, people don't understand what the other person is. I don't know whether a crew manager is somebody who is responsible for supplies or is used to fighting fires. I have no idea."Clarity was key when crews were trying to establish events and authority at a disaster scene, added Hallett, who is the assistant deputy coroner for inner west London district. "What worries me is all you senior people of these organisations are allowing yourselves to be taken over by management jargon and … I just think that you people at the top need to say, we have to communicate with people in plain English."She added: "I'm sorry if that sounded like a rant but everybody who has been here for the last few months will know I've been building up to it."She asked Reason to take her point to other senior officers in the emergency services. "If you could do anything when you meet up with your fellow senior officers, in whatever organisations, to encourage the use of plain English, I, for one, would be enormously grateful and I think it would make everybody just that little bit more effective," she said.As the morning's evidence came to a close she suggested she was an "assistant deputy coroner in anti-jargon mode". Counsel to the inquest, Hugo Keith QC, added: "I think you are Gold inquest, my lady," a reference to the most important person in the emergency services chain of command.The inquest also heard that the Metropolitan police launched a vast awareness raising campaign about potential bomb-making materials after the terrorist attacks on 7 July 2005. Detective Chief Superintendent Doug McKenna said that more than 90,000 leaflets and posters had been distributed to people working with chemicals, urging them to "know your customer".While Mohammad Sidique Khan, Hasib Hussain, Shehzad Tanweer and Germaine Lindsay used hydrogen peroxide at their "bomb-factory" at Alexandra Grove, in Leeds, the senior officer warned that if that ingredient became difficult to obtain "another product would be found and would become the product of choice".Today marks the 73rd, and final, day of evidence and there will be two days of legal argument on 10 and 11 March. Hallett has not said when she will deliver the verdict. However, it is expected before 20 April when the court rises for Easter.The inquest continues.