Britain's Most Hated Woman (© every tabloid several hundred times over the past two years), Maxine Carr, has added another string to her bow. She can now appear in several places at the same time.According to local vigilantes, she is living in my home town of Coleraine in County Derry, posing as a 31-year-old mother of three called Karen Meek. In this incarnation, she is a size 18 blond shop assistant who shares little with Carr bar an English accent. The expensive identity protection, which Carr has received since her release from prison in May 2004, has apparently even extended to adopting three children to help her cover story.Even local MP Gregory Campbell was fooled by her tale. "Mrs Karen Meek is a constituent of mine who bears no resemblance whatsoever to Maxine Carr," he said. "She is of a different age to Carr and wasn't even in the UK when the gruesome events that occurred in Soham took place."Not that Campbell's remarks stopped the clever people who saw through Maxine's cover vandalising a van belonging to her "husband", repeatedly driving past her house in an attempt to intimidate her, forcing her to leave her job, and making her so anxious that her GP has put her on diazepam.Meanwhile, Carr has also taken up another role. In the same week, she appeared as a 33-year-old South African woman in Bonnyrigg, a small town in the Lothians. Legal secretary "Suzette Kapp" (note the slight similarity of the surname) claimed never to have ever heard of Carr. Her defence was based on the claim she was, er, in a different hemisphere when Carr lied on behalf of Ian Huntley over the murders of Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells.Last year, another South African, Diane Carraro, left Cheadle after seeing posters naming her as Carr posted around the Staffordshire town. Voice coaching to achieve a different accent is also apparently a part of Carr's new identity in the minds of those who spot her round every corner.It is easy for country girls turned big city sophisticates like moi to poke fun at small town prejudices without noticing that journalists like us may stoke them. The threats to Meek began after reports in a local newspaper. London-based hacks, meanwhile, have also kept well-travelled Carr right up there in the public eye, the News of the World urging her to Reveal All this summer, the Express reporting that she had suffered a miscarriage and the People following her upcoming wedding almost as assiduously as Chantelle and Preston's nuptials. A reminder that she gave Huntley a false alibi accompanies most of the numerous stories about her murderous ex-boyfriend.Anyway, enough of this boring breast-beating malarkey. I'm off to phone the peelers. That Osama bin Laden's working in the kebab shop down my road.