The Serious Fraud Office will be unable to negotiate swift plea bargain deals with defendants unless its conviction rate improves dramatically and the attorney general instigates a radical overhaul of pre-trial disclosure rules that mire many of its most complex cases, according to a government-commissioned review.Former New York prosecutor Jessica de Grazia, whose report was handed to the attorney general yesterday, pointed to the SFO's five-year average conviction rate of 61%, down from 82% four years earlier. In contrast, many prosecutors in the US have rates consistently in excess of 90%. "Early case screening and well-developed prosecutorial skills create the possibility of a criminal justice system in which the majority of cases are disposed of by a guilty plea," De Grazia said.The attorney general is consulting on a plea-bargain framework, which would offer limited scope for early-stage discussions between prosecutors and defendants. It would not go as far as US arrangements which allow the two sides to go to a judge, having agreed a penalty.While much of the SFO's difficulties are not of its own making, De Grazia said her 15-month review of the agency had found serious shortcomings, as well as a "complaint culture", "low morale" and "a skills shortage". She said investigations were occasionally unfocused and "most assistant directors do not exercise sufficient oversight of case controllers".Following the departure in April of former SFO director Robert Wardle, his deputy James Kellock and four assistant directors are to leave. At the heart of many of the SFO's problems, De Grazia said, were pre-trial document disclosure rules. De Grazia calls for urgent changes, painting a picture of SFO case controllers drowning in paperwork, much of which they know to be of little or no value."The criminal justice system of England and Wales is unlikely to obtain the full benefit of an early plea-negotiation framework unless the current system of disclosure is changed."She said prosecutors routinely face months battling defence lawyers even before cases get to trial. "The law encourages the defence to engage in a war of attrition in order to derail a prosecution through an abuse of process application ... [The system] is an important factor in contributing to the SFO's startling low productivity compared to its New York counterparts." She said she was surprised by the amount of legal aid funds spent attempting to stay or collapse a trial. She said it was "jeopardising the jury system".But attorney general Baroness Scotland distanced herself from the recommendation that disclosure scheduling requirements be relaxed in the larger cases. "The prosecutors do not share her conclusion [on] the disclosure regime," she said.