Political parties need to do more to address older people's fear of crime if they are to secure their vote at the general election, according to an opinion poll published today by Help the Aged.The charity found crime was nearly twice as important as any other issue when older people on low incomes were asked to name the key priority for improvement in their area. The survey by Mori found crime was the most pressing concern for 31% of the 504 over 65-year-olds living on less than £6,500 a year who were questioned. This compared with 17% citing money and pensions, 13% mentioning public transport and 9% saying health. The survey found 55% believed that crime had increased over the past four years. The same proportion said they were afraid of intruders entering their home and 61% were afraid of their home being burgled. Half were afraid to go out at night alone. Women aged between 65 and 74 were the most afraid of crime, with 64% admitting to being scared of going out at night alone, while 34% of men of the same age said the same. Mervyn Kohler, of Help the Aged, said: "Older people regularly raise crime as an important political issue, despite them being statistically less likely to be victims of crime. "Their fear of crime is likely to stem from degradation of the community in which they live as much as from the threat of violence." The charity appealed to the political parties to develop policies to help older people enjoy social activities instead of turning their homes into fortifications to keep out intruders. Providing reliable and accessible public transport, better street lighting and visible policing would make a start in addressing these problems and boost the quality of life in local communities, Mr Kohler said. The survey found older people in the north of England were more afraid of crime than those in the south, with 53% of northerners too afraid to go out alone at night compared to 49% of pensioners in the south and 48% in the midlands/eastern England region. Mr Kohler said the results sent out a strong message to the parties that the concerns of older people could not be ignored. Robert Worcester, chairman of Mori, said: "The over 55s have four times the political clout of the under 25s: there are twice as many of them and they are twice as likely to vote."