Confidence in the police's ability to fight crime in London has fallen in the past 20 years, and the quality of the force's work is rated lower than that of other public services, including nurses and social workers, a study finds.The report also says that Londoners have much higher expectations of the Metropolitan police than they did 20 years ago, but that the force has fewer resources. Within the criminal justice system, however, the police are still considered the best of the agencies. Worst regarded were the juvenile courts, with only 10% of Londoners interviewed believing they did a "good job". The study, Policing for London, was commissioned by the Met in the wake of Sir William Macpherson's report into the death of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence. It shows how pressure from successive home secretaries and the audit commission to tackle certain types of "priority" crime might be behind the fall in confidence in the police. Because the Met directed resources away from the policing of low-level nuisance, the perception that things were getting worse had been allowed to fester, even though overall crime rates had fallen, the study suggested. The report calls for the police to achieve a better balance between "crime fighting" and "peace keeping". The research, which included a survey of 2,800 people, stressed that the force had made some progress in winning the confidence of ethnic minority communities, but warned that there was a long way to go. More than a third in the survey believed that police treated ethnic minority groups unfairly. But twice as many black and Asian people said they would consider joining the police now, compared to the figures in 1981. There was also a sharp rise in the number of black and Asian people who said they would report a crime. While the use of stop and search was a source of friction, the research, which was conducted by Marian Fitzgerald and Mike Hough, both criminologists, showed that most people questioned were "very or fairly satisfied" with the way they were treated. The 164 page report warned, however, that there was "a clear sense of the legacy of over policing of black people". People were also not just "calling for more visible deterrent patrolling, but for a style of policing responsive to local problems and local needs".