A sous chef who murdered his boyfriend before frying a section of his flesh in herbs and olive oil and chewing it was jailed for a minimum of 30 years at Leeds crown court today.Anthony Morley, 36, of Leeds, slashed Damian Oldfield's throat before stabbing him repeatedly and cutting off sections of his thigh and chest flesh in April. He left a bankcard over a wound on his victim's chest.Sentencing Morley, Judge James Stewart said this was "one of the most gruesome murders" he had ever encountered. He told Morley: "Not only did you murder your victim by cutting his throat and stabbing him but you cut him up, cooked him and ate part of him. Denouncing Morely for "depths rarely encountered in our court", he said: "Before this case I had associated cannibalism with eras long gone, with the tale of Robinson Crusoe. No longer." As Stewart gave his sentence, there was applause from the public gallery and a shout of "murderer". Morley stood in the dock with his head bowed as he was sent down. During the two-week trial, the court had heard how Morley, a former Mr Gay UK, had walked into a takeaway shop wearing a bloodstained dressing gown and flip flops, telling staff he had killed someone because he tried to rape him.The jury was told how Morley removed sections of flesh, including a nipple, from the body of his 33-year-old former lover, who sold advertising in a gay lifestyle magazine, Bent.Six pieces of human flesh, cooked so they were raw in the middle and browned on the edges, were later found on a chopping board in Morley's kitchen. A bundle of fresh herbs, a knife used to chop them, some olive oil and a dish of seeds were found on the work surface near the cooker and a frying pan was on the hob with the remnants of fried herbs and oil in it. A section of flesh, which appeared to have been chewed, was found in a bin bag. Morley, who won the first Mr Gay UK title in 1993 but was said to be confused about his sexuality, had previously had a relationship with openly gay Oldfield and the pair arranged to meet on the day of the murder. The two men met in Leeds before going back to Morley's house, where he cooked a meal of fish for them both. The pair had kissed and cuddled and went upstairs to Morley's bedroom to watch a DVD of the film Brokeback Mountain in bed. Morley claimed he killed Oldfield after waking up to find him performing a sexual act on him and said he feared he was going to be raped. The jury was told that Morley had been badly affected after being groomed and raped by an older man when he was younger, and that the incident had left him confused about his sexuality.Morley claimed he had had a flashback to that incident and felt betrayed by Oldfield's actions.During the trial Morley claimed he could not remember killing Oldfield or his following actions and denied murder on the grounds of provocation or diminished responsibility.The judge rejected this. "You can hardly rely on his provocation of you when you encouraged him," he said. But he said he accepted that Morley was confused about his sexuality, saying he had a "conflicting, tortured personality". The judge said Morley was "highly dangerous" when he had been drinking, referring to a previous incident when he attacked an ex-boyfriend with a meat cleaver. The judge described Oldfield as "outwardly gay and proud of it. "He enjoyed his life to the full, having a loving family and many, many friends, of which he wanted you to be one. Now, at the age of 33, his life has been taken away."Judge Stewart also condemned Morley for showing no remorse for his actions."I have not heard the word 'sorry' in the last two weeks," he told him.After the verdict, Oldfield's mother, Denise, said: "Damian loved life and he has had that taken away from him in the cruellest of circumstances."