The businessman Joji Obara was described in a court as a "cunning beast". He was found guilty today of raping and killing Australian Carita Ridgway and raping eight other women between 1992 and 2000.But he was cleared of raping and killing Lucie Blackman, the British former flight attendant whose dismembered body was found encased in concrete close to Obara's luxury apartment.A disturbing profile of Obara emerged during his trial.Police who searched his seaside home found 200 videos of him having sex with drugged women. They also found date-rape drugs and a dead Alsatian in his fridge surrounded by roses.Obara was born King Sung-jong in 1952 to Korean parents. As Korean immigrants his family were considered second-class citizens in Japan, but his father's successful taxi business allowed them to escape their humble origins.Obara studied law and politics at an elite Tokyo university. He took Japanese citizenship and changed his name. He even had plastic surgery to look more Japanese.When he was 17, his father died leaving Obara a vast fortune.This allowed him to lead the life of a playboy during the 1980s and 1990s. He liked driving luxury European cars and developed a fetish for having sex with unconscious women.He lost much of his fortune in the 1990s, racking up debts of £122m after the Japanese property bubble burst. He owed some of his money to mafia clans.But in 2000, still with money to spend, he was a regular at the Casablanca bar in Roppongi where Ms Blackman was a hostess at the time she disappeared.He used various pseudonyms and met western girls. Sometimes he persuaded them to go back to his apartment, where, the court heard, he then drugged and raped them, often while wearing a Zorro mask.The court was told the chloroform he used had led to the death of Ms Ridgway in 1992. She died of liver failure in hospital after meeting Obara.An accomplished English speaker, Obara defended himself in court by presenting Ms Blackman as an unstable drug user. He admitted spending time with her on the day she disappeared but denied killing her.Obara said there was no physical evidence linking him to her death. "The autopsy could not find the cause of her death and they could not find my DNA from the body, but they said I caused her death," he said.On this point the court agreed. Today Judge Tsutomu Tochigi said police failed to provide evidence directly linking Obara to Ms Blackman's death.Her father, Tim Blackman, expressed his frustration at the verdict, which he said robbed her of justice.Obara's lawyer claimed he would appeal against his nine convictions for rape and the killing of Ms Ridgway.