What did Tony Blair think he was up to, dropping a controversial but distinctly parochial law-and-order proposal into a wide-ranging speech about "values and the power of community" before a religious audience in Germany?Labour MPs were startled to hear of the "£100 spot penalty" for Saturday night hooligans - and not just on civil liberty grounds.This speech was meant to be about interdependence in a globalised world, about what Mr Blair called "the grammar of togetherness" and "reciprocal altruism" between rich and poor. It will be remembered for coppers being told to drag drunks to cashpoint machines. "He did it because Alastair Campbell told him the speech had to have something for the bloody tabloids," one fair-minded Labour MP explained last night. Another obvious explanation, the MP conceded, was that the prime minister is embarrassed about the appalling reputation abroad of English football hooligans during Euro 2000 - he mentioned them in Tübingen yesterday - and wanted to show he is taking the problem seriously at home. There is also the little matter of William Hague, who has been running off with the law- and-order headlines lately. The prime minister and home secretary want to regain control of that agenda. Here was a tough solution to appeal to the Daily Mail and Sun, even if it sounded half-baked and unworkable. The problem has been made more urgent by the looming rise in crime figures, after three years of falling ones, further highlighted by the much-publicised claim on US television this week that Britain is a very violent place. But this was a speech with an avowed vision far grander than all that. The private Mr Blair takes his religion seriously, but nowadays he is wise enough to avoid making public theological pronouncements even when he succumbs to an invitation from the dissident Catholic theologist Hans Küng. He was also mindful of the pitfalls of overtly partisan speeches to non-political audiences and must have wondered whether Tubingen might turn nasty - another Women's Institute fiasco. So he devoted just two paragraphs to Europe and one reference to the Tories. Mr Blair explained his vision of how communities - local, national and international - can mitigate the "breakneck speed and continuous change" that globalisation creates and most people find hard to cope with. He spoke of education, drugs, the daily grind of two-job families, of elderly parents and divorce. Acknowledging the price of growing affluence, he said: "It is a world with a paradox at ther heart of it: greater individual freedom, yet greater interdependence." Part of his aim was to persuade the wider audience in Europe that the Blairite third way can reconcile tradition and modernisation, the heresies of left and right, one hostile to capitalism and family values, the other fearful of immigrants, yet slaves to market forces. At the heart of his philosophy, Mr Blair explained, was "the modern idea of community" and his belief in the equality of individual worth - "not equality of income or outcome, or simply equality of opportunity, rather it affirms our equal right to dignity, liberty, freedom from discrimination as well as economic opportunity". That is a short step from emphasising both what Labour is doing on public services and what it expects by way of responsibility from individuals themselves, "the covenant at the heart of modern civil society", he called it. The main thrust is enough to enrage his critics on both left and right, too bland and consensual for their tastes, too prone to avoid real differences of interest that will not be easily reconciled. The fact that No 10 saw fit to drop a gimmicky idea for fining Saturday night drunks into such a speech suggests that his promise to the WI - not to over-spin stories or "fight for every headline" -has already been discarded. We suspected it might be.