David Cameron yesterday downgraded the Tories' commitment to civil liberties when he declared that the sole focus of the Home Office under a Conservative government would be to tackle crime. In a sign that the party is distancing itself from the era of David Davis, the former shadow home secretary who resigned over the government's 42-day detention plan, the Tories pledged to introduce a 21st-century alternative to "a clip-round-the-ear" policing.Underlining the party's tougher approach, Cameron issued a blunt message to wayward children. "It's the Conservatives you're dealing with now," he said. "You're not going to get away with it any more."Cameron made his remarks as he introduced Chris Grayling, who was making his first speech as shadow home secretary. Grayling made clear that civil liberties would not be one of his priorities when he said: "If I am home secretary after the next election, my job is very simple - to be tough on crime. The first [priority] is to find a 21st-century alternative to what would once have been a clip around the ear from the local bobby ... If you're a young person who has ignored that new generation 'clip around the ear', you should end up in court quickly and at the very least should be doing some form of tough community service as a punishment."Grayling said Labour had failed to deliver on Tony Blair's pledge to be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". He said: "That phrase is now a hollow memory. We have a government that has quite simply failed to deliver. It has been soft on crime, and soft on the causes of crime. And that just has to change. It's time we dealt with the wrongs against society - not just the rights of their perpetrators."Cameron said the Tories were not abandoning their focus on the causes of crime. In 2006 this was called his "hug a hoodie" approach after he said people's first instinct on seeing a hooded youngster should be to understand what has gone wrong. He said: "I want the rest of government to fight the causes of crime, not the Home Office. I want the Home Office to do its own job well, not everyone else's job badly. I want the police to do what they're supposed to do - and mostly want to do - which is to fight crime, not waste time."He defended his party's links with its major donor Lord Ashcroft, after the Electoral Commission said it was investigating up to £5m given by one of the peer's companies, Bearwood Corporate Services. Cameron insisted his party had a proper compliance department - "unlike Labour", who "don't seem to have any checks at all". "I am very happy that the Electoral Commission is looking into the arrangements," he told Channel 4 News. "We will abide by all the findings of the regulator." The Tories will say that they have not abandoned their commitment to civil liberties because Dominic Grieve, a key advocate, is shadow justice secretary.