A 26-year-old man was jailed for life yesterday for the "callous" murder of a soldier who had served in Kosovo and Iraq and dreamed of becoming the first black colonel in the British army.Trooper Narel Sharpe was shot dead in September 2004 as he returned to the UK on leave from Germany to celebrate two birthdays: his 21st and his mother's 40th.Stafford crown court was told that Levi Walker, of Edgbaston, Birmingham, fired a black Beretta pistol when Trooper Sharpe fought back as he tried to mug him for the gold chain round his neck. The chain was later pawned for £422 at a shop in West Bromwich.After the verdict the victim's mother, Gail, said the death of her son would forever haunt her. "I feel numb, but justice has been done," she said. "I will never forgive him (Walker) for what he has done but he is now off the streets of Birmingham. The last 15 months has been a nightmare. It is like daggers piercing into my stomach. The fact that I will never get to see my son again will always hurt me."Mr Justice Mackay ordered that Walker, whose criminal record began when he was 14, should serve a minimum of 30 years before being considered for parole."This was a callous murder for a cheap piece of jewellery," said the judge. "It is a crime that almost defies belief."The jury was told that Trooper Sharpe had been heading from service in Germany with the Queen's Royal Hussars for the birthday celebrations at his home in Smethwick. Walker attacked him as he stopped to use a phone box in Oldbury Road, Smethwick, in the early hours of September 4 2004.He shot Trooper Sharpe in the arm but the bullet also penetrated his body and he was pronounced dead at hospital."This case is about the death of a soldier, a young black man of 21, who took pride in his career and served in the army in the hot spots in the world, but was killed in Smethwick on his way back to see his mother," said Anthony Barker, prosecuting."His great misfortune was to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. He was killed because he was wearing a gold chain around his neck and, probably, because he fought back."Major Will Strickland, from the Queen's Royal Hussars, said the soldier had had a promising career ahead of him. "He was a committed and capable soldier, he would have done well. It is a tragedy that he had been in Kosovo and Iraq on dangerous operations and been killed in his home town.""Narel worked hard at school and carried on working hard in the army," said Detective Sergeant Stuart Kidd, from West Midlands police major investigation unit. "He had a dream of becoming the first black colonel and was doing well in the army."DS Kidd added: "Levi Walker has been found guilty of a despicable crime. This sends out a clear message: people who carry guns will be sentenced to a long time in prison. It does not pay."Chervaun Whitehouse, 21, of Smethwick, and a 16-year-old who cannot be identified for legal reasons, were both convicted of perverting the course of justice. The teenager was also convicted of possession of a firearm.Sentencing was adjourned.