Prison officers set inmates from different social backgrounds against one another in an effort to maintain control of overcrowded jails, penal reform campaigners claimed today.Inmates from different ethnic or religious backgrounds, or even supporters of rival football clubs, are placed together in cells to "divide and rule" the prison population, said Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform.Her comments came after it emerged that the police are investigating claims that prison officers at Feltham young offenders institute in west London put white and black inmates in the same cells and bet on how long it would be before they attacked each other."It's not as simplistic as media reports about racism in prison suggest. It's not just white on black, it's more sophisticated," said Ms Crook. "There are hierarchies in the system which staff do exploit. That could be putting a black Deptford lad in with a black Lewisham lad, putting Manchester United fans together with Liverpool fans, or Asians and blacks together, or people from different religions. "It's a way of controlling them - divide and rule. In a sense it's because the staff are so over stretched that they have to use these appalling 'management techniques'. It does happen, I've seen it."But Ms Crook said that she was not aware of any other cases where prison officers had allegedly bet on fights between inmates with different ethnic backgrounds."It sounds so extraordinary. If there is evidence it has occurred then the most extreme sanctions must be taken against the staff concerned and their managers. Those at the top must be held accountable," she added.Scotland Yard said yesterday that it was aware of the Feltham allegations and confirmed it had launched an investigation. Both the prison service and the Prison Officers Association have said they are taking the claims seriously.A spokesman for the Home Office said that they could not comment on the Howard League's further claims while the police investigation was ongoing.The investigation comes in the same week that an inquiry was opened and adjourned into the fate of 19-year-old Zahid Mubarek who was beaten to death by a white cell mate at Feltham in March 2000.Mubarek, who had been serving 90 days for stealing £6 worth of razor blades, was placed in a cell with Robert Stewart, who had RIP tattooed on his forehead and a Klu Klux Klan sign in his cell. Stewart had been implicated in violence and threats to other prisoners and staff while in custody. He has since been sentenced to life for the killing.