The worst child killers - those adults who carry out the sexual, sadistic murder of children - will face "life means life" jail terms, under new sentencing principles to be announced today by the home secretary, David Blunkett.Terrorist murders and those involving the death of a police or prison officer in the course of their duty will also attract far heavier sentences of at least 30 years under the new sentencing regime, compared with the current practice of a 20-year term. Those who murder in the course of an armed robbery will also face longer periods in prison. The announcement, to be made today to parliament, is also expected to set out the minimum period that doctors and others who take part in "mercy killings" will be expected to serve. The decision by Mr Blunkett to set out "principles" for the minimum periods that those convicted of murder and given a mandatory life sentence must serve follows a House of Lords ruling that the current system is incompatible with the European convention on human rights. At present the judges pass a mandatory life sentence for murder and the home secretary sets the "tariff" or minimum period that must be served before the parole board will consider whether the prisoner is suitable for release. The new system sets out "principles" rather than guidelines for sentencing by the judges, which they will be expected to follow. Those who decide that the minimum sentence recommended would be inappropriate in the particular case will have to set out their reasons in writing. It is believed that the new "principles" have caused unease in the Lord Chancellor's department over the degree to which they shackle the discretion of judges. The attorney general already has the power to refer cases to the appeal court if he believes that the sentence passed by the trial judge is unduly lenient. Lord Goldsmith, the attorney-general, has been vigorous in using this power. It follows the Anderson case, where the House of Lords criticised the role of the home secretary in setting the minimum period that must be served in individual cases. Anthony Anderson was convicted in 1988 of murdering a 60-year-old man and a 35-year-old man after gaining entry to their houses to steal. The trial judge, with the agreement of the lord chief justice, recommended his tariff should be 15 years, but the home secretary fixed it at 20 because he had killed twice. The home secretary has told parliament that when MPs took the decision to abolish the death penalty in the 1960s it was told that the home secretary's power to set the minimum sentence would ensure accountability to parliament. "The House of Lords has not ruled that the home secretary's power is unlawful. Existing tariffs therefore stand," Mr Blunkett has told MPs. "The House of Lords has declared instead that the home secretary's power to set tariffs is incompatible with the Euro pean convention on human rights." The new sentencing tariff is combined with the home secretary's new powers to make representations to the parole board on the possible risk of the prisoner offending again before it sets his release date. The home secretary has promised that the new scheme will be "compatible with our human rights obligations and will also ensure that parlia ment has established the framework for dealing with the most dangerous and evil people in our society". As home secretary, Mr Blunkett has already set a minimum 50-year tariff for Roy Whiting for the murder and sexual abuse of Sarah Payne. He set a similar term in the murder of Sarah Hook. Denise Fergus, the mother of the murdered toddler, James Bulger, has also said that the new tariff of natural life should apply across the board to children who commit murder as well. Mr Blunkett will make clear today that the aggravating factors will include murder committed in the course of an armed robbery or the murder of a prison or police officer in the course of their duty, as set out by his predecessor, the Conservative home secretary, Leon Brittan in 1983.