It has become an all too familiar script: the bright, open face in the photograph, the bed of flowers laid where they bled, the tender tributes and tearful pleas from family members to end the killings. On a bank holiday weekend blighted by street violence, aspiring actor Robert Knox became the 28th teenager to die in a knife attack this year when he was stabbed outside a bar in Sidcup in the early hours of Sunday. Knox was a member of the same rugby club as 16-year-old Jimmy Mizen, who died after an attack with a broken bottle in nearby Lee, south-east London, two weeks ago.Neither young man fitted the profile of those habitually associated with knife crime - although little is known at this stage about their attackers. Both Knox and Mizen were white, in education, and lived in relatively affluent suburbs with close, stable families. Nor were they reported to have ever carried a weapon. But, regardless of what is revealed about the backgrounds of their killers, it is clear that increasing numbers of young people across all classes are choosing to arm themselves on the streets.John, 24, who grew up in a far less salubrious area of south London, sees the change clearly. "It's got to the stage where it's not just kids who want to commit crimes who carry knives, but people who are scared of what'll happen to them if they don't. They're starting from 13, because there are places you can't go without one. They do it out of fear. And a scared person is more dangerous." It is notoriously difficult to establish trends in, or prevalence of, knife carrying and knife-use: the quantitative research just hasn't been done. According to the latest Home Office statistics, one in five of those convicted for possessing a knife was aged between 10 and 17, while the Youth Justice Board has reported a significant increase in teenagers arming themselves since 2002. Although the British Crime Survey suggests that knife crime has remained stable over the past decade, younger victims are especially prone to under-reporting, and data about victims under 16 was only proposed for inclusion in the survey this year. None of this tends to correct the impression that knife use has reached extreme proportions.And, among a minority of neglected, excluded, unloved children, in very localised, typically inner city, areas, it has. Their vulnerability renders them lethal: the experience of growing up in chaotic and abusive environments stripping them of empathy, whereby their only sense of self-worth comes from the respect they demand on the street. But, significantly, these young people have come to set the standard for a generation, entrenching the expectation of violence among their better-placed peers. And they now likewise consider packing a weapon to be a sure method of exhibiting power and avoiding victimhood. Eight years ago, criminologist David Wilson was one of the first to identify this phenomenon among urban teenagers. He found two broad reasons for carrying knives. The first was performative: the knife was a symbol of adulthood and, in particular, becoming a man. The second reason was far more instrumental: these young people were afraid on the street and felt that the authorities didn't take those fears seriously. It's no overstatement to suggest that we have reached a point where knife-carrying has become so embedded in youth culture, and is so acceptable amongst peers, that it will take a mammoth and long-term effort to persuade young people they would be safer giving them up. Although knife crime has not reached the epidemic levels many tabloid newspapers would claim, it's inevitable that the clamour serves to reinforce ordinary teenagers' anxieties. It is a dreadful irony that, at a point when childhood is more circumscribed and scrutinised than ever, this has not resulted in an increased sense of security for our young people. There is an urgent need to reclaim public space, for children and adults alike, by day or by night. But this cannot be achieved in an atmosphere of crackdown. While the home secretary Jacqui Smith has ably resisted calls for a legislative response, in a worrying move the Metropolitan police recently sanctioned the more proactive use of stop and search powers in 10 boroughs across London. Under the 1994 Criminal Justice and Public Order Act, police have the right to search anyone in a designated area over a 24-hour period, without the usual requirement of reasonable suspicion. Many youth workers consider this a potentially toxic development, while the children's commissioner, Sir Al Aynsley-Green, has warned of fostering a culture of resentment towards the police. It is expected that the government's forthcoming youth crime plan will take a more therapeutic approach to youth offending, as well as focusing on children as victims. It would be tragic if the loss of Robert Knox and 27 other young lives resulted in a return to more punitive times, or to the excessive criminalisation and incarceration - largely as a result of antisocial behaviour policy - that peaked mid-decade. And, meanwhile, we must continue, in as calm, nuanced and searching a way as possible, the difficult conversation about why our young people have become so frightened of the streets where they live. l.brooks@theguardian.com