Sir Ian Blair, the new Metropolitan police commissioner, is to introduce a wide-ranging shakeup of Scotland Yard to improve efficiency and save more than £300m.Taking over the top job from Sir John Stevens tomorrow after five years as his deputy, Sir Ian has asked Alan Brown, one of three newly appointed assistant commissioners, to conduct the review, which will cover most parts of the Met.The Met's annual budget is around £2.5bn, but it has not yet been decided how many years the £300m savings will be spread over.Among sections to be scrutinised are special branch and counter-terrorism, where any cost cutting could prove contentious given the recent emphasis on national security and the Met's role in keeping the UK safe from global terror threats. The anti-terrorist unit has taken on more than 700 extra officers in the past two years, and Sir John recently praised the anti-terrorist team for thwarting eight potential atrocities.Sir Ian has already insisted that counter-terrorism must remain the Met's top priority. But senior Yard sources told the Guardian there was a feeling that costs had escalated, particularly with regard to special branch overtime pay. "There is no easy answer as to how much to spend on counter-terrorism," said one security source. "If atrocities are prevented it is worth every penny, if they are not every aspect of policy is up for criticism. What is important is that expenditure and effort are focused."Another controversial suggestion, to be considered by the review team, is the merging of intelligence cells - currently dedicated to various specialist squads - into one central unit. Some detectives fear such a move could dilute the effectiveness of the intelligence operation.One detective warned: "It won't work. You need to have your intelligence officers working alongside your operational detectives. You need the speed of intelligence delivery and the specialised knowledge of the field [they operate in]. That's why the national criminal intelligence squad has not worked; having them separate from the national crime squad did not make sense."Mr Brown, one of the force's most highly regarded detectives, is well aware of the issues surrounding intelligence. As a Met commander, he tackled gang warfare in London and led Operation Trident, the Yard's "black on black" gun crime unit; as deputy assistant commissioner he took on an inquiry about an alleged "shoot-to-kill", dealing with the fatal shootings of 30 suspected drug dealers by Jamaican police. At present he is in charge of the day-to-day running of the investigation into the death of Princess Diana, being overseen by Sir John Stevens.Sir Ian has a long track record on reform. In the 1980s his research revolutionised the way rape was investigated, evolving a more sympathetic approach towards victims. He also championed the use of community support officers, who have helped bolster the Met's presence on the streets.Paul Stephenson, formerly chief constable of Lancashire, is Sir Ian's deputy commissioner, and Norfolk chief constable Andy Hayman and Met deputy assistant commissioner Stephen House become the other assistant commissioners.The government wants the Met review to set the tone for policing reform nationwide.