Hundreds of prisoners convicted of nonviolent crimes will be released up to two months early in an attempt to ease overcrowding which has pushed the jail population close to crisis levels.David Blunkett yesterday referred to the Strangeways prison riot as a warning of what can happen when jails reach bursting point as he announced a big extension of the electronic tagging scheme. The home secretary said one of the reasons for the measure was to "help us manage the prison population by reducing overcrowding". The prison population of England and Wales has reached 70,197, close to the maximum capacity of 71,800. More space in prisons is urgently needed as a crackdown on street crime is launched next month. Some prison governors have been reluctant to free inmates early, under what is officially known as home detention curfew, because of fears they would be blamed if the prisoner reoffended. From May, governors will be expected to release prisoners serving between three and 12 months for the last 60 days of their sentence. There would have to be "compelling reasons" not to release them on the tagging programme, Mr Blunkett said. Up to 1,350 prisoners, including burglars, fraudsters and minor drug offenders, are expected to be tagged and released on top of the 1,800 already on curfew. More than 44,000 prisoners have been released wearing tags in the last three years and less than 2% have reoffended during the remainder of their sentence, Mr Blunkett said. Prisoners convicted of violent, sexual or serious drugs crimes will not be eligible for tagging. "If anyone watching, reporting or listening today seriously believes that a further exponential rise in the prison population for short-term prison sentences and first time offenders is the way to ensure our safety then they are sorely deluded," Mr Blunkett said. He hinted at the possible consequences of allowing jail overcrowding to get worse, by alluding to the riot at Strange ways prison in Manchester in 1990. Mr Blunkett's announcement came the day after a Downing Street summit to address the crisis in street crime, and on the day that a Guardian/ICM poll showed that voters' fear of crime had triggered a Tory revival. After a week in which tabloid front pages have been dominated by pictures of teenage criminals in "lawless Britain", the home secretary's speech was littered with irritable attacks on national newspapers. Mr Blunkett said he felt "bewilderment on the debate going on around me". "What a lot of garbage. It's time people grew up in this country and helped me." Speaking to a London conference on prisons and probation, the home secretary also announced that he would appoint a commissioner for victims to "give victims a voice". "For years the public has seen the entire system as being on the side of offenders, not victims. Victims of crime are still, too often, treated with indifference or with disrespect. I am not having that."