Serial killer Harold Shipman murdered his patients with doses of diamorphine six times greater than the amount normally used to control acute pain, it emerged yesterday.Shipman's name was not mentioned in yesterday's 80-minute session of the public inquiry in Manchester into the activities of the former doctor who was convicted of 15 murders last year. But an authority on the control of pain gave evidence in the context of trial reports that Shipman had regularly injected his elderly victims with 30mg of diamorphine, which was twice as potent as morphine. "The standard adult doses for relief of acute pain by injection would be 10mg of morphine or 5mg of diamorphine, repeated four hourly," said Henry McQuay of Churchill hospital, Oxford, in a report to the inquiry. "This level of dose would be used, for instance, after an operation or a heart attack." He said 30mg of diamorphine was a potentially lethal dose and that his professional colleagues would not let him go near them with a syringe loaded with more than 10mg. "The greatest amount I have ever administered is 15mg of diamorphine over about five minutes to a huge Swedish vicar who had been out cross country skiing and had suffered a very nasty open fracture of his femur," he added. The effect of diamorphine would be stronger on older people and on those not suffering acute pain - a category into which most of Shipman's known victims can be grouped. "Giving 30mg of diamorphine or more intravenously over five minutes or less to a fit normal person who has not previously used the drug would make them sleep and stop breathing," he added. An injection would begin to take effect within two minutes and reach its peak after between two and five minutes. If breathing stopped for three minutes, the brain would be starved of oxygen and death would follow. Photo gallery The story in picturesAudio Angelique Crisafis in Hyde. (2mins 03) Harold Shipman is questioned by the police Read the transcriptGovernment audit Download the report Extracts from the reportThe trial Complete case reportsRelated articles 11.01.01: Police investigate deaths of more Shipman victims 08.01.01: Minister admits watchdog is not Shipman-proof 05.01.01: Safeguards were not tough enough, admits department of healthUseful links The Shipman inquiry Greater Manchester police General Medical Council Department of health