The television presenter Ray Gosling has been given a suspended prison sentence after admitting wasting police time for claiming on a programme to have killed his dying partner.Gosling, 71, told the BBC East Midlands Inside Out programme in February that he had smothered his lover, who was dying of Aids-related illness in hospital. He later repeated the claims and was subsequently arrested on suspicion of murder 36 hours after the original programme aired. However, last month he was charged with wasting police time after a six-month investigation found no evidence that Gosling had killed anyone.Gosling, wearing jeans and a suit jacket and carrying a plastic bag, initially denied the charge before changing his plea."In my heart and in my head I plead not guilty," the presenter said. However, following a short adjournment with his lawyer, Gosling told the court: "Digby Johnson, my solicitor, tells me technically I am guilty."I just want to say, very clearly and very strongly, sorry to my lover's family and for the distress I have caused them and sorry that apparently I have wasted police time," Gosling told Nottingham magistrates court, where he was handed a 90-day suspended sentence.The charge related to claims made by the presenter during the 12-minute Inside Out programme described on the BBC's website as "Ray Gosling contemplates mortality – his own and everyone else's. Just how does he want to die and be remembered?"Wandering through a graveyard while delivering a piece to camera, Gosling said his partner, who had Aids, had been in "terrible pain" when a doctor told him there was nothing more that could be done.He said he asked the doctor to leave them alone and then "I picked up the pillow and smothered him until he was dead".Speaking after Gosling was charged last month, Helen Allen, a lawyer in the special crime division of the CPS, said police were convinced Gosling's statement on the programme was untrue."The police established that there was sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of proving that Mr Gosling's confession was false and asked the CPS to consider whether he should be prosecuted for wasting police time, given the amount of work they had to carry out to establish what had happened," she said.After being charged with wasting police time, Gosling strongly denied that he had made the claims in an attempt at self-promotion. "I know what some people say, that I said what I did for publicity to promote a book I'm writing," he said."That is absolutely not true, I haven't finished the book yet. Some people say I did it to revive a dying career. I didn't. I said it out of my heart, out of my feeling for people who had told me their intimate private stories and it got out of hand and I'm sorry."Gosling's solicitor echoed the apologies today. He said the "fantasy" was something that had "grown" with Gosling over the years, saying: "We know that it is not true but we also know it was something he did not just decide on on that day. For some reason, it's something that he has grown with for over a decade. He voiced the fantasy that he had been harbouring in his own life for that length of time."Gosling initially said he would refuse to divulge details of the man or of when and where the killing took place, "even under torture". However, he later said he had told police the man's identity during questioning.The court heard that Gosling's claims wasted around 1,800 hours of police time, costing in excess of £45,000.District judge John Stobart told Gosling: "As cases of wasteful employment of police time go, this is as bad a case of its type as I have seen. You know the power of television celebrity and the trust the public and television producers have in you. You have to match this with the responsibility of identifying and telling the truth to the public."Stobart said he would take into account Gosling's age, guilty plea, remorse and previous exemplary character and ordered him to pay £200 towards court costs at a rate of £5 a week.• This article was amended on 8 October 2010 to remove personal details.