Robert Napper operated in the shadows, hiding in the dark corners of suburban gardens where street lights did not shine, creeping in the undergrowth alongside beautiful walkways, taking cover in the wildness of London's open commonland, always poised to step into the light and with one strike of a knife extinguish the carefree existence of young women and teenage girls.Like Jack the Ripper, the killer who is his closest comparison, it was as if he was invisible. But today it is clear that his own long shadow was cast unseen for many years over three major police inquiries and it was Colin Stagg, not Napper, who became notorious as a result of breathtaking incompetence, blinkered decision-making and a wholesale failure to follow evidence that went as far back as 1989.A young woman known as C knew nothing of Napper when she pushed her two-year-old daughter in a buggy along the Green Chain Walk in Eltham, south-east London, on a May bank holiday in 1992. She was on her way to a barbecue, enjoying the first days of spring.It was as she passed a derelict building that the woman sensed someone was behind her, and in the next few seconds Napper struck. She was grabbed from behind with force, a ligature was placed around her neck and she was pulled to the ground.Stripped, raped and battered about the head repeatedly for several minutes in front of her young child, the attractive, blonde 22-year-old was left looking like a bloody rag doll. Some time later, C was able to describe what happened. "I asked him not to kill me," she said. "He didn't stop hitting me. He put a rope around my neck and kept bashing me on the head."Twelve miles west across London and seven weeks later, another young blonde mother in her early 20s was walking on a summer's morning with her two-year-oldson on Wimbledon Common. This time, fate was not so kind.Details of the murder of Rachel Nickell – the 49 frantic stab wounds, one of which almost decapitated her, the sexual violation, and the tiny piece of paper placed on her forehead like a plaster by a small boy who repeatedly cried "Get up mummy" as he clung to the body – have been repeated many times over the last 16 years. The iconic picture of the victim, the sheer brutality of her death and the failure to find her killer have ensured her murder has remained at the forefront of public consciousness.Today a new story emerges in all its full, horrific detail of how Metropolitan police detectives and senior officers, the Crown Prosecution Service and Paul Britton, a criminal profiler who went on to make a generous living out of his controversial role in the Nickell case, repeatedly missed crucial connections with the assault on C and a string of other attacks.As he progressed from peeping tom to stalker, then to multiple rapist and finally serial killer, Napper came on to the police radar at least seven times, on at least two occasions displaying behaviour that marked him out as a danger to women. But he was never pursued.Had the links been investigated, the connections would have led detectives to Napper earlier, preventing Colin Stagg from being made a pariah and saving another young mother and her child from murder and depraved mutilation.Childhood traumaRobert Napper was born in February 1966 and brought up in Plumstead, south-east London. During his first 10 years of life, he witnessed brutal violence meted out by his father, Brian, against his mother, Pauline. Such was the trauma suffered by Napper and his siblings that when the couple divorced, all four children were placed in foster care and underwent psychiatric treatment.It seems Napper suffered more than his siblings, undergoing treatment for six years at the Maudsley hospital. As he reached puberty, he was psychologically damaged further when a family friend assaulted him on a camping holiday. He was 12 years old.According to his mother, Napper became introverted, obsessively tidy and reclusive after the assault. He would emerge from his bedroom only to bully his brothers and pry on his sister when she was dressing.His first recorded criminal offence, in 1986, displayed no hints of the horrors to come. Napper was fined and given a conditional discharge after being found in possession of an airgun.It was not long afterwards that the demons inside Napper drove him further to depravity. Still living at home with his mother, he confessed that he had raped a woman on Plumstead Common. Pauline immediately phoned the local police to let them know, but they said they could find no trace of a rape on the common and pursued the inquiry no further.They had not looked very hard. Some eight weeks earlier, a 31-year-old mother reported to police that she had been raped in her home in front of her children. The intruder entered the house through the rear door, armed with a Stanley knife and wearing a mask.The woman's house backed on to Plumstead Common. Police had taken DNA from the woman, which had they bothered to interview Napper and take a blood test, they might well have matched to him.It was after this that Napper's mother broke off all contact with him. Still in his early 20s, he moved into a bedsit, holding down a string of menial jobs but using his spare time to stalk and choose his victims.The rape of the 31-year-old was the first in a string of attacks that became known as the Green Chain rapes. In the months leading up the Nickell murder in July 1992, Napper appeared to step up his attacks. Over a two-month period, three women were assaulted along the Green Chain Walk, two 17-year-old girls in March, and on the May bank holiday weekend it was C's turn to cross Napper's path.Joining the dotsA major inquiry was set up after the 1992 attacks. Officers were hunting a perpetrator who showed extreme violence towards his victims, using a knife and on more than one occasion attacking a woman with her children present.Throughout the inquiry, 106 crimes were identified involving 86 women. And it was in the middle of this inquiry that Rachel Nickell was attacked.Despite similarities between the cases, no one appeared to be joining up the dots. Britton, a leading influence on the Nickell murder inquiry, was also working on the Green Chain rapes case.Professor Laurence Alison, the chair of forensic psychology at Liverpool University and the author of a new book on Napper, told the Guardian: "Frenzied random motiveless knife attacks on women are rare. Even more unusual are frenzied, random knife attacks on women with their young children present. Here was Britton with two of them under his nose and no one noticed."If the police were not drawing the threads together, others were attempting to point them in the right direction and bring Napper out of the darkness.In August 1992, one of his neighbours in Plumstead rang the police to say he looked like the photofit of the Green Chain rapist. Detectives went to his house, questioned him and asked him to give a blood sample at the local police station. He failed to turn up.A few days later, another member of the public called police to say "Bob Napper" looked like the rapist. Officers returned to his flat and asked him again to go to a police station and give a blood sample. Napper failed to turn up and within a few weeks he was eliminated from the investigation because at 6ft 2in tall he did not fit the 5ft 7in description, of the rapist.Two months later in October 1992, he was flagged up to the police again when he was arrested over suggestions that he had been stalking a civilian employee at Plumstead police station. Officers searched his bedsit and found a .22 pistol, 244 rounds of ammunition, two knives, a crossbow and six crossbow bolts. Police files from the inquiry show they also found pocket diaries, hand-drawn maps, notes written on the borders of newspapers, and a London A-Z.In the notes were references to methods of restraining someone, including the phrase "clingfilm on the legs". Another note named particular streets and gave map references for them on the A-Z. Pages had been marked with black dots highlighting certain areas; other locations were marked with dashes. They were concentrated in the Plumstead, Eltham and Woolwich areas of south-east London.In one diary Napper referred to several women, calling one a "sodden filthy bitch". In one of the A-Zs was a fitness card for a young blonde woman from Eltham. It was placed in the page corresponding to her home address.Napper pleaded guilty to possessing a firearm and ammunition. In court, references were made to his disturbed mental state and a psychiatric report was produced saying he was "without doubt an immediate threat to himself and the public".Napper was given an eight-week custodial sentence and no further inquiries were carried out into the disturbing evidence found at his flat.'Strange, abnormal'In April 1993, Napper's fingerprints were found on a tin box discovered buried on Winns Common, neighbouring Plumstead Common. Inside the box was a Mauser handgun. Despite the fingerprint link, Napper was never questioned about the find.In July of the same year, according to police files, Napper's name was logged on an intelligence report after a couple phoned the police to say they had seen a man spying on their neighbour, a young blonde woman who often walked in her flat semi-naked. The husband followed the man, and when police arrived they spoke to Napper, who gave his name and address. The officers' notes read: "Subject strange, abnormal, should be considered as a possible rapist, indecency type suspect."By this time, across London in Wimbledon the Nickell inquiry team were closing in on their suspect, Colin Stagg, with very much less evidence than was emerging apparently unnoticed on Robert Napper. Stagg was arrested in August 1993 and charged with Nickell's murder.At that point, a connection was finally made. Jim Sturman, Stagg's barrister, told the Guardian his client was told he had to travel to south-east London for an identity parade for a series of rapes."As he was about to go, the police came in and said he didn't have to any more because his DNA didn't match," Sturman said.Despite ruling him out of the rapes – which police were by now linking to the Nickell murder – officers pursued their case against Stagg. Detectives wound down the Green Chain inquiry despite available evidence and intelligence that could have led them to Napper.While Stagg was on remand, Napper struck again, targeting another mother in front of her child. This time, Napper displayed the depths of his depraved mind. Police believe he had been regularly watching 27-year-old Samantha Bissett when she made love to her boyfriend, Conrad Ellam, in the living room of her flat in Plumstead.On November 3 1993, when Ellam was at work, Napper knocked on Bissett's door. As she opened it, he struck the first blow of the knife with such ferocity that her spinal chord was almost severed. Napper thrust the blade in 70 times more before turning to her four-year-old daughter. He raped and suffocated Jazmine upstairs, leaving her lying on the bed as if she was asleep.Returning to Samantha, he propped her body against the sofa in the position in which he had seen her making love. With his seven-inch knife, he sliced her torso open, pulling her rib cage apart as if to display her. Before he left, Napper removed part of her womb as a trophy.Out from the shadowsIt was to take six months before police matched Napper's fingerprints and a trainer footprint to Samantha's flat.During that time, the Nickel inquiry team travelled to Plumstead to examine any links between the killings. Detective Inspector Keith Pedder took Britton with him but, according to Pedder, the psychologist dismissed any connection."It was a completely different scenario," Britton said in his book, The Jigsaw Man.By May 1994, Napper was no longer the unseen psychopath in the shadows. After initial forensic delays, he was arrested and charged with the Bissett murders. DNA tests linked him immediately and conclusively to the Green Chain rapes.For four months, both Napper and Stagg were on remand for murders 12 miles apart, both involving frenzied knife attacks on young blonde women, both in the presence of children.The police protest today that they did look at Napper after his arrest but there was no forensic evidence linking him to the Nickell scene at the time.Police admitted today that the senior investigating officer in the Nickell case was aware of the similarities in the killings. With Stagg awaiting trial, he preferred to await the outcome of the legal proceedings before investigating Napper.One legal source said: "What we see now is how far they were prepared to go. They would have seen Stagg go down for life for a crime he didn't commit."In October 1995, Napper admitted killing Samantha Bissett and her daughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. In 1995 he also admitted one rape and two attempted rapes of women he had stalked on the Green Chain Walk in south-east London.Detectives who investigated a series of attacks over a period of four years in south-east London in the early to mid-1990s say officers identified 86 victims and 106 crimes, but Napper refuses to admit any offences for which there is no forensic evidence.To the credit of the Metropolitan police, the failure to prosecute Stagg was not the end of their inquiry. Under the lead of Detective Chief Inspector Tony Nash, they re-examined the forensics and doggedly continued the investigation.Today, 13 years after he was identified as Bissett's killer, Robert Napper emerged from the shadows once more to appear at the Old Bailey and admit he had attacked and killed Rachel Nickell, bringing to a belated conclusion one of the most high-profile British murder inquiries of modern times.