Three people who locked a man who had epilepsy in a garden shed for four months were given lengthy prison terms yesterday after it emerged their victim was beaten, burned and humiliated over a minor debt. Kevin Davies, 29, was repeatedly assaulted by the trio, who held him in a shed in Bream, Gloucestershire, bolted from the outside, from May to September 2006. The trio fed him leftovers and scraps, such as potato peelings.His body was found by paramedics on September 26 in the kitchen of David Lehane and Amanda Baggus's home. Tests revealed weedkiller in his body and extensive bruising and burns. His ribs and larynx were fractured. Burns covered 10% of his body. Baggus kept a diary in which she recorded the punishments, scornfully recording his cries for help.They also filmed him in the shed, bullying him into saying he was staying voluntarily and was being treated well. In the video he seems frightened, emaciated and weak. Lehane, 35, and Baggus, 26, and their lodger Scott Andrews, 27, had been charged with murder, but the charge was dropped after experts could not rule out that epilepsy may have contributed to Mr Davies's death. However, it is unlikely it was caused by his medical condition.The three pleaded guilty to false imprisonment and assault occasioning actual bodily harm. Lehane and Baggus were given 10-year sentences at Bristol crown court by Mr Justice Gray. Andrews was given nine years. The judge said their actions had been "utterly inhumane". He said: "Since the death of his father in March 2006 his life is said to have lacked structure. He needed sympathetic treatment, but what you meted out to him over many weeks was the very opposite of that."Ian Pringle, prosecuting, said Davies had been treated like an animal. "What emerged from the investigation into Kevin Davies's death was that he had effectively been held captive at the home of the defendants for a period of nearly four months," he said. "He had been abused for that period of time. He had been assaulted, he had been beaten and had effectively been kept like a dog in a locked garden shed at night. In short, the last few months of this man's life must have been utterly miserable and inhumane."Mr Davies, who suffered from severe epilepsy, had been described as gullible, naive and vulnerable. He had known Lehane and Baggus for some years but had fallen out over a car crash. Baggus felt he owed her money and took his social security money while he was kept in the shed. In one diary entry she wrote: "He was playing up last nite, banging in the shed. So later that night both Scott and Dave hit Prick until quite late, cause Prick made a load of shouting."Patrick Harrington, defending Lehane, said "things had got out of hand" but said it had been "an unsophisticated enterprise". He said their victim was homeless and an alcoholic and was grateful to be allowed to stay in the shed.In a statement, Mr Davies's family said: "Although nothing can compensate us for Kevin's death we feel the sentences validates our faith in British justice."Detective Chief Inspector Geoff Brookes described the trio's behaviour as extraordinary and bizarre. "Only they can say exactly what motivated them," he said.The shed has been replaced by the new tenants of the house.