Police today appealed for help in tracing the killer of a man stabbed outside his Bristol home in an argument over a 40p loan.The 29-year-old victim, from the Knowle area of the city, was on his way home from a community family day when the argument began near his home in Ilminster Avenue yesterday.It was witnessed by "the whole street", one neighbour said. People in the area were today naming the same man as the killer. Neighbour Paul Burgess, 63, said the victim, who he knew as Barry, had become embroiled in a heated argument with his killer shortly before the stabbing. "They were friends and had been drinking down the social club during this community clean-up day," he said. "I saw Barry and the other chap fighting in the street for about five minutes. They were going in and out of each other's houses. "Barry came out with a hammer, and this guy must have had a knife hidden up his sleeve. He stabbed him in the neck and then again as he fell to the floor. There were about 20 or 30 neighbours out watching it." The victim, who was treated at the scene by paramedics, was pronounced dead at Bristol Royal Infirmary. His pregnant partner, Maxine Preston, was taken to hospital last night.The incident happened as a six-week knife amnesty, announced after a spate of high-profile knife crimes over recent months, entered its second week.Julie Hodge, 35, said the Bristol victim's 10-year-old daughter, Jasmine, had run round to her house as the fight broke out. "She was saying: 'I think my daddy's going to get into a fight'," she said. "I went down to his house and saw Barry lying in a pool of blood in his garden. Letisha, the youngest, was downstairs. She was saying: 'They've hurt my daddy, they've stabbed him'." Another Ilminster Avenue resident said his youngest daughter had seen the attack. "The youngest was on the doorstep and saw the first couple of stabs, then ran off," the woman, who did not want to be named, said."The whole street saw it all. Some of the children have been up all night, terrified." The mother of two said the men had been drinking, and "Barry had been buying him drinks all day. But when he asked for 40p for a pint, he said no ... that's when the trouble started". She added: After the stabbing, the man who did it just calmly walked off."Detective Chief Inspector Guy Vickers, leading the investigation, said police were looking for a local man, and asked members of the community to help in the search."The two men argued, as a result of which the offender ran into a house and picked up a knife before returning and stabbing the victim," he said.The victim's home was cordoned off as police teams continued their search for evidence today. Bloodstains were visible in the yard and on the doorstep of the terraced building. Floral tributes were laid outside the house as the local community struggled to come to terms with the attack. "Knowle has its problems with drugs and some types of crime, but this will come as a big surprise to the community," Gary Hopkins, the Liberal Democrat councillor for Knowle, said. "People don't feel unsafe walking the streets of Knowle, at least in the daytime, which makes this so out of character and shocking."