Police investigating a double murder in a quiet Lincolnshire village today said the couple shot dead on Sunday had escaped a gun attack on their previous home.Joan and John Stirland had been frightened by threats made against them after Mrs Stirland's son, 23-year-old Michael O'Brien, murdered a man outside a pub in Nottingham last August. O'Brien shot Marvyn Bradshaw in the head. The following month, shots were fired through the windows of the Stirlands' home in Carlton, Nottingham. Following the attack, the couple decided to leave Nottinghamshire. By last Christmas, they had settled in the seaside village of Trusthorpe, where their bodies were discovered on Sunday. Lincolnshire police today said that 53-year-old Mrs Stirland had been in regular contact with officers in Nottinghamshire since moving to Trusthorpe. In April, she told Nottinghamshire police she had moved there, and contacted them again on July 13 following O'Brien's conviction for murder, saying she had heard that threats were being made against her. Officers told Lincolnshire police about the threats.On Saturday, the day before the murders, a neighbour saw a man hanging around in front of the Stirlands' home. When this was mentioned to Mrs Stirland the following morning, she rang Nottinghamshire police at 11am. An officer in Nottingham phoned back at 2pm and spoke to her.Within half an hour of the call, the Stirlands had been killed. Witnesses reported seeing two men in dark blue boiler suits running or walking from the couple's home, and a Volkswagen Passat seen in front of the house at around the time of the murders was found burning two miles away at 2.30pm. Police in Nottingham contacted Lincolnshire police shortly after 2pm to tell them about Mrs Stirland's concern. However, Lincolnshire police today said they were told that she did not want police to take any action that would draw attention to her. Instead, she wanted them to speak to her neighbour. A police patrol arrived at the Stirlands' home more than seven hours later to find the couple dead. An officer noticed that the front door was open and, from outside the house, what had happened was clearly visible. Today, assistant chief constable Peter Davies said his force had acted properly, given that they had received a second-hand account of a person committing no obvious offence 16 hours earlier. "If we had had a call from either of the couple seeking immediate assistance, we would have been there," he said.The Stirlands' murders took place less than a week after the best friend of O'Brien's victim was found dead in his home in Nottingham. Jamie Gunn, 19, was said to have spiralled into depression after the killing. Gunn was found by his brother and sister in the family home on August 2, having died of pneumonia. His mother, Julie, 36, said his distress over Bradshaw's murder had led him into a period of self-destruction, and that he had died of a "broken heart". O'Brien was last month jailed for a minimum of 24 years after a jury at Nottingham crown court found him guilty of Bradshaw's murder. As he was sent down to the cells, he taunted his victim's family, shouting: "I don't care. Your son looked like a doughnut with a big hole in his head."