In case you haven't noticed, our prisons are in crisis. The jail population soared to an all-time high of almost 84,000 in 2008 – more than doubling since 1992 – and overcrowding continues to reach record levels. We lock up a greater proportion of our population than the French, the Germans, the Italians, the Turks, Greeks, Poles, Hungarians and just about every other European nation – even though British society is no more criminogenic than the continent.Why should we worry? Because penal expansionism is corrosive to society. Prisons are not tools to be deployed lightly. In England and Wales they have become a surrogate for a health and welfare system that fails the most vulnerable. Prisons are becoming little more than warehouses for dumping people with problems society has failed to deal with – those with mental health needs, with histories of neglect and abuse, with drug and alcohol addictions.And despite all this, the dramatic increase in our use of imprisonment has only encouraged a more fearful and insecure population, and has raised unrealistic expectations about the role prison can play in securing a safer society. It certainly doesn't seem to be winning the government any votes.What has caused this crisis? Given the long-term trends of falling crime, it is penal policy (pdf) and the criminal justice system that have driven up numbers rather than any upsurge in crime. Sentences have got steadily longer, while more and more individuals have been recalled to prison for breach of licence. The crisis has also been fuelled by legislation. Consider this: in the 1980s, there were seven law and order-related acts for the entire decade. In the 1990s, there were 11. Since 2000, there have been an astonishing 31 pieces of legislation related to law and order passing through parliament.In 2007, the Howard League for Penal Reform set up the Commission on English Prisons Today to investigate the crisis in our prisons and to come up with a blueprint for a penal system fit for the 21st century. I was asked to chair the commission, and we spent the last two years speaking to leading experts and visiting other countries to gather any lessons we could. Chief among our findings is that it is perfectly possible to have less crime, safer communities and fewer people in prison.Early on, we decided that a key theme of our report would be that of "excess" and its counter, that of "moderation". We saw excess in the ever-soaring prison population, excess in terms of law and order spending, excess in terms of legislative hyperactivity. As the commission conducted its inquiries, we then saw another crisis of excess-hit society in the form of the credit crunch and the downfall of the banks. There are very clear parallels between the financial crisis and the crisis facing the country's penal policy and practice. Just as the banking sector has squandered and gambled with the finances of investors in pursuit of short-term gain, so too has penal policy been driven by unregulated expansion and initiatives designed to win headlines in the red tops rather than any lasting public good.It is time to take stock. Expansionism was driven in a period of economic affluence, and many mistakes were made simply because we could afford them. Other mistakes were made out of electoral cynicism, although pandering to public fears and stoking an obsession with crime is ultimately self-defeating – an unregulated appetite for punishment will always outstrip a government's capacity to legislate or ability to fund yet more prison cells. Ultimately, the criminal justice system is a blunt tool that cannot hope to solve the underlying causes of crime, which are rooted in social exclusion and inequality.For this reason we are advocating a new approach: one rooted in localism not bureaucratic and complex centralism. One that engages communities and gives them the tools to address their problems. We believe that local government should have a far greater role in the criminal justice system, and that actors outside the criminal justice sector – the health and education sectors for starters – should be far more engaged in tackling such issues as the crisis of mental health in our jails, and the fact that the average reading age of an adult male prisoner is 11.Our report found that countries with high levels of social and institutional trust, as well as more equal societies, have low prison populations. We live in an unequal society, and one where trust in institutions, in politicians, in judges – and even in each other – is at an all-time low. So our prison population is at an all-time high. It doesn't have to be this way. With the new realities on public spending we must make important choices, and will need to take more care with those choices. There are broader political points here, and our commission has started a debate in criminal justice that should spill out into all aspects of social policy.