A man has been jailed for life for stabbing an antiques dealer to death in a random attack in a shop.Justin Skrebowski, 61, who ran a stall in Portobello Road, west London, was buying balloons in Poundland in Abingdon, Oxfordshire, for his wife’s birthday party when he was knifed in the back on 7 December last year.Trevor Joyce, 37, a drug addict and schizophrenic, had taken a large knife from a display and attacked the father of two, causing massive bleeding.Joyce then ran through the shop brandishing the weapon, shouting at shoppers and staff: “This is what you get. I have done it. If I had my way you would be stabbed too.”He ran out of the shop and threatened an elderly couple. After being beaten off with the wife’s crutch, Joyce shouted at another person sitting nearby: “Respect me. Do you want me to cut your fucking head off?”He then threatened to stab a child who was being pushed in a pram by her mother and waved the knife in people’s faces, the Old Bailey in London heard.Mobile phone footage was played in the court chronicling Joyce’s progress through the streets, shouting and swearing. Shoppers appeared stunned and shocked as he ran amok around the town centre.Before being brought down by police with stun guns, he yelled: “I have killed someone now. I hope you are satisfied. Shake my hand. Congratulate me.”The court heard that Joyce had a long history of drink and drug abuse, which made his schizophrenia symptoms worse. He was diagnosed in 2003 and was prescribed antipsychotic drugs. He was also treated in hospital.In October 2015, Joyce told a doctor that he was hearing voices and feeling angry at his noisy neighbour, the court heard. He had gone with a knife to confront the neighbour and said he would have stabbed him if he had opened the door. The doctor reported the threat to authorities but a decision was taken not to section Joyce.The doctor disagreed with discharging Joyce after an assessment, but arranged his onward care with regular injections of antipsychotic drugs, the court heard.The defendant, of Abingdon, had pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility.He also admitted two counts of making threats to kill; one of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and one of threatening others with offensive weapons. He appeared at the Old Bailey via videolink from Broadmoor secure hospital.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Forensic officers at the scene of the killing in Abingdon. Photograph: Steve Parsons/PAAlan Blake, prosecuting, said Joyce’s previous convictions included drink- and drug-driving, possession of crack cocaine, battery, and possession of a weapon in a public place, which led to the confiscation of a sword. He was also convicted of public order offences in 2015.The victim’s widow, Gulsen Alkan, wept as she described the emotional and financial burden of raising their four-year-old twins without their father. The court heard that she had struggled to keep her husband’s business going and had received a “meagre” £10,000 in compensation.Sentencing Joyce to a discretionary life sentence with a minimum term of nine years, Judge Zoe Smith said: “The shock of Justin Skrebowski’s killing has traumatised his immediate and extended family. The sheer random horror is proving very hard and painful for his family to cope with.”She told Joyce: “The real concern in your case is that even though you had been treated for schizophrenia over the last decade, you have in no way moderated the taking of illegal substances.“While it is said your psychotic state was becoming more difficult for you, it is clear at the time the amount of drugs you were consuming was also on the increase. And you knew that such drug-taking is going to exacerbate the symptoms you have.”The Skrebowski family said in a statement: “Given what was known by the authorities of the state of Joyce’s mind at the time, it is incomprehensible to us that he was left at large in the community. “Justin died on his wife’s birthday as a direct result of the minimally supervised release of a very sick man. The catalogue of blunders, missed opportunities and failed procedures defies belief. “How many more have to die before the mental health trusts accept their responsibilities to protect the general public?” Skrebowski, who was born in Stockton-on-Tees, was described by his family as an extraordinarily generous man with a ready sense of humour and a love of life and learning. The statement said: “He was deeply loved and is deeply missed every day. He was an accomplished linguist with friends and business colleagues in many countries who now share our sense of loss.” 