Geoffrey Ikpoku is in the running for a national award less than a year after setting up his first business. His bus firm offers affordable and discreet travel for relatives visiting prisons, and has proved popular since it was launched last summer. But as an ex-prisoner, Geoffrey knows his success is against the odds - and he wants to use it to help stop others reoffending.Geoffrey is one of several ex-criminals that youth charity the Prince's Trust hopes to use as mentors to help others adjust to life after prison.The planned scheme was inspired by research that showed many ex-inmates were left to struggle after leaving prison, which led them to reoffend. Some said they were held back by lack of confidence and by not having a specific, single contact to deal with during their sentence and rehabilitation.Others said that on release it would be helpful to have something to do, such as community projects, and practical support with independent living. And many felt that support from a mentor with the same experiences would make a big difference.Geoffrey, 26, hopes to use his experiences to help mentor others. His coach service was an idea he thought up while inside. But the business took a while to get off the ground and he was unemployed for a year while struggling to find an employer prepared to take on someone who had served five years for robbery."When I came out of prison everyone had moved on. My girlfriend had left me, my friends had jobs and families or had left the area, and I couldn't find work. I needed someone to believe in me," he said.He found support from the Prince's Trust, which examined his business plans and eventually offered financial backing. With the trust's help, Geoffrey started Saracen Logistics, which now has two minibuses and has been shortlisted for the RBS Celebrate Success Awards in March. "I can't believe how far I have come," he said. "My life has completely changed for the better." Geoffrey, from north London, said having someone support and believe in him had made all the difference and he was keen to "give something back" to the charity.Patrick Whelan, 21, also struggled to find work when he left prison after serving three years for aggravated burglary. Now working as a car valeter, Patrick, from the West Midlands, also hopes to become a mentor when the trust secures funding for the scheme.Patrick said: "When I came out, I was institutionalised. I'd been used to being told what to do all the time. It was only through getting involved with the trust that I got my confidence back."The trust has also teamed up with a new taskforce launched this month by Clinks - which represents 250 voluntary groups working in the criminal justice system - to look at how best to help offenders, ex-offenders and their families contribute to policies and services that affect them.The taskforce will spend 12 months taking evidence from offenders and their families, and will look at international experience, before making recommendations to policymakers and criminal justice organisations.Rob Allen, the chairman of the new taskforce on user involvement and also chairman of Clinks, said: "Offenders currently have little influence in terms of their care and rehabilitation. But research suggests seeing offenders as active participants in their rehabilitation could lead to a reduction in reoffending."