 Prisoners should be consulted directly about what is most likely to stop them reoffending, says a report out on Wednesday from campaign group, the Prison Reform Trust. Controversially, it calls on the Ministry of Justice (MoJ) to commission a "payment-by-results" pilot to test the effectiveness of the active involvement by prisoners in their own resettlement plans.The suggestion comes as the charity warns that reoffending levels are at risk of rising as resources for assisting prisoners back into communities come under greater strain."Reoffending rates are unnecessarily high, especially for those serving shorter sentences," PRT director Juliet Lyon says. "It doesn't have to be that way. This report is a warning that, as cuts bite even deeper, something really needs to be done."With almost half (47%) of adults released from prison being reconvicted within a year, and those rates rising to 57% for those serving shorter sentences, finding plausible ways to reduce recidivism has proved an elusive goal for campaigners and policymakers. Lyon says the new study, Out for Good, produced with grantmaking charity the Pilgrim Trust, offers "straightforward" suggestions for government to act on.Kimmett Edgar, head of research at PRT, says the payment-by-results proposal would require funds from the MoJ, but he insists this kind of pilot could be an inexpensive way to garner crucial "insights" into helping prisoners help themselves. The MoJ is running its own payment-by-results schemes around resettlement – mainly where agencies meet offenders as they leave prison and then try to help them reintegrate into the community. An MoJ spokesman says the department recognises that reoffending rates "are too high" and that, as a result, reform of the criminal justice system is being carried out. As part of the reform, he cites a resettlement pilot scheme "that sees prisoners serving less than 12 months met at the gates by an agency tasked with resettling them in the community".But Edgar says what is needed is a total rethink of what resettlement should entail. "For example, if a prisoner is a drugs user and says he needs help with that first and foremost, there is no point in ticking boxes for employment. The offender might have great insights into what will stop him reoffending. The approach is modelled on the same principle as personalised budgets [in social care and mental health] where the service user is understood to be the person best placed to know what they need," he explains.In addition, the report, which draws on interviews with former and current offenders, proposes that a central tenet should be to encourage "prisoners to take responsibility" for their own resettlement long before they leave jail.It calls for all prisons to have "a comprehensive resettlement strategy" and that prison officials work on resettlement priorities with offenders as soon as they arrive in prison to encourage self-sufficiency. This could work, the report's authors suggest, by involving families more in plans for resettlement, and forging better links between prisons, community organisations and other agencies. It also argues for regular prison "open days", where inmates meet with employers and housing agencies, and for peer advice from former prisoners who have turned their lives around.Colin Lambert, a frontline manager at the resettlement charity, St Giles Trust, and a former offender who consulted on the report, agrees with Kimmett that input is necessary from the moment a person is convicted. "People who go into prison want to change.But there has to be a structured plan in place to help them do that," he says. "It has to start from the moment they walk in the prison doors and has to be consistent [across the prison estate]. I really believe that if we listen to offenders and help them to take responsibility, things can change." He adds: "Prisoners are mostly told, 'We will help you' or 'This is what you must do' – much better to ask them what they need and then make it happen. It may cost money to begin with, but it will save it later."