Detectives investigating an explosion that killed a man and destroyed three terrace houses were last night examining whether he was murdered. The blast happened just after 9.30pm on Wednesday in Stanley Road, a quiet suburban street in Harrow, north-west London.Scotland Yard said it had not yet established the cause of the explosion. Although it was initially thought that it might have been caused by a gas leak, it was not clear whether the houses were connected to gas mains. Officers believe the blast, which left two other people with serious injuries, may have been caused deliberately. As detectives from the specialist crime directorate, responsible for the capital's most serious criminal cases, took charge of the inquiry yesterday, locals described the moment the houses were flattened.Paul Redmond, 47, a transport manager, was in bed reading a newspaper after putting his three children to bed. "I can still hear it in my head, the biggest bang I've ever heard, then the rumbling of the houses coming down," he said. "It was like thunder inside our house. My first thought was a plane must have come down. I grabbed the kids and we made our way down the stairs through the smoke. "When we got to the bottom the door was blown out. The street was full of debris still falling from the air and there were people shouting 'get out, get out, get out'."At the same time, Sandip Thakrar, 27, a finance manager, was watching television with his brother and a friend when the door blew out. "We walked out of the door and it was just panic," he said. "People all over the place trying to lift the rubble."Neighbours gathered in the dust and confusion, desperately scrambling through debris with their bare hands in a search for survivors. Among them was Andrew Haynes, 44, who spotted an arm. "There was a girl's arm just poking through the rubble and there was a beam on her. It looked like the ceiling had fallen on her and she was entombed in there," he said."It took us about 15 minutes to get to her. I kept telling her she was going to be OK. She was covered in dust, she had lacerations on her stomach and was in a pretty bad way."The young woman was taken to Chelsea and Westminster hospital with severe burns. A 26-year-old man suffering from serious head injuries was taken to Northwick Park hospital in north-west London. The body of the dead man was understood to be still under the rubble yesterday as emergency services began what is expected to be a five-day effort to secure the area. It is not known if other bodies are buried under the rubble.Mike Leahy, 42, who lived in one of the collapsed houses, said his lodger had been saved by tube delays.He was also away from home, watching television with his ex-wife. "If it wasn't for The Apprentice, I would have been caught up in it," he said. "Usually I'm in at that time. I'm lucky to be alive." Chris Mote, leader of Harrow council, said local authorities had evacuated 29 families in the aftermath of the blast. He speculated that gas canisters could have been involved. The National Grid said the pipes leading to the house had been checked and the supply isolated overnight. "We found no trace of a gas leak in our system but we will continue to have a very small presence on site," a spokeswoman said.