The killing of 23-year-old Rachel Nickell, who was sexually assaulted and stabbed to death in front of her child in 1992, is known as much for the police mistreatment of an innocent man as for the violent nature of her death.The blonde model was stabbed 49 times on Wimbledon Common when she was out walking one morning with her two-year-old son.A huge murder hunt ensued, with televised reconstructions, more than 3,000 people interviewed and a video-fit of the killer released by police. Scotland Yard was under huge pressure to catch her killer, and quickly focused on one prime suspect - Colin Stagg.Stagg, an unemployed man from Roehampton, regularly walked his dog on the common and someone said they had seen him, or a man like him, that morning.Some sections of the media did their own investigations and found out he was a body-builder who lived alone and believed in an ancient pagan religion called Wicca. Convinced they had their man, but with no forensic evidence to back it up, the police called in a psychologist, Paul Britton.Britton concocted a honey-trap in which a pretty policewoman, calling herself Lizzie James, posed as a sadistic temptress in an attempt to woo Stagg into a confession. She told him he could win her over only if he would admit to sharing her love of Satanism and child murder.In a taped conversation between the two, Stagg said: "Please explain, as I live a quiet life. If I have disappointed you, please don't dump me. Nothing like this has happened to me before."James replied: "If only you had done the Wimbledon Common murder, if only you had killed her, it would be all right" to which Stagg said: "I'm terribly sorry, but I haven't." However, police believed they had sufficient evidence to convict and Stagg was arrested and charged.But the case was thrown out of court at the Old Bailey when Mr Justice Ognall said police had tried to incriminate a suspect by "deceptive conduct of the grossest kind".Professional misconduct charges were brought against Britton, but dropped in October 2002. An internal police review followed, and found that police missed vital forensic information.In April 1995, Stagg pleaded guilty to possessing an axe and threatening behaviour following an altercation on Wimbledon Common. He later decided to sue the police, but his case was put on hold indefinitely due to the ongoing investigation.In January this year, the Home Office finally confirmed that he would receive compensation.With Rachel's killer still not found, Scotland Yard came under continued pressure, particularly by the tabloid media, to resume their search.In August 1995, police flew to New Zealand to interview a British former barman and his girlfriend. A year later Stagg took, and passed, a lie detector test with TV investigator Roger Cook.Police announced they would be scaling down the murder inquiry in July 1997, after spending £3m and arresting 32 suspects.But in April 1998, officers began looking at links between Nickell's murder and more than 200 others. A year later, police reopened the file as part of a review of all unsolved murders in London.In 2002, a decade after Nickell's death, police used a cold case review team, which used modern DNA techniques. They reanalysed witness statements and reassessed suspect files.The following year, in 2003, police said they had found a male DNA sample which ruled out Stagg.In November 2004, police announced a new lead in the hunt for her killer. In July 2006, the police team interviewed Robert Napper, aged 40.Today, police finally charged Napper with the Rachel Nickell murder. He will make his first court appearance in connection with the murder at City of Westminster magistrates court on December 4.