Faced with the tragic death of a pupil what can schools do? Until now the main effort has been to keep schoolchildren safe from intruders rather than each other - policy and debate has been dominated by the tragedy in Dunblane, where Thomas Hamilton shot and killed 15 primary children and their teacher.Today, parent teacher associations called for metal detectors in schools, based on the US model, to detect children bringing guns or knives into school.Following the Dunblane massacre a report by Lord Cullen recommended that every school draw up its own plan to minimise the risk from intruders, but said they should not be turned into fortresses. His recommendations were similar to the proposals accepted by the government after a committee of teaching unions, police and other experts produced an analysis earlier this year of the lessons to be learned from the killing of Philip Lawrence, the north London headteacher fatally stabbed while protecting a pupil at his school gates. "Schools should be welcoming places . . . It would be unacceptable to carry measures to the point where schools were turned into fortresses. At some point a balance has to be struck," concluded Lord Cullen. He added that what would be appropriate to an inner-city school of 700 pupils would unlikely be suitable for an isolated rural school. There might be special problems with converted buildings or establishments working on split sites.Some methods of opening locked doors might be appropriate for older children, but not the young or disabled. Schools in high poverty, high crime areas can apply to have a police officer stationed on site and the Department for Education and Skills recently announced an expansion of the scheme after it proved popular with headteachers.The National Confederation of Parent Teacher Associations today suggested that schools in England might have to follow the American example and install metal detectors at the gates to stop children bringing weapons to lessons.NCPTA spokeswoman Margaret Morrissey said the death of 14-year-old Luke Walmsley was "absolutely devastating"."It highlights the violent society that is now building around us. It would be a really sad day if children have to go through metal detectors when they go to school. We don't want that to happen but it's getting to the point when you wonder when you say goodbye to your child when they go to school how permanent that is. I don't think you can blame schools for this. This is something that society has got to take on board. Even the soaps are violent now." John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, said: "All one can say at this stage is to offer sympathy to the family, the other pupils and the whole school after such a horrific incident. Doubtless discussions will take place about wider issues, such as young people carrying weapons, but this should be for another day."