The Scottish first minister, Jack McConnell, yesterday pledged to change the way the legal system deals with sex offenders after it emerged that police were not told the man who would become their prime suspect in the Rory Blackhall murder had skipped bail on sex offence charges.Police were unaware that a warrant had been issued for Simon Harris's arrest after he failed to turn up at court on sex offence charges last Monday. Although the warrant was issued by the court, it took seven days to be received by the procurator fiscal's office.Politicians were also questioning why Harris was given bail by the courts when he was accused of sexually abusing three girls aged between two and 11.On Sunday, police searching for Rory's killer discovered that Harris, 37, had hanged himself at his home in Livingston, West Lothian. He had failed to turn up at Linlithgow sheriff court on August 22 to face charges of abusing three girls between 1993 and 2000.Rory disappeared on August 18 after he was dropped by his mother, Michelle, a short distance from his primary school in Livingston. His body was discovered three days later under a ragged tent in woodland less than a mile from Meldrum primary school. He had been asphyxiated.Mr McConnell yesterday pledged to update the way the legal system in Scotland deals with sex offenders."I have no doubt whatsoever that our laws and our procedures to manage sex offenders in the community, to update and improve the system of bail, the way in which our courts deal with bureaucracy - which has become an issue this morning in relation to the local courts and the time it took to issue a warrant - and a whole range of other areas are in need of updating," he said.The Scottish National party's justice spokesman, Kenny MacAskill, said Harris should have been arrested immediately after failing to appear at his court hearing last week. He also questioned the court's decision to grant bail."We need to ask why someone on serious charges against children is granted bail," he said.A spokesman for the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal said standard procedures had been followed and normal timescales adhered to when dealing with Harris."These timescales can be expedited if there are reasons for doing so," he said. "In this case there was no information available to suggest that Harris was an immediate danger to the public."Harris lived alone at his house in Camps Rigg after his stepfather died and his mother was taken into a nursing home. He was an unemployed joiner, but neighbours said he took and occasionally dealt in drugs. He had a brother, Robert, and two sisters, Janet and Helen, from whom he is understood to have been estranged. Neighbours said he had few visitors."The only people you would see going in and out of that house were jakeys [down and outs] and drunks," said a neighbour, who did not want to be named. "It doesn't surprise me that he was wanted for interfering with wee girls, but I'm furious that he was allowed back in the house. My grandkids come and visit me here."The Scottish Conservatives yesterday called for a public inquiry into Rory's murder.Mr McConnell said it was too early to talk about any formal inquiry into Rory's death as the murder inquiry was continuing.But he added: "I am in no doubt whatsoever that we will want to look at what has happened here."