It's fair to say that the probation service in England and Wales has undergone a few changes since the days when the Church of England Temperance Society's "police court missionaries" offered salvation to persistent drunks. Community-spirited volunteers had been offering their services as guardians for people passing through the courts since about 1841. Probation supervision was given formal footing by the reforming Liberal government of 1906, with the Probation of Offenders Act. It was the officers' duty to "advise, assist and befriend", and though those words are now almost profanities, the principle is still observed by plenty of probation officers today.The early ethos was an outreach, welfare-oriented one, viewing crime as a problem of disadvantaged individuals and communities in need of support. With government interest came change at an ever-increasing pace, challenging the fundamental principles of the organisation. Many in probation still strongly value its traditional "social work" culture, which seems to jar with the "offender management" language of recent years. The implication of the current discourse is that those we work with are first and foremost sets of risk factors to be monitored, rather than people to support through the process of changing their lives. Good probation work balances these approaches on a case-by-case basis, but press coverage is often unsubtle, framing the criminal justice debate in terms of a need to pick a side. Perpetrators or victims? Callous criminals or decent, law-abiding citizens?When Labour came to power in 1997, after promising to be "tough on the causes of crime", a nuanced approach to criminal justice might have been expected. Instead, the swaggering rhetoric was of being "tough on crime" – and on criminals. The probation service was at best a source of confusion for the administration, which preferred to steer clear of the topic. It remains the case that when probation does get a mention from those in power, it's mostly in terms of community service, while the supervisory aspect is ignored.Community service – rebranded Unpaid Work, or Community Payback – has also undergone a public image transformation of its own, promoted as a demanding punishment rather than a restorative project. Louise Casey's Cabinet Office report of 2008, Engaging Communities in Fighting Crime, suggested that fluorescent bibs to identify "offenders" on community service could enhance public confidence in community sentences. Criminologists Shadd Maruna and Anna King pointed out how portraying such sentences as strongly punitive can end up backfiring: if those subject to community penalties need and deserve harsh, "tough" treatment, even humiliation, surely prison is the best place to dole it out?Reviewing research on public attitudes, Maruna and King argued that the public are better disposed to rehabilitative efforts than shifts in policy designed to appease their supposedly punitive sensibilities would suggest.This generally tallies with my own experience as a probation officer. It was driven home to me most strikingly when I manned a probation information stall in a large crown court's open day. This was about a week after the murder of John Monckton by Damien Hanson and Elliot White in 2006, when Hanson was on probation following his release from prison. I was expecting some unpleasantness. Admittedly the police dogs, free Trading Standards frisbees and opportunities to be handcuffed and locked in cells were drawing slightly bigger crowds, but I had the pleasure of talking to a steady stream of curious people with a lot of questions, a lot of compassion, and a heartening acceptance of the possibility of change. Some of them eagerly instigated role plays, casting themselves as hardbitten old lag or young tearaway and bringing humanity and understanding to the roles behind the overt comedic stereotyping.I think part of the trouble with probation and the media (aside from the fact that a person doing absolutely nothing of note to the general public is a resounding success for us), is that terms like "supervision", "licence" and "offender management" are thrown around without comment on what they actually mean, leaving them to each viewer's interpretation.In the furore following the 2006 Panorama special on probation hostels, it appeared that many interpreted "supervision" as meaning constant surveillance. How can there be meaningful debate about probation practice if there's such a dearth of information about it for a general audience? As Andrew Bridges, then chief inspector of the probation service, said in 2008, we need to talk about "mundane truths" rather than "exciting fallacies". I'd suggest that people might even find some of the truths about probation inspiring rather than mundane.Where is probation going under the coalition government, then? Changing Lives – An Oral History of Probation, published by Napo to mark the service's centenary in 2007, contained a few kind words from then Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, one Nick Clegg. He began: "Few public services can be as readily overlooked as the probation service." How true. During the second pre-election TV debate I listened to him and David Cameron discuss the need for increased use of community penalties for 20 minutes without using the word "probation" once.As home affairs spokesman Clegg concluded by telling Napo "... it is crucial that the unglamorous, painstaking, yet hugely important work of the service is cherished, not undermined, by both government and opposition parties." We shall see.