Antiques and art treasures, possibly including works by Picasso, Rubens and Titian worth millions of pounds, have been stolen from the 17th century Wiltshire mansion of the reclusive multi-millionaire Harry Hyams in what police believe could be Britain's biggest ever burglary.Mr Hyams, a property tycoon who developed the famous Centrepoint building in central London, was not at home at Ramsbury Manor, near Marlborough, at the time. A Wiltshire police spokesman said items taken, including fine art and porcelain, were "worth a substantial amount - into the millions".Detectives believe the burglary was a well-planned operation by professional thieves. The spokesman added: "We are investigating a high-value burglary. Items of substantial value have been taken. No one was hurt in the break-in. It is one of the biggest burglaries round here for years.""We can confirm there has been a substantial burglary at Ramsbury Manor," said a spokesperson in a statement issued on behalf of Mr Hyams. "The thieves were disturbed and the police responded immediately and most efficiently."Happily nobody was injured and the police are actively following up leads which they hope will lead to a successful outcome. Everything that has been taken is readily identifiable, of museum quality and will be extremely difficult to dispose of. The building was occupied, but Mr Hyams was not present at the time."Precise details of what was taken have not been released, although there have been estimates that property worth between £20m and £30m was stolen.Little is known of the collection because Mr Hyams is notoriously shy of the limelight. He refuses to have his name included in Who's Who and he never gives interviews. Nor does he give guided tours of Ramsbury Manor, built by the attorney general to Charles II in the late 17th century.Mr Hyams bought his home in 1964 for £650,000 - at the time the highest price ever paid for a house in Britain. It is now thought to be worth more than £20m.The 78-year-old was born in a north London semi but now has an estimated personal fortune of £320m and was ranked the 155th richest person in Britain in the 2005 Times Rich List.In 1959 Mr Hyams bought a £50,000 stake in a property group and in 1988, when the group was taken over, his share was said to be worth £150m. He has since boosted his personal fortune through his property companies and his art collection.All four entrances to the 600-acre estate were blocked by police cars yesterday as officers searched for clues. A delivery driver who collects laundry every week described the security as extremely tight. "There is a large metal gate at the entrance and I have to ring ahead to be let in by the groundsmen," he said."There are cameras on the outside of the house and lots of security lights on the trees flanking the estate and barbed wire surrounds the grounds."