The sight of two policemen strolling nonchalantly down the street, arms behind backs Dixon of Dock Green-style, could be a thing of the past under plans which emerged today aimed at transforming police presence in the community.Police officers may have to patrol alone, one of several proposals to be submitted in a report to next week's annual conference of the Police Superintendents' Association.Other recommendations, which could radically alter accepted police practice, include drastic cuts in the number of plain-clothes officers and unmarked patrol cars. Officers may also no longer return to the station canteen for lunch under plans to adopt the American idea of "eating out" in cafes and fast-food outlets.Association President Peter Gammon commented on the new rationale behind the report, seen by Radio 5 Live. "We want to challenge and generate debate about the way officers work." He continued: "The double-crewing of police vehicles has become the norm and we are saying that there should be operational reasons for that, rather than just being routine practice." While accepting the need for undercover plain-clothes officers in covert operations, Mr Gammon insisted that on many occasions their use was unnecessary. Referring to established lunch routines, he said: "What is the problem with officers eating in public? They do it on the continent and in America, so why not here?"He insisted on the over-riding need to increase the street profile of the police force. 17% of officers operate in plain clothes and by reducing that number by just 5%, that would ensure an extra 6,000 uniformed police in the community, he said."This is all about being accessible to the public. There's a tendency with today's mobile units for officers to be rushing from one thing to another and we've lost contact with the public. "If they are out there taking more time then people can talk to them and share information about what is going on - and that's a crucial part of crime detection."The Association has consulted with various organisations in drawing up the report, including the Home Office, the Association of Chief Police Officers, and Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary. It will be presented to the Association's annual conference in Newport, Gwent, on Tuesday next week. 