Sir David Calvert-Smith, the Director of Public Prosecutions, called on the Government last night to end the ban on using bugged telephone conversations as evidence in court.In an interview with The Observer, Calvert-Smith said the ban - which has no parallel in the United States and most of the European Union - had become a damaging restriction that was weakening Britain's fight against organised crime, drug trafficking and terrorism. 'This change would assist us enormously,' he said. 'As prosecutors, our lives would be made much easier. I'm quite sure there are cases where important evidence which would have strengthened the prosecution is having to go by the board.' Speaking on the eve of a three-day conference on organised crime that he is hosting in London for the International Association of Prosecutors, he said there had been cases when the Crown Prosecution Service, which he heads, had to drop charges due to lack of evidence that would have gone ahead if the wiretap evidence had been admissible. The bugged conversations that police and prosecutors had been able to hear but not put before a jury 'might have made all the difference'. Home Secretary David Blunkett has asked officials to review the law in the aftermath of the 11 September attacks and the recent collapse of several organised crime prosecutions. In Britain, bugged phone conversations must be treated only as 'intelligence', and their existence is invariably concealed from the defence. It is understood that police at the National Criminal Intelligence Service, with the security service MI5, have made vehement representations to Blunkett's review team, arguing against a change. They claim that allowing wiretaps to become admissible would give away 'trade secrets', and alert criminals to the fact that bugging now takes place on a vast scale, with more than 30,000 lines tapped each year. Detectives in many parts of the country and Customs and Excise investigators, however, support change. Sir David said he found their opponents' argument implausible. Many villains knew they would be tapped. 'It's been common knowledge for years.' He pointed out that the present law contained serious anomalies. A phone or other conversation picked up by a bug in a wall is admissible; one picked up by a wiretap is not. In at least one case, that of the former Merseyside drugs squad chief Elmore Davies, jailed for his corrupt relationship with the drugs baron Curtis Warren, a prosecution depended on wiretap evidence produced by another country, the Netherlands. Bizarrely, this was admissible. In many jurisdictions, wiretaps have become a foundation of organised crime prosecution. In the US, for example, they were chiefly responsible for huge inroads made against the mafia. Calvert-Smith said international links between prosecutors were vital. The CPS now has staff in Paris, Rome, Madrid and Washington. The only way to defeat international terrorism was to ensure 'we can present evidence fast and effectively wherever the accused is tried'.