Police and mountain rescue teams are to scour forests and mountains in a remote area of the Highlands this weekend to search for the body of a suspected murder victim.Suzanne Pilley, 38, a bookkeeper, disappeared just a few metres from her office in central Edinburgh on 4 May and her remains are believed to have been buried in thick forests near Loch Lomond, Argyll, about 40 miles north-east of Glasgow.It is being concentrated on challenging terrain in the Glen Croe area near Arrochar.Her father Robert said the family was praying that this weekend's operation, expected to include 100 police officers and volunteers from four mountain rescue teams, would find his daughter's body."If we could put a closure to it, maybe the grieving would be a lot better," he said. "We never seem to be able to get to the end of it. We just take it day by day. The whole family is devastated. I just don't know when it's going to end."Suzanne's ex-partner, David Gilroy, 47, from Silverknowes, Edinburgh, was arrested and charged with her murder and breach of the peace in June. He was released on bail and denies the charges.Lothian and Borders first searched the Argyll countryside days after she disappeared but after covering a vast area between Tyndrum north of Loch Lomond down to Inveraray on Loch Fyne, they failed to find any trace of her.Detective Chief Inspector Gary Flannigan said: "Since Suzanne was reported missing, searches have been based on national guidance on the most appropriate techniques for covering such a vast area of varied terrain," he said."The search this weekend is no different, with expert advisers pinpointing the areas to be covered."Robert Pilley said he often believed he had glimpsed his daughter. "Even going to the shops, you see a girl going down an aisle - it's happened a few times - a girl with the same coat on, the same colour of hair, same height. Your heart stops for a minute or two," he said."I often think they're going to find the bottle that she had in her hand on the bus. I know it sounds stupid, but if they could even find that just to give a clue of somewhere that she is," he said."Like everything else, it just seems to have disappeared. I just keep on thinking, 'is it going to be one of these things and we're never going to find the body?', and 10 or 15 years later they flush the body out and it'll be left to the rest of the family to lay her to rest, because I probably won't be here to do it myself."The shoe should be on the other foot: she should be putting me to rest, not me putting her to rest. I'm hoping that we do find the body and I can put her to rest, because I wouldn't like my family to have to do it."