Julie Bindel is right that the proposals for changing procedure in rape cases announced by Solicitor General Vera Baird will fail to increase the conviction rate. But not for the reason Julie gives. The problem isn't that the changes won't be applied. It's that even if they are, they'll be at best futile, and at worst counter-productive.Previous attempts to rig rape trials in favour of the prosecution have rebounded. These further tweaks seem likely to do so too, and for the same reason. Juries don't respond well to attempts to manipulate them by what they may see as politically correct officialdom. They jealously defend their right to make up their own minds in the light of their own experience of life, just as they're instructed to.Providing them with little booklets designed to dispel the "myths" surrounding rape may produce the opposite effect to the one intended. Jurors will have their own view of what' is a myth and what is not, and may well feel they're being bullied. This may only encourage them to question the prosecution case more energetically than they would otherwise have done.Apparently, they are to be told that if a woman takes her time before reporting an alleged rape, this will be because she's been traumatised. However, being forced-fed this line may only prompt them to think harder about possible alternative explanations. Perhaps some women are traumatised, they may think. However, women sometimes make false allegations. Maybe some women make an allegation after a time-lag because they've experienced a sexual encounter they found satisfactory at the time, gone on to quarrel with their former partner over something unrelated, and then made a false allegation to get back at him.A more effective method of introducing evidence about the sociology and psychology of rape would have been for the prosecution to be allowed to call expert witnesses on these topics. Baird considered this approach (used elsewhere in much of the English-speaking world), but rejected it. Why? Because if the prosecution called such a witness the defence would be bound to call rival expert witnesses of their own. There would be an argument, jurors would make up their own minds, and they might find in favour of the "wrong" side. Obviously, we couldn't have that.Presenting jurors with videotapes of initial police interviews with supposed victims may yield another unintended consequence. A victim who is indeed traumatised may appear blank and numb rather than raging with hurt and anger (just as Kate McCann may have failed to cry simply because she was too devastated to summon up tears). Such evidence might undermine, rather than enhance, a prosecution's prospects. Because of this, the prosecution is to be given the option of suppressing the tapes. When this happens, however, jurors are bound to assume they are being denied evidence that would have damaged the prosecution's case, and they'll make up their minds accordingly.Fiddling with the rules will do nothing to address the fundamental reason why fewer than 6% of rape allegations result in convictions. Our existing judicial procedures cope reasonably well with cases in which a stranger grabs a woman off the street and pulls her into a dark alley. However, most rape cases nowadays involve so-called date rape. In these cases, jurors usually end up simply being asked to decide which of two people is lying. They are told that they must not convict unless they are "sure". In these circumstances, they usually feel that there is no way they can be sure, so they acquit.Part of the reason why jurors are so reluctant to convict is that no distinction is currently made between different degrees of rape, as it is, say, in the case of other kinds of assault. Jurors therefore know that if they convict, they may be sending a man involved in a drunken fumble, later regretted, misreported or misremembered, to jail for four years. Recognising different degrees of rape, and according lesser varieties lesser penalties, might help crack this problem. Germaine Greer, who can hardly be considered a male chauvinist, has called for just this approach.Even if we were to embark on this course, however, we should still have to recognise that there are limits to the ability of our judicial process to tackle this particular crime. Rape isn't the only offence that's resistant to our criminal justice system. If your house is burgled, it's extremely improbable that the burglar will end up in court, let alone be convicted. Even if he is, he's likely to be given a sentence that's unlikely to deter his fellows.Because of this, we protect ourselves against burglary not by relying on the justice system to eliminate burglars, but by taking precautions. Essentially, we lock our doors and windows.Our reluctance to countenance the idea that women should be advised to take a more precautionary approach only increases the likelihood that more rapes will occur. In the olden days, a girl's mum would advise her that stumbling into a footballer's hotel room at 3am when they're both drunk might not be a good idea. Is such advice really outrageous? Manchester police have decided to commission videos advising women that getting drunk in the wrong circumstances could get them raped. Is that such a bad idea?Of course, expecting women to change their ways, rather than men, isn't fair. Neither is it fair to expect women rather than men to take responsibility for contraception. However, it's women who end up holding the baby if contraception isn't used, and it's women, not men, who end up getting raped. Should we really be putting our effort into a doomed quest to increase the rape conviction rate? Or should we try instead to reduce the number of rapes that actually take place?