Robbers who carried out what is likely to have been the largest bank robbery in UK criminal history may have looted more than £20m from high security vaults in Belfast, police said yesterday.Staff at the Northern Bank were last night attempting to calculate how much had gone missing after the families of two senior employees were held hostage for more than 24 hours. The haul may even have taken the gang by surprise. The carefully coordinated raid began at 10pm on Sunday when armed and masked members of the gang took over the executives' homes in Dumurry, on the outskirts of south Belfast, and Loughinisland, County Down, simultaneously. The families were driven to undisclosed locations in freezing conditions.The men were ordered to go to work as normal on Monday at their offices beside Belfast city hall. They were told to go through their normal routine, chatting to colleagues as if nothing unusual had happened. At closing time both executives allowed other members of the gang access to the building and led them to the underground vaults. Both men, terrified their families would be killed if they did not comply, needed to be present to open the doors to the vaults. The cash was bundled out of the building into a waiting lorry. The driver, clutching a mobile telephone, may have sat waiting for several hours as the money was loaded up.The gang's only error was not having sufficient transport to take away the entire haul. The alarm was not raised until 11.45pm on Monday. No one was injured but one of the kidnapped security code-holders was treated for hypothermia after being dumped in remote countryside. "On the information ... from interviewing witnesses and people ... at the bank, the sum [taken] is quite considerable and may be in excess of £20m," said Sam Kinkaid, the assistant chief constable. He added: "It is far too early to say which particular organisations are involved in this." The DUP has alleged that recent large robberies in Belfast have been connected to the Provisional IRA. If any such evidence emerged it would be a severe blow to the peace process. Ian Paisley junior, a DUP Policing Board member, said yesterday: "This indicates the kind of mafia society we live in in Northern Ireland."The raiders probably timed the operation for Christmas, when large amounts of cash are deposited by businesses. The bank also takes in newly printed notes, and sorts them for cash machines, all of which were to be stocked before the Christmas period. Northern Bank is one of the four Northern Ireland banks still authorised to print its own paper currency. Its notes come in denominations of £5, £10, £20, £50 and £100. The £100 note, rarely seen, has a hologram security feature, and portrays Sir James Martin, who developed the aircraft ejector seat. The Northern Bank is the largest retail bank in Northern Ireland, with 95 branches. Earlier this month Denmark's Danske Bank agreed to purchase it for £967m from its current owners, National Australia Bank. The Melbourne-based bank, which remains in charge until the handover is completed next year, said: "Affected staff are safe - this is our number one priority. Several large recent robberies have been blamed on republican groups. In October £2m worth of cigarettes were stolen from a Gallaher warehouse in Belfast. That also involved a gang holding a family hostage while a member of staff was forced to open up the premises on an industrial estate. At the time the chief constable of Northern Ireland, Hugh Orde, announced that the raid had been carried out by 3 paramilitaries but would not say which faction might have been behind it. The Democratic Unionist Party alleged the raid must have been sanctioned by the Provisional IRA. Mr Kinkaid told a Policing Board meeting in Belfast: "All paramilitary groups in the last five to six months have been involved in serious robberies on both sides of the community." During the summer, £500,000 was stolen from a branch of the Ulster Bank in Strabane, County Tyrone, near the border with the republic. On that occasion, two families were held hostage while staff were forced to open up offices. The Irish National Liberation Army was supposedly implicated in the raid. It is formally on ceasefire. The fine line between paramilitary groups and criminal gangs has become increasingly blurred since the start of the ceasefire in Northern Ireland. The province has a reservoir of experienced gunmen who have been stood down from active operations and at liberty to indulge in freelance operations. One senior police source said last night: "The organisation and the intelligence gathering required [for the Northern Bank robbery] has all the hallmarks of the Provisional IRA. "This operation required great expertise and coordination, probably more than the loyalist gangs possess. "In Northern Ireland there is basically little difference between the criminal gangs and the paramilitaries. "Many of the terrorists just turned full time to crime when their ceasefires were declared and criminals cannot operate without the blessing of the paramilitaries who still have the firepower and capability to wipe them out." Two dissident republican groups remain active: the Real IRA, which carried out the bombing of Omagh, in County Tyrone, in 1998, and a smaller faction, the Continuity IRA. There has been a wave of firebombings across the province in the past month linked to dissident republicans.