Scotland Yard's attempt to settle a dispute over allegations of racial discrimination made by its third most senior officer collapsed yesterday, raising the prospect of a protracted legal battle that threatens the leadership of Ian Blair.Lawyers for assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, who alleges he has been sidelined and undermined in his role, announced they were withdrawing from attempts to find a mediated settlement, accusing the Yard of acting in bad faith.Privately, Ghaffur's allies believe the Met is behind newspaper stories in the last fortnight about his private life. A fortnight ago, Ghaffur decided to take the Met to an employment tribunal alleging discrimination. His boss, Blair, offered mediation in an attempt to avoid legal action.Both sides had been locked in talks about the mediation process, such as who would be the chair and who would pay. The two sides could not agree, and yesterday Ghaffur's side walked out.Ghaffur's lawyer, Shahrokh Mireskandari, told the Guardian: "I think there are people who may be assisting in the leaking or providing of information to the press solely in order to damage Tarique Ghaffur. I'm sure in our legal action against these newspapers we will be able to expose these people responsible for this leakage."It's not right for his family and especially his children to read some of the garbage that has recently appeared in certain newspapers."In a statement, Scotland Yard said it was unaware that mediation had broken down: "We have worked hard this week to establish a mediator and make the necessary arrangements. We remain committed to the mediation." Scotland Yard also publicly condemned newspaper stories about Ghaffur's private life: "Any further speculation on stories of this nature are unfortunate and are to be regretted. We find them unhelpful and distasteful." In a statement, the National Black Police Association said it was "extremely disappointed" that the Met had not agreed to pay for the total cost of the mediation.Mireskandari said he would formally issue the first part of Ghaffur's proceedings against the Met next week, as well as suing newspapers which have printed stories about his private life.Ghaffur is believed to have compiled a dossier of allegations about his own alleged mistreatment and racial discrimination he says he suffered. He believes Blair and his aides have sidelined and undermined him, especially over his role running policing for the London Olympics.But the dossier also contains allegations about other issues, including the Met's controversial cash for honours investigation, and alleges Home Official officials treated him badly.Ghaffur is the most senior Muslim and Asian officer in the country, and one of Britain's most senior officers. Nearly 10 years after the McPherson inquiry found the Met to be "institutionally racist", Ghaffur's accusation of discrimination threatens to undermine the force's claims to have made progress in stamping out racism in its ranks.