Today on American television, a cable channel will broadcast Trial Heat, live coverage from a court somewhere in the US, Forensic Files ("Ever wonder how the cops solve the tough cases?") and Power, Privilege and Justice, by "the most penetrating chronicler today of the arrogance that leads the rich to believe they are above the law". This is CourtTV - "The investigation channel" - devoted solely to broadcasting televised court proceedings, together with accompanying trial-related material. Is this what Britain wants, or needs? Would this kind of TV coverage help justice in the UK?Many might doubt it. I think they would be right. The spectre of the OJ Simpson trial in 1995, where criminal proceedings were transformed into a media circus, still hangs over the US courts: the judge in the rape trial in Eagle, Colorado, involving the American basketball player Kobe Bryant is only the latest to ban cameras in his courtroom to avoid OJ-style grandstanding from all involved.But if I'm clear that we want no OJ-style TV trials here, I'm clear too that the time is now right for us to look at the issue of televising the courts in England and Wales. Our justice system exists to do justice. If it does not do justice in public, it risks slipping into unacceptable behaviour and losing public confidence. Justice must be done, and justice must be seen to be done. Subject to a few exceptions, such as family cases and cases involving national security, our courts are open to the public. But few people ever go near a court to hear justice done in their names. Most people's knowledge and perception of what is done in court comes from news reporting of cases. Yet the medium which gives most people most access to information is not allowed in court. Trials cannot be televised. Neither can hearings in the court of appeal. Judgments by the senior court in the land, the law lords sitting in the House of Lords, can be, under the provisions for televising parliament which were agreed in 1990. We will ensure that position continues when we bring in, for the first time in Britain, a new supreme court, sitting outside parliament. Supreme court judgments will be able to be televised, as law lords' judgments are now.Should the position in the lower courts change? Is there a public interest in allowing people, through TV, to see what happens in court? We believe that in this modern media age, where television is the norm in everyone's lives, there is a case to be examined here. That is what the government is now going to do. I will issue, I hope later this year, a detailed document which will be a careful and considered examination of all the issues involved, to be followed by full and widespread consultation with all sides.But there are some starting points. Crucially, we will need to consider separately both trials and appeals. Nobody thinks family proceedings should be broadcast. Neither do I. The greatest interest - including the interest of the broadcasters themselves, who have with 24-hour satellite and cable TV hugely expanded the TV market in Britain - will be in criminal trials, and it is easy to think of trials in recent years where there is a legitimate public interest and where the broadcasters would have wished to have live or near-live coverage and footage available to use in news and current affairs programmes.But those responsible for the justice system have to consider the effect on justice. Justice being done and being seen to be done is not a two-part notion of equal weight, but a priority list, and no reforms to the justice system to make it more open and accessible can interfere with that.Witnesses are obviously the most important issue. Effective criminal justice depends on people giving evidence. There are often difficulties in persuading people to testify in criminal trials - if they fear intimidation, for example. The prospect of a case being broadcast might be a further obstacle in this process. A committee set up in 1995 to evaluate a filming experiment in New York courts found that more than half of those surveyed said they would be less willing to testify if cameras were present. Eighty-seven per cent of trial and appellate judges surveyed in California reported that witnesses were more nervous or self- conscious when giving testimony before cameras.The impact of broadcasting on witnesses could be particularly acute where the witness is also the victim of the crime. Cameras could make the ordeal of going to court for victims much worse. In the work we have done about these issues, we have spoken to victims' and witnesses' support groups, and in general they are not in favour of the televising of evidence-giving. My strong inclination is that these and other considerations outweigh the benefits of public broadcasting of trials.Different considerations, though, apply to appeals. They rarely involve witnesses. Where they do, then broadcasting could still be prohibited. The argument for televising our appeal courts, though perhaps a less enticing prospect for broadcasters, seems to me a powerful one. These are all difficult and delicate issues. But the issues when parliament was considering whether to televise itself were also difficult. The process of reaching a decision took many tries, over many years. A generation ago, televising parliament was unthinkable. Now, in an age of 24-hour, multi-channel, worldwide TV coverage, not having parliament televised seems equally unthinkable. As well as the consultation document we will be producing, we will help consider the questions surrounding cameras in the courts with a further initiative: a limited move, agreed with the judiciary, to pilot selective filming in the appeal courts: not for use, but to give all those involved the chance to see how filming will work in practice, and how film taken in court might be used in news reports and documentaries. Creating a supreme court puts the issue of televising the courts in England and Wales for the first time into the public domain. We have a responsibility to consider it properly. So we will mount a proper and thorough examination of all the issues involved. Others, including the broadcasters who are keen to see their cameras in our courtrooms, will no doubt air a wide range of views. My job is to mount a searching consideration of the idea, and to detail our findings, including looking at the number of examples of televising the courts all around the world - Australia, New Zealand, Canada, as well as the US. Many show a subtle and variegated approach to the issue. Televising the courts doesn't have to be a simple, light-switch decision: television, yes or no. In the US, televising the courts varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, state to state, county to county, even case to case. Televising the courts doesn't have to produce CourtTV. But whatever the debate, our watchword will be clear. Justice should be seen to be done. But the priority must be that justice is done. · Lord Falconer is secretary of state for constitutional affairs and lord chancellorwww.dca.gov.uk