Down the years, penal reformers have had to take the long view of their work. But they are entitled to feel frustrated today. These doggedly rational critics of this country’s build ’em and fill ’em approach to jails have waited for more than a generation for a prime minister to give Britain’s overcrowded and failing prisons the attention the subject merits. And what happens when the PM finally does so? On the very day that David Cameron was due to make the first reform-minded speech on prisons of his premiership, his office whispered to the press that exit from the EU will mean that the migrant camps on the French side of the Channel would now have to spring up in Kent instead.The result of that briefing was glumly predictable – a hurried change of focus in the Downing Street and media subject of the day. Instead of a long overdue public campaign about the need for new penal thinking and practice, Monday’s news agenda was dominated by yet another EU-related panic, this time about a possible Folkestone migrant “jungle”. In the current febrile atmosphere in the rightwing media over Europe, this was a particularly irresponsible act by Mr Cameron’s own office. As a result, the prison reform agenda was banished back into the specialist margins from which it had so briefly been permitted to emerge.Still, at least Mr Cameron did give his prison reform speech. And, although it did not come entirely out of the blue – he said similar things back in 2012 and again in his party conference speech last autumn – he is now again on the record confessing that the British prison system doesn’t work and is a scandalous failure, insisting that prisoners should be treated as “assets to be harnessed” not as “liabilities to be managed” and promising the biggest shake-up of the system since Victorian times. It is a message that could and should have been proclaimed and acted on years and even decades ago. Mr Cameron nevertheless deserves credit for raising the standard of reform once more.What a rising prison population says about Cameron’s Britain | Letters The fundamental reason for taking a new approach to prison is the consistent failure of the system to rehabilitate the offenders who are sent there. No one argues against prison for the most serious offences and most dangerous offenders. But sending too many people to prison for excessively long terms has helped to generate overcrowded prisons with all too few ensuing benefits to society once a prisoner is released. It does not help that, in a time of spending austerity, prison is an expensive way of doing something badly.Today’s prisons are too often characterised by recurrent mental health, self-harm and drug problems among inmates that could be better dealt with elsewhere; by control issues involving violence, gang culture and radicalisation that require more sustained strategies; and by lack of useful work, training and education. The net result, accentuated in women’s prisons, is prisons that are more criminogenic than rehabilitative. Mr Cameron’s statistics tell the revolving-door story with great force: within a year of release, 46% of all prisoners will reoffend, a figure that rises to 60% among short-sentence prisoners. In other words, Britain spends £13bn a year on a system that doesn’t work.Mr Cameron’s solutions, which include devolving control to governors, the building of six new model “reform prisons”, a new system of comparative performance league tables, more day release and tagging, and new ideas on prison education, are all worthwhile. It is important that they are all trialled and independently evaluated and that they are not allowed to become a new dogma unchallenged. Mr Cameron said little about prison officer training, which should also be reviewed. But the fundamental answer to the overcrowding that constrains so much prison reform is sentencing reform, which is in turn dependent on a properly financed system of alternatives to custody. Here, after years of reversal of the progressive thinking that Mr Cameron extolled on Monday, there is so far only talk, and not a lot of that.