As devotees of Hollywood's The Sting would testify, few films have such a sustained period of excitement. The same is true of real life police "stings".They are extremely enjoyable to plan, exciting to carry out and acutely satisfying when career criminals are put behind bars. Undoubtedly for some of the most serious criminals - such as drug barons - it is one of the few ways of catching the big fish. Yet, as their short history shows, the operations are difficult to supervise, vulnerable to error and hard to prevent officers from overstepping the mark. The collapse of the latest sting - a Scotland Yard £15m money laundering operation to catch drug traffickers - will require police and Home Office to carry out an urgent review of the rules and the law of entrapment. As reported in yesterday's Guardian, after 418 days of legal argument at Southwark crown court, south London, in which a jury was never sworn in, Judge George Bathurst Norman ruled that the police had committed a "state created crime" with their "massively illegal" laundering operation. They had processed £15m in suspect drug takings, and returned clean money to the traffickers. His conclusions reversed a previous ruling in April 2000, in which he decided that the case could go to trial. His latest ruling followed a House of Lords judgment that had reopened legal argument. The operations have always posed a difficult path for police to tread. The Americans, who pioneered the tactic, now have detailed ethical guidelines that their undercover agents are required to follow. British police are supposed to be following a similar path. The aim is to provide an opportunity for crooks to indulge in crime, without actually enticing them. One of the UK's earliest successes was a jewellery shop, opened a decade ago by Scotland Yard, that was prepared to buy stolen goods. Staffed by officers and stuffed with hidden cameras, the operation led to 30 arrests. They were upheld by the appeal court because the police had not acted as agent provocateurs. In the latest case, alas, undercover police agents went to suspect handlers of drug money and offered to launder their loot. One reform would be to introduce an entrapment defence, as America has done, leaving it to juries, rather than the judge, to decide. A second would be better supervision procedures. But stings must be allowed to continue.