Victims of child abusers are uniting to take on a judicial system that they claim repeatedly fails to give them justice, by mounting a growing number of challenges against what they see as lenient sentences. In the past 20 months, the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, has been asked to review the penalties imposed on about 55 paedophiles and child sex offenders. According to figures collated by Phoenix Survivors, a campaign group which helps families to apply for sentencing reviews, one in three has resulted in jail terms being increased by the appeal court. In the latest case, the attorney general is studying the decision by Judge Michael Roach to give a conditional discharge to Michael Barrett, 20, after he admitted having sex with a 12-year-old girl he met in an internet chat room. Judge Roach said the girl was a "willing participant" and had instigated sexual activity. He urged Barrett to behave himself in future. Lord Goldsmith has also been asked to review as unduly lenient the four-and-a-half-year sentence given last Friday to Marc Lewis, a former tennis coach, for three counts of having sex with a 15-year-old protege and aiding and abetting two other men to have sex with her. According to Ray Wyre, who treats sex offenders, recent cases in which children appear to have been regarded as consenting adults have been sending the wrong message. "For the fixated paedophile, things seem to be going their way more and more," he said. "These are people who have a website dedicated to their argument that relationships between adults and children should be decriminalised. "When a judge says a 12-year-old was a willing participant in sex, it must be seen in this context." The family of one teenage boy who successfully appealed against the six-month jail term given to his abuser told the Guardian that the judge's decision in their case had added to their suffering. The victim suffered a four-hour assault by Michael Webb, a 47-year-old football referee with the Berks and Bucks FA, who befriended him and his family for several months before the attack. Webb eventually invited the 14-year-old to stay the night at his home in order to see a football match the next day, but subjected him to a serious sexual assault in his bedroom before the teenager managed to escape the house. Police found the boy wearing boxer shorts, a fleece and trainers, because Webb had hidden his clothes. "I keep thinking how the alarm bells should have rung about this man," the mother said. "But he wormed his way into our affections. He had two children of his own. I thought he seemed quite caring. "My son was very small at the time - he was about the size of an 11-year-old. Webb was an extremely big man; he was overpowering. All the way through his ordeal, my son kept thinking of how he would escape. He told me later that's what kept him going." The mother said there was little in the way of support for her son, who wrote of his despair in a letter to a friend: "My life is finished. He took my childhood away. I've got nothing left. Who will want to know me now after what's happened? I live through it 24 hours a day. I wake up with it. I can still smell him each day." When she asked for counselling for her son, the mother was told there was a four-month waiting list to see a psychiatrist. "I had to pick up the pieces of my son - and believe me, I'm talking about pieces - with no support. "He was writing emails to his friends talking about how his life was worth nothing, he was drinking heavily and threatening to harm himself, he wouldn't go to school. He felt no one was believing him." But the boy was determined to give evidence at the trial. "I wanted to make sure that everyone knew what he had done to me," he said. "I wanted to be in court to show him that he hadn't beaten me." But Webb pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six months in prison without any evidence from his victim. "I was disgusted," the boy said. "I wanted to see him punished partly out of vengeance for what he had done to me, but also because I didn't want him to be able to do that to anyone else. I wanted to see justice done, and this just wasn't justice." After being asked to review the case, the attorney general described the jail term as "unduly lenient" and referred it to the court of appeal, where Webb's sentence was recently increased to two years. Shy Keenan, a victim of child abuse who founded Phoenix Survivors, said the Sexual Offences Act which came into force last May had done much to toughen up sentencing, but attitudes within the judiciary still had to change. "Sex with a child under 16 is supposed to be illegal whether you consent to it or not. What is happening is that some judges appear to behave as if children are complicit and consenting. It is this attitude and these kinds of sentences we are challenging."