The ex-wife of Sion Jenkins denied in court today that she had "brainwashed" two of her daughters into believing he had murdered their foster sister Billie-Jo.Lois Jenkins told the court of appeal in London she hardly ever discussed Billie-Jo's death with Charlotte and Annie in the run-up to their father's 1998 trial. She had told the girls - who were with their father on the day of the murder - that anything they said would be passed on to the police. "I was absolutely itching to ask them questions, but I never asked them questions in that first year and hardly ever since, really," she said. Mrs Jenkins, 43, divorced her husband after his conviction for murdering Billie-Jo and now lives in Tasmania with a new partner, by whom she has a three-year-old son. She was called as a witness by the Crown today in its opposition to a renewed attempt by Jenkins to clear his name. Jenkins, 46, has been serving a life jail sentence since his conviction at Lewes crown court in 1998 of battering his 13-year-old foster daughter Billie-Jo to death with an 18-inch metal tent spike as she was painting a patio door at their home in Hastings, East Sussex, on February 15 1997. It was alleged that, during a three-minute visit to the house, Jenkins had an argument with Billie-Jo, lost his temper, hit her over the head up to 10 times and then drove off on a shopping trip to a DIY store with Charlotte and Annie. In one of Jenkins's grounds of appeal, it is claimed that his wife gave misleading information to the police to the effect that the two girls were hostile to their father and that this deterred defence lawyers from calling them as witnesses whose evidence could have led to his acquittal. Today Jenkins sat in the court of appeal dock as Crown counsel Richard Camden Pratt QC put to his former wife: "It has been suggested that in the period between the death of Billie-Jo and the trial you chose deliberately to mislead the police. Is there any truth in that suggestion?" Mrs Jenkins, a registered general nurse, replied: "Absolutely not." "Have you ever lied to the police?" asked counsel. "No." Mr Pratt: "It has been suggested that you brainwashed Annie and Lottie into believing their father was a murderer. Did you try to do that?" Mrs Jenkins: "Absolutely not. Never." She said that since the trial, the children - two of her four daughters by Jenkins - had "come out with things I never knew". She said Annie had never discussed these things with her, although "Lottie [Charlotte] has sometimes asked to discuss it with me and everything has come out". Mrs Jenkins told Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Curtis and Mr Justice Wakerley that during the trial she took the two girls to be interviewed by a psychologist, Dr Valerie Mellor, who told her she was handling them very well by trying to live normally. "But she felt the girls were struggling because I was not giving them any information at all or giving my opinion and she suggested that was not really fair. This threw me a bit," Mrs Jenkins said. The hearing continues. 