Merely to voice the thought that there might be defects in the government's strategy against antisocial behaviour (ASB) is nowadays to risk instant ministerial derision. Labour strategists long ago concluded that there are few votes to be won - and many to be lost - in appearing anything other than relentlessly tough, not just on crime but on disorder too. Hence not just the regular Home Office ministerial attacks on the "yob culture" but also the prime minister's routine scorn towards any suggestion that antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) are not an unmitigated blessing. In the general election campaign Labour repeatedly asserted its belief that, in Asbos, it has picked and backed a political winner. Indeed in its manifesto the party promised: "We are ready to go further."The launch during the election of an alliance of pressure groups under the umbrella of Asbo Concern was a warning that the government's indifference to criticism of aspects of its policy might nevertheless be misplaced. The new campaign made several charges against the government's strategy: that the definition of ASB in legislation is too vague; that orders are being served on people who frequently need help and support rather than demonisation; and that the orders can criminalise behaviour that is not itself against the law, especially when an Asbo, which is a civil law remedy, is breached. Increasingly there is evidence of Asbo creep: one order has been made preventing a woman from answering her front door in her underwear; another banned a suicidal woman from jumping into rivers; a third, unsuccessful this time, attempted to prevent a Quaker peace activist from protesting on defence ministry property. Asbo Concern also argues that the orders do nothing to get at the causes of true antisocial behaviour. Since so many Asbos are now breached, the orders may in any case not be working as well as the government claims. They may even, in some respects, be making the problem worse. Now comes another initiative that ought to encourage the sort of "period of reflection" over ASB policy that the government counsels over the defects in the EU constitution. Research by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation begins with a reminder that ASB is not a problem for the majority of people. It is, though, a serious blight of the lives of a minority. The research underscores the highly diverse nature of ASB; where, it rightly asks, does mere incivility become ASB or, at the other end of the spectrum, does ASB become criminal activity? It also draws attention to the diverse explanations that people have for ASB, and stresses their differing implications for strategies to prevent it: if ASB is a symptom of cultural decline then strict measures may be the right ones, but if ASB is related to social deprivation then a more preventive approach may work better. Antisocial behaviour is a genuine problem. So it therefore requires genuine solutions. The Rowntree survey's principal theme is that preventive action to deal with ASB is being drowned out by the emphasis on enforcement. In reality, ministers may be as committed to preventive strategies on things such as drugs, drinking and what the Labour manifesto euphemistically calls "youth provision" as they are to the much more trumpeted Asbos. But the necessary balance between the two - tough on antisocial behaviour, tough on the causes of antisocial behaviour, as it has inevitably been characterised - has not been achieved, especially in the official rhetoric. Too many politicians are bingeing on Asbos the way too many teenage drinkers are bingeing on alcopops. In fact, as the Rowntree research points out, the public is overwhelmingly in favour of a more preventive approach. It is time to review the antisocial behaviour strategy and to correct its current serious imbalance.