A possible link between the murder of Surrey schoolgirl Milly Dowler and the arrest in Spain of 'Holloway Strangler' Tony King is being investigated by police.Serial sex offender King, who changed his name from Tony Bromwich by deed poll, got his 'Strangler' nickname after a spree of violent attacks in London in the Eighties. He was arrested in the southern Spanish town of Alhaurin el Grande 10 days ago, and has reportedly confessed to the brutal murders of Sonia Carabantes, aged 17, and Rocio Wanninkhof, 19, and three other violent sexual attacks on the Costa del Sol in recent years. Commander Andy Baker, head of Metropolitan Police homicide investigations, has confirmed that King is now a suspect in the Dowler case and that a dedicated team has been set up to help the authorities in Spain and act as a central point of contact for UK forces. Baker said: 'We are appeal ing for any information regarding Tony King, and a key part of our work will be constructing a time line of his movements.' He wants to hear from 'possible victims and from anyone who knows King both in the UK or in Spain'. However, Surrey police, who are in day-to-day charge of the Dowler investigation, told The Observer there was little evidence yet to suggest that King killed 13-year-old Milly. The child disappeared in March last year while walk ing home from school in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey. Her body was found in woodland in Yateley Heath, Hampshire, on 18 September, 2002. More than 40 Surrey detectives are still working on the case. Detective Chief Superintendent Craig Denholm, who is leading the murder hunt, told The Observer : 'There is nothing specific at this stage to suggest a link between the two inquiries. But, as with all offences that might appear to be similar, we will need to consider this line of inquiry. 'We are working in liaison with the Met over this. We are looking to piece together Tony King's movements at the time of Milly's abduction to see whether he was in the country at the time, bearing in mind he has been living in Spain since 1997. If we are able to confirm that he was not in the country at the time, we will be able to eliminate him from the inquiry. The Dowler family have been informed.' In August 1997 King was suspected of attacking a Hungarian student at Leatherhead station, also in Surrey. Closed-circuit TV footage from the station was shown to the victim, and she picked out a man she thought was the attacker. She then returned to Hungary. The man's face was shown on the BBC TV Crimewatch programme and viewers called in to say it was King. Surrey police went to his home only to find that he had gone to Spain with his wife the day before the show. Fingerprints from the flat where the couple had been living established that King was in fact Tony Bromwich, but without other evidence the police were unable to extradite him to the UK. 'There is good evidence to suggest that Tony King fled to Spain because he knew he was wanted by Surrey police in connection with the Leatherhead assault,' added Denholm. 'It is unlikely that he would have returned to the UK, and to Surrey in particular, with this knowledge.'