Almost every police force is failing in its duty to recruit and retain officers from ethnic minorities, according to a report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary to be published this month. Only three out of the 43 forces in England and Wales are seen to be making sufficient effort, according to the report.It is due to coincide with publication of Sir William Macpherson's report on the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry, now scheduled for February 23. The inspectorate's findings are likely to make uncomfortable reading for most forces and prompt the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, to make changes to recruiting. The three forces likely to escape censure are the Metropolitan Police, South Wales and West Yorkshire. All others are likely to be told that they have not done enough. The report is a follow-up from a thematic inspection, Winning the Race, published by the inspectorate in October 1997. That warned forces that they would be revisited in a year and be expected to have made changes in their attitudes to race. The new report is understood to find that what has been done is inadequate, and it is likely to be used by Mr Straw when he announces what actions need to be taken following the Macpherson report. Yesterday a Home Office spokesman confirmed that the inspectorate report is due to be published this month, but said he could not comment on which forces had been found wanting. The chairman of the Black Police Association, Inspector Paul Wilson, said yesterday: 'It is a perennial issue. It doesn't come as a surprise.' He said he believed that a lack of understanding of the black community in most forces was the major problem. 'They just don't understand why black people don't want to join the police - maybe they don't talk to enough of them,' he said. 'There have to be internal changes.' However, Mr Wilson said that he remained optimistic: 'I'm hoping that the Macpherson report will help to unlock some of these internal problems.' Dan Crompton, the Inspector of Constabulary, responsible for the new report, told a Scotland Yard conference on racism and policing at the end of last year: 'There are pockets of good practice but generally there is room for substantial improvement.' There are 2,483 black or Asian officers in England and Wales, 2 per cent of the service; in the population as a whole, 5.6 per cent belong to ethnic minorities. In the Metropolitan police, where extensive efforts have been made to recruit from the ethnic minorities, the number of such officers is approaching 900. The Met has a scheme to pay the university fees of promising ethnic minority students who plan a career in the police. Last October, the Home Secretary announced his intention to impose targets for recruitment and retention of black and Asian officers, saying 'a police force that fails to reflect the ethnic diversity of the society it serves will never secure the full support of all sections of society'. He is likely to expand on his proposals in the wake of the two reports.