Forget more bobbies on the beat: a sloping-topped dustbin and a handbag that refuses to open could prove vital tools in the fight against crime, according to research published yesterday.Mobile phones that can only be charged from one specific charger, suitcases that have detatchable handles, and TVs fitted with unique plugs that only work in one home could also help curb opportunistic crime, which accounts for a vast proportion of the £60bn annual cost of crime. The ideas for crime-deterrent products emerged in Cracking Crime Through Design, a report commissioned by the Design Council and written by Ken Pease, a criminologist. It urges government and business to do more to protect the public by using design in order to reduce crime.The report was launched yesterday with the backing of the Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens. It argues that most products are designed in a way that makes theft all too easy - from mobile phones with no effective security features, to wheelie bins that provide the perfect "leg-up" to burglars. Products such as these, and bags which give quick and easy access to pickpockets, fuel the temptation to offend, the research shows. However, the main aim of developing crime-resistant products, which in the case of cars have slashed car crime by a third, would be to protect victims of crime. This priority was highlighted by Diana Lamplugh, mother of the missing estate agent Suzy Lamplugh. She said that one of the factors in her daughter's abduction had been that her desk was situated in the window of her workplace. Architects and designers could do much more to make buildings safer, particularly so that vulnerable young children or women could not be seen from outside, she added. Andrew Summers, chief executive of the Design Council, said products being tested included anti-theft chairs, which allow bags to be held in indentations in the chair's seat, and deceptive handbags, which appear to have openings at the front but in reality open from the back. He urged the government to encourage crime-resistant design, perhaps by tax breaks for manufacturers, and suggested manufacturers should join forces in think tanks.