A meerkat-keeper has been ordered to pay £800 in compensation after glassing a love-rival monkey handler in a row over a llama-keeper at a Christmas party.Caroline Westlake, who worked in the meerkat enclosure at London zoo, was convicted of assault by beating last month after glassing her colleague, Kate Sanders, who cared for the attraction’s monkeys, in the face.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Llama-keeper Adam Davies was the object of both women’s affections, the court heard. Photograph: Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesThe pair became embroiled in the bloody fight after llama-keeper Adam Davies, who previously dated Sanders for five years, started a relationship with Westlake. Sanders saw the couple together for the first time at the Christmas party on 8 December and made a derisory comment about Westlake’s appearance. Her comments sparked an argument that ended with Sanders being struck in the face with a wine glass, for which she required stitches.Westlake, 30, cried in the dock as she was sentenced to a 12-month community order and ordered to pay £800 in compensation to Sanders and £200 in prosecution costs at Westminster magistrates court on Wednesday.District judge Jeremy Coleman described Sanders’ injury as “nasty” and told the defendant she was fortunate not to have been convicted of a more serious charge.He added: “It’s an unpleasant injury to someone’s face which makes it rather worse. It was caused by a glass so an object was used so really a more serious charge against you could easily have been justified.” Westlake had alleged that Sanders punched her in the face first and held her over a balcony while spitting in her face. She said she did not remember hitting her colleague with the glass, but accepted that she may have reacted with it in her hand due to her dyspraxia and ADHD. Prosecutor Daniel Geller said: “Miss Westlake hit Miss Sanders on the side of her face, she was holding a wine glass in her hand and it’s the glass which made contact with Miss Sanders’s face.“The glass appears to have broken on contact because it caused a cut to Miss Sanders’s face, a cut which was bleeding. Obviously very surprised by this, Miss Sanders stretched her arms out in defence, pushing Miss Westlake back by her neck.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Kate Sanders, the victim of the glassing attack. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/Press AssociationSanders was rushed to hospital and had to have a total of five stitches, the court was told. In an impact statement she said she has been left with a permanent scar on her cheek. “I have to see that scar every day when I look in the mirror,” she added. Westlake, from Banstead in Surrey, had worked at the zoo for four and a half years. She was fired from her job as a result of the fight.Sanders, from north London, was given a final warning and banned from Zoological Society of London events for two years.