Police said last night they had had more than 1,000 phone calls after they released an e-fit of the rapist who has attacked at least 10 people in the south-east in the past 12 months.Detectives pleaded for anyone who recognised him to call them. The image was put together by his most recent victim, a girl, aged 14, who caught a glimpse of his face as he grabbed her in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, on October 25.Describing the e-fit as a breakthrough, Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick praised the teenager for her courage. "Someone, somewhere knows this person."Police believe they have got the rapist's DNA, but so far the sample has not been matched on national databases. Up to 1,000 men, including known sex offenders, have given DNA samples and been eliminated as suspects.One worry for officers is that the rapist, whose victims are aged from 10 to 52, has probably attacked more women than they know of; there was an eight-month gap between the first known offence last November and the second.The investigation, one of the biggest manhunts of recent years, is now the concern of the Hertfordshire, London, Thames Valley, Surrey, and Kent police, and is occupying 100 officers.At a press conference at Surrey police headquarters in Guildford yesterday, Mr Warwick, and Detective Chief Inspector Tim Stephens, from Hertfordshire, said the rapist had managed to prevent all his other victims seeing him. But as a "risk taker", who had attacked some women in daylight in busy areas, he was bound to make mistakes.One mistake had been to allow the 14-year-old a glimpse of him."It was at the first stage of the attack," Mr Stephens said. "We are satisfied this is an extremely good likeness of the person we are hunting. Do people recognise this person? Is he a friend, a colleague, a partner? We are hoping the image may jog the memory of anyone who has had dealings with him."Mr Warwick added that it was possible the man had assaulted others before his first known attack in Ashford, Kent, last November, when he raped a girl of 10. Police believe he may live in the south in the week and return home to the north at the weekend. Some victims say he has a faint north-eastern accent.Detectives think a doctor might recognise the e-fit; the man is believed to have a violent history, and may have had treatment. He is described as white, aged 30 to 50, 5ft 5in to 5ft 10in (165cm to 178cm) tall, muscular, with a medium to stocky build and tanned, leathery skin - indicating that he may work outdoors. He has a gruff voice, is thought to be a smoker, and smells of drink.One victim says he has scars or blemishes just above or below one eye.Many victims were attacked in daylight; two were walking their dogs, and two were riding bicycles. All were grabbed from behind and restrained. He raped a 26-year-old in woodland on Putney common, near London, in July, then stole her mobile phone and rang her mother to boast of what he had done.He brandished a knife at another woman, and, in most cases, he has taken clothing or property from victims.He told one woman: "I don't want to get caught again."Psychological profilers believe he is likely to have been violent in relationships.Anyone with information should ring Operation Orb on 0845 601 8109, or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.