A panel of seven law lords will hear an appeal next month which is expected to strip the home secretary of the right to decide minimum terms for murderers and clear the way for the release of the Moors murderer Myra Hindley.The appeal, brought by two convicted killers, Anthony Anderson and John Taylor, is challenging the home secretary's right to fix tariffs, or minimum terms of detention, for murderers. If it succeeds, it could pave the way for Hindley to have her "whole life" tariff overturned and to apply for release. Only a handful of the most important appeals are heard by seven law lords, instead of the usual five. The panel will be headed by the senior law lord, Lord Bingham. Lord Bingham had hoped to hear the appeal in July and intervened to expedite it. But it had to be put back to October because some of the lawyers were unavailable. Lawyers predict that the challenge to the home secretary's power to fix tariffs will succeed after a ruling in May from the European court of human rights in Strasbourg. That ruling removed his right to keep murderers in jail once the parole board has recommended their release. After a series of Strasbourg rulings, the only power he still retains is the right to set the tariff - the minimum term a prisoner must serve before seeking release - for those serving mandatory life sentences for murder. In one in 16 cases the home secretary sets a longer tariff than the term recommended by the trial judge and the lord chief justice. Anderson and Taylor argue that it is incompatible with the European convention on human rights for a politician, rather than a judge, to decide their sentence. In Anderson's case, the 15-year tariff recommended by the judge was increased to 20, and Taylor was given a 30-year tariff after the judge had recommended 16. When they took their cases to the high court and court of appeal, the judges ruled against them but made clear they were doing so reluctantly. The stumbling block was an earlier Strasbourg ruling, which has since been overturned by the judgment last May from Strasbourg's grand chamber. Most of the whole lifers are so dangerous they will probably never be released, but Hindley has already been classified as low risk by the parole board and recommended for transfer to an open prison. She has spent 37 years in prison for her part as Ian Brady's accomplice in the killings of five children. Lord Lane, a former lord chief justice, recommended that she serve a minimum of 25 years.