Some people will have been fairly unsurprised by the "surprise results" of a report that was published this week about the prevalence of date-rape drugs. More than 1,000 women who claimed their drinks had been spiked submitted samples for analysis by the Forensic Science Service, in an attempt to verify the widespread belief that men are drugging women to make it easier to assault them. Many of the women described the classic Rohypnol experience - disorientation, sex with a stranger, intense fatigue and partial amnesia; the nightmarish narrative that rings true to many women, and has gripped their fear.The fairytale quality of these stories, however, is what also makes some people suspicious. The crime has a hint of unreal perfection, with the drug not only making you helpless, but wiping out enough of your memory to ruin a prosecution. The trick is so ingenious, some have found it frankly implausible - though others were confident that the research would yield proof.The results of 1,014 sample tests were certainly clear. In all but 21 of the samples, the only drugs detected were of the recreational variety, taken, presumably, by choice.Rohypnol failed to show up in a single sample. Nearly half the samples contained alcohol, and more than a third recreational drugs. The report's conclusion was worded delicately - "Advice should be given on sensible drinking, and the risks of recreational drug use" - but the implication was blunt. Women are not being spiked by strangers. They're getting into trouble all by themselves.I never found the Rohypnol panic entirely convincing, however vivid the testimonies. At least spiking a woman with Rohypnol does have the merit of a logical motive. But if it were half as widespread as is frequently claimed, I should know at least a dozen victims by now. In fact, as it is, if I hadn't read about Rohypnol in the press, I wouldn't have heard of it.How the women's unshakable belief can be reconciled with the evidence I have no idea. But the results are unambiguous: for some reason, date-rape drugs just haven't caught on. It's probably because their effect can be achieved using legal alternatives - such as vodka and Red Bull - which the victim may even buy for herself. Why bother to spike someone who will happily self-medicate until so far beyond oblivion, she might just as well be doped up on Rohypnol?If she is not the victim of her oblivion but its architect, the real question is what she has a right to expect from a man at such a moment. Drunken date rape stirs up a thick fog of doubt in many, but one clear opinion seems to have been gaining ground. It was heard again this week: the argument that any woman who gets trashed has chosen to put herself at risk. Anything that happens to her, however bad, is her responsibility. If she left her front door open all night, we'd say she was asking to be burgled, and the same rule, apparently, should apply to her body.This equation is so appealingly crisp and cool, it's easy to mistake it for a solution. The clarity gets rid of all our confusion about what consent really means when you've been drinking all night. It makes date rape sound just like theft - a bold lunge for something you like the look of and see a chance to grab. The men who assaulted the women in this report weren't deviant or disturbed - just ordinary, opportunistic blokes.This idea is more disturbing to me than a million men running around with Rohypnol. For the argument to make any sense, we would have to believe that sexual crime prevention was of no concern to men, and the sole responsibility of women. If we say that anything less than vigilance is culpably irresponsible in a woman, this means we think all men are rapists.When militant feminists made this suggestion, it was taken as proof of their lunacy. Now, apparently, it is taken for granted. Girls are expected to understand that if they wind up in the pub car park, tights round their ankles and peeing on their high heels, the average man passing by cannot be expected to pass up the chance.If that is what we really think, how weird that it is the woman we think needs help, who must teach herself to change, and learn "sensible drinking". Why isn't everyone asking what kind of man is it who would see her lying there and want to have a go?