All Ian Huntley will have seen from his isolation cell in the special unit of Woodhill prison, near Milton Keynes, for the past eight months is a caged exercise yard topped by coiled razor wire.Woodhill has been called Britain's Alcatraz, because of its spartan living conditions and strict discipline. Its "close supervision centre" was opened in 1998, along with special units at Hull, Wakefield and Durham jails, to hold about 50 of Britain's most potentially disruptive inmates, accused or convicted. Among the convicted criminals Woodhill has housed are the hostage-taker Charles Bronson; Robert Maudsley, nicknamed Hannibal the Cannibal for the way he murdered three fellow prisoners; and Michael Sams, who had eight years added to his four life terms after taking a probation officer hostage at Woodhill. There are three units at Woodhill, sterile areas devoid of any stimulation. There are no plants, pictures, murals or music. Many of the inmates are allowed only one hour's exercise a day in a tarmac yard cage without seating or other fitments. Some prisoners under close supervision are constantly watched by closed circuit television cameras. The "more liberal" unit at Wakefield was opened after "serious flaws" were identified in the experimental control unit in D wing at Woodhill, which enforced a very restrictive regime. D wing, which is no longer used, had a completely bare room and a cell called "the pink room" which provided under-floor drainage for dirty protests. The chief inspector of prisons condemned the prolonged isolation of inmates as a risk to their mental health. Their cells were unlocked only in the presence of six prison officers in full riot gear. It is not known which of the three units Mr Huntley is being held in, but he is segregated for his own safety. The most basic regime in Woodhill, in A wing, has cells furnished with a sink and toilet, a concrete plinth for a mattress, a cardboard table and chair, and a fixed mirror. There are four "control cells" and 12 normal cells on two landings. Drains are fitted outside the control cells. Each inmate is allowed up to 12 photographs, and up to six library books a week. A dustpan and brush is issued on request. Most inmates begin in B wing, which consists of 16 cells on two landings, with a shower room and toilets on each level. They are expected to have about 17 hours of "constructive activity", including time in an association room with a television, a table tennis table and cardboard and plastic tables and chairs. They can progress to the third unit, C wing, which provides an "intervention programme" for a minimum of 20 hours a week. Beyond that they are supposed to be transferred to the more liberal regimes at Wakefield, Hull and Durham, and eventually returned to the ordinary prison system, if judged safe enough. The regime at Woodhill has been the subject of repeated human rights challenges and D wing was closed partly in response to a high court ruling. When the special unit was opened - after the then home secretary Michael Howard closed the special therapeutic wing at Parkhurst on the Isle of Wight - it was hoped to use a pioneering therapeutic approach to dealing with the most potentially disruptive prisoners. But its first year of operation was marked by dirty protests by inmates who refused to cooperate. It was then decided that "control and containment" should be the first priority of the Woodhill units, and it was even considered necessary to discuss whether guard dogs should be introduced.