The trial began today of five people for the murder of Italian financier Roberto Calvi, 23 years after he was found hanging underneath London's Blackfriars Bridge.Calvi, known as "God's banker" because of his close ties to the Vatican, was found with his suit stuffed with rocks and thousands of pounds worth of bank notes. Police in London originally thought that he had committed suicide, but his family have always maintained that he was lured to London to be murdered by the Italian mafia. The trial got underway at a high-security court in Rome this morning and so far the hearing has been taken up by procedural argument. Presiding Judge Mario D'Andria said he hoped for a quick trial. "Let's all try to keep in mind that this is a trial about facts that have happened almost 24 years ago," he said.Through the course of the trial, prosecutors will argue that Calvi's death was murder, while defence lawyers claim the financier committed suicide as the banking empire he headed, Banco Ambrosiano, collapsed in a fraud scandal. The trial follows an announcement in July 2003 by Italian prosecutors that they had concluded that the 62-year-old banker had been killed, after which British police announced a murder inquiry. According to court documents, prosecutors allege that Giuseppe "Pippo" Calo - one of the five on trial - ordered Calvi's killing. Calo, nicknamed the mafia's "cashier" by the Italian media, was convicted in the 1980s of mafia charges unconnected to Calvi's death. The other defendants are businessmen Ernesto Diotallevi and Flavio Carboni, Mr Carboni's Austrian ex-girlfriend Manuela Kleinszig, and Calvi's driver and bodyguard Silvano Vittor. Along with Mr Carboni, Mr Vittor is the last person known to have seen Calvi before his body was found suspended from the bridge in London in June 1982. Mr Carboni was the only defendant in court today, while Calo appeared by video link from a prison in central Italy. Under the Italian legal system defendants are not required to attend their trials.Prosecutors allege that Mr Carboni and Mr Vittor went to London with Calvi to deliver him to the people who killed him, according to court documents and Mr Vittor's lawyer. They also allege that Calvi was laundering money for the mafia, and that Calo ordered his murder because mafia bosses were angry with Calvi for appropriating mafia money. Prosecutors say the mafia was afraid that the banker would talk to authorities. Defence lawyers deny all these allegations. Mr Carboni said he was "indifferent" to whether Calvi had been killed or committed suicide, claiming he had no responsibility either way. He said he believed Calvi killed himself, saying that "if reasons to commit suicide exist, Calvi had them all". Mr Carboni and Corrado Oliviero, a lawyer for Calo, said the prosecution's case was based on evidence from unreliable mafia turncoats. Asked about the case outside court, prosecutor Luca Tescaroli declined to give details. She said: "Reaching the trial is already a result ... now it's better to let the trial speak."In court, Judge D'Andria granted a request by Mr Vittor's lawyer, Luigi Greco, for today's hearing to be adjourned to give the defence more time to prepare. The next hearing was set for November 23. The judge turned down requests from defence lawyers for further delays. Ms Kleinszig's lawyer, Ersilia Barracca, said her client was in Austria and may attend future hearings. Calvi created Banco Ambrosiano and turned it into Italy's biggest private bank, but it was on the verge of collapse with debts of £800m when he died. Much of the money was made up of loans which the bank had provided to dummy companies in Latin America.It was Italy's biggest postwar banking scandal, and one that implicated the Vatican, which provided letters of credit for the loans. In the aftermath of Calvi's death, the Vatican's bank, which had a stake in Banco Ambrosiano, agreed to pay more than £150m to its creditors, but denied any wrongdoing.