Police are watching Jersey's ports and airport in an attempt to monitor alleged suspects who may try to flee as the investigation into the island's child abuse scandal widens. A list of names, which have been corroborated in the testimonies of scores of victims, has been circulated by detectives on Jersey and throughout the UK. Most of the suspects are alive and connected in some way to former children's home Haut de la Garenne, where more than 160 youngsters are alleged to have been raped and beaten - and at least one possibly murdered - in a campaign of 'systematic and endemic' abuse that may have lasted seven decades.'These people know who they are. If you have sexually abused children you are not going to forget that. Some will be waiting for the inevitable knock on the door,' said deputy police chief Lenny Harper, who is leading the investigation. Last night Harper gave a 'stark' warning to anyone looking to intimidate victims after allegations emerged that a former resident at Haut de la Garenne had been targeted by a care worker who had been employed at the home in the Sixties. Harper warned anyone considering approaching witnesses or victims that police would deal with it as a 'serious criminal offence'. 'It is a warning to anyone with intentions to approach victims in this case to prevent them from talking to the police, we will investigate it as a serious criminal offence,' Harper said. Some of Britain's most senior detectives arrived yesterday to oversee the direction of an investigation that is expected to evolve into a formal murder inquiry after a girl's skull - alongside what police said yesterday was a plastic flower and parts of a hair clasp - was found in the home last Saturday. Members of the Association of Chief Police Officers' homicide working group will soon submit a report on where the inquiry should be focused. In a separate development, police have discovered further rooms in the underground complex at Haut de la Garenne. 'Latest examinations show that there may be two other rooms beyond the first two we have identified, and the courtyard is of interest,' Harper said. One of the two newly discovered rooms leads off a large chamber next to the cellar, which is being searched extensively. The fourth room, which was located using ground-penetrating radar, is thought to lead off the third room. Testimonies from victims have also suggested there is a fifth room in the grounds. Forensic specialists were still examining the cellar last night in the hope of unearthing clues and DNA samples. Although police have yet to confirm whether instruments of torture such as shackles have been discovered in the rooms, Harper said the findings so far have made him 'very uneasy'. It seems clear, however, that whoever committed the alleged horrors at Haut de la Garenne intended the world never to find out. The forensic specialists believe the cellar may have been booby trapped to prevent it being disturbed. Those privy to its hot, dusty interior refer to it as a 'death trap'. Teetering piles of rocks and debris threaten to topple and crush officers sifting through the debris. Two stone lintels have been loaded with piled debris and could fall at any point. The floor, police suspect, may have been deliberately smothered with debris. 'Some of the backfill has been put in there for a reason we are not fully au fait with at the moment,' said Harper. At the rear of the Victorian building, officers were continuing to strip away the topsoil of a large field last night. Police have received a number of calls from local people who claim human remains are buried there. Police had also amassed testimonies that revealed that victims were dissuaded from coming forward, Harper said, in what appears to be a sustained cover-up by former employees at the home. The inquiry is examining suggestions of a 'concerted pattern of perverting the course of justice', he said, adding: 'Some people didn't do their job.' It was confirmed yesterday that police are questioning a former care worker at the home for allegedly trying to intimidate a victim who had told police of sexual abuse allegations.Officers have launched a reinvestigation into why bones found in the former children's home five years ago, which have since been destroyed, were categorised as animal remains, despite at least one being 'unidentified'. 'We intend to speak to the builders [who found the bones], and the pathologist involved,' Harper said.