Michael Howard has raised the stakes in his race with the government for headlines praising toughness on crime (Howard turns clock back, August 11). But Martin Kettle (Comment, August 10) rightly warns of the impact on the civil legal aid budget of the clampdown on crime. It is time for the prime minister to take the heat out of this debate and return to his promise to be tough not just on crime but on the causes of crime.Simply creating new offences will not achieve that, but the increasing cost of criminal legal aid will squeeze the civil legal aid budget (so reducing access to justice) and further disadvantage those whose lives are most affected by criminal activity. The government has launched a review of legal aid. We hope this will be used to find ways to mobilise the whole of the justice system to help tackle the causes of crime in the most vulnerable communities. Janet Paraskeva Chief executive, Law Society  We are pleased Martin Kettle has injected some balance into the reporting of legal-aid issues and pointed out that the creation of more criminal and asylum offences, not asylum seekers themselves, causes a drain on legal aid funding. An example of this is the latest legislation under which an asylum seeker can be prosecuted if the immigration service believes s/he has destroyed their papers. Given that, for many fleeing war zones and persecution, stopping to apply for a passport is not a priority, we would not be surprised if prosecutions arising out of such cases resulted in more claims on legal aid. The growing complexity of asylum law also creates the demand. It is now virtually impossible for an asylum seeker to conduct their claim without a lawyer. In addition, the poor quality of decision-making in immigration cases in the first instance results in many more applicant appeals.  Tauhid Pasha Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants  With crime at its lowest level for 20 years, the last thing that we need is to build new prisons or to scrap electronic tagging. If politicians are serious about cutting crime and making communities safer, they should be basing policy on evidence about what works. Instead of locking yet more people up we need investment in measures to prevent children getting into trouble, expansion of mediation schemes which can resolve neighbourhood disputes, better treatment for offenders with mental-health problems and greater availability of drug treatment both inside and outside of the criminal justice system.  Joe Levenson Rethinking Crime and Punishment