A couple of weeks ago, I wrote about the rise of a police state. I was alarmed, in company with several journalists, about the police's increasing use of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (Ripa).It was in response to the revelation that the Metropolitan police had accessed the phone records of the Sun's political editor, Tom Newton Dunn.Now, the Times has revealed yet another example. Kent police were granted authorisation, via Ripa, to obtain the phone records of two journalists. This was done in secret.Officers who were investigating the Chris Huhne speeding points scandal were able to access the billing and call data of the Mail on Sunday's news editor, David Dillon, and his source, a freelance reporter, Andrew Alderson.The Kent force defended its action as "proportionate, lawful, and necessary." Rightly, the Times asked whether it had compromised Alderson's privilege as a confidential source. But the force spokeswoman refused to offer a coherent answer.Gavin Millar QC, who acted for the Mail on Sunday's owner, Associated Newspapers, in the Huhne case, said rights to confidential sources were enshrined under European law.They should only be overridden in matters such as terrorism, organised crime and murder. And that, of course, was the reason that Ripa was enacted in 2000.It was aimed at dealing with terrorism. It was not supposed to be used in cases such as the Huhne case, nor the Newton Dunn instance, which involved his Plebgate story.Let me repeat the arguments I advanced in the London Evening Standard. If the police can obtain the phone records of reporters, people will stop calling them.Fewer whistleblowers mean fewer stories. Fewer stories mean the publication of less public-interest information. Less information means an enhancement of our already secretive society. The police are misusing Ripa to discover how journalists obtain stories. We must support the application by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism to the European Court of Human Rights to investigate British laws that appear incompatible with provisions in European law.Ripa was supposed to protect national security and detect crime while preventing disorder and protecting public health. Its misuse and abuse inhibits journalists from acting on behalf of the public and therefore threatens our civil liberties.