Detectives investigating the brutal attack on Surrey mother Abigail Witchalls believe they are little more than a week away from a dramatic breakthrough.They believe that on 6 June they will be able to say with certainty whether 23-year-old Richard Cazaly, a landscape gardener who lived in Little Bookham, the village where Abigail was stabbed, and died from an apparent overdose in Edinburgh on 30 April, was the man responsible. Abigail was left paralysed from the neck down. Forensic experts have spent five weeks 'growing' the DNA obtained from microscopic samples of sweat and skin cells taken from the buggy in which Abigail's 21-month-old son, Joseph, was travelling just before she was stabbed. The attacker is known to have grabbed the buggy and held his knife to Joseph's throat before plunging it into Abigail's neck. The 'growing' process is necessary because the amount of DNA in such samples is not sufficient to allow for a full identification. Forensic tests earlier this month on jeans worn by Cazaly showed no trace of Abigail's DNA. Tests on blood stains found in a car belonging to a 25-year-old man, arrested early in the inquiry, show no link to the attack. Detectives have not yet been able to show Abigail a photograph of Cazaly due to concerns over the legality of such a move. Under normal circumstances a witness would be shown 12 pictures of broadly similar suspects, all taken under similar lighting conditions and with identical backgrounds. This is necessary to ensure none of the photographs stand out from the others as this could affect the validity of a positive identification. But because Cazaly is dead police have been forced to spend hours trawling through snapshots belonging to friends and family members. Several potentially useable images have now been identified but detectives want to avoid traumatising Abigail by confronting her with a picture of her attacker. On Tuesday, a team of specialist dogs will search the route that Abigail and her son took on the day of the attack in another attempt to find the knife used in the stabbing.