A British man who killed an elderly couple while driving his Porsche through Macedonia during last month's Gumball rally was given a two-year suspended sentence today. Nicholas Morley, 30, of Bowden, Cheshire, was convicted of "endangering traffic, leading to death" by a court in Struga, Macedonia, after a trial lasting a week.Vladimir Chepunjoski and his wife Margarita died when the Porsche 911 Morley was driving hit their Volkswagen Golf near the Albanian border on May 4. The prosecution alleged Morley was driving the car at 100mph when the accident happened. Morley and his co-driver Matthew McConville were taking part in an annual 3,000-mile rally which attracts the rich and famous. This year's race was from London to Istanbul and back. Hundreds of participants pay £28,000 to drive cars such as Ferraris, Porsches and Lamborghinis. Jamiroquai singer Jay Kay and the model Caprice were among those taking part when the race was abandoned because of the fatal crash. Organisers say it is a cultural tour and drivers have to abide by the laws of the country they are in. Morley and Mr McConville were bailed after their initial arrest and Mr McConville returned to the UK. Morley was then rearrested and detained in Macedonia amid press reports that he was trying to flee the country aboard a private jet, something that he denied in court.Morley - whose brother Oliver is a property developer with a business reported to be worth tens of millions of pounds - was held in Ohrid prison in Macedonia while he awaited trial. In a statement, his family said: "We are delighted and relieved that Nick is on his way home. We have maintained all along that Nick was involved in a tragic accident and entirely innocent of the charges brought against him ... In the course of time, we will consider all our options, including an appeal of this decision so we can clear Nick's name."Their spokesman said two defence experts who were not allowed to give evidence at the trial are certain Morley was driving no faster than 47 mph. On the first day of the trial, the family of the couple who were killed in the crash told the court they forgave Morley and wanted him released. They also dropped a claim for £100,000 damages.