A violent racist wrote a letter specifically threatening action against 'Pakis' just weeks before he murdered his Asian cellmate, a public inquiry heard today.Staff at Feltham young offenders' institution intercepted the letter by Robert Stewart, who bludgeoned to death 19-year-old Zahid Mubarek in March 2003, but were reluctant to label him as a racist.A prison officer handed the letter back to Stewart and advised him to change its wording, but he later sent it out uncensored from another jail.Prison officer Deborah Hogg told the Zahid Mubarek inquiry that she intercepted the letter which used threatening and racist language on January 12 2000.Ms Hogg said she believed the violence and racism in the letter were linked. She added that the racism it contained referred to the words 'Pakis' and 'niggers'. She said: "There was the terminology in there that I perceived to be racist. I perceived it to be threatening in relation to racism." The prison officer warned other staff about the letter, but was reluctant to label Stewart a racist because she had not witnessed any incidents firsthand. But she knew he had confronted black inmates shortly after his transfer to Feltham, and stood out as someone who was not normal.Saying she still "lacked confidence" following a previous unrelated incident when she was attacked by another prisoner, Ms Hogg asked advice from her senior officer Steven Martindale. He told her the letter was unacceptable and should be handed back to Stewart.Ms Hogg told Stewart to rewrite the letter saying its tone and language were banned. It is thought he later sent it out when he was briefly transferred to another prison.The prison officer said she chose to vet Stewart's mail following warnings from colleagues that he could be a violent racist.Stewart, who had already been diagnosed as a violent racist psychopath by prison medics and placed in a single cell because he was so dangerous, was put in the same cell as Mubarek, aged 19, on February 8 2000.Ms Hogg also told the inquiry how she was attacked and almost taken hostage at Feltham in February 1998 when she was a probationary officer.She was one of just two probationary officers left on the wing when the prisoner, who was later sentenced to 18 months for aggravated bodily harm, attacked her. But the prison authorities have since tried to classify the incident as a 'key grab offence' rather than as a hostage-taking, the inquiry heard.Ms Hogg told the hearing: "I got pulled into a cell by a blanket being hooked over the back of my neck, dragged down to the floor. The blanket was put either side of me, basically wrapped over me and the prisoner stood either side of the blanket to restrict my movements."The official response to the incident showed the "under-reporting of extremely serious incidents" at Feltham, according to Patrick O'Connor, counsel for the Mubarek family.Ms Hogg, who has only just received compensation the attack, also stated: "I've actually had problems with management since as to whether it was an attempt hostage situation or a key grab. Basically, I think it was a serious incident that they wanted to keep quiet."She also warned that conditions at Feltham had deteriorated since Mubarek's death.Ms Hogg said: "I would say it is actually worse now. There is a majority of staff who are inexperienced at Feltham. They are in a majority."