A police force was facing questions over its recruitment policies last night after it emerged that an officer found guilty of raping women had previously been charged with sexual assault while serving in the army.Stephen Mitchell, 42, a former officer with Northumbria police, was convicted yesterday of two rapes, three indecent assaults and three charges of misconduct in a public office. On Tuesday, he was found guilty of six counts of misconduct in a public office.He was cleared of three rapes, two indecent assaults and two counts of misconduct in a public office last Friday.During the five-week trial at Newcastle crown court, the prosecution said Mitchell preyed on heroin addicts, shoplifters and a disabled teenager by offering them help while in custody at Pilgrim Street police station, demanding sexual favours in return. He blackmailed one of his victims by claiming she would not be able to get her children back from local authority care unless she complied with his demands.And it emerged yesterday that Mitchell, from Glasgow, was charged with a serious sexual assault while serving with the army in the 1980s. The charge was subsequently dropped before coming to court in Edinburgh and he was not convicted of any offence. But there is concern about the Northumbria police recruitment process, and whether the force was aware of his past when it accepted his application. He joined the police in 1991 after leaving the army.During his trial, it emerged that in 2007, the force punished him when it was discovered he had sex with a woman he had met as part of his duties. But Mitchell was not dismissed.A year earlier, he was fined three days' wages for looking up his wife's new friends on the force computer after the couple had separated.In March this year, he was finally dismissed from the force after he was charged with the serious sexual offences against vulnerable women.One of his victims, a mother of three, now 34, who is a former heroin addict, said: "I hope he gets life for what he has done to me and the other girls, but this has totally destroyed my life."She first met Mitchell when she was arrested on a theft charge nine years ago. When she was released from prison, he offered to help get her children back. He gave her a bag of heroin, then gave her a lift to a shop to buy foil and a lighter so she could take the drug.She said he threatened he would plant heroin on her and ensure she never got her children back if she did not continue doing what he ordered. Mitchell then raped her in his car.She said: "I am on antidepressants and diazepam because of what he did to me. I used to wash myself with Dettol because I felt so dirty and now I can't have kids because of the damage that has caused. I just hope he gets what he deserves."Mitchell claimed the women colluded against him after rumours circulated about him.One of his victims, from Newcastle, was a heroin addict when she was arrested for shoplifting by Mitchell in 2002. She said: "He took me to the cells and the next thing I knew he came down with a cup of tea for me and a cigarette, which I thought was really strange."He came towards me and kissed me on the lips. It was more than just a peck and I was completely taken aback."When she was begging on the streets, he would repeatedly target her. She said: "He would come over and start telling me how much he fancied me and how pretty he thought I was. At the time I just thought he was a bit pervy." He would give her lifts and talk about his marriage problems, then try to kiss her, she said."It happened about 10 times. I didn't think it was too serious and I went along with it because I felt like he was always doing me favours and I didn't want to tick him off by saying anything."She added: "I'm pleased justice has been done in my case but there are other charges he was cleared of. At the end of the day it was one person's word against another and the jury had to go on the evidence they were presented with."Sentencing was postponed by Mr Justice Wilkie until 11 January for psychiatric and sex offender reports, but he told the court he was considering an indeterminate sentence for public protection.He praised the police for the "patient and professional way in which they investigated the case and coaxed these very damaged women to give their evidence in court".Jim Campbell of Northumbria police said Mitchell was an "evil and manipulative" man who had lied on his police application form by not revealing the charges in Edinburgh. "There is no place in the police service for such evil and manipulative behaviour," he said.Campbell added that the Northumbria police counter-corruption unit had been improved since the investigation began. He said the force did not know about Mitchell's previous offending. "Had we been aware of his arrests or prosecution, he would never have been allowed to join Northumbria police."The case had done "horrendous" damage to the force's reputation, he said.Detective Chief Inspector Chris Sharman, who led the investigation, said Mitchell was able to escape detection for so long because he was cunning and because of the victims he chose.He said: "It is quite typical of a sex offender to be very devious and calculating. They tend not to share information with other people and can be quite devious. He is all these things and is a very evil, clever man. That has helped him stay under the radar for so long."Sharman said Mitchell had remained emotionless and remorseless during police interviews.He denied Mitchell was offered a Monopoly-style "get out of jail card" to quit the force in return for an end to the investigation.Commissioner Nicholas Long, of the Independent Police Complaints Commission, said Mitchell "abused a position of power for his own twisted sexual gratification. His behaviour damaged the lives of so many women. It is tragic that when these women should have been at their safest, with a police officer, they were perhaps at the greatest risk."