The queue formed at the post office in Strensall around 10am, just as Richard Horseman was taking down the "wanted" poster issued by the police to every shop in the village.Had it been any other day, the sight of pensioners standing in a line at the three counters would have been unremarkable. But yesterday was no ordinary Monday. For the first time in eight days elderly people were venturing out to collect pensions, buy stamps and pay household bills. Children were kicking footballs in the park and house gates that had been firmly locked for more than a week were leftopen. Across the small village in North Yorkshire where a week ago last Sunday the bodies of Joan Britton, 82, and her husband, James, 80, were discovered stabbed and battered to death in their home, families woke in the knowledge that Britain's biggest manhunt was over. The relief was tangible. Strensall was getting back to the business of everyday life. Thirty-four-year-old Mark Hobson, who was wanted in connection with the murders of the Brittons, and that of Claire and Diane Sanderson, 25 miles away in Camblesforth, was meanwhile being treated for dehydration and minor abrasions while under arrest in Harrogate district hospital. "It's so nice to see the place busy again," said Wendy Watson, who works in Strensall's post office. "We've been rushed off our feet today. Last week everyone locked themselves in their houses, the post office was empty and there was no one on the streets. It was a ghost town." A short walk from the centre of Strensall, the telephone in the vicarage was ringing incessantly. "It's been like this all morning," said the Rev Martin Harrison. "Last week I had numerous calls from people who were scared, locked in their homes and just wanted to talk. Today they are all ringing up to say how much happier they feel. I feel as though the whole village has given a great big sigh of relief." The large police presence in vans, cars and on bicycles was no more. Just three officers stood guard outside the Brittons' large detached home, where fresh flowers were laid in the morning. The couple's bodies were discovered on Sunday morning last week by their neighbours. Three hours earlier the police had been alerted to the deaths of Claire Sanderson, Mr Hobson's 27-year-old girlfriend, and her twin, Diane, in Camblesforth. With news of the Brittons' deaths, the manhunt involving 300 officers from a dozen different forces began. From that moment the largely elderly population of Strensall disappeared from their usual haunts: the community library, the fishmonger, the post office and the local shop. They began to re-emerge yesterday morning. At the hairdresser, devoid for days of pensioners seeking perms and blowdrys, Tracey Craig was starting to take new appointments. Ms Craig and other mothers have felt the impact of the tragedy, which coincided with the start of the summer holidays, over the past eight days. "I've kept my son in all week," she said. "It's been very hard. The first thing he said when he woke up today was, 'Mum, can I go out and play now?'" It is a brisk three-mile walk across open fields from Strensall to Shipton-by-Beningbrough where Derrick North, 81, was serving tea, scones and strawberry jam yesterday to neighbours who popped in to congratulate a reluctant hero. Oblivious to all the fuss, Mr North had strode out at 6.15am to place his "Open" sign outside the garage that he has run without a day off for 46 years. But by midday it was obvious he was not going to be doing much business, such was the level of interest from friends and the media. It was Mr North who alerted the police on Sunday afternoon after Mark Hobson had walked into his shop on the A19 to buy a bottle of water, a box of matches and cigarette papers. "It came to 79p and he paid with loose change. He was in the shop for no more than three minutes and I treated him like a normal customer," said Mr North. "I knew it was the man they had been looking for immediately. I was just delighted we were able to do something." It is not the first time Mr North has had to call police, having been the subject of robberies in the past. Producing an axe which came from a second world war bomber and which he keeps for protection, he described how, 40 years ago, he had grabbed his shotgun and confronted a group of youths whom he had caught urinating on his petrol pump. It took local police, who have been sifting through more than 1,000 reported sightings, an hour to arrive at the petrol station on Sunday to arrest Mr Hobson in the field behind the next-door furniture store. But what concerned the unflappable Mr North most yesterday was the behaviour at a Tom Jones concert on Sunday night at nearby Castle Howard: "The women all took their knickers off and threw them at the stage, there were piles of them, can you believe it?" Detectives have yet to begin questioning Mr Hobson in connection with the four deaths. A spokesman said that while he was responding to treatment he would remain overnight.. In the countryside between the field where he was detained and Strensall, police were attempting to piece together Mr Hobson's movements over the last week. A community centre and recycling bins were sealed off in Strensall for a detailed search, while fields behind and opposite Mr North's garage were taped off for forensic teams to search. Police believe Mr Hobson may have hidden out under a hedge in a cornfield by the side of the busy A19 for most of the eight days he was being hunted. Scene-of-crime officers discovered abandoned belongings at the edge of the field yesterday. "It is a very strong possibility that he has been living there for several days," said a police source. Martin Harrison, who was vicar of Shipton before moving to his post at St Mary's Church said the fact the wanted man had been found so close by, made the fear of the last week seem completely rational. "I told parishioners who called for help to acknowledge all the feelings of shock and grief they were having, but also to move on and not let their fear restrict their lives," he said. "Today that will be a lot easier for everyone to do."