The American banking heir Matthew Mellon paid a private detective agency to electronically spy on his estranged wife, Tamara, in the run-up to their acrimonious divorce, a court heard today. The multi-millionaire thought it "would be a good idea" to hack into Ms Mellon's computer and read her emails, it was claimed. It was said he allegedly believed his wife, the head of the Jimmy Choo footwear empire, might have information "he was not getting through the court process". Southwark crown court was told a Trojan virus was used to hack into Ms Mellon's computer and that her husband was one of a number of customers that used the London-based Active Investigation Services' Hackers Are Us to allegedly break the law. Opening what is expected to be a two-month case, Miranda Moore QC, prosecuting, said another illicit activity the firm indulged in was phone tapping. "Hacking and arranging for hacking into people's computers and bugging people's telephones are both illegal in this country. The agency carried out bog standard or the usual work a detective agency does," said Ms Moore. "However, it had a number of very lucrative sidelines ... It is these activities that you are going to be concentrating on." Mr Mellon, 43, of Belgravia, central London, denies one count of conspiring to cause unauthorised modification of computer material between July 1 2004 and February 4 2005.In the dock with him is ex-policeman Scott Gelsthorpe, 32, from Kettering, Northamptonshire, who helped run the agency with former colleague Jeremy Young, 38.By Mr Gelsthorpe's side was David Carroll, 58, of Highgate, north London, who also played a role in running the agency; his computer expert son, Daniel Carroll, 36, from Westminster, central London, who headed his own company just above AIS's premises; and Maurice Kennedy, 58, of Barnet, north London, another customer accused of using the detective agency's illegal services. Mr Mellon's co-accused variously deny 15 counts of conspiracy alleging fraud, the unauthorised modification of computer material, the unlawful interception of computer material, and criminal damage."He [Mr Mellon] employed the services of AIS to snoop on his then wife Tamara during their divorce proceedings because he wanted information he was not getting through the court process. But it was not by tapping into her telephone, it was by hacking or trying to hack into her emails to see what was going on," Ms Moore told the court.AIS allegedly used a Trojan computer virus said to have been created by another IT specialist, American-based Marc Caron. It would be hidden inside an email and was designed to attack the target computer as soon as it was opened. One of them was sent to one-time It girl Ms Mellon. It "purported to show what her husband was up to," said Ms Moore. "And, of course, she was interested in that. She would open that email, particularly if you were going through an acrimonious divorce. You open that email and at that point, in goes the Trojan, lodges itself, sits there quietly and does what it does best - which is record every keystroke that is made. "If you had online banking, your account number and password would be logged. Every time, if you are logging on often enough, you can work out what the password is ... and you can go and look at the bank account. And that is exactly what happened. "They didn't take any money. They didn't steal anything, but from time to time they had a little snoop on behalf of their clients. There was a general agreement that if clients wanted that sort of information, they would say we offer this service," Ms Moore added.The jury of five woman and seven men heard that a total of 30 people were arrested in connection with the police investigation into AIS's activities. Apart from the five currently on trial, some had been dealt with, others had admitted wrongdoing and were awaiting sentence, a number were still to stand trial while the remainder had been told they had escaped proceedings. Ms Moore said the AIS's illegal sidelines brought in tens of thousands of pounds from some clients. She told jurors that among the documents recovered by police during Operation Barbatus were details of some of their prices. It cost up to £7,000-a-month to bug someone's phone or hack into their computer, and £2,000 to obtain bank account details. The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.