Two gifted French students found stabbed to death after a fire at a London flat were bound and tortured in what detectives yesterday described as one of the most horrific attacks they had ever seen.The bodies of Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, both 23, were found in a ground-floor flat in south-east London on Sunday night. They were stabbed more than 200 times in an apparently motiveless attack before the flat was set alight. The pair were promising research students who had been working on a DNA research project at Imperial College, London. Ferez's sister Hélène, 19, described the moment she was told of his death as "the worst experience of my life." "Nothing can change what's happened, but I want to know who did this, and why. I will do absolutely anything to find the person or persons who did it," she told the Guardian in a Facebook message yesterday. "He was an exceptional boy who would have done anything for anyone. He was incredibly intelligent, proud and enormously capable. He didn't deserve this and neither did Laurent."Scotland Yard said the flat had been broken into six days earlier, when a laptop was stolen. It is understood that the thief was disturbed by one of the students. Detective chief inspector Mick Duthie, who is leading the inquiry, said police were investigating the possibility that the theft was linked to the killings. Another theory being examined by the police is that the pair were victims of mistaken identity.Police said the attack did not appear to be the work of professionals. "I would say it was a frenzied, horrible, horrific attack.I imagine it would take some considerable amount of time to inflict the nature of the injuries," Duthie said.Police said there was no evidence of forced entry, and a set of keys may have been used, enabling the attacker to surprise his victims.In tributes, those in France who knew the men expressed incredulity that two model students with such unblemished records and glittering futures ahead of them should have died in such a seemingly senseless and violent attack. "They were brilliant students, the ones you know will go on to great things," said Claude-Gilles Dussap, director of the Ecole Polytechnique de Clermont Ferrand. "They were well-known and well-liked."Both men were several weeks into internships at Imperial College that would have finished at the end of this month. The three-month laboratory placements were part of their second year of biochemistry at Clermont Ferrand, one of France's most prestigious scientific institutions.Dr David Leak, a senior lecturer in the faculty of natural sciences at Imperial, described Ferez as a "polymath" who had accepted an offer to do a chemistry master's course.Before arriving in Britain this year, both men had entered enthusiastically into the spirit of university life at Clermont Ferrand. Bonomo, from the village of Velaux near Aix-en-Provence, had been the elected student president and was described by friends yesterday as sociable, kind and funny. He had been engaged to marry his long-term girlfriend.Ferez, too, was a popular face around campus. The talented student, from a tiny village called Prouzel in the north-east of France, was a member of the arts society and had worked during his holidays as a technician at the local hospital. His former headmaster at the Louis Thuillier secondary school in Amiens said he had been "stunned" to hear of his death. "He was a very calm young man, a very good student, who excelled in maths and chemistry. He never got into trouble," said Guy le Blanche.Laurent's fiancée, Mary Bertez, wrote on his Facebook page: "My love, we were always together, but I was not there with you that night. I think of you constantly with every single second. I had 10 months of happiness with you, happiness I had never known before. Now that you are gone I will try to be the person you always wanted me to be. I will give all the information I can to help the investigation, so that you will be avenged."At Clermont Ferrand, where classes have ended but exams continue, a support service has been put in place for students who need it, the French minister for higher education, Valérie Pécresse, said.The pair were killed at Bonomo's bedsit in a quiet cul-de-sac in New Cross, south-east London. Both were bound and stabbed in the head, back, torso and neck. The flat was then doused in petrol and set alight. Detectives said the men were dead before the fire started. A pathologist later documented 243 separate injuries to their badly burned bodies.Neighbours described hearing several loud bangs before seeing flames coming from the windows of the ground-floor flat. "I went outside to see what was going on and there were other residents banging on the door and shouting to see if anyone was in," said a 32-year-old man who lived above the bedsit. "People were throwing water through the windows to try to put the fire out. Because there was no answer we thought there was no one in."Another neighbour, Christina Ramirez, 32, from Brazil, said she arrived home five minutes after the fire started. She said she and her Spanish friend and neighbour saw two men banging on the window of the flat prior to a "very strong sound", which she took for an explosion of some kind. Police say one witness reported a white man running away from the scene soon after the blaze broke out.The men's parents were in London yesterday to identify the bodies before returning to France last night. Duthie said that telling the parents about the details of the "gruesome attack" had been the "hardest thing he had ever done". "The level of violence used on these two victims was excessive - it was horrendous. Everyone working on this case has been deeply shocked by what we have seen."Stephen Matthews, a professor at Imperial College, said he was mystified as to why Bonomo had been so brutally murdered. "He was likeable, intelligent, hard working. I can't imagine him being involved in anything untoward. I can't see how anything could come to this. His death was absolutely not linked to the research at Imperial." Matthews said Bonomo had fitted in quickly during the six weeks he had spent in Britain. "He interacted well with other members of the group and we quickly found out he was an accomplished chess player. We played as a group and I don't think he lost very often. I also think he was involved in online tournaments."'We will not forget you'Tributes paid to Laurent Bonomo on his Facebook page'Lolo, we went to school together. You were one of my best mates, and I am sure that everyone who knew you then would agree with me when I say you were a great bloke, interesting, funny ... I'm sure you'll rest in peace'Cedric Murati'I used to bump into you at countless parties ... It's hard to comprehend this news. Your internship and your girlfriend meant we saw each other less towards the end - I wish it could have been different. You were a good guy, a funny guy ... just know that we will not forget you'Laurent Steven'I can't help but be in shock. Wherever you are, with Gabriel, we are thinking of you and I hope the stars shine on you'Laurent Maxence'Even though I had only just got back in touch with Lolo ... this has still hit me really hard. Once again the world has shown us how small we are, and how cruel it can be'Thierry Kieffer