Headteachers today branded government efforts to clear a backlog of checks on teaching staff as too little too late, and warned that thousands of children could be sent home from school at the start of the autumn term because of a lack of teachers.The general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, David Hart, said Home Office ministers had known for months that the criminal records bureau, which runs a series of checks on teachers before they can take up a post, was a "disaster waiting to happen". "Clearly we welcome any measure which clears the backlog, however late it may be," said Mr Hart. "But heads still have no guarantee that staff they have appointed for September will receive complete clearance, and we are only two weeks away from the beginning of the autumn term." One hundred extra staff have now been drafted in to the CRB to process applications by 25,000 teachers and support staff who have to be available for work in less than two weeks. Before starting work, teachers and other school staff have to undergo a double clearance, through List 99, a list of people deemed unfit to work with children, and through local police checks. The CRB, a Home Office agency, was supposed to provide a speedy "one-stop-shop" for both List 99 and criminal record checks. But computer problems and a delayed launched in April resulted in a huge backlog, which it has yet to clear. Stuart Bainbridge, headteacher of Bebside middle school, in Blyth, Northumberland, said he would have a "major problem" with understaffing if the checks were not completed by the start of term."We have one new member of staff starting who has had to go through this procedure. She's moving from a local school, but she still needs clearing. If she's not clear by the start of term, we've a major problem in teaching her class." Mr Bainbridge added a classroom assistant post was pending, to cater for children with special needs. "If it takes three months between the appointment and clearance of a new classroom assistant, our special needs pupils won't have the assistance to which they are entitled," he said. The future of school trips is also in doubt as teachers rely heavily on the help of volunteer parents, who must now also be checked.In most areas, local education authorities are involved in processing applications from schools to the CRB. Trevor Matthews, assistant director of education at Newham council, said the announcement of emergency measures and the government's pledge to ensure that no one worked in a school without the proper checks was causing "some confusion"."We haven't been given any direction on how to act on this yet," he said.Graham Lane, chairman of the Local Government Association's education committee, criticised the work of Capita, the private company responsible for the CRB. "This is a private company who haven't delivered the goods, they need many more staff to turn things around before the beginning of term." He added: "If you can't take anyone on without checking through the CRB, there will be thousands of children sent home in September."He called for local authorities to be given direct access to List 99 to carry out their own checks, which was the case before the CRB was introduced. The DfES now holds the confidential list, making even low levels checks more cumbersome.Speaking on BBC Breakfast this morning, education minister Margaret Hodge said she hoped the checks on staff needed most urgently by schools would be completed by the beginning of term.She said: "We have got to ensure that those 25,000 who are in the process of being vetted are properly vetted."Our prime concern is that nobody must enter a classroom or school who's not been through this [process] or vetted." There were claims last month that some schools were prepared to take on teachers whose List 99 checks had not been completed, so desperate were they for staff.