The number of prisoners being returned to jail for breaching conditions under which they were released on licence has soared by 400 per cent in four years.The dramatic rise is being partly blamed for Britain's prisons crisis, which has forced the government to activate emergency plans to house inmates in police cells.Last night campaigners called for an urgent overhaul of the recalls system in a bid to ease the overcrowding. Home Office statistics obtained by The Observer show that, in 2001, 2,457 prisoners released on parole were returned. Four years later the number had risen to 9,320. The vast majority of recalls were for technical breaches rather than for further offences. In the case of those prisoners serving terms of less than four years, 60 per cent were recalled for technical breaches.Decisions on whether to send prisoners back to jail are made by the Home Office. The increase in the number has been blamed on the harsher enforcement of licence conditions and better surveillance of former prisoners, chiefly through the use of tagging.'Secondary imprisonment is one of the main causes of the current acute crisis of overcrowding in our prison system,' said Will Higham, policy director at the Prison Reform Trust. 'In ever larger numbers, men and women are now serving two or more periods of imprisonment in the course of one sentence as they are recalled to prison following their release.'A report by the Chief Inspector of Prisons last year found that recalled inmates made up more than 10 per cent of the population in local prisons.'The Home Office is obsessed with enforcement,' said Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo). 'If the Home Office gave discretion on recalls back to staff, they could free up 400 prison places a month - equivalent to the monthly increase in the prison population.' Studies show that many ex-prisoners lead chaotic lives once they are released from jail, which means that they end up breaching their release conditions for relatively minor offences, such as missing appointments with probation officers.Napo has produced a file of cases involving prisoners whom, it claims, have been recalled unnecessarily. Examples include that of a woman who was recalled to custody for refusing to go to bed in a probation hostel and a homeless man who was sent back to prison for failing to report at the correct hostel. Many others appear to have been recalled for problems with their tagging equipment or due to administrative errors.