The council responsible for safeguarding the 17-month-old baby boy known as Baby P, who suffered a harrowing death, today blamed the failure to take the child into care on legal advice. Lawyers consulted just over a week before Baby P died said the threshold for initiating care proceedings had not been met, according to a serious case review. The Haringey Local Safeguarding Children Board (LSCB) launched the review after the death of the child, in August last year. The baby, who was on the child protection register, had suffered more than 50 injuries over eight months of abuse. A doctor is said to have failed to spot his broken back and ribs two days before he died.The review found, however, that there had been "numerous examples" of good practice, though it did admit that there had been "weaknesses" in information flow. There had been extensive contact between agencies responsible for his protection and the family since December 2006. The family was seen 60 times in eight months. But the report found that no one - except, possibly, the doctor - could have done anything about what happened. Sharon Shoesmith, the chair of the LSCB, said: "This was a young life cut tragically short, and our thoughts are with his father and family. "We worked hard to support the family. Social workers, health visitors, doctors and nurses all saw him and his mother regularly. "We made arrangements to protect him, monitoring his progress, and [we] organised for the mother to go on a parenting course. "We arranged for a family friend to help with his care [and for] a childminder to look after him four days a week and report any suspicious injuries. "The mother seemed to be cooperating with us: taking the child to doctors when he was ill, seeking help. "In line with government guidelines for such circumstances, we immediately set up an independent review into what happened and have acted on every recommendation." Dr Jane Collins, the chief executive of Great Ormond Street hospital, which provided paediatric services to the child, said: "As part of this review, I commissioned independent experts to look at the decisions and actions of medical staff in this case. "It is clear that more should have been done when the child was seen by a paediatrician two days before the child died. "The review process is important in understanding what happened and how procedures can be strengthened for the future. Where we have needed to act, we have done so." The report said: "There were many factors which contributed to the inability of the agencies to understand what was happening to Child A [Baby P]. "With the possible exception of the paediatric assessment of August 1, none on their own were likely to have enabled further responses that might have prevented the tragic outcome." The report said that just over a week before the baby died, legal advice was that, on the information provided, the threshold for initiating care proceedings had not been met. It added: "Most critically, Child A was seen on August 1 by a community paediatrician for the purpose of the long-awaited development assessment. "Expert medical opinion commissioned during the course of this serious case review concluded that a diagnosis of abuse should have been made at that point."The report also said: "This serious case review has revealed clear evidence of appropriate communication between and within agencies as well as weaknesses in specific areas of information flow." It found that "safeguarding structures exist across Haringey agencies and offer a sound framework for the implementation of required procedures", but also identified "scope for improving the detailed application of some processes". The LSCB said action had been taken on various recommendations. These included ensuring robust arrangements for the medical monitoring of children on the at-risk register, reviewing how organisations work together to protect children, and training staff on how to deal with people who try to deceive agencies seeking to protect their children.