Damilola Taylor had been in Britain for only three months when he was stabbed to death with a broken bottle on a council estate in Peckham, south-east London, in November 2000.His killing - shortly after the publication of the Macpherson report into the murder of another black youngster, Stephen Lawrence - triggered a huge police hunt.At its height, more than 120 officers were working on the case. Another 200 were made available as the police attempted to make amends for the mistakes made during the Lawrence investigation. The convictions of Danny and Ricky Preddie mean that, after three trials and seven people - including the Predddie brothers - being acquitted of his murder, two members of a notorious Peckham gang have been brought to justice for the killing.Damilola's teenage killers had a string of convictions and a tough reputation. A policeman who worked in Peckham at the time of the killing described them as "scum of the earth", saying: "Whenever there was a robbery, one or other of the Preddies was involved."The brothers, brought up by their single mother in Peckham, gained a reputation for violence at an early age. Ricky Preddie, 19, had committed 24 offences on bail by the time he was re-arrested last year over Damilola's death.Danny Preddie was sentenced to three years detention at Inner London crown court in March last year for conspiracy to commit robbery. The 18-year-old was part of a "steaming" gang who went through trains, threatening and robbing passengers. He threatened to cut one victim in the face before stealing £5. The Preddie brothers were not among the four teenagers originally accused of murdering Damilola. Instead, the police charged four youths - known as A, B, C and D during the first trial in 2002 - with the murder. The four, two brothers who were known to the Preddies and two of their close friends, were also regarded as "bad boys" of the area, and were alleged to be members of a street gang.Despite the high-profile nature of the case, police were hampered by a lack of evidence. The "golden period" - the 48 hours after a crime is committed - revealed nothing of value. There were no fingerprints, DNA or fibres linking the four to the killing. Eventually, the prosecution case in the first trial focused on the witness testimony of a 14-year-old girl who, from the moment police approached her, proved to be unreliable and dishonest. She changed her initial account that she had heard about the murder, later saying she had seen it.Her evidence was further destroyed during the trial when it emerged that she had sung "I'm in the money" during a police interview about her testimony - an apparent reference to her belief she could claim a £50,000 reward. The judge, Mr Justice Hooper, ordered her evidence to be thrown out.He was also scathing about the prosecution's lack of explanation about mobile phone records suggesting two of the accused had been nearly two miles away from the scene of the crime seven minutes after it was committed.No research was presented to the jury suggesting how long it would take to run or drive the distance.The failures provoked one of the defence lawyers, Courtenay Griffiths QC, to say "the politics of race" had pressured the police to charge them.After the collapse of the first trial, police appointed a new officer to lead the investigation, and a different forensic firm re-examined available evidence. That led to the Preddie brothers being arrested and charged with Damilola's murder, manslaughter and assault.The second trial, which began in January this year, heard how crucial forensic evidence had been missed by scientists at the time of Damilola's death and was only uncovered years later. Crucially, a spot of Damilola's blood and a fibre indistinguishable from his school trousers were found on a trainer owned by Danny Preddie, having not been noticed by staff at the original laboratory.Damilola's blood was also found on Ricky Preddie's sweatshirt.The jury acquitted the Preddies of Damilola's murder and assault. It also failed to reach a verdict on manslaughter charges, leading to the third trial, which started in June.Today's manslaughter conviction will come as a huge relief to the Metropolitan police after its attempts to show it could bring Damilola's killers to justice."Despite the setbacks of the trial ending in April this year, we now have a result that upholds the key scientific evidence - evidence that directed the course of the investigation," Commander Dave Johnston, the head of homicide and serious crime at the Met's Specialist Crime Directorate, said after the verdict was announced."This has been a long journey for all those involved in the quest for justice, and undoubtedly lessons have been learnt. "We are, of course, concerned that the new forensic evidence heard in this trial was not available for the first investigation, and sympathise with the anguish that this may have caused to those affected. "Now the trial process has concluded, it is important that the answers are found as to how this forensic evidence was missed so that the public and the courts can maintain their confidence in forensic science."