Two of the most notorious criminals in the country are back in the news, but it is not possible to consider either Jon Venables breaking the terms of his parole or Peter Sutcliffe asking for his minimum term to be set without asking if there's any place in modern incarceration for the life-that-means-life sentence.Venables, of course, has served his sentence for the death of James Bulger. The reason he's been recalled cannot be disclosed without endangering his anonymity. He may not have even broken his licence, let alone done anything illegal – a deteriorating mental state would be enough to see him back in prison. The tabloids are hinting darkly, in some places saying outright, that his is an example of an inexorable criminality that can never be corrected, however much time and money is spent on him. Actually, if his case demonstrates anything, it's how effective parole can be, and how quickly the conditions of a licence can be acted upon.Meanwhile, although only a small number of thick people would contest Sutcliffe's right to ask how long his sentence will be, plenty would accept that he should, and will, die in prison. We accept it because his crimes were so extreme, but does this attitude have any foundation in the stated aims and theory of imprisonment? In England and Wales there are 25 prisoners who have been informed by Jack Straw that they will never be released. This isn't taken by anybody in (or outside) the prison service to be part of a judicial strategy, but rather the result of redtop pressure on the then home secretary after the Soham murders.Traditionally, prisons are held to have four objectives: retribution, deterrence, rehabilitation and incapacitation. If a sentence were to privilege, say, retribution over all the others, then it wouldn't be operating according to a civilised understanding of the point of incarceration. You can't, for the sole purpose of retribution, keep Sutcliffe in prison for ever, on the basis that his crimes were heinous. It doesn't make sense: murder is generally a horrific act. If his murders were more horrific than others, that's because they were more numerous, and you'd be on shaky territory turning culpability into a numbers game.But let's say he has also to be incapacitated, that he still presents a real danger to women. The prison service has no mysterious way of predicting future behaviour, it can only go on past behaviour. For certain types of criminality – a violent temper, persistent theft, drug taking – prison provides a good observation ground, and an inmate can reliably be deemed to present no further threat. With paedophilia and crimes fuelled by misogyny, however, a prison psychologist can only go on what an inmate says, and this is no better a marker for intention than it is for anybody else.As for deterrence, you would hope that there was more discouraging the average citizen from committing butchery than a lifelong prison sentence.Whether Sutcliffe could be rehabilitated is a vexed question: besides there being no real way to measure his rehabilitation, this conversation coincides with a report on the dangerous and severe personality disorder programme (operating since 1999 in four institutions, among them Broadmoor), summarised on Channel 4 last month.It doesn't work, is the short answer: before the DSPD programme, criminologists had always accepted that there was no behavioural cure for personality disorder, that some people would present a danger to the public for as long as they were alive. Dispiritingly, after 10 years and about £200m, the evidence backs this up. Some people can't be made safe. It's possible that liberals have their own myopia here – just as Richard Littlejohn and his disciples are nuts to believe that throwing away the key is, or has ever been, a real option, so the other side of the argument is deluded in its persistent faith in redemption.This isn't the whole story – a DSPD programme in Merseyside (called Resettle) is up for a Butler Trust commendation tomorrow – but there is a small core of people for whom rehabilitation is improbable and incapacitation will always be key.Eric McGraw, the founder and managing editor of Inside Time, a newspaper for prisoners, distils this issue of a rot-in-jail sentence: "On a personal level, it's always regrettable that people are destined to die in prison, but it does seem to me to be a compromise, for people who want to see the death penalty." Put like that, the whole-life sentence comes into focus: it has nothing to do with the possibility of reoffending, or the impossibility of rehabilitation; it is totally distinct from questions of parole, or even the purpose of prison. Rather, cases like Sutcliffe's are part of an older conversation about capital punishment, which only ended with a grudging agreement that the state couldn't literally take a life. In cases of sufficient magnitude, the state is still expected to take a life, somehow.Full-life tariffs are a tacit death-penalty-lite, a way to deny a life without having to extinguish it – an understandable but enormous compromise that demonstrates how imperfectly the capital punishment debate was ever concluded. And, moreover, the hair's breadth we are from reopening it.