A teenager whose two friends were shot dead outside a new year party told a court today how she saw a car approach before there were multiple gunshots "like [from] a machine gun".Cheryl Shaw, 19, took the witness stand at Leicester crown court, watched by the five defendants who are on trial for murdering her cousin Charlene Ellis, 18, and Letisha Shakespeare, 17, in a drive-by shooting. The teenagers died in a hail of bullets outside a party at a hairdresser's salon in Aston, Birmingham on January 2 2003.Ms Shaw was also hit, in the hand, as at least 14 shots were fired into the crowd from a passing car. Ms Ellis and Ms Shakespeare were both shot three times. Ms Shaw told the court that she was outside the salon, Uniseven, with her friends to get some fresh air when she noticed a red Ford Mondeo driving past. Asked why she noticed the car, she said: "I noticed it because I saw a gun outside the passenger side window and someone with a balaclava on." Describing the gun, she said: "It was square-shaped at the front, it was black, that's all I saw. It was coming from the passenger side window." She said she could not see anyone inside the vehicle, just a balaclava and the gun. "It happened quickly," she said. "I did not see much." Ms Shaw told the court: "I saw the gun then I just heard gunshots. It was like a machine gun; it was not a single shot, it was a number of shots."After being hit, she said she fell to the floor and then got up and started running. She said that it was when she was taken to hospital for treatment that she discovered her friends were dead. Marcus Ellis, 24, Michael Gregory, 22, Nathan Martin, 25, Rodrigo Simms, 20, and Tafarwa Beckford, 22, all deny two counts of murder and three of attempted murder. A sixth defendant, Jermaine Carty, 24, denies two counts of possessing a firearm on the night of the shooting. Ms Shaw told the court she met her two cousins, Charlene and Sophie Ellis, and their friend, Letisha Shakespeare, at her aunt's house before heading out to a nightclub in Solihull. She was shown a photograph of the four girls outside RB's bar and nightclub, taken as they were dropped off by her mother, Sandra Thomas, and her partner, Paul Nixon. She said: "It was the new year and we just decided to go and enjoy ourselves." She said they spent the evening dancing in the club before an announcement was made that there was an after party at the Uniseven hairdressing salon. The four girls decided to go and were given a lift in two separate cars. Ms Shaw said they arrived to find about 50 people at the party, but she said the atmosphere was "quite strange". She said: "The atmosphere was not like the atmosphere I thought it would be. There was a lot of big people there, older people there, like old men." Ms Shaw said they spent most of the night inside but had stepped outside for the second time when the shooting took place. She said she saw what looked like a machine gun emerging from a red car as it drove past and heard two distinctly different sounds of gunfire. "I fell to the floor, then I looked at my hand and that's when I realised I was injured," she said. The trial continues.