A burglar was jailed for a minimum of 27 years on Wednesday for killing a street cleaner who tried to stop him with his broom as he fled from a house with a stolen laptop.Piotr Mikiewicz, 40, was stabbed through the heart as he tackled Roger Buckingham in Shepherd's Bush, west London, in August last year.Jailing Buckingham, 31, for life, the Recorder of London, Judge Brian Barker, said Mikiewicz was "a brave man who acted beyond the call of duty. He ignored his own safety and paid for his actions with his life. He was a truly exceptional man and a valued member of the community."Buckingham, a petty criminal and drug addict with 25 previous convictions for 51 offences, had acted "in frustration and temper", said the judge. "On any view, it was cowardly and selfish."The court heard that Mikiewicz, a Polish national, was working in Shepherd's Bush when Buckingham broke into a house. He tripped the burglar alarm and was making his getaway with £30 and a laptop when Mikiewicz saw him and hit him with his broom to stop him getting away. Buckingham stabbed Mikiewicz and ran off.Prosecutor Aftab Jafferjee QC said Mikiewicz had shown a "laudable sense of civic duty and right and wrong".He added: "That man, armed only with his dustcart and broom, took on the defendant, striking him in order to apprehend him and prevent him leaving. It was a terrible and needless waste of the life of a man who provided a service to the local community and did that which we all wish we had done."Buckingham had claimed the death was "a terrible accident" but the jury took only four hours to convict him of murder.Mikiewicz's sister Anna told the court in a statement that her brother had been living in London for nine years and considered it his home.She said: "He was a wonderful man, full of compassion for others. He did not tolerate lies and theft. He was a believer and lived according to these principles."Busie Mikiewicz said her husband was a "brave and selfless man who wasn't frightened to stand up for what he believed was right". She added in a statement: "He was someone who represented everything that is good about decent people and was prepared to fight for what was right."Detective Chief Inspector Matt Bonner said: "Piotr Mikiewicz demonstrated extreme courage when he spotted Buckingham leaving a house he had burgled moments earlier. He acted on pure instinct to right a wrong but unfortunately paid for his brave act with his life."Serco, the company which had employed Mikiewicz on behalf of Hammersmith and Fulham council, said a memorial fund set up for his family had reached around £30,000.