"Rehabilited via the Open University while in prison," read the citation to my nomination for an award at last Thursday's inaugural staging of the Performance Awards. Hosted by television presenter Kate Silverton, in central London, it was attended by a throng of successful, talented and determined people, all there to celebrate "outstanding UK achievement".My nomination, in the education category, arrived in my inbox several months ago. I had to read it a number of times, sure that there had been a mistake. Did the organisers know who I was? "Of course," said administrator Jenny Gale when I called to discuss the issues it raised. I explained my reservations.Twenty seven years ago my vile criminal actions contributed to the deaths of two people and inflicted incalculable pain and grief on two families and many friends of my victims. Undoubtedly, their suffering continues today. Words are insufficient to express how sorry I am for the pain I have caused – and I know that my "success" is still painful for at least some of those people.When I went to prison for life I was a damaged, ignorant brute and I could not have conceived of "succeeding" in any possible way. Bereft of social skills or abilities, all I could really focus on was how to survive on the landings. Not until I was guided into education by a wing psychologist did I begin to see possibilities.Six years later, with the encouragement of some of the best people who work in our prisons, I was awarded my first degree by the Open University. The governor of the prison suggested a ceremony. "A ceremony?" I said. "Yes," he said, "… to recognise your endeavours and to celebrate the start of a new beginning."The six years I had spent studying for that degree, mostly in my cell at night, had been beautiful but heartbreaking. I discovered the writings of Sophocles, Plato and Voltaire, and through it all, had the shocking realisation that the dysfunctional, destructive life I had led outside could and should have been so very different. By then, I also knew that the same could have been said for the majority of the people in prison alongside me.I declined the governor's offer of a ceremony. In the light of my past actions any celebration of my achievements, I decided, would be wholly inappropriate. But four years after I was released, having served 20 years, I accepted an invitation to become an honorary master of the Open University and enthusiastically attended the ceremony.I did not go to revel but to acknowledge the efforts and commitment of all those in our society who want our prisons to be places where good things happen.It was the same reason that in the end saw me accept my nomination for a Performance Award. I was sponsored by renowned educationist Dame Sheila Wallis. "We need to be able to recognise effort and give people a second chance," she said.Abused, as it has been traditionally over the years by politicians and pundits, rehabilitation is a word that used to make me want to spit. Although I did not win, having my efforts recognised by the Performance Awards, and by the Open University, has convinced me that rehabilitation for offenders is still an idea worth championing.• Erwin James is the author of A Life Inside and the Home Stretch and a trustee of the Prison Reform Trust and the Alternatives to Violence Project – Britain.