The publicist Max Clifford was charming and acted with integrity, chatshow host Des O'Connor has said.The 82-year-old entertainer told Southwark crown court in London on Tuesday that Clifford was "always pleasant and friendly" when he attended filming for the Des O'Connor Tonight show.Clifford, 71, is on trial accused of 11 counts of indecent assault against seven girls and women – all of which he denies.O'Connor, who hosted the Des O'Connor Tonight show from 1977 to 2002, said Clifford would visit ITV's studios in Teddington, south-west London, when a client was appearing as a guest.The pair first met in the 1980s and the publicist would often attend the show with comedian Freddie Starr, who was a regular guest, O'Connor said. The Take Your Pick host told the court that Clifford was "always pleasant, friendly – that was it".Asked whether he ever witnessed the publicist act unprofessionally, O'Connor replied: "Never. I don't think he would ever need to in any shape or form. He was just there to accompany his client if there was any problem."O'Connor said he became friends with Clifford after he and his wife were invited to charity functions in the early 2000s. "It impressed me he cared," O'Connor said. "He was genuinely concerned about the illnesses of the children."O'Connor said Clifford was "always pleasant, always charming". He told the court: "I find it hard to imagine him being anything other than caring, concerned and generally good company."He added: "I can't imagine him being anything other than honest and with integrity. I always found him the man he appeared to be – pleasant, friendly, helpful, kind."O'Connor said he had not had any dealings with Clifford's PR company. He said: "He's never booked me a date or got me any column inches in newspapers."Clifford listened from the dock with the aid of a hearing loop. His daughter, Louise, who has appeared as a defence witness, sat in the public gallery.Prof Ray Powles, who worked at the Royal Marsden hospital in west London, said Clifford arranged for the boxer Muhammad Ali to meet his patients. In a statement read to the court, he said: "This was a surprise visit. The effect it had on my patients was inspirational."The publicist had raised a "significant amount" for the cancer-specialist hospital and also arranged for boyband Westlife and former Wimbledon tennis champion Pat Cash to visit the children's unit, Powles said.Richard Horwell QC, defending Clifford, told the jury that an agreed fact in the case was that a doctor had measured his client's penis at an "average" length of five-and-a-quarter inches when flaccid.The jury has heard claims that Clifford has a "micro-penis" measuring two and a half inches, while one woman told the court the publicist's penis was "enormous".Concluding the defence case, Horwell said Dr Ann Coxon measured Clifford's penis last month and it was "within the average range for a Caucasian male of [his] age". He said: "In all probability, it could have reduced a little in size over the last 30 years."Horwell said it was also agreed that Clifford has no previous convictions, cautions, reprimands or warnings.The trial continues.