The cost of car insurance has grown at its fastest rate, in large part due to a rise in fraudulent claims, according to data released today.During the three months to the end of June, car insurance premiums went up by 11.5% to £704 for an average annual comprehensive car policy, according to the AA British Insurance Premium Index. This is the biggest increase recorded by the motoring organisation since it started tracking quarterly insurance premium trends 16 years ago.This cost is the average of the cheapest three premiums quoted for those shopping around at renewal time, a measure the AA uses because it is closer to what most people pay for their insurance. The overall average premium has risen even more in the last quarter, by 12% to almost £1,000. This is up from just under £800 a year ago and £337 in 1994 when the index started.Young drivers now fare particularly badly. Premiums for third party, fire and theft cover, often bought by young drivers, climbed by 15.9% in the three months to the end of June bringing the average for this age group to £1,224.99. Third party, fire and theft cover is now more expensive for many drivers, not just younger ones, than comprehensive cover due to a higher incidence of claims on this type of insurance."The latest British Crime Survey, published last week, suggests that crime levels are falling, but crucially, it misses a new 21st-century wave of fraud such as providing false information and claiming for non-existent personal injuries, which just isn't being picked up," said Edmund King, AA president.Cases of insurance fraud have been on the rise since the recession began. Figures to be published by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) later this week are expected to show that these are still on the rise. As it is, the ABI puts the total cost to the industry of undetected general insurance claims fraud at £2bn per year. This adds around £40 a year to the insurance premiums paid by all policyholders.The most common and costly form of general insurance claims fraud is "opportunistic retail fraud". This is where individuals exaggerate or inflate genuine claims to increase the value of a payout.But there has also been a big rise in organised fraud, where criminal gangs work to systematically defraud insurers. The most common way of doing this is via a "cash for crash" scam, where criminals stage accidents, typically at roundabouts, by slamming their brakes on suddenly causing the car behind to crash into them. The fraudsters then claim for the cost of repair or replacement of their vehicle on the innocent driver's insurance. At a high court case in February, an organised ring of "cash for crash" insurance fraudsters was ordered to pay its victims almost £400,000 after seven insurers joined together and successfully sued the fraud ring.The rising cost of repairing cars has also added to the rise in premiums as insurers battle to offset the huge underwriting losses they have been making in the last couple of years. Estimates suggest that for every £1 taken in premiums, £1.22 is being paid out in claims.