• It did not appear to me that the prime minister – nor indeed the house – was taking part in a "debate" on Thursday (Report, 12 August). MPs were standing up to say things that would go down well in their constituency and the PM was "replying" with whatever he liked, rarely answering any question posed. Was it worth it, or was this just parliament being seen to be doing something?Bill EdmeadLondon• Steve Bruce suggests it would be wrong for "these idiots and thugs who are doing what they are doing, disrupt everything" (Sport, 12 August ). Is he referring to the disadvantaged and disillusioned kids on the streets of Tottenham or the overpaid and under-talented ones on the pitch?Alan GentCheadle, Cheshire• The looting and theft is outrageous and absolutely indefensible. But enough about the banks. They should be toasting their initiatives in Pol Roger after seeing how their example has been so scrupulously followed by our fine young people.David HalleyTwickenham, Middlesex• Tariq Jahan (Report, 11 August): What sadness. What intelligence. What dignity.Dr Chris AinsworthRawtenstall, Lancashire• With all these current problems is it not time we started deploying our Trident nuclear missiles?Frank CollsGloucester• When the sparkling new Highcross shopping centre opened in Leicester, huge hoardings featured slogans enticing passers-by to sample the delights within: "I will behold wonders", "I have touched desire", "I will ignite passion" and so on. In face of the relentless pressure enticing consumers through shop doors, maybe we should not be totally surprised when in the end they climb through the windows as well.Susan JukesUllsthorpe, Leicestershire• Could the torrential rain experienced in the central belt of Scotland in the last few days explain the absence of rioting on the streets of Edinburgh and Glasgow (Letters, 12 August)?Cath ThompsonEdinburgh• In these troubled times which public groups would we recommend to young people as models of honesty and integrity? Politicians? The government? The police? Newspapers? Sportspeople? Celebrities? Can we be surprised that respect is in short supply? And if we teach them that the only important value is measured by money, wealth and possessions, should we be surprised if those being cast adrift decide to take shortcuts to those gains?Steve HuzzardStoke on Trent• David Cameron says the root cause of the riots was "mindless selfishness and complete lack of responsibility in our society". I wonder if he includes, bankers, politicians and tabloid journalists in this analysis?Janice NewmanStafford• The riots also showed the emergence of vigilante groups protecting various neighbourhoods in the absence of effective policing. Is this do-it-yourself, self-help policing part of the Cameron's "big society"?Tony MayerSwindon • It is hard to resist the notion that David Cameron has failed to correctly identify the "sick" pockets of society which display "mindless selfishness" and a "complete lack of responsibility in our society" (Reports, 8 August). Surely it is not too simplistic to conclude that the continuing amoral behaviour of such groups as bankers, politicians, journalists, police officers, tax-evading multinationals, Catholic church hierarchy, etc, etc, sets a clear agenda that greed, instant individual gratification and lack of remorse are perfectly acceptable no matter what the cost to others. If the "leaders" of our society are seen to behave in this way with limited, if any, sanctions, then it is not too hard to imagine why an alienated minority in other, less privileged sections of our community, increasingly thwarted by stringent austerity measures, might react the way they have.John StocktingCheadle, Cheshire • 1) Mindless government begets mindless violence. 2) Mindless violence begets mindless condemnation. 3) Mindless condemnation begets mindless government. Did I get that wrong?Dr Chris PaiceKirkby Lonsdale, Cumbria• The moralising would be much more effective if it came from people who were not so wealthy.Robert WhittakerBirmingham• In earlier centuries when there was no such thing as society, still less a big society, it could be said: "The law doth punish man or woman / That steals the goose from off the common, / But lets the greater felon loose / That steals the common from the goose." To deal with the former there are thousands more officers drafted in; to deal with the latter the number of investigating tax officers is reduced.Peter BrainExmouth, Devon• Looking forward to the letters from the fashionable young, who have featured often in your pages over the past few years, about how wonderful "edgy" Hackney and its young locals with "attitude" are. Now they know what edgy and attitude really mean.Chris HardyLondon• Camila Batmanghelidjh says: "Young, intelligent citizens of the ghetto seek an explanation for why they are at the receiving end of bleak Britain, condemned to a darkness where their humanity is not even valued enough to be helped" (Zoe Williams, G2, 10 August). But perhaps they should be seeking it from the people who are actually doing the shitting, pissing, shagging and injecting in those notorious stairwells. There is only so much that we, the providers of social housing, can do.Jim TrimmerKingston upon Thames, Surrey• Cameron's response about a "sick" section of society (Four days of chaos that reshaped the political landscape, 12 August) is an echo of Durkheim's 19th-century ideas of a healthy society. No mention was made of the "sickness" of bankers, MPs or press. The individualising narrative propagated is of "thuggish criminality", a neuropsychological pathology. This is fused with the Victoriana of the moral failing of individuals. It's the kids what done it, not that society is at fault. Stanley Cohen's work on moral panics has examined the legitimation of an authoritarian response from the authorities. How the criminal justice system and Crown Prosecution Service spring into action for all-night sittings smacks of "kangaroo courts".Adam Barnard Nottingham • While the riots throughout England cannot be even remotely condoned, perhaps we ought to put things into perspective and consider how it pales by comparison with the mayhem Cameron and his cronies have caused in Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq etc.William BurnsEdinburgh• Riots? Why not reduce the 50p tax rate, and sever the link with the unions? Or am I out of touch?Michael BallLondon • On Wednesday (10 August), you reported there had been 525 arrests of rioters. On page 10 of the same paper you say the cost of damage to property will be an estimated £100m. On page 16 you report that RBS and Lloyds Bank have received £62bn from taxpayers. While I in no way condone the behaviour of rioters, it makes me wonder why no greedy bankers (unlike in America) have been brought to court. It puts the numbers you report into some perspective.David Buckle Abingdon, Oxfordshire