The detective leading the search for the missing schoolgirl Shannon Matthews today said today that he was "gravely concerned" about her safety. Detective superintendent Andy Brennan was speaking at a press conference a week after the nine-year-old was reported missing in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire. She was last seen as she left school at 3.10pm last Tuesday. "What concerns me greatly at this point is that Shannon is a vulnerable nine-year-old girl who may have fallen into the wrong hands," Brennan said.Police today released new photographs including one of Shannon on her birthday in September and another of the coach on which she and classmates returned from a swimming trip shortly before she went missing.Officers are speaking to motorists, and a large video display van has been taken into Dewsbury to display appeals, photos and CCTV of Shannon. Brennan said specialist search dogs trained to sniff out human remains were being used in the investigation."Whilst we all hope and pray that Shannon will be located safe and well, we remain gravely concerned for her wellbeing," he added. "We are not excluding any possibility as to what may have happened to Shannon that afternoon, and our investigation is structured to reflect those concerns."Brennan said he could not be certain that Shannon "did intend to go home after school", because she had suggested to friends she did not want to. He added that police were investigating the attempted abduction of a 12-year-old girl in Wakefield on the day Shannon went missing, but said the incident was not, at this stage, being linked to her disappearance. Earlier, a dozen officers conducted a fingertip search of a property belonging to Shannon's uncle, Neil Hyett, which adjoins her parents' house. Officers wearing white masks searched rubbish in the garden of Hyett's home, spending around 50 minutes at the property. West Yorkshire police described the search as "routine". Shannon's friends and neighbours will hold a vigil today to mark the seven days since she went missing. They will walk, with balloons, from the local community centre to her home.