While RoadPeace is glad that the sentencing guidelines council has finally issued its advice on death-by-driving offences we cannot see it as the great leap forward that we would like it to be.The situation is that nearly 3,000 people are killed on our roads every year, eight every day. Even when the behaviour of the driver causing the death is culpable there is at present no certainty that a charge will result. Very few cases, less than 10%, go as far as a crown court hearing on a "causing death by dangerous driving" charge. In most cases, if the CPS doesn't think it can reach the very high standards of the death-by-dangerous-driving charge, the only other charge currently available is careless driving: "Driving without due care and attention." The vast majority of road deaths do not result in any criminal charge at all and, if the driver is charged, the charge will be careless driving. This is the ultimate insult to bereaved families: the fact that the criminal charge cannot even be bothered to mention the fact that someone has died a horrific, violent, public death. RoadPeace has therefore campaigned for many years for a charge to be introduced to bridge the gap between the two extremes of "dangerous" and "careless", which will mention the fact that a death has occurred.  However, we are still concerned that families will be denied justice, on several grounds. The new charge of causing death by careless or inconsiderate driving became law in the Road Safety Act of 2006, but it has never been used and the police and CPS still do not have a firm date for its introduction. I really do not understand why consultations can't take place before legislation is passed, so that as soon as the law is on the statute book, it can be used. We had a meeting of our all-party parliamentary group for justice for road traffic victims recently, and even the MPs who attended that meeting, and who had supported the original legislation, did not know that the charge was still not being used, two whole years on.Second, there is still no guarantee that a charge which mentions the death will, in practice, be used. The CPS in its consultation did give examples of the sort of behaviour which they would consider warranted a "death by careless..." charge, and there were 66 examples. This was about 10 times less than we had expected, and so it still seems that in most cases when a driver is charged, the fact of the death will still not be mentioned.The Guardian yesterday included an editorial about the neglected and ignored problem of road deaths under the headline The deaths we forget. The word "accident" is defined in the dictionary as "An unexpected event, one that occurs without design or apparent cause". During the time of my involvement with RoadPeace I have met countless bereaved families, who are trying to come to terms with the death of their child, parent or partner, while also trying to cope with a criminal justice system which does not properly acknowledge, or respond appropriately to, what has happened. In all of those cases I can say for certain that the word "accident" did not apply. We need to take road crashes seriously. We need to stop using words like "accident", "joyriding" and "momentary lapse" and start using words like road crime and road crash, and start making sure that people accept that, with the right to use the road goes a responsibility to respect the safety of everybody else using the same road; we need to accept that people who are grown up enough to drive are also grown up enough to understand that they are responsible for their own behaviour.