A loner who murdered a Harrods shop assistant and buried her body on the common where she used to go jogging was jailed for life at the Old Bailey today.Garath Davies, 23, of Mitcham, south London, will serve a minimum of 23 years for the murder of 27-year-old Egeli Rasta, an Estonian. Judge Richard Hawkins said he believed the attack had "sexual motivation and involved sexual conduct". "Egeli Rasta was using a public park at Mitcham common for its true purpose - namely exercise and recreation," he told Davies. "She was a young woman full of hope for the future. "You suddenly ended her life by murdering her and burying her body at the scene. It is plainly the loss of a precious life." Mark Ellison, prosecuting, told the judge there was a strong inference that there had been "sexual conduct" to be drawn from the fact that Rasta's body was found naked. He also pointed out the presence of used condom wrappers in the copse where her body was discovered. The judge said: "I am driven by the circumstances of this case to conclude that it has sexual motivation and involved sexual conduct." As Davies was taken down, the victim's boyfriend, Lesley Anthony, who was in the public gallery, shouted: "Rot in hell." The victim's mother, Sirje, told the court in a victim impact statement that her daughter wanted to become a social worker and that "helping others would be her mission in life"."This horror will never end for me and my family," she said. The prosecution said Davies had been assessed as having a "personality disorder of a depressive nature".Sally O'Neill QC, defending, said that in April - three months before the killing - he had been to see a GP and been prescribed Prozac, and he was treated by a psychiatrist in June.She also claimed there was no evidence that the crime was pre-meditated. "Whatever happened, how it happened, and why it happened is something that happened on the spur of the moment for reasons that no one will ever know," she told the court.Davies said during the trial that he had been chain-smoking cannabis and was "very stoned" on the day Rasta died. The 27-year-old went missing in July 2006 after working a shift at Harrods, and her body lay undiscovered in a copse for 12 days after she was killed. A pathologist was unable to establish a cause of death because her body was so badly decomposed when it was discovered after police were alerted by a dog walker. Detectives found a kitchen knife covered in blood at the home jobless Davies shared with his mother. The name "Gaz" was carved into the branch of a tree near where the body was found. Davies, originally from Llanelli, in Wales, later told police: "I'm afraid I might have done it. I can't remember." Ellison said Davies was "something of a loner" who spent much of his time on the common alone or with his black Staffordshire terrier, Tyson. Davies had two previous convictions for knife possession as a teenager. At the time, he told police he had the weapons to defend himself from bullies.