The last hours of a young British woman murdered while on a working holiday in New Zealand were being pieced together yesterday as police released CCTV footage showing her shortly before she was attacked.The pictures show Karen Aim, 26, in a BP service station about 30 minutes before she was discovered lying in the street critically injured and covered in blood.She was found by police officers who had been called after a break-in at a nearby school, and Detective Senior Sergeant Greg Turner, leading the inquiry, said he believed her attacker was still in the area as police came across her body."She was still semi-conscious and was able to tell police her name was Karen," he told a press conference. The young woman lapsed into unconsciousness before being able to give a description of her assailant, he added.She died shortly afterwards in hospital. The detective said a postmortem examination confirmed Aim died from severe injuries inflicted by a weapon. She had not been sexually assaulted but her denim skirt had been disturbed.The new details emerged as friends of the murdered backpacker paid tribute to her at an emotional service conducted at the spot where she died in the tourist resort of Taupo on New Zealand's North Island.Aim's flatmates, fellow backpackers and local people including the town's mayor looked on as a minister conducted a brief blessing ceremony. Prayers were said for the 26-year-old, candles were laid on the pavement and bouquets of flowers piled up in tribute to her. Her closest friends held on to each other tearfully.As the service was being held 50 police officers asked residents in the area to check their properties in case the murder weapon had been thrown away.Police also visited bars in the resort where Aim had been drinking on the night before she died. She had visited three bars before leaving on foot for the flat she shared with two other girls.Security cameras at the service station logged her arrival at 2am and she left four minutes later. An alarm at the Taupo Nui-A-Tia College was activated at 2.07am and police responding to the call found her at 2.34am.Det Sgt Turner appealed to the vandals who broke into the college to come forward.. "The longer they remain at large, the stronger the suspicion grows that these people are responsible," he said. "We have six windows broken there - considerable force has been needed to break those windows. I'm not interested in the vandalism at this stage, we want to solve this homicide."Aim, from Orkney, had been on her second trip after falling in love with the country. She had written a poignant account of her travels on her Bebo online networking page, telling family and friends she was having a wonderful time bungee-jumping, socialising and working in a local art gallery.Her parents, Brian and Margaret, and her brother, Alan, are said to be devastated, and an aunt who lives in New Zealand is also said to be distraught.Arrangements are being made for Aim's body to be returned to her family in Orkney next week.