Alone with an inmate on a wing of a private jail, an undercover reporter in his first weeks on duty as a prison officer is given a very surprising offer. The prisoner leaves him in no doubt that he is in a position to pay him double his normal weekly wage if he will act as a drugs courier."When you're ready, let me know," the prisoner tells the reporter, working for the Guardian and Panorama, at Rye Hill prison. "I'll start with a tester first, so give you five ton [£500] to bring a bar of weed if you just let me know, and then once we both know it's right, we'll go to the 15-ton mark."The reporter is also told: "A cameraphone goes for £500. A normal phone, like - no camera - goes for £250."If staff in the jail do not cooperate or appear too strict in their treatment of inmates, they can face violence themselves. A former Rye Hill inmate said: "I've witnessed inmates being paid drugs to go and assault a member of staff just to get that member of staff off the wing ... You know, if a member of staff was doing their job properly, inmates didn't like that."A woman who had recently joined and was being diligent about enforcing the rules soon became aware that she was under threat of assault or worse."I'm feeling today they're going to kill me," she says in the film, which will be shown tonight on Panorama.During the five-month investigation, the undercover reporter, who has chosen to remain anonymous, underwent the 13-week prison officers' training course and was soon on some of the most dangerous wings in the prison. While he was still a trainee - and so not equipped with either keys or shortwave radio - he found himself alone on a wing full of inmates."There's shortages of staff everywhere," says one officer in the film. "It's just people ringing in sick ... and it was worse yesterday."The prison, near Coventry, is run by GSL - formerly Group 4. It has been sharply criticised in two recent reports by Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons. She tells the programme: "We wrote to ministers, and I asked that urgent action should be taken - and we would not have done that except for the fact that we felt the situation at Rye Hill was extremely volatile and prisoners felt it was volatile."In May last year, a custody officer found prisoner Oleksi Baronovsky, 33, a known suicide risk, in his cell, "covered in blood, from the window to the door". It emerged that nobody had entered the cell for 15 hours. Baronovsky died 17 days later.In a letter to Ms Owers, Jerry Petherick, in charge of GSL's offender management and immigration services, said: "Clearly his treatment was not of the standard that either GSL or I expect and that is a matter of sincere regret."It took GSL six months to inform the Baronovsky family that their relative was dead. His father and sister live in Odessa, Ukraine, and according to GSL they were hard to trace - but it took the Guardian and Panorama 10 minutes to reach them, using a Ukrainian phone book.After Baronovsky's death, the prison received three letters from his relatives, written in the belief that he was still alive and bearing the family's home address.John Bates, GSL's corporate communications director, said: "Mr Baronovsky had served in a number of prisons. When his file came to us, when we asked for next-of-kin details, he declined to give them to us. That's not an unusual thing for prisoners to do. But of course it means that in very tragic circumstances we are unable to pass the very tragic news to the family and relatives."A BBC documentary last year showed GSL staff at Oakington immigration detention centre shouting racial abuse at terrified inmates. GSL suspended 15 employees at the centre after the programme. Last year the Guardian revealed GSL topped the table of complaints of misconduct from asylum seekers and their lawyers, with 30% of all complaints made.· Life Behind Bars, a prison investigation by GuardianFilms for Panorama, is on BBC1 tonight at 8.30pm