Ian Brady is in his element. His mental health tribunal at Ashworth high security hospital on Merseyside has given him a stage from which he can look down on the rest of the world. And, 35 miles away, the audience listening to the live relay at Manchester Civil Justice Centre hangs on his every word. The tribunal is as much an assertion of control by Brady as a process to decide whether he should be moved from psychiatric hospital to prison. He is seeking to dominate the authorities, and his victims' families, as he has done for 50 years.The Moors murderers were sentenced to life in 1966 for the killings of Lesley Ann Downey, 10, John Kilbride, 12, and Edward Evans, 17. The police on the case knew that there were more victims but the feeling was that the justice system had done its job. Myra Hindley and Ian Brady had gone down for life, and they weren't coming out.Ian Brady's photographs were central to the proceedings at Chester Assizes. The prosecution counsel described those he took by the graves of John Kilbride and Lesley Ann Downey as "tombstones of your making".After Myra Hindley's death, I was given access to her papers, which I analysed for my book, The Lost Boy. Her unpublished autobiography confirmed that the photographs were part of a system for recording where all of the bodies were buried. Concealing his victims' remains was part of Ian Brady's plan to commit the perfect murder, a validation of the "world above" that he had created with Myra Hindley.Yet, after his conviction Brady, unbelievably, succeeded in having all of his photographs, bar those connected to the known murders, returned. The negatives were sent to Hindley's mother, Nellie Moulton, for safekeeping. Hindley wrote to her mother, telling her to take good care of them.The police – again, unbelievably – did not copy all of the images before returning them. Hindley's papers reveal that Brady wanted just a few of those pictures – shots of a picnic he and Myra had with a neighbour's children in Shiny Brook on Saddleworth Moor. This is where Keith Bennett, the last missing victim, is believed to be buried. Hindley wrote to Moulton that Brady was delighted, and viewed the pictures in his cell on a hand-sized projector.It was not until the mid-80s that the police were forced to reopen the case. Brady had been rejected by Hindley, and she was seeking parole. It looked as though she might succeed. To reassert control he revealed that there were another two victims on Saddleworth Moor.Both Hindley and Brady were brought to the Moor during the search. Hindley provided a vital clue that led to the recovery of the body of 16-year-old Pauline Reade. Brady wandered about and complained that the landscape had changed – the sheep pens had moved. Shortly afterwards the search for Keith Bennett was abandoned.Keith Bennett's family were left to look on their own, spending years scouring Saddleworth Moor. This work was led with resolute determination by Keith's brother, Alan. He pursued every lead, even going to visit Myra Hindley in prison to question her. He also wrote to Brady at Ashworth hospital. A letter came back saying that he could tell where Keith was but it would be like "describing colours to a blind man".The absence of the police from the search left a vacuum. As well as the Bennett family, volunteers began searching the moor. These ranged from experts, like Britain's leading forensic archaeologist Professor John Hunter, to an assortment of psychics. A couple of special branch officers kept an eye on things from Greater Manchester police headquarters. Ian Brady, still withholding the truth, was firmly in charge.The police only started working on the case again in 1998 when it looked as though Myra Hindley might succeed in her bid to be released from prison. To his credit the officer in charge, Tony Brett, steered the investigation round to try and find Keith Bennett. But, four years ago, the case was formally closed. Alan Bennett has launched an online petition to have the search reopened.Brady has now been on a kind of hunger strike for 14 years. He is force-fed by a tube inserted into his nose, but it is a curious form of force-feeding as he pushes a button himself to activate the system. The Guardian's Helen Pidd tweeted from the tribunal last week that he appeared to have a double chin and a small paunch.In another attempt to display his dominance, Brady has been collaborating on a book to be released on his death. According to co-author, Alan Keightley, it will claim that there are nine victims of the Moors murders – and reveal where Keith Bennett is buried. I have seen sections of the book and it contains deeply disturbing graphic detail of the killings, along with directly implicating Hindley in the sexual abuse of victims. It has been reported that the police have questioned Keightley and say the information he provided was "unsubstantiated".It may be that the claim about more bodies is posturing or it may be true. There is a gap in the sequence of killings. And there are other leads: a set of photographs at Ramshaw Rocks in Staffordshire are very similar in style to the pictures taken by the sites where the bodies of John Kilbride, Pauline Reade and Lesley Ann Downey were found. Hindley's girlfriend, Patricia Cairns, and forensic psychiatrists with expert knowledge of the case, have given credence to the idea that they are markers. They could be significant, or they could be nothing. The point is that no one knows. No one, that is, other than Ian Brady. Until the authorities reopen the search for Keith Bennett, and deny him control, that will remain the case.