The Serious Fraud Office is due to come of age next year. But such have been the disappointments over failed prosecutions, and over-long and expensive trials its critics wonder how it has lasted so long.Following the failed 131-day trial of the Maxwell brothers and the acquittal of Brent Walker boss George Walker on theft charges, there was talk of the organisation being abolished. Speculation about the SFO's demise has begun again, except this time with real bite because of the furore over the decision to drop the investigation into BAE's arms deals with Saudi Arabia.The SFO was created by the Thatcher government in 1987 after the report on fraud trials by a law lord, Lord Roskill. The idea was to set up a team of specialists to investigate and prosecute the 50 most complex cases each year. But right from the start there were problems. One, which persists, was remarked on by Roskill. "We need specialist fraud lawyers and policemen," he said. Twenty years on, some commentators say the SFO teams and their police support are often seriously outmatched by lawyers and experts mobilised by the defence in major cases.Then there were concerns about the length of the trials, not only incurring huge public expense but also presenting acute difficulties for jurors. The acquittals, as in the three Blue Arrow share manipulation cases of the early 1990s, caused much embarrassment. Even more uncomfortable was the case of Asil Nadir, the Polly Peck chairman charged with 66 counts of theft totalling £34m, who fled to northern Cyprus months before his trial in 1993.The complex nature of the cases has not changed. In the past four years alone there were 26 fraud trials that lasted more than six months. But despite the brickbats and the embarrassments, the SFO still stands by its record on fraud cases. Over the past five years it boasts of 68 trials with 158 defendants and a conviction rate of 61%.Robert Wardle, the director, has long argued for complex cases to be heard before a tribunal rather than a jury. That is about to be enacted in a bill this year. Previous opposition from the Lords may have been softened by the collapse of the Jubilee Line fraud case (run by the British Transport police rather than the SFO), which was abandoned in 2005 after nearly two years when one of the jurors gave up and went on strike.The SFO is gearing up for two of the most challenging courtroom battles in its history. One is a complex case involving three former bosses at collapsed insurance giant Independent Insurance. A second colossal case - the largest pursued by the SFO - comes to trial early next year. It involves an alleged cartel of businesses said to have conspired to fix inflated prices on commonly prescribed NHS drugs.In tackling overseas bribery, made illegal in 2002, the SFO was following in the footsteps of the Americans who, with recent support from France, have pressed for international action on the subject.At home, the Americans have been way ahead. Investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission in the mid-1970s showed that more than 400 US companies admitted making questionable or illegal payments in excess of $300m (£154m) to foreign government officials, politicians and political parties. Congress enacted the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act largely to restore public confidence in the integrity of the American business system and the US authorities began an aggressive twin-track approach of criminal and civil prosecutions.But the US was so concerned at being put at an international disadvantage that in 1988 Washington opened negotiations in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to obtain the agreement of the US's major trading partners to enact similar legislation. Almost 10 years later, 34 countries signed the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions.The UK finally brought the convention into law with the Criminal Justice Act of 2001. But such was the complex overlapping of responsibilities among different law enforcement agencies, a team of monitors from the OECD found the British system almost impenetrable. It found in its 2005 report that "the very large number of investigative bodies has resulted in excessive fragmentation of efforts, lack of specialised expertise, lack of transparency both for public and investigative authorities and problems in achieving coherent action".Since 2004 the SFO has had the responsibility for maintaining the "allegations register". This ended the situation of the register being handled by a single person within the National Criminal Intelligence Service, leading to months of delay.NCIS has now been subsumed into the secretive Serious Organised Crime Agency, headed by a former MI5 chief. The SFO, meanwhile, has some new foot soldiers. These are the small groups of detectives in the City of London and Metropolitan police in the anti-corruption units set up by Tony Blair last year after criticisms of Britain's failure to take serious action against foreign bribery. Its overseer and funder is Hilary Benn, the international development minister.There has yet to be a single corruption prosecution, a situation which has prompted one senior defence lawyer to predict that "the fear factor in the boardroom will evaporate".