Police are questioning two young boys after a vicious assault by a suspected gang in which two other children were slashed with knives, burned with cigarettes and battered with chunks of stone yesterday.An 11-year-old boy was airlifted to Sheffield children's hospital after a nine-year-old boy had been found wandering, dazed and covered in blood, in a street in Edlington, near Doncaster. Police said last night the elder boy remained in a critical but stable condition but was showing improvement and had been taken off a ventilator.Officers arrested two boys, aged 10 and 11, on allotments close to an ­abandoned clay quarry in Edlington, a former pit village, soon afterwards.The semi-wild Martin Wells land, covered with scrub and close to a derelict railway cutting, was searched after the younger boy said that he and his friend had been attacked and become separated earlier in the afternoonyesterday.People living nearby described how the younger boy was seen wandering along the street "dazed" and covered in blood.Jean Wright, 68, said: "My husband saw him walking past the outside of our house and he was covered in what my husband thought was red paint. When he went out he saw it was blood."We brought him in and my husband calmed him down. He had a big gash on his arm and he was covered in blood on his head. He was shaking very badly and going into shock. We managed to get his name out of him and my husband told me to call an ambulance."The youngster told them that he and the other boy, who appears to be his uncle, had been riding bikes and were beaten up.Alarmingly, he said the older boy could not see, and Mrs Wright and her husband Derek, 70, immediately alerted police.Mr Wright described how his son Ian found the 11-year-old on the edge of a stream, lying face down with his arms outstretched covered in dried mud and blood. Police believe the boys' mobile phones, shoes and about £3 in cash were stolen, but are not sure of the motive behind the attack.The nine-year-old boy was initially treated at Doncaster Royal infirmary. He was taken from the house by ambulance but is not so seriously hurt.A South Yorkshire police spokesman said they would apply to magistrates for more time to question the two boys they had in custody..Detectives are making house-to-house inquiries in Edlington and questioning visitors to the beauty spot, which was saved from housing development some years ago after a local residents' campaign.Ray Mullis, an independent Doncaster council member for Edlington, said the quarry had been plagued by dumpers, off-road drivers and motorbikes in recent years, but a police clampdown had been successful.The area where the elder boy was found is at the foot of a steep slope.Mullis's wife, Georgina, also a councillor, said: "It's a favourite place for children. But the area's very well used by dog walkers, fishermen and people on the allotments. It's a lovely spot and there are usually quite a few people about."Police said they were maintaining a "visible presence" in the area as the hunt for information about the incident continued.