Bleak stone prison corridors and cells that look and smell like public lavatories could soon be a thing of the past, according to plans to be published this week. Inmates could be held instead in houses with rooms that resemble student accommodation, where they would be expected to spend 80 per cent of their time learning.Prisoners would live 36 to one house, arranged over three floors, with a space for dining and meetings, opening on to a garden. Below this would be a communal space, including workshops, a gym and pool, health centre, shop and library. They would be free to move around within the houses and they would be encouraged to run the places for themselves as much as possible and to create a community, rather like Big Brother contestants. The plans, which have the backing of the Prisons Minister, Hilary Benn, and the head of the Prison Service, Martin Narey, are the result of two years' work by senior figures in the service, educationalists, architects, technology specialists and the documentary film-maker Roger Graef. The group was brought together by Hilary Cottam, who, for the World Bank, looked at the way in which the built environment creates and reinforces poverty. Like the eighteenth-century prison reformer, John Howard, she was interested in exploring how a different kind of prison building might improve the penal regime. 'The Government is engaged in a massive prison building programme, with the aim of providing 12,000 new prison places over the next few years,' Cottam says. 'But the prisons they're building are essentially nineteenth-century prisons, and we know they don't work. The prison population is rising and 60 per cent of prisoners reoffend within two years. When I started visiting prisons a couple of years ago, I was shocked by how many young men were sitting around doing nothing other than learning to be better criminals.' It costs £27,000 a year to keep someone in prison, and 80 per cent of this is spent on security and control, rather than rehabilitation and education. The plans that Cottam and her team will publish next week, called Learning Works: The 21st Century Prison, propose that by reversing the split and concentrating on education, rates of reoffending could be reduced to 15 per cent over the next 30 years. Prisoners would be expected to follow the sort of working day that occurs outside: prisoners currently get on average only 24 hours of purposeful activity in a week and may spend up to 16 hours a day locked in their cells. They would be allowed to work in their rooms in the evenings if they chose. 'I don't think there will be difficulty getting people involved,' Cottam says. 'Prison is currently very boring. Most [prisoners] want to change their lives, but don't know how.' Technology would be used for learning, and to link prisoners to their lawyers, social workers or families. Cottam says all her proposals have been tried successfully somewhere in the world. The great short-term advantage of the 'house prison' is that it takes up a third less space than the old pin-wheel prisons, and would enable the Government to sell off parts of what has now become valuable real estate at jails such as Wandsworth or Pentonville.