Criminal justice should not be regarded as the sole preserve of the state, but as a set of shared responsibilties - between the state, its citizens and the corporate sector. Changing that mindset can have significant consequences for policing, punishment and what we classify as crimes.For the past 18 months, the Institute for Public Policy Research has convened a 'Crime Forum', bringing together academics, senior police and prison officers and other criminal justice practitioners. Our report, published tomorrow, tries to look at parts of the system in fresh ways.The report follows the publication earlier this month of David Blunkett's White Paper. Widely trailed as the most radical proposal for reforming criminal justice in decades, the Home Secretary's proposals are shot through with contradictions and confused as to ultimate, strategic goals. The White Paper leaves some of the system's least desirable aspects unmodified and, if enacted into law in the next parliamentary session, it may well make a bad situation worse. New Labour started out constrained by the policies of the previous Tory government. Now the Conservative Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin's more thoughtful approach to tackling the causes of crime has opened up a political space in which Labour should rethink some of its own fundamental premises. The Government claims it wants to involve a wider public in the system. But with a few exceptions - lay magistrates, for example - the public participates in criminal justice only as bit-part actors, playing the role of victim, witness or suspect, directed and often alienated by the professionals in charge. In its determination to drive up standards, the Government has taken still greater central control of the criminal justice agencies than its predecessors. In so doing, it has reinforced a vicious circle, marginalising the public and raising unrealistic expectations through 'tough on crime' rhetoric. The Government has a role in setting a framework of national standards but Blunkett's shift towards a rigid, centralised agenda, driven by ever-proliferating indicators against which the agencies are measured, named and shamed, is limiting their autonomy and ability to involve the public. As one senior police officer put it, community consultation exercises can become no more than an opportunity to explain why the police are prevented by Home Office requirements from responding to local demands. Yet the police cannot address crime, nor the system deliver justice without a contribution from the public. Responsibility has to be shared. Public involvement provides information, evidence, expertise, legitimacy and, as with lay magistrates, a significant additional human resource. It is also one key way in which public expectations will become more realistic, confidence in the agencies enhanced and attitudes to offenders less punitive. Research shows that the public are ill-informed about crime and the criminal justice system. Most people thought crime was rising in recent years while it was falling, and many think judges are much less tough in sentencing than they are. Those who know least are the most critical, while people respond in a more thoughtful way to events about which they are well informed. A rational approach to raising public confidence would be to address common misconceptions, while finding new ways to involve the public in the system. The White Paper, with its narrow, statist focus, disregards social costs. It says little about tackling the causes of crime, nor preventing it; its overriding goal is to secure more convictions. Few noticed the irony when, within days, the Home Office published a review of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act which found that a criminal record limits the prospect of getting a job and that unemployment increases the risk of reoffending. One in three men in Britain has a criminal conviction by 40. People whose behaviour merits legal sanction, but falls far short of what we commonly understand as a crime - minor motoring and public-order offences or failure to purchase a TV licence - are channelled through the criminal courts. If Mr Blunkett wants to get offenders back to work and release police officers to deal with real crimes, it is time to reconsider which of the 8,000 criminal offences on the statute book need the full force of the criminal law. The Government's enthusiasm for convictions while trying to minimise the damage they cause is not the only absurdity undermining its criminal justice strategy. Another is its promise to cut prison numbers while simultaneously proposing to double to 12 months the length of sentences magistrates can hand down. If the prison population were to be reduced to the European average per capita, it would shrink from its current peak of 71,000 to 49,000. To achieve that would take an investment in alternative community penalties. But Criminal Justice Minister Lord Falconer said last week that the Home Office had not won funding from the Treasury in the Comprehensive Spending Review to create those places in the foreseeable future. It is not only the Government's approach to crime which is contradictory, but the public's. Thirty per cent saw crime as the most important issue at the last general election. But dig deeper, as we did in an ICM poll and focus groups, and you find the public often reluctant to lift a finger to prevent it. Fear of reprisal may account for some of the 66 per cent of independent witnesses who do not report an act of vandalism to the police, or the 85 per cent who do not report an assault. But there were some who told us that pub brawls were what young men do, and others who were complacent about domestic violence, shoplifting or benefit fraud. It seems it is not so much crime that concerns us, but offences that directly affect us or those we perceive to be vulnerable. It is vital for independent witnesses to come forward, not only to convict the guilty but to defend the innocent. Past neglect of independent witnesses is at last to be remedied. A strategy to ensure they get information, support and appreciation is to be drafted by a new inter-departmental working group in Whitehall that starts work in the autumn. The White Paper assures us that witnesses will then 'see justice done more often'. But the working group's rubric says its aim is to secure more convictions. Justice or securing more convictions - is it unrealistic to expect the Home Office to know the difference?