The chancellor, George Osborne, has taken the calculated risk of wading into the debate over the child killer Mick Philpott by asking whether the welfare state may have contributed to his lifestyle by being too generous.When asked on a visit to Derby whether the Philpotts were a product of Britain's benefit system, Osborne said: "It's right we ask questions as a government, a society and as taxpayers, why we are subsidising lifestyles like these. It does need to be handled."He said Philpott "was responsible for horrendous crimes, crimes which have shocked the nation".Philpott, who was jailed for life with a minimum term of 15 years at Nottingham crown court on Thursday for killing six of his children, lived in a council house, claimed thousands of pounds in benefits and refused to get a job.The Daily Mail has directly linked the killings to the welfare state, and there have been calls for child benefit to be withdrawn after more than two children. Philpott received more than £8,000 a year in child benefit for his 11 children.Osborne spoke as he toured the Royal Crown Derby porcelain works, where he was highlighting changes announced in this year's budget. His remarks are carefully calibrated since he does not directly link the deaths to the welfare state, but implies there is a connection.In her sentencing remarks, the judge made no suggestion that Philpott's actions had been driven by welfare or benefits.Mrs Justice Thirlwall said he had been angered by Lisa Willis's decision to leave him and to take her children with her. She detailed his history of violence, abuse and controlling women, whom he treated as "chattels".Ultimately, the judge said, Philpott was self-absorbed and had "callous selfishness", with no "moral compass" to restrain him: "The principal purpose of your many children is to reflect on you. Their needs, desires and aspirations were very low on your list of priorities, if indeed they featured at all."You craved attention, you enjoyed the limelight. You courted publicity. You were and remain the centre of your world and it is plain that you require everyone in your life, but particularly the women, to make sure that you remain at the centre of their world. Your needs and desires took precedence over everything, everyone else, including your children."You so arranged your life and theirs so that everything was done for the pleasure of Michael Philpott … Your guiding principle is what Mick Philpott wants he gets."The Conservative rightwinger David Davis said that in one or two of every 100 cases, child benefit did lead to families becoming larger than they otherwise would. "The point of child benefit is to help the children and not the parents," he said.Davis said the normal size of a family was two, three or four, and there was a case for withdrawal of child benefit beyond that.However, Ann Begg, chair of the work and pensions select committee, said: "I don't believe families have an extra child to make £13.40 a week," adding that children cost more than that.The Conservative former minister Ann Widdecombe has also drawn a link between the welfare state and the deaths, saying Philpott's attempts to portray himself as a devoted father and house husband were a pathetic con.She said: "I'm appalled by what happened to the children and that now wipes out everything else, but before this happened I was appalled by a state system that allowed a man to live in this way so blatantly. He tried to portray himself as a house husband, but that was nonsense. He didn't do anything."The Conservative councillor Mick Barker, who represents the Oakwood ward at Derby city council, said: "You might think the Philpotts were dysfunctional, but believe me, they were not exceptional and not unique.Labour MP Andy McDonald accused Osborne of trying to make to make political capital out of the Philpott case.The Middlesbrough MP said the chancellor's comments were a total disgrace and the case was entirely separate from the wider debate about welfare.He said: "It just demonstrates how out of touch George Osborne is. He may as well make adverse comments about the entire population of a town or a religion, it's absolute nonsense. It just shows the depths to which they are prepared to stoop in demonising people who find themselves in difficult circumstances."The debate over the welfare system is a "completely separate discussion, it should not be had in the context of the most appalling crime of a father killing his six children", he said.Earlier, Pamela Nash, the Labour MP for Airdrie and Shotts, warned of the danger of linking Philpott's crime of killing his children to the welfare system."I think to link his crime of killing his children to his lifestyle, his claiming of benefits, is just deeply dangerous," she said. "We want a welfare system that is fair, in this country, both to the taxpayer and to provide a safety net to those who are in need. However, it is still deeply, I think, misleading and as I said dangerous to link that to the death of these children. Mairead and Mick Philpott made a decision to set fire to that house, which led to the death of those children. That is not related to the fact that they were claiming benefits."She said it was offensive to those who were legitimately claiming benefits. "I also think it is deeply offensive to all those who are really struggling to live on benefits at the moment through no choice of their own, but mostly it's disrespectful to the memory of these children."The vilification of people living on benefits is a constant theme in the Daily Mail and this should be directed not at those who are claiming benefits legitimately but at those who are claiming them fraudulently. But the case of Mr Philpott, he committed a terrible crime, and to sweep it away and say this was because of the welfare state and not put the blame solely at his door and his wife's door is just shocking."