People perceive crime to be on the up despite falling crime levels across the country, research on the geography of crime in England and Wales by Local Futures shows.Drawing on the latest data from the British crime survey, the research examines the geography of crime and public perceptions of criminal activity in England and Wales.The data shows a north-south, urban-rural divide, with high crime levels concentrated in urban centres, predominantly in the north of England.Total crime levels fell 7.2% nationally between 2008 and 2009. Almost all types of crime have fallen, with violence against the person down 6%, robbery down 5%, and vehicle-related theft decreasing by 13% over the past twelve months.However, burglary in dwellings is up 1% while fraudulent transactions on UK-issued cards rose by 1.7% between 2008 and 2009. The ongoing economic downturn is a probable trigger of this emerging trend, as more people and businesses fall into difficulty and some commit crime as a result.Despite the decline in crime levels, 75% of individuals questioned by the survey perceived an increase in crime nationally, while 36% sensed an increase locally. More than half of people (51%) thought that they lived in an area with lower than average crime, while 39% thought crime is about average and 11% thought they lived in a higher than average crime area.Perceptions about crime are sometimes at odds with the evidence. People are far more pessimistic about national crime patterns compared with local trends. This is especially noticeable for knife-related crime, where 93% of those surveyed perceived an increase nationally compared with 29% locally.There are clear geographical crime patterns in England and Wales. Crime is highest in London and the urban districts of the former industrial heartland of the north of England. Police forces in London, Manchester and the West Midlands – that contain just 24% of the population – recorded 59% of all offences in England and Wales.The highest rates of crime are in cities: Nottingham, Manchester, the City of Westminster, Slough and Reading comprise the top five crime districts. However, these higher crime districts have made significant progress to reduce crime in the last year, with only Slough failing to match the national trend.It will come as no surprise that London remains the region with the highest number of crimes per head. Elsewhere, though, northern England has a disproportionately larger number of crime districts compared to the south. There is a band of higher crime stretching from the old industrial heartlands of Merseyside in the west to north Lincolnshire in the east. Conversely, relatively low crime rates can be found in rural parts of the east and south-west of England.Central and local government, with the police and judicial services, have made significant progress in tackling crime. Despite this encouraging progress, reducing geographical disparities and addressing distorted public perceptions of crime will remain a priority for many local authorities if they are to achieve their Safer and Stronger Communities targets.• Michael Dee is a data analyst with the Local Futures group