Police warned a British businessman that he may have been an additional intended target of the men accused of murdering Alexander Litvinenko, the inquiry into the Russian’s death has heard.Tim Reilly, a specialist in the Russian energy industry, told the inquiry into Litvinenko’s death that he had suffered an episode of severe and still unexplained illness shortly before the Russian died. Forensic tests after Litvinenko’s death showed that the businessman’s workplace and car had been contaminated by polonium-210, the radioactive substance used in the killing.Reilly, at the time a senior executive at the private security company Erinys International, told the inquiry that he had been working with Litvinenko in the months before the murder in November 2006. Litvinenko had introduced him to Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitri Kovtun, the two men later accused of his murder, in a bid to broker a multimillion-pound deal with the giant Russian energy company Gazprom.The four men met on a number of occasions during the summer and autumn of 2006 in the Erinys boardroom in central London, he said. Following one of those meetings, on 16 October, the inquiry has already heard, Litvinenko had vomited violently but recovered, in what police believe was an early attempt on his life.Lugovoi and Kovtun are accused of administering a second, fatal dose of the deadly radioactive isotope during a meeting with Litvinenko at a London hotel on 1 November, from which he died 22 days later.Forensic testing after his death later found “substantial” radioactive contamination in the Erinys boardroom, while Reilly was also found to have traces of polonium in his body as well as in his car.During the 16 October meeting, Reilly said, Lugovoi and Kovtun encouraged him to drink tea, but he declined because it was a very hot day and he had already drunk a lot of water.“They kept saying to me, ‘Well, don’t you want tea?’ You know, they were joking, saying English [people] drink tea.”Though he could not remember the exact date, Reilly said, on one occasion in October, at around the time that he had held a number of meetings with the men, he had himself become extremely ill with diarrhoea and “horrendous, migraine-type symptoms. They were worse than anything I had ever had, because I do get migraines. I threw up and I felt just dreadful.“I’ve never had an illness like it before and I’ve never had one since,” he said.Shortly after the Russian dissident’s death, Reilly told the inquiry, police officers told him “that they were not entirely convinced that I was not also an intended target. They were ambivalent about that, but they couldn’t cancel it out.”Reilly, a fluent Russian-speaker, said that he had met Litvinenko through the Russian’s work for an associated corporate intelligence company that shared the Erinys office space.Litvinenko had done “very, very good work” for the company in providing detailed intelligence reports on Russian businesses and individuals that Reilly said he immediately recognised as having been compiled for the Russian security service, the FSB. This suggested, he said, that “this guy clearly has a link into Moscow, into FSB or former KGB”.Litvinenko, himself a former FSB officer who had fled the country after becoming a whistleblower, then introduced him to Lugovoi in summer 2006. “He mentioned he had a friend from his time in Russia who was also ex-KGB who had contacts in the security world ... and that it would be useful perhaps to meet this guy who [might] be able to introduce me to the Russian oil and gas industry.”Describing Lugovoi as a “man about town” who dressed in a “nouveau riche” style , Reilly said he and Litvinenko had seemed friendly and relaxed in each other’s company. Kovtun, though present at most of the meetings, was largely silent, he said.Lugovoi had offered to help broker a deal in which Erinys would provide security services to Gazprom, the world’s biggest gas company. The Russian company, said Reilly, “is a behemoth. It represents 45% of Russian GDP even today. It is stuffed full of people that are trusted by the Soviet system and now by the Putin system. It’s virtually untouchable and it’s a regime on its own.”The deal collapsed after Litvinenko’s murder, but Reilly told the court that within days of his death, Lugovoi had called him from the British embassy in Moscow, denying any involvement in the killing.“He was saying, ‘I was not involved in this, Tim, and I don’t know why I’m being involved in it but I like Sasha [Litvinenko] and I’m as shocked as you are.’”Reilly told the inquiry that his career in Russia had been finished by his involvement in the events. “As far as the Russian state was concerned,” he said. “it was advised, ‘You have not got a future here.’”Asked to elaborate by Ben Emmerson QC, representing the dead man’s widow Marina Litvinenko, Reilly said: “As I said earlier ... the police couldn’t discount [the possibility] that I was a target along with Sasha.” Though he had travelled to Russia “hundreds” of times before the killing, he could not recall having been back since. “If I’m known by Gazprom and the FSB, then I’m known everywhere,” said Reilly.Lugovoi and Kovtun deny murder. The inquiry continues. 