The schoolboy who murdered 11-year-old cystic fibrosis sufferer Joe Geeling had his 12-year minimum sentence increased to 15 years by the court of appeal today.Three judges at the London court ruled that the term imposed on 15-year-old Michael Hamer last year had been "unduly lenient".Joe's family said the ruling was a "victory for common sense". Sir Igor Judge, Mr Justice Gray and Mr Justice Henriques reached the decision following submissions on behalf of the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, that the term - the least Hamer must serve before being considered for parole - should have been longer.Sir Igor said the attorney general's case "succeeds" and that "in place of a 12-year minimum term, there will be substituted a period of 15 years". Hamer was sentenced to life at Manchester crown court after admitting murder. The trial judge, Mr Justice McCombe, set the minimum term of 12 years.The schoolboy, who was 14 at the time of the killing last year, subjected Joe to a "sustained and savage attack" before using a wheelie bin to dump his body in a park in Bury, Greater Manchester. He smashed his victim around the head 10 times with a frying pan and stabbed him 16 times in a "frenzied" attack after the 11-year-old had spurned his sexual advances.Hamer had lured Joe, described by his parents as a "little angel", back to his home from their school in Bury. After killing him, he dumped his body in a tree-lined gully, where it was discovered on March 2, the day after the murder.After today's decision was announced, Joe's father, Tom Geeling, said: "At long last, we feel we have achieved a more just sentence for our son's killer."Michael Hamer will still be a relatively young man when he is released from prison, but our personal loss will remain forever. "However, we feel this judgment sets an appropriate sentence and is a victory for common sense. Hopefully we can now draw a line under this side of events and try again to move on." Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, who led the investigation into Joe's murder, said he believed the court had "delivered a balanced judgment on the facts of this horrific case". "It has been a long and difficult process for all the Geeling family, and I hope that they can now take some comfort in the fact that Hamer will be in custody for an appropriate length of time," he said.Hamer, who had no previous convictions or history of violence in any form and had been a victim of bullying, was suffering from an "adjustment disorder" - described as a "state of subjective stress and emotional disturbance" - at the time of the killing. "The circumstances of his upbringing and childhood were desperately sad and disturbing, and at the time when he committed this offence, the offender was suffering from a consequent mental disorder," Sir Igor said. "The offender's culpability, and the consequent seriousness of the offence, are undoubtedly reduced by his age and mental illness but, in our judgment, there are some striking features of the case which cannot be treated as wholly consistent with the offender's extreme youth. "Even for an offender of this age, with this offender's disadvantages, taken together they represent a formidable level of culpability and seriousness."The judge said a "sentence of detention during Her Majesty's pleasure means that the offender will not be released unless and until it is safe for him to be released".