The last alleged victim of Harold Shipman had been "chuffed" that the doctor was coming to call at her home on the day she died, a witness told Preston crown court yesterday.John Green, who found the body of Kathleen Grundy, 81, at her home in Hyde, Greater Manchester, said he had heard that Shipman had made an appointment to visit her and that she was pleased that she did not "have to move out of the house" and go to the surgery. The prosecution alleges that Shipman killed Mrs Grundy, a former mayoress of Hyde, on June 24 , 1998, with morphine. Shipman, of Mottram, Greater Manchester, denies murdering Mrs Grundy and forging her will. He also denies killing 14 other women patients between 1995 and 1998. Mr Green, caretaker at a centre for the elderly where Mrs Grundy helped with a luncheon club, told the jury that he went to her home when she failed to turn up to help serve meals. "I found Mrs Grundy lying on the sofa fully clothed. She appeared to be sleeping. I shouted 'Kathleen', knowing full well that she was dead." May Clarke, 91, one of Mrs Grundy's closest friends and the last woman to see her alive, told the jury Mrs Grundy had mentioned Shipman's visit the night before she died. "She thought it was very good of him to go along to her home to avoid her having to go to the surgery," she said. She and Mrs Grundy had worked together for local charities and Mrs Grundy had considered giving about £200 to the equipment fund at Shipman's surgery."But we didn't think it would be appropriate." She said Mrs Grundy had admired Shipman's work. "She thought he was a good doctor... the people of Hyde thought highly of Dr Shipman, not just Mrs Grundy." Brian Burgess, former conveyancing manager with Hyde solicitors Hamilton Ward, said he received a letter and will from Mrs Grundy, both of which the prosecution claims were forged, on the day Mrs Grundy died. He said he had never met her, had previous letters or any other dealings with her. "I thought it was very strange that it arrived without anyone knowing anything about it." A home office pathologist, John Rutherford, said he had failed to find puncture marks on Mrs Grundy's body when it was exhumed a month after burial. "If it's a fine needle, it's likely to leave less in the way of marks than a large needle." But a forensic examination revealed enough morphine to have caused death. The trial continues today.