2002 Colin Blanchard is given a police caution after being found in possession of indecent images of children. He is put on the sex offenders' register.September 2006 Vanessa George becomes a nursery worker at Little Ted's in Plymouth. She had previously worked in a school as a classroom assistant for around six years.2007Blanchard is automatically removed from the sex offenders' register - which is normal practice five years after a caution.2008 George, who is married with two teenage children, begins taking an interest in meeting men online and engaging in "sexual chat".At this time George meets Blanchard via the internet. They both say the meeting is via Facebook. The date of the first online meeting is unclear.September 2008 Blanchard meets Angela Allen. Again both say it is via Facebook.December 2008 to Blanchard's arrest in June 2009There are 10,000 contacts via phone, text, email or MSN between George and Blanchard.29 December 2008 to 10 June 2009 George makes 124 indecent images of children.Late April, early May 2009 Blanchard introduces Allen to George. The three exchange graphic images of children being abused – and images of themselves in sexual poses. Blanchard claims he loves both women, though he has never actually met them.5 June 2009 A business partner of Blanchard contacts police after finding indecent images on his computer. His offices in Manchester are raided.6 JuneBlanchard is arrested at Manchester airport after returning from Dubai.His laptop and mobile phone are taken from him and examined. Explicit images of very young children of both sexes are found. Some show child abuse. Blanchard tells police the images were sent to him by "Vee George".8 June Vee George is identified as being Vanessa George from Plymouth. George is arrested at once as she is considered a serious risk to children.9 JuneAll agencies are briefed in Plymouth and a multi-agency panel set up. A public meeting is called to keep the community informed. Blanchard appears in court for the first time.10 JunePolice switchboards are jammed by worried Plymouth parents. George is charged with child abuse and making indecent images. She is jeered and spat at when she attends court.16 JunePolice identify a second woman Blanchard is in contact with whom he calls Ang Bank, as Angela Allen, from Nottingham.17 JuneAllen is arrested.28 JulyGeorge and Allen appear in court together – the first time they have met.August 2009Up to 270 Plymouth families – 313 children – are involved in the police inquiry.1 October 2009 The three appear together at Bristol crown court and plead guilty to a catalogue of child sex abuse charges. It is the first time Blanchard has met the two women in person.