British policing gets a lot of things right. But it also gets quite a number of things wrong. Examples of both have been on display in the past few days. In a sensible system, both the successes and failures would now be being weighed, with even an appropriate degree of humility, by a commission of inquiry. Unfortunately that is not on offer. Even so, it beggars belief that the focus of post-riot political debate is now a distasteful power spat between ministers and the police. This squabble is letting the people down. It needs to stop.Ostensibly, the current argument is about two things. The first is whether the police or the politicians were the better, or the less worse, at getting a grip on last week's shocking outbreak. The second is whether an imported American policing expert like Bill Bratton has answers to Britain's policing problems that have eluded local police chiefs for years. The answer to the first question is a mixed bag: both police and politicians made good calls and bad; in the end, though, they got it right together, but not without cost. The answer to the second question is much clearer: no.Behind these questions are others, mainly political. One is the belief among some Conservatives and police that the riots make a compelling case against government plans to cut police spending and numbers. A second is the frustration among Tories that the police, once a wholly owned subsidiary of the Conservative cause, no longer look so reflexively to them to defend their interests. A third is the increasingly unstable politics surrounding the policing of London, in which Boris Johnson, seeking re-election and happy to destabilise David Cameron, sides with the Tory right in demanding higher police numbers while at the same time insisting on interfering in the Met and its relations with the Home Office. All this comes together in a repeated failure to observe the distinction between policing policy and operational control.The upshot is a mess. Ministers make it worse by going for quick fixes like trying to bring in Mr Bratton, who is a fine witness but whose record of success is not greater than that of many other US police chiefs, all of whom presided over steep falls in crime during years of prosperity. British policing is certainly not perfect. The Guardian has repeatedly supported calls for an objective re-examination along the lines suggested by Lord Blair and Sir Hugh Orde. But the present rash of opportunistic responses to the riots from Conservative politicians are no alternative. They will solve few of British policing's problems, and will contribute little to its successes – and may even risk undermining them.