When the police have been in the headlines in recent weeks it has too often been for reasons that have done them little credit. The deaths of two women officers in Manchester today, Fiona Bone and Nicola Hughes, fatally shot in the course of attending a "routine incident", is a reminder that for every foul-tempered officer whacking a passer-by at a demonstration or taking a backhander off a reporter, there are countless others who accept the risk of a violent assault – or worse – as part of an increasingly stressful profession.In 1966, the shooting dead of three police officers in Shepherd's Bush, west London, seemed like something from another world. We were used to reading of the murders of the police in the United States, for instance, or other countries where officers were routinely armed and gunfights between the lawmen and the lawless were seen as unremarkable. The fact that we still know the name of Harry Roberts, one of the guilty Shepherd's Bush gunmen, who remains in jail to this day, is an indication of how rare and shocking such an event was. No more.Seven years ago in Bradford, PC Sharon Beshenivsky was killed by gunmen as she arrived at the scene of a robbery. She was already the seventh female officer to have lost her life in the line of duty. In 1997, the also unarmed Nina Mackay had been stabbed to death by a paranoid schizophrenic after being called to arrest someone in breach of their bail conditions. And events over the past year or so in Libya have reminded us that the killers of WPC Yvonne Fletcher, who was shot dead outside the Libyan embassy in 1984, have still to be brought to justice; that "W" prefix disappeared in 1999, long after women officers had taken on the same roles and risks as their male counterparts.The names of other officers may be familiar to us because of some aspect of the story. PC Keith Blakelock, who died during the Tottenham riots in 1985, is still remembered not least because of the failure to find his actual killers. The off-duty officer PC Ian Dibell who was shot dead in Essex in July is still fresh in the mind. But most of the scores of others who have died slip into anonymity outside of their family, friends and the police service.We still live in a country where the death of a police officer is a major event, not something taken as inevitable. We may be accustomed now to armed officers at airports or outside embassies but we are still not used to them exchanging fire or being fired upon. It is right that when police officers are gratuitously violent or corrupt or tell lies that they are brought to account. We now know all too well that in every powerful institution in Britain – politics,banking, law enforcement, journalism – there are dishonest and greedy people who see themselves as above the law. But it is also right to remember that every day there are hundreds of police officers who answer a 999 call and head off to some "routine incident" at a godforsaken spot, unaware of whether what awaits will be a stranger with a knife, a drunken wifebeater or, as the two Manchester officers discovered to their cost, someone who thinks he can shoot himself out of trouble.There are often calls for a return of the death penalty when a police officer is killed and for officers to be routinely armed. They should be resisted. The two young women officers who died in Manchester represented the police service as it can be and at its bravest, and it would be a poor memorial to their courage to use their deaths for narrow political ends.