A core group of around 60 offenders is responsible for most of the juvenile crime in Dublin, including car, mobile phone and handbag thefts.The youngsters - aged between 12 and 17 - come mainly from the Ballyfermot, Ballymun and north and south inner city areas and are well known to the Garda, according to officials of the juvenile court. Most of them will go on to form the next generation of organised criminals in the capital because the state is 'failing their needs miserably', say the officials. The claims are made in a documentary to be screened tomorrow evening on RTE 1. It traces the lives of children, some as young as 12, who inflict terror on their communities on a daily basis. Almost all those interviewed describe driving a stolen car and being chased by the Garda as their favourite pastime. The youths concerned are all from deprived areas and have dropped out of school early. Most make regular appearances in the juvenile court in Smithfield and some have as many as 80 convictions before they reach their eighteenth birthday. The cost of keeping these young offenders in a secure unit such as Dublin's Trinity House costs around €250,000 a year. Eighty-seven per cent will reoffend on their release. Labour Party Justice spokesperson, Joe Costello says the findings of the programme were 'sad, but unsurprising'. 'The fact that a group of about 60 youths can wield terror on the capital is a reflection on just how under-resourced our police force is,' he said. 'Joy riding, for example, is now endemic in certain areas.' The programme is aired days after two young men were arrested in connection with the murder of Thomas Farrell in his home in Ballyfermot last Wednesday. Farrell, 43, was killed after he tried to stop two thieves trying to steal his car, which was parked in his driveway. On Friday 20-year-old Darren Rodgers of Elmdale Park in Ballyfermot was remanded in custody to appear at Cloverhill court on 20 December, charged with his murder. A second man, in his late teens, was also arrested and subsequently released. A file is being sent to the Director of Public Prosecutions. Farrell was stabbed in the back. His partner Grainne and five children were in the house at the time and tried in vain to help as he lay bleeding to death.