David Blunkett won cautious support at home and abroad last night for the rapid development and use of biometric testing of travellers' eyes as a near-foolproof means of checking identity at international border crossings.If successfully adopted on an international scale, new technology could head off pressure to introduce internal identity cards - "entitlement cards" as the home secretary hopes to call them - inside Britain, a controversial policy. A scheme to equip British passports with biometric chips capable of storing details of the holder's fingerprint and iris pattern, which are both extremely hard to fake, is due to start by 2004-05, according to the passport agency. Around 90 million people pass through the UK each year. Yesterday the home secretary won the agreement of interior ministers belonging to the G8 group of industrialised states to cooperate in an attempt to develop a global system which could strengthen defences against terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration and identity theft for criminal purposes. "Common standards in biometrics will be vital to ensure we get the most from the enormous strides being made in the development of this cutting-edge technology. "In 10 years' time, we must not find ourselves behind other countries," Mr Blunkett warned after yesterday's G8 meeting in Paris. The home secretary has repeatedly aroused the suspicions of civil liberty groups and politicians because of the stance that he has adopted to tackle the changing threats to domestic order since the September 11 terrorist attacks. Among the G8 ministers Mr Blunkett addressed yesterday was John Ashcroft, the US attorney general, whose reputation is even tougher than his own. But last night Oliver Letwin, the Tory home affairs spokesman, and Simon Hughes, his Liberal Democrat counterpart, agreed that the change might allow better security without the threat of ID cards that contain too much information on the individual. Mr Letwin said that identity cards could be forged and also "contain a huge amount of information about you. "The iris has the advantage of being a unique identifier which can't carry other information," he added. The proposed scheme might allow Britain to drop border controls with other EU states, said Mr Hughes, a lawyer with strong civil liberties credentials. The home secretary said that it was vital to remain "ahead of the game" with fast-moving technologies when dealing with international criminals. · The United Kingdom Independence party said last night that it had rejected an approach on behalf of the British National party leader, Nick Griffin, requesting that the two parties hold talks with a view to "dividing up the country" ahead of next year's European elections. "There are no circumstances under which UKIP would consider an electoral pact with the BNP," said Nigel Farage, an MEP for the UKIP.