I t was once my good fortune to live around the corner from one of Peter Mandelson's notorious houses. This luck was not social - we never met - but judicial. Because his experience in Northern Ireland gave him two gun-toting special branch on his doorstep and regular armed patrols, the place was briefly the only postcode in London with no crime. Each day, local drivers fought and schemed to claim the parking spaces on either side of the armour-plated cop-car outside his flat.Those vehicles were so safe that the motor insurance companies should have sent us flowers and a refund. Confused by a new central-locking system, I once accidentally left my car with both front windows wound down and the doors unlocked. It was still there next morning. Then Mandy got sacked and took his mortgage somewhere else and the nights were once again broken by protesting car alarms.From this experience, it's easy to see the solution to crime: two high-profile officers in every street would keep most criminals away. Unfortunately, this could only be achieved through 100% taxation and conscription into the police force of most school-leavers. It's worth remembering this as we consider the latest panic over crime-rates. Keen to show the pressure on police and courts, the Metropolitan police commisioner, Sir John Stevens, released on Thursday details of the 16,507 offences - a crime every five seconds, in headline terms - on an average day in Britain. And yesterday we heard of a single crime beyond imagining: the rape in a hospital toilet of a terminal cancer patient. Anarchy seems near. Except that there's something in television called the Nick Ross Goodnight. That's when the presenter of Crimewatch UK advises that life really isn't as frightening as the preceding reconstructions have made it seem and notional little old grannies should sleep easily in their beds.  S ir John of the Met, it turns out, has been doing some granny-frightening without the nice smiley sign-off. The "average" day his survey reflected was May 1: when anti-capitalist protestors, arrests waiting to happen, marched on London. Anyone in the capital that day saw lines of vans in central London side-streets packed with officers. Therefore, logically, other parts of the city were under-policed. May 1 was a good day to be a criminal, a bad one to be a copper, and while there's a certain pleasure in this government getting the spin up them for once, the "day of crime" statistics are a statistician's trick by a man understandably trying to increase the share of the tax-revenue coming the way of his force. And, while the cancer ward rape will have made even headline-hardened people wince when they heard or read it yesterday morning, it's crucial to realise that crime is not like music or fashion: a single notable event does not necessarily begin a trend. The assassination of President Kennedy did not mean that America was in anarchy, any more than the Hyde Park bombing meant that London's parks were fatal places in perpetuity. Though it's clearly no comfort to her or her family, the poor woman in that hospital probably had the misfortune for her life to cross with a psycopath who somehow gained admission to that place. A cruel truth of being human is that we may all meet the wrong person on the wrong day - the drunk-driver speeding towards the zebra crossing, the mental patient who tricked a day release - but, when it happens to one person, it rarely becomes more likely to happen to someone else. The history of criminality features stand-out depravities - Myra Hindley and Ian Brady, Peter Sutcliffe, Fred and Rose West, the Bulger case - which, while each made Britain seem a more terrible place at the time, have gone decades without repetition and did nothing to alter the general feel or risk of society. It's highly unlikely that the terminally ill are under general threat of sexual assault on their wards and it's irresponsible editorialising to suggest otherwise. The cause for general concern is not terrible irregular crimes such as that nightmare in the London hospital - but the depressingly regular ones: theft, mugging, assault. These do mark a shift in society - and the perception of personal safety - and are largely caused by a rise in prosperity and a fall in deference. Mobile-phone theft - that very 21st century offence - is a perfect example of the judicial consequences of a prosperous society. Equally, it's an interesting question whether the growth in car-crime was driven by a change in cars or a change in criminals. The former is more likely: there's simply more worth stealing than there was in 1952. Another consequence of the modern economy - the huge global drugs-trade - has made theft and violent theft more prevalent because of the scale of money needed and the effects of ingestion on those involved in crime. As former neighbours of Peter Mandelson know, all of these crimes might be reduced through massively increased policing and the large-scale building of jails. But there's little evidence that those who call for swift and draconian solutions would accept the levels of taxation and loss of civil liberties necessary to implement such a regime. Until they do, newspapers and police chiefs should learn a version of the Nick Ross Goodnight. And Sir John Stevens's May 1st trick should be treated as if it were an April 1st one. comment@theguardian.com