Baited by Ed Miliband about declining police numbers during prime minister's questions, David Cameron initially attempted to deflect criticism by claiming that a higher proportion of police officers were now working on the front line. When Miliband continued to press, Cameron countered by saying that despite reductions in police expenditure what was really important was that crime was continuing to fall.The latest statistics confirm this picture. Whichever of the two main data sources is used – the Crime Survey for England and Wales or police-recorded crime – overall levels of crime fell by approximately 6% in the year to June. Moreover, this trend covers most categories of crime and is a long-term trend.The latest statistics, for example, show that all main categories of police-recorded crime fell in the past year. This includes violence falling by 6%, robbery by 8% and offences against vehicles by 8%. Similarly, the crime survey identifies substantial declines in vandalism, vehicle-related theft and some forms of burglary.Although there is relatively little public discussion, these are long-term trends too, not some recent blip. The fall in crime has been dramatic, the downward shift beginning in the mid-1990s, continuing year on year and leading to crime levels in 2012 that are below those of the early 1980s. It is also international: crime has been falling in many European nations, in the US and beyond.So what is happening? The brutally honest answer is that no one knows with any certainty. In relation to certain categories of crime – vehicle-related theft for example, burglary and certain other acquisitive crimes – this is quite clearly a successful crime prevention story. Thirty years ago manufacturers paid little heed to the crime-proneness of their goods. In some sectors that has changed markedly, with the consequence that theft has become much more difficult. There is still much more that targeted crime prevention could achieve.Then there is surveillance. While the impact of CCTV is generally much less than one would imagine given how widespread it has become, it is effective in some areas and is an aid to the police and private security. What about the police and private security themselves? Though the political parties may now be fighting about recent trends in police numbers, the reality is that there are now more than there were 20 years ago. Add in PCSOs, security guards and the gradual re-emergence of other jobs with a partial safety and security focus (ticket inspectors, caretakers, park keepers and the rest) and you have a substantial expansion of the eyes and ears available for crime prevention. Aspects of policing have also become smarter. Though there is a very long way to go, the increased attention paid to focusing police resources in places and times when there are likely to have the greatest impact is also paying dividends.And what about prisons and punishment? We have seen an unparalleled expansion in prison numbers. This has probably had some impact, though again less than many would imagine, and not necessarily in the ways anticipated. There is little or no evidence that the threat of prison is important (the supposed deterrent effect) and much imprisonment continues to be an expensive waste. Where it may have a crime impact is primarily through the imprisonment of repeat, persistent offenders.But all this leaves out broader social, economic and cultural changes. Shouldn't we expect that the relative prosperity of the late 90s and early years of this century contributed to falling crime? And surely we should expect the economic downturn to lead to a rise in crime? In short, though showing clear links is difficult, the crime drop was almost certainly aided by economic prosperity prior to the financial crisis. Furthermore, all the best evidence suggests that austerity will eventually lead to an increase in acquisitive crime – though it hasn't done so yet. Perhaps that's why the prime minister didn't use declining crime as his first line of defence yesterday.