A serial thief who stole more than £100,000 of luxury goods from London boutiques and jewellers has been jailed after the Metropolitan police’s “super recognisers” snared him.Austin Caballero, 42, stole jewellery, designer clothing, handbags, high-end cosmetics, sunglasses and even antiques from shops in the capital’s most upmarket areas for more than two-and-a-half years before he was caught. The shoplifter, however, who police believe was “under the illusion that he would never be captured”, eventually came to the attention of the Met’s specialist unit.Poring over dozens of clips, the squad of CCTV analysts spotted the thief, often smartly dressed, committing crimes in shops across London. On Friday, Caballero, of no fixed address, admitted 40 counts of theft at Blackfriars crown court, where he was jailed for nearly four years.Between 30 April 2013 and 22 December 2015 he stole expensive goods from shops in Westminster, Kensington and Chelsea and Camden. CCTV released by police revealed the lengths to which Caballero would go. In one clip he was filmed sliding a £9,500 bronze statue into his jacket. He entered another boutique posing as a respectable customer, only to slip a £580 bottle of beauty cream into his jacket when staff turned their backs. In another clip Caballero was filmed stuffing three cashmere scarves worth £1,200 into his trousers . On another occasion he waited for a jeweller to turn her back before swiftly pocketing two bracelets worth £8,500.After appearing on camera several times he was eventually identified by one of the Met’s officers specially trained to recognise individuals in CCTV footage. In August detectives launched a public appeal to find Caballero and he was arrested on New Year’s Day. DS Eliot Porritt of the super recogniser unit, said: “Caballero has been brazen during his relentless spree of offences.“Given the time period and frequency of offences, I have no doubt that he was under the illusion that he would never be captured. “My unit scans thousands of images in order to link offenders to their crimes, resulting in a greatly reduced cost to the public of just one court process as opposed to the dozens of separate cases that could have resulted had he not been recognised and linked by my team.” By the time Cabellero was arrested, the unit’s officers had linked him to 41 offences - 40 thefts and one count of racially aggravated assault. He was sentenced to three-and-a-half years for the thefts and an additional three months for the assault.After failing to attend court over the thefts he was sentenced to a further nine months, which the judge ruled could be served concurrently.