In the war against carousel fraud, a crime that costs British taxpayers staggering amounts of money each year, dispatches from the frontline have been unremittingly cheerless for years.There have been a few successful skirmishes, a number of fraudsters convicted and jailed here and there, but the sums being sucked out of the Treasury's coffers by those who have mastered the complex VAT swindle have grown steadily.Last year, at the offices overlooking the Thames where investigators from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) draw up their battle plans, the rising red line on the graphs charting the scale of the losses began suddenly to soar. According to some estimates, the amount pocketed by carousel fraudsters during the last financial year reached £5bn, the equivalent of almost 2p in the pound on income tax. In the City, tax analysts began using terms like "out of control"; at the Treasury, the nervousness was almost palpable.Then, one Friday afternoon in May last year, an investigator with HMRC's specialist financial investigations department noticed something curious: several people arrested and charged with carousel fraud appeared to have an account at an obscure Caribbean institution, First Curaçao International Bank (FCIB).The head of the six-strong department decided to look deeper. By the end of the following week, his team had unearthed evidence to show that an extraordinary number of suspected fraudsters had accounts at the bank on the self-governing Dutch island. They kept digging, and by the end of the summer senior officials were convinced that it was time to concentrate their forces on a new front. While still targeting individual fraudsters, they were increasingly going to follow the money. The results could not have been more spectacular: this month the bank's offices on the first floor of an office block in Curaçao were raided by officials of the Dutch Ministry of Justice and local police. The business has since been placed into a form of administration to protect those customers who are innocent.All of its British clients - including about 2,500 people suspected of carousel fraud - had previously been warned by the bank that they should move their funds elsewhere. Those who were slow to act saw their accounts frozen last Friday.The red line on the HMRC's graphs dipped for the first time in years.In its simplest and original form, carousel fraud may see a trader import a van load of mobile phones from France, free of VAT, then add the VAT when selling them on. Then, instead of handing the VAT to Revenue & Customs, he or she would simply disappear with the money.Chain of fraudBut then gangs developed a system whereby they would re-export the goods from Britain, reclaiming the VAT at the point of export, then import them again, steal the VAT, and so on. The goods would be passed around a chain of companies controlled by the fraudsters.Then fraudsters realised they could use "virtual" carousels whereby they would generate false paper trails of trades that had not even taken place.According to some estimates, the EU's total loss each year from the crime may be as much as €50bn (about £34bn) - the same as total spending on the common agricultural policy.Recently one consignment of mobile phones was discovered to have been crossing and recrossing the Swiss-German border for five years, reclaiming €165m of VAT from Germany in the process.In an interview with the Guardian this year, the EU tax commissioner, Laszlo Kovacs, admitted that the EU's VAT system was flawed. He is trying to hammer out agreement among EU states to redesign the system, making VAT payable only once, when a good is produced or imported into the EU. This new system could be years in the making, however.In the meantime, British Customs officials have been making greater use of the 2002 Proceeds of Crime Act, which requires those working in financial services to report any transactions they suspect may show evidence of money laundering. In this way, the HMRC's specialist financial investigations team was able to trace suspicious flows of money into high street banks, and back out again to accounts elsewhere.Eventually, many of the funds wound up in Curaçao. Not only was the bank discreet and a long way from home, it also offered fraudsters the ability to spin a carousel in minutes rather than days or weeks, as all the funds used to buy and sell the goods could be passed between accounts at the same bank.The FCIB was founded by a Dutch businessman, John Deuss, 64, who used it in part to handle his transactions on the international oil market. He told the Guardian that he was aware of the investigation, but added that FCIB and its affiliated companies, including Transworld Oil, "have at all times conducted their business in full compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and rules". He added: "Accordingly, the companies deny any wrongdoing in connection with this matter and will vigorously defend their interests."At the same time as the raid in Curaçao, Dutch officials were raiding the bank's offices in Berg en Dal, a town near the German border. A number of people were arrested and held for questioning, including Mr Deuss's sister, Martina, 60, who is a director of a number of his companies.Customers vettedSimultaneous raids were carried out at the offices in Knightsbridge, London, of Transworld Payment Solutions UK, which vetted potential British customers of FCIB, and at a farmhouse at Llansoy, near Usk in Monmouthshire, which Ms Deuss used as a holiday home. Dutch officials are now hoping to question her brother.The money frozen in Curaçao amounts to hundreds of millions, rather than billions, of pounds. Customs investigators believe that much of this was the capital used to purchase the goods which went whirling around the carousel, and that the proceeds - the 17.5% generated by each turn of the wheel - were invested elsewhere. Much of it is thought to have been invested in Dubai, but the Isle of Man, Singapore and Switzerland are also favourite destinations for carousel fraudsters' hauls.Meanwhile, HMRC investigators have seen evidence of suspected carousel fraudsters attempting to open new offshore accounts at banks in the Cook Islands and the Comoros Islands. "But we have monitoring systems in place that will spot what is happening," said one government official. "We hope that the days of billions being lost are behind us."