The full extent of the appalling conditions inside Britain's first "failing" jail is revealed in a report published today by the chief inspector of prisons.Sir David Ramsbotham says that far from making progress, standards at Brixton prison, south London, have deteriorated since his previous inspection, and included practices which were "totally unacceptable in any jail". He says his inspection team found that the facilities for patients in the jail's healthcare centre were "without doubt the worst that we have seen anywhere in England and Wales". The snap inspection was carried out last June, eight months after the prisons minister, Paul Boateng, had named Brixton as the first failing prison in the country. It was given a year to improve or face the threat of privatisation. Sir David agrees that it is a failing prison but says it has been failed by everyone in the prison service - from the ministers and the prisons board who had failed to provide the necessary resources to the "too many poorly performing staff at Brixton who are failing to pull their weight in regard to their duties, or to do a day's work for a day's pay". The management had simply allowed officers to get away with being lazy, dangerous and irresponsible. He says that unlike every other local prison in England and Wales, at the time of his inspection Brixton had no workshops, no educational facilities which were worthy of the name, no gymnasium available to the vast majority of prisoners. "In short," says the report, "there is virtually nothing with which to occupy prisoners in purposeful activity." The director general of the prison service, Martin Nearey, last night acknowledged there were fundamental problems with the management of the prison, which holds up to 800 inmates. The jail now has a new governor, its fourth in four years, and bids will be invited next month from reluctant private prison companies to take over the jail. Brixton is already under investigation by the commission for racial equality for being "institutionally racist" but some of the findings by the chief inspector will cause even greater concern about what has been going on inside the prison. These findings include: • The system by which inmates contact staff in an emergency had been sabotaged by staff on more than one wing - this betrayed "a disgraceful attitude by staff towards those in their care". The excuse that the alarms were "too loud" was wholly unacceptable, he said. • Standards in the healthcare centre were "nothing short of scandalous" - "filth and neglect there showed a breakdown in the chain of command". • Meals were prepared in a kitchen which had been condemned by the environmental health authorities. • An unofficial and unlawful "reflections" system of punishing prisoners was used by staff under which inmates were locked in their cells so they could "reflect" on their misdemeanours. The inspectors wondered how long this had gone on unnoticed or condoned by managers. • Staff on suicide watch in the healthcare centre were falsifying their entries on monitoring sheets. At 2.45pm the inspection team found observations already entered for 4pm - "a despicable practice, displaying both a lack of care and worrying certainty that no manager would check the malpractice". • Medicines were dispensed without signed prescriptions to inmates who had not been properly identified - condemned by the report as "highly dangerous and illegal". Sir David says the inspectors were told that part of the difficulty was the shortage of staff but, although 10 of the 36 officers on A wing were on sick leave, the group still owed 140 hours to the prison in time for which they had been paid but had not worked. Mr Narey said it had been announced in July, after Sir David's snap inspection, that Brixton would be market tested and in the meantime it had a new management team specifically appointed to quicken the pace of improvement. "There is a great deal more work to be done at Brixton," he said. "I was as concerned as Sir David about the conditions in the healthcare centre and I have personally monitored performance in this area." The new governor, Stephen Twinn, said yesterday there was now an education activities centre at the prison and, of the 86 recommendations in the chief inspector's report, work to tackle some 20% of them had already been implemented. The healthcare centre is to undergo a refurbishment in April.