The gang of men behind the Hatton Garden heist allegedly stole £10m worth of pearls and gemstones previously not known to have been missing, the Guardian has learned.The claim arose after the trial, when an alleged victim came forward to say that pearls and other valuables stored at Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd were stolen and still missing. He obtained an estimate which put the value of the items at £10m, a figure likely to be challenged by the gang’s lawyers.The man only came forward after the trial ended in January 2016, despite the worldwide coverage of the Easter 2015 robbery and the subsequent court case. The formal claim of loss was submitted around June 2016.A hearing at Woolwich crown court was told this week that those convicted were liable for £25m stolen from the vault, a much higher figure than claimed at their criminal trial. The majority of the haul is still missing and unrecovered by the authorities, with the lowest estimate putting it at £16.9m.At trial, the prosecution said the gang amassed a £14m haul including jewellery, precious stones, gold bullion, cash, emeralds, sapphires and diamonds, wristwatches by luxury brands such as Rolex, and rings.There were so many items that the gang had to use wheelie bins to store the loot and remove it. They took an hour to move their haul and equipment after they left the vault.The amount still missing is mired in confusion. At trial it was claimed that more than £4m worth had been recovered, with more than £9m still lost.The Metropolitan police declined to comment on the nature of the items in the new claim of loss but said detectives were continuing to investigate exactly what was stolen and its alleged value.“A formal allegation was … made to officers in June 2016 of theft from a security box, where the victim is alleging the loss of a substantial amount of property,” the police said.“The investigation is ongoing. All safety deposit box owners were previously identified by officers. However, contents within each box may not have necessarily been the property of the box owner.”The outstanding amount matters because the crown will try to recover the missing valuables from the five convicted men, meaning they could face significant extra jail terms after confiscation proceedings, which are expected to run into next year.The men received custodial sentences of up to seven years for the biggest burglary in British criminal history.The ringleaders – Brian Reader, 78, John Collins, 76, Daniel Jones, 62, and Terry Perkins, 68 – pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit burglary. William Lincoln, 60, was convicted by a jury of the same offence. A gang member known only as Basil is still wanted by police.The gang drilled through a 50cm-thick concrete wall and broke into 73 security boxes in London’s diamond district without leaving a forensic trace.They had to climb down a lift shaft to access a vault, where they disabled the alarm and other electrics. They then cut through a sliding iron gate and drilled three adjoining circular holes in the wall of the main vault with a Hilti DD350 diamond-tipped drill.A hole 50cm deep, 25cm high and 45cm wide was cut 89cm off the ground to enter the vault, with Jones and Basil clambering through. The gang only opened a fraction of the boxes inside, 73, of which 40 contained valuables.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  How the Hatton Garden heist happened