A former nightclub bouncer found guilty of killing two young women and brutally attacking a third after stalking them in his car is the prime suspect in one of the most notorious unsolved murders of recent years, it emerged yesterday.Within minutes of a jury convicting Levi Bellfield, 39, detectives hunting the killer of schoolgirl Milly Dowler, 13, issued a fresh appeal and a £50,000 reward for information leading to a murder charge. Surrey police hope "people who were previously too afraid to speak" when Milly was abducted six years ago may now come forward. Officers from Scotland Yard also believe Bellfield, of West Drayton, west London, may be behind a further 20 unsolved offences against women in the capital, including five rapes.The "bus stop stalker", so-called because he followed buses late at night in search of lone, blond victims, ran a wheelclamping firm and used a number of different aliases. But now that a court order has been lifted preventing publication of his photograph, police expect other victims of his violence to come forward.Yesterday, a jury found that, between February 3 2003 and August 19 2004, Bellfield killed French student Amelie Delagrange, 22, and gap year student Marsha McDonnell, 19, by battering them over the head with a blunt object, and ran over former convent school head girl Kate Sheedy, 18. Bellfield, who was accused of "odiously defending the indefensible" by the parents of Delagrange, shook his head as the verdict was read out.Yesterday, Milly Dowler's parents, Bob and Sally, appealed to anyone "who knows anything to have the courage to speak up". They said: "Nothing will ever bring Milly back, but even six years on you can still help start easing our pain by letting us know, finally, what happened on our daughter's final days."The investigation into Milly's disappearance on the afternoon of March 21 2002 at Walton-on-Thames was the largest of its kind undertaken by Surrey police. Her remains were found six months later, on September 18 in Yateley Heath Woods, near Fleet in Hampshire. It was not until over a year later, in January 2005, that a connection between Bellfield and Milly's murder was made.Officers found a crucial piece of evidence missed from the initial investigation - CCTV footage of a red Daewoo Nexia car at the junction of Copenhagen Way and Station Avenue, the road where she was last seen, half an hour after she vanished. During the initial investigation, only one of two bags of videotapes was ever examined by police. Three officers were later disciplined for the failure.Detectives discovered that Emma Mills, the former partner of Bellfield and mother of three of his children, owned such a car. Mills, who gave evidence for the prosecution in his murder trial, rented a flat in nearby Collingwood Place, and reported her car stolen four days after Milly was abducted. Details of the car were first circulated in March 2005, but officers have been unable to trace it. It has now emerged that another piece of the jigsaw was missed from Milly's murder investigation. The day before she vanished, a man fitting Bellfield's description and driving a red Daewoo Nexia approached another 13-year-old schoolgirl. She reported the incident to Staines police station, where the Operation Ruby incident room into Milly's disappearance was set up. But her report was not brought to the attention of those involved in the inquiry at the time.A police source close to the Dowler inquiry said: "We have not had enough up until now. There have been people we can't approach as they may be prosecution or defence witnesses. But now we can be far more active." Asked if he believed Bellfield would be charged with further murders, Detective Chief Inspector Colin Sutton, of the Metropolitan police, said: "We will look at other things which he may be responsible for." The Old Bailey jury failed to reach a verdict on two other attacks of which Bellfield was accused - the attempted murder of hairdresser Irma Dragoshi, 33, in December 2003 and the kidnapping and forced imprisonment of Anna Marie Rennie, 17, on October 15 2001.