Abigail Witchalls got the creeps the moment she locked eyes with the dark-haired stranger in the blue estate car as she took her toddler son, Joseph, home from nursery in his buggy along a secluded lane.When she looked over her shoulder a few minutes later, the man was out of the car and heading in her direction. She began to run, pushing 21-month-old Joseph in front of her, stopping only to try to open a gate, the buggy right behind her. But the gate wouldn't budge and when she turned round again, the man was holding a knife to Joseph's throat. He beckoned Mrs Witchalls towards him, and when she did as he asked, he grabbed her hair, pulled her to the ground, and plunged the knife into the back of her neck. He then threw the buggy, with Joseph still in it, on top of her before running off, leaving her for dead. Yesterday, thanks to the determination of the victim, police were able to reveal for the first time the full horror of the brutal and apparently motiveless attack, in the village of Little Bookham in Surrey, last Wednesday afternoon. Mark Rowley, the Surrey assistant chief constable, praised Mrs Witchalls, who, despite being left paralysed and unable to speak, spent six hours communicating her ordeal to detectives through blinks and facial expressions. Police believe the detailed picture she gave will be vital in catching the attacker. "It is hard to imagine a more compelling picture of vulnerability and innocence than a mother and toddler chased, attacked and left for dead so brutally," said Mr Rowley. "I would appeal to the conscience of every citizen to help us catch this brutal and dangerous man." The 26-year-old part-time teacher was pregnant with her second child and it has not been made public whether the unborn baby survived. Police said that Joseph, although not physically hurt, has started to act out his terrifying ordeal. The man may have been under the influence of drink or drugs, as there was no clear motive, such as robbery or sexual assault, but Mr Rowley said: "Anyone who is prepared to threaten a young child and try to kill his mother in front of him is clearly capable of anything." Mrs Witchalls described the man as between 20 and 35, and 5ft 10ins to 6ft 4ins tall (178cm-193cm). He was white and had dark, scruffy hair, and a long, thin, pale face, with chiselled cheekbones and dark bags under his eyes. He was wearing large hooped sliver earrings, about 2cm in diameter, one in each ear. Police could show Mrs Witchalls video clips of possible suspects, and they did not rule out getting specially trained officers to interview Joseph, although Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who is leading the investigation, admitted there would be obvious difficulties relying on any information from a child so young. The assailant had a deep voice, and Mrs Witchalls believed his accent was southern English or Cockney. Detectives believe that he probably has good local knowledge. He had a blue, older style, four-door, hatchback estate car. A 28-year-old man who was arrested last Friday, and had his blue Peugeot seized has been ruled out of the inquiry. More than 150 officers are working on the case, and have recovered valuable forensic evidence from the scene. Detectives insisted that family and friends should not consider shielding any suspect, and they warned people not to approach anyone answering his description but to ring police immediately. Mrs Witchalls collected Joseph from nursery at 3.30pm last Wednesday. She first saw the man at about 3.45pm when she was walking on the footpath along Water Lane, Little Bookham. He was in the blue estate car and their eyes met as he drove past. She felt uneasy so walked faster, and when she was three-quarters of the way along the track, she turned to see the car had pulled up and he was heading towards her. At about 4pm, she reached the gate that leads on to the lane off Burnhams Road, but could not open it. She heard the man say: "You've dropped your purse" and when she turned round he had the knife at Joseph's throat, threatening the child, before stabbing her and running away. At first, doctors at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, feared she would not survive, and she was given the last rites, her family at her bedside. Her 26-year-old husband, Benoit, has kept an almost constant vigil. But yesterday, police praised Mrs Witchalls' determination to help them find her attacker. Two specially trained female detectives spent six hours with her on Monday and returned yesterday, at her insistence. Det Sup Harper said that although the process was slow, Mrs Witchalls was so eager to communicate with them that there was no real difficulty understanding her. "The bravery and strength of Abigail is extraordinary," said Det Sup Harper. "She is determined to catch this man as soon as possible. This is a most unusual interview process, with a very intelligent and strong young woman, communicating through blinking, mouthing and facial expressions. "She has been through an even more harrowing experience than we imagined and the strain of going through it with her at her hospital bed was a very emotional experience for both her family members and both of my detectives." Doctors are unsure how much movement Mrs Witchalls will recover. But she has improved significantly, so that Joseph has been able to visit her, and she has asked police to thank the public for their overwhelming support and to tell anyone who wanted to send her flowers to donate the money to World Poverty Day.