It had been a weekend of celebration for the Polish community on Jersey. Tourists were joining locals to sample Polish food and music, and Catholics had been marking the feast of Our Lady of Czestochowa.But by mid-afternoon on Sunday, the grim news – and the shock – were spreading across the island. Three children and three adults from two families had been killed in the capital, St Helier. Witnesses had seen blood, bodies and distraught emergency workers at a Victorian house of flats in a well-to-do part of town.Thousands of Poles have made their homes on Jersey, thousands more visit the island, and it emerged that all six victims – and a man suspected of killing them – were Polish.Four were members of one family, covering three generations – a man, a woman thought to be his daughter, a six-year-old girl and an 18-month-old boy. A mother and child from a second family also died.Three of the victims were named locally as Izabela Rzeszowska, her daughter, Kinga, aged six, and her 18-month-old son, Kasper. Her father, Marek, is also said to be one of the victims, along with her friend Marta de la Haye, and her five-year-old daughter, Julia. The man named locally as Damian Rzeszowski – Izabela's husband – was arrested on Sunday over the deaths.He was under guard in a Jersey hospital after surgery for knife wounds.On Monday night dozens of mourners attended a service in Polish at the Catholic Church of Our Lady in the town of St Martins. Jakub Bartus, 35, a family friend who attended with his wife, Marlena, 27, and their son, Max, two, spoke of their shock."They seemed like the perfect family," he said, describing the children as "well brought up and very chatty". "The children were so beautiful, like angels – always with smiles on their faces and nice clothes. The home was immaculate, too."He worked as a carpenter, and earned enough to provide the family with a high standard of living," he added.One neighbour described Rzeszowska as "a tall slim blonde, attractive woman in her 30s" and the children as "young blonde-haired and blue-eyed children" who liked to play outside on their trikes and scooters.Monsignor Nicholas France, the Catholic Dean of Jersey, who welcomed the congregation, said: "There is an incredible sense of bewilderment on the island, particularly among the Polish community."But others spoke of marital difficulties and of the couple rowing.Bartus's wife, Marlena, said she had not seen the family since last September, but had always been touched by how happy they were. "They were a lovely family, lovely kids. They were almost the perfect family. The children loved playing with their Mega Bloks and he used to push them in a trailer. The way we had seen him, he was a really good father."Bartus said: "It is so sad. This is something that should not happen. There are lots of questions that need to be answered. It's such a tragedy. I can't understand why the kids were involved. This is not about them. They are innocent."Police could not give the nationality of the other victims and said identification might take days. A Home Office pathologist has arrived in Jersey to conduct postmortem examinations, the results of which may not be released until the end of the week.Thousands of people have visited a Facebook page to honour those who died.The attack appeared to have spilled from a flat in Victoria Crescent, St Helier, and on to the street in an area described by a detective as "one of the safest places in the western world".Bryan Ogesa described how he and two friends used a traffic cone to try to defend themselves as a man came towards them. Phillip Ngema, 19, who witnessed the attack, saw a woman lying on the pavement bleeding, and the man chasing another woman with a kitchen knife in his hand. "He stabbed the lady about four times in the chest," he said. "I was shouting at him – telling him to stop. But then he stabbed himself about four times, went back in the house and closed the door."Another local man, who identified himself as John, said paramedics on the scene were in tears.Detective Superintendent Stewart Gull, who is leading the investigation, told a press conference that two victims were found outside the building and four inside. No motive was known for the killings and it would be "pure speculation" to try to guess, he added.Mike Bowron, chief of the island's police, said: "No one could fail to be affected by the events that unfolded here. Inevitably, perhaps, such an incident will raise tensions locally, and I would appeal to everyone to remain calm and dignified and allow my officers to continue with what is a complex, demanding and difficult investigation."Jersey's chief minister, Senator Terry Le Sueur, said: "This has greatly shocked the island's community. Many will need support and counselling in the days ahead and we will ensure this is provided."The killings happened as St Helier was nearing the end of a three-day festival of food and live music celebrating Jersey's Polish links. There are around 3,000 Polish people on the island, which has a total population of 92,500.The event continued until 10pm, according to organiser Magda Chimielewska, as some visitors remained unaware of what had happened. "It was an incredibly hard task. We could not close or not run it. In general, people are very sad, people are crying, they are shocked. It is such a shame what has happened. It could happen anywhere but it happened to us and we are getting together."The Polish community gets on with the local community so well," she added. "It was amazing, locals trying our food, singing our songs. Jersey is a beautiful place, people are open to other nationalities."The head of Jersey's Roman Catholics, Monsignor Nicholas France, said: "In a small island like this, I would say it is a wound for the whole family."Polish residents had their own priest, he added. "They do not all know each other and are scattered around the island. This is a very important time of the year for the Polish community because they are celebrating the great feast of Our Lady of Czestochowa, the patron and queen of the Polish nation. We will be turning to her and praying to her shrine in the church down the road here."