Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, yesterday tried to damp down the controversy over his suggestion that a few dangerous but unconvicted paedophiles could be locked up for the public's protection. England's senior judge was attacked by civil liberties campaigners, penal reform groups and newspaper leader writers when he made his proposal in a Boxing Day interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Stung by the outcry over his remarks, Lord Woolf interrupted his foreign holiday yesterday to say in a statement: "It is important to note that I did not recommend imprisonment of unconvicted paedophiles. What I did say was that if a very small minority of paedophiles could be shown to be a grave risk to the public, consideration should be given to a form of civil detention." He quoted from his interview: "It would be a huge step and I don't duck from that, but I'm saying these are the difficulties that we have to face. And it can only be justified if we are sure that we are able to identify those people who form a sufficient risk to justify taking that action, and that would be a very difficult task." Lord Woolf explained he was referring to the regime the government has proposed for dangerous people with severe personality disorders, who could be detained on the diagnosis of a psychiatrist, with regular reviews by a tribunal. "It is this form of civil detention to which I referred on the Today programme. It relates to that very small number of people who, though unconvicted or having served their sentence, are deemed capable of being shown by expert forensic medical evidence to still constitute a grave risk to the public. "Before such people could be detained, vigorous safeguards would obviously have to be complied with." The proposals, outlined in a white paper a year ago, are opposed by psychiatrists, who say they would turn them into jailers rather than health professionals. A survey last year of all consultant psychiatrists in England and Wales found that 20% supported the proposals. At present, the law allows people to be detained against their will if they are suffering from a mental illness, but only for treatment. Lord Woolf's statement implies that the paedophiles who might be detained would be those diagnosed with anti-social personality disorder. Problems would arise with the Human Rights Act because article five restricts compulsory detention to "persons of unsound mind".