The government's decision to close the Wolvercote clinic for sex offenders is cause for great concern among professionals working to combat child sex abuse. The clinic is unique in offering intensive and secure assessment and intervention programmes for those who sexually offend against children. The only unit of its kind in Europe, it is attempting to make society safer by offering treatment programmes to sexual offenders. Embedded in its work is the issue of protecting children by making past perpetrators of abuse safer members of our community by enabling them to control their behaviours and to take responsibility for their actions.There remains the myth within society that sexual abusers are easily recognisable because they are something apart from our every day lives. In reality, they are unlikely to be recognised unless their crimes are brought out into the open. More than 80% of convicted child sex offenders are well known to their victim. They can be a parent, neighbour, family friend, teacher or doctor. Therefore we need to rethink our approach to managing the issue of child sex abuse within communities. The Lucy Faithfull Foundation, which established the Wolvercote, runs a helpline at the clinic for those concerned about suspected abuse. But what we need is a national cohesive strategy, with a public health and education campaign that addresses the treatment of offenders. Adults have a duty to keep children safe from harm but this is only possible if they have sufficient information to assess when a child really is at risk. Nor can we expect children to report abuse if they know nothing is being done to tackle sex offenders' behaviour.We need to undo the myths and stereotypical images that abound regarding sexual abuse. In reality, not all abusers are alike, nor do they all pose the same risks to our children. Nor are they "just a sexual abuser" but may be a child's father who in other areas of the child's life presents as a caring and nurturing parent. Many children express the view that they want the abuse to stop but they don't want their dad getting into trouble because in other areas of their lives he is a positive influence.The matrix is complex and requires the intervention of competent, trained professionals who are able to assess risk and afford the best protection to children.This is why the closure of Wolvercote is a sad day for those of us endeavouring to make society safer for children. It leaves the government's approach to managing sex offenders in disarray and calls into question the political will to tackle child abuse.I hope it will not be too long before the clinic is relocated and the highly specialist staff are able to continue their pioneering work.· Tink Palmer is policy officer at children's charity Barnardo's and an expert on the sexual exploitation of children