Police investigating the disappearance of five-year-old April Jones are increasing the scale of the search for the missing schoolgirl as they continue to question her suspected abductor.Already, hundreds of specially-trained police officers have been joined by dog handlers, mountain rescue teams, coastguards and volunteer search teams as they comb the "hostile" territory in and around the town of Machynlleth in mid-Wales.Supt Ian John described the search as "unprecedented in the UK" but said it continued to build. "I want to emphasise this is a growing operation. In no way are we scaling back our search," he said. "We remain completely focused and committed to finding April." John said police were working through 1,200 pieces of information provided by the public.Police on Wednesday took the highly unusual step of naming the man they are holding on suspicion of abduction, 46-year-old Mark Bridger, who is known to April's family. They released a photograph of him and his left-hand drive Land Rover and appealed for help in piecing together his movements since April vanished. They were given an extra 12 hours to question him on Wednesday.The most visible signs of the search on Wednesday were on and alongside the swollen River Dyfi, which runs through Machynlleth. Vessels from kayaks to RNLI lifeboats and a hovercraft were brought in to help scour the river, its banks, and the huge Dyfi estuary.But police said they had pinpointed a total of 20 search sites including homes, outbuildings and the hills and fields that surround the town as well as the river.John said: "The terrain we're working in has been described as a hostile environment. The ground is treacherous, it's wet, we've got a flooded river we're working around." Asked what the chances were of finding April alive so long after she was last seen he said only: "Our efforts are completely focused on doing that."He revealed that three experts from the police national search centre had arrived in the town to help co-ordinate the effort and more specialist police searchers from Welsh and English forces were on the way. April went missing as she played on her bicycle with friends near her home on the Bryn-y-Gog estate around 7pm on Monday. One of her friends told police that apparently April got into a vehicle "willingly". It also emerged that April has cerebral palsy. Her family confirmed she had the condition but declined to comment further. But it is bound to add to the family's concerns.The police tactics on Wednesday reflected the increasing urgency of the case. At a first press conference shortly after first light, police said they hoped information from the – still unnamed – suspect would lead to the recovery of April. By mid-morning another press conference was called during which Bridger was named, his image issued and details of his arrest given.Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan, who is leading the inquiry, said police arrested Bridger at 3.30pm on Tuesday just north of the stone bridge over the Dyfi around a mile from Machynlleth town centre. He was walking towards the town.Bevan said the suspect was wearing a green camouflage jacket and black waterproof trousers over camouflage trousers. His Land Rover was found at a nearby repair garage. The detective said police were trying to piece together Bridger's movements from 5pm on Monday until his arrest. He asked people to look carefully at the images of Bridger and the vehicle and come forward if they had seen anything. "Please don't assume that someone else has contacted us," he added.At lunchtime April's mother, Coral, 40, appeared at a third press conference to make a heart-wrenching appeal for information. "There must be somewhere out there who knows where she is and can help the police find her. We are desperate for any news. April is only five years old. Please, please, help find her."An update about the search and the process of interviewing Bridger was given on Wednesday evening at a fourth press conference.By that time Bridger had been interviewed twice. Bevan refused to say if he had undergone an "emergency" interview, which allows police to speak to a suspect before a lawyer arrives if they believe that by doing so they can save a life.Bevan said only: "He has been interviewed twice. Clearly our focus in those interviews is to find April. That is what we've been discussing with him."Bridger was born in Sutton, south London. He has lived in Machynlleth for more than 25 years, for a time on the estate where April's family live. The Ministry of Defence was checking reports that Bridger was a former soldier.Local people said he worked as a lifeguard at Machynlleth leisure centre, where hundreds of volunteers gathered earlier in the week to help the search for April. Bridger married in 1990. He is the father of at least three children; one with his ex-wife – a boy who is now 20 – and another boy and girl, 12 and 10, by another partner. One of the places police were searching was a whitewashed farmhouse five miles north of Machynlleth, where Bridger had been living for a few weeks.Officers had also been examining factory units, farm buildings and forestry shacks in the area.Police refused to speculate on how close Bridger was to any members of April's family but said they were looking as links as they built a profile of him.Earlier in the week, hundreds of members of the public joined the search for April, some travelling from hundreds of miles, to assist. John said the police had been "overwhelmed" by members of the public volunteering to help the police. But he said the conditions were "challenging" and police were worried that the volunteers could put themselves at risk. He asked people to leave the search to the experts but police have taken a register of people who have offered to help in case they need to call on them again.Police emphasised that the arrest of Bridger was just one of a number of lines of inquiry they were following.