Magistrates today granted police hunting a serial rapist an extra 36 hours to question a 48-year-old man arrested earlier this week.A Kent police spokesman said the extension would allow detectives to hold the man, identified by neighbours as Antoni Imiela from Ashford, Kent, in custody until tomorrow night.He was being questioned by police investigating nine rapes and one attempted rape on young girls and women over the past year.Detectives from Operation Orb, the team investigating the rapes. arrested him on the M20 at 11.30pm on Monday.The man's car was impounded for examination and officers searched his home. More than 100 officers from five forces are engaged in investigating the "trophy" rapist, so called because of his habit of taking clothes and other items from victims, making it the biggest manhunt since the search for the Yorkshire Ripper more than 20 years ago. Detectives believe that a single offender carried out the attacks in London, Kent, Berkshire, Surrey and HertfordshireThe string of rapes prompted the police to warn women and young girls to be vigilant and not to walk alone in woodland or parkland. The offender first struck in Ashford on November 15 last year, attacking a 10-year-old girl. Eight months later, on July 1, he raped a 12-year-old in Bracknell, Berkshire. Only 10 days after that he attacked two women in the course of a few hours: a 30-year-old in Earlswood, Surrey, and a 26-year-old on Putney Common, south London. On July 16 an 18-year-old was raped in Woking. On August 6 a 52-year-old woman was raped on Wimbledon Common, south London, and the following day a 26-year-old was raped in Epsom, Surrey. Two more attacks occurred the following month; the rape of a 13-year-old girl near Woking on September 6 and the attempted rape of a 22-year-old woman in Ripley Green, Surrey, on September 16. The latter may have escaped because her dog bit her assailant. The offender grabbed all the women and girls from behind, ordering them not to look at him. But his last victim, a 14-year-old who was attacked in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, on October 25, glimpsed her attacker, allowing detectives to release a computer-generated image of the suspect which prompted thousands of calls. Experts were also able to construct a DNA profile of the offender, but about 3,000 DNA tests failed to find a match.