John and Sue Dickinson shared what they called "a revelation of real evil" when they discovered the circumstances of their daughter's murder in a youth hostel in Brittany in July 1996.But until last week, instead of coming face to face with the man accused of sexually assaulting and killing their 13-year-old daughter, Caroline, they had been forced to confront the faceless bureaucracy of a flawed French investigation. The couple, who were divorced before Caroline's death, travelled to Cherbourg together after news of the death. Together, in the village of Pleine Fougères, they learned how she was suffocated as her classmates lay sleeping just inches away. Eight years on, Mr Dickinson, 48, his former wife, 46, and Caroline's younger sister, Jenny, now 19, attended every day of the trial in Rennes. While both parents have been praised for the dignity and fortitude with which they have campaigned to bring her killer to justice, they responded to her death in different ways. Mr Dickinson, who lives in Bodmin, Cornwall, turned Caroline's bedroom into a campaign office and set about exposing flaws in the French police investigation, travelling to France at least 18 times during the next eight years. Mrs Dickinson, who lives in nearby Launceston, spoke out more rarely.Both were closely involved in bringing up Caroline, who lived with her mother and regularly visited her father, an environmental health officer. In their first public statement after the murder, they described their daughter as "someone who had already become our best friend". On the day she was buried, they received separate postcards she had posted in Brittany. Caroline had appealed to her father to pay for her school trip to France when her mother, who was training to be a nurse, said it was too expensive. Feeling guilty that she had paid nothing towards the trip, Mrs Dickinson gave her presents for the visit - soaps, a toothbrush and sea-sickness tablets. She has agonised over her decision to let her daughter go ever since. "I constantly wish I had stuck to my guns and never let Caroline go on that trip," she said four years later. Meanwhile, Mr Dickinson engaged a French lawyer, called for widespread DNA testing and lobbied for the investigating magistrate to be changed. Eventually, 13 months after the murder, the magistrate was replaced. On one occasion, Mrs Dickinson said she did not share her ex-husband's "focus on catching the killer" because "nothing is going to fill the yawning gap in our lives". Nearly two years after the death, however, she sued Cornwall county council for negligence, arguing that school staff should have ensured the hostel doors were locked at night. The judge rejected her case, ruling that what happened was not "reasonably foreseeable".