There can be little doubt what Louise Casey would have to do if one of her underlings in the Home Office's anti-social behaviour unit had behaved to her as she has behaved towards ministers. If her commitment to anti-social behaviour orders is any guide, they would be sacked. Scores of young people are being sent to prison not for committing crimes, but for breaching the conditions of their Asbo, a procedure which Ms Casey passionately defends. Professional and media commentators who question this fundamental challenge to civil liberties have been scornfully dismissed as "not living in the real world". Now she has been caught out being both uncivil and anti-social herself.Like the young tearaways who breach their orders, Ms Casey has not committed a criminal offence. But she has breached the civil service code - and that is a sackable offence. In her secretly recorded 45-minute after-dinner speech to senior police officers and departmental researchers, Ms Casey defended binge drinking, mocked ministers for not getting drunk and damned 10 Downing Street for being obsessed with evidence-based policy-making. This would be bad enough from any civil servant, but for the leader of the anti-social behaviour unit, which is trying to restore "respect" on estates and city centres, there could hardly be a worse offence - made worse by the string of expletives in the speech. Even the trade union charged with protecting civil servants, the First Division Association, has called on the Home Office to deal with her robustly. Ms Casey holds none of the values of a traditional mandarin: objectivity, impartiality, evenhandedness, openmindedness, restraint. She is just the reverse: unrestrained, impulsive, fervent and totally committed. Not only that, but she can be a bully in her determination to get things done. In her speech she confessed she would not want any of it "written in the friggin Guardian, slagging me off". We prefer magnanimity. We do not want her sacked and we praise Downing Street for standing by her. But we do believe she should be given an Asbo.