When Karen Allison ended her marriage she knew her husband wouldn't let her go quietly. "He had been abusive," she says, "so I expected him to punish me for leaving."She was right. Last November, Darlington magistrates court heard evidence of a two-year campaign of harassment Thomas Welsh had directed at Allison since their split. Immediately after ending their relationship, she had been bombarded with sexually explicit text messages and photographs on her mobile phone. Worse was to come. She soon discovered that her details had been posted on a website aimed at cross-dressers and sado-masochists, where she had been advertised as being "available for sexual services". "It was horrific," she says. "I was getting all these disgusting emails and phone calls."The court fined Welsh, imposed an indefinite restraining order banning him from going within 100 yards of Allison and also banned him from putting her details on the internet.In the most recent British Crime Survey, published last summer, 8% of women and 6% of men said they had been stalked within the previous year. And 20% of all women are stalked at some stage of their lives. In the case of men stalking women, the harassment usually starts when a woman ends an abusive relationship or rejects the sexual advances of a man prone to violence and jealousy. According to research carried out at Leicester University, more than 200 women leave the UK each year because a stalker has made their lives unbearable; the average length of time that a woman is stalked is seven and a half years.Cyber-stalking - the use of technology such as the internet and mobile phone - to track victims has increased sharply in the past few years. Many of the offenders are men who are disgruntled and angry at being rejected by their partners. Rather than creeping around outside the victim's home, or following her to work, though, some of these men, as Allison found, post details of their victim on websites containing sexually explicit material.Others email pornographic photographs and videos of the victim (often taken without her knowledge or consent) to family members and work colleagues.Welsh, who runs a transvestite mail-order and cross-dressing service for men, used his personal website to post Allison's details. Other cyber-stalkers sign their victims up directly to public sites where people advertise for casual sex, often writing their victim's profile as if she is available for all manner of sexual activity with strangers.Such men, according to Hamish Brown, a former police officer and an expert on stalking and harassment, fit the profile of the "obsessional stalker" - an ex-partner who refuses to believe that a relationship is over. "These men refuse to give up, however clearly the victim tells him she doesn't want to know. He has this attitude of, 'If I can't have her, no one will'," says Brown.When Sophie Green started getting emails from her ex-partner, Simon Ward, saying things such as, "Oh, you saw so-and-so and went to that bar at that time, did you?", she realised he was tracking her movements through information she had written on her personal blog. "There was always an implicit threat that he would track me down so I stopped blogging, which I really resented." Green began to receive sexually explicit emails from Ward, often containing pornographic photographs. "I found them really disturbing and felt sexually violated, which is presumably what he wanted, because I would not have sex with him any more," she says."Simon knew I had been raped when I was 13, although he insisted on calling it 'surprise sex'. He discovered my email address and password and then would subscribe me to really violent rape sites."Green changed her personal email address, but Ward soon discovered her work one, and began sending her pornography and threats on a regular basis.When sexually explicit emails are sent to a victim's workplace, they risk humiliation and even losing their jobs. Jane Thompson split from her boyfriend of only three weeks, "because I felt smothered by him". One morning soon after, when she arrived at work, a colleague asked her if she had emailed her from home over the weekend. It turned out that her ex-boyfriend had sent Thompson's colleague "a folder with about 10 photos of us both having sex", she says, "and at that moment I wanted to die."Thompson's ex had used a method common to cyber-stalkers - tracing their victim's email address and sending messages from that address containing offensive, pornographic and even libellous material.According to research by an expert on stalking, Dr Lorraine Sheridan of Leicester University, half of all victims are now harassed via the internet. And despite the image of the stalker as a creepy loner, there is a growing online community to help and support the cyber-stalker's efforts. So-called "revenge" websites, such as Avengers Den and Get Revenge on Your Ex, are becoming more popular, says Sheridan.I spent an hour surfing such sites and what I found was profoundly disturbing. One site advertised itself as being able to assist those wishing to experience "the pure, unadulterated satisfaction you get from totally crushing your ex's self-esteem and annihilating their reputation". Another offered a service called "fake SMS", where a message can be sent "to your ex" which appears to come from someone else. One satisfied customer wrote that, "I sent the bitch a message saying she is a dirty slut (etc etc) and made it come from her mum's boyfriend!!!"One man had sent his ex a text message saying, "I know I said you were the best sex ever, but I lied - it was the drugs talking and I needed them to fuck you", and programmed it to repeat on the hour, as well as play down her phone answering service on her landline.These sites are not specifically targeted at men wanting to exact revenge on women (there are women who post on such sites, often describing how they sent advertisements for Viagra, or penile enlargement operations) and there are no figures to give a breakdown on the gender of users. But trawling through them, the majority of those leaving posts seem to be men."Whether the stalker harasses his victim by letter, in person or by email is irrelevant," says Brown. "But victims of cyber-stalking have often told me they get terrified of the 'invisible' stalker who is hiding in cyberspace, because he could be anyone and everywhere."One woman who responded to a request I posted on an anti-stalking website told me that her ex-husband posted her name and address on a website used to meet sexual partners, posing as her, and offering "group sex with her". "It was really scary," she tells me in an email, "because when I read the posting it said I like to act out rape fantasies, so men in twos and threes should break into the house, have sex with me and ignore my screams of terror, as that is all part of the game."The good news is that cyber-stalkers are more likely to be caught than others, because there is usually a trail of evidence from computers and mobile phones. However, stalkers are usually determined, and often put time and effort into becoming technical experts."I had no idea that what he was doing was illegal," says Green. "The police need to make it clear, and get the message out to women that sending malicious communications - whether by hand, post or computer - is a crime."The effects on victims of stalking do not go away when the stalker finally does. "It will take me years to get over what he did and to feel safe again," says Allison. "I just wish something had been done to stop him before he almost ruined my life"· Some names have been changed.