Police will begin an extensive forensic excavation of the former home of a paedophile today in search for what they believe are human remains.Residents of the 1960s estate of Walton Green, outside Croydon, south London were handed leaflets yesterday alerting them to the search that would be carried out at a terrace house on the estate.Until two years ago, Leslie Ford-Thrussell, 72, lived at the address with his second wife Shirley. Ford-Thrussell is serving a 12-year sentence for abusing girls in a string of sex crimes over 17 years.Kelly Shepherd, a mother of two and one of Ford-Thrussell's neighbours, said yesterday residents had been alerted to his paedophile activities before his trial at Croydon crown court in 2004."Someone put letters through our doors warning us to look after our children and to watch out for him," she said.Ms Shepherd said in the aftermath of the letter drop Ford-Thrussell's home had been daubed with paint and the windows of his house and car were smashed.She said residents had hoped they had seen the last of him when he was convicted of offences against nine girls two years ago but the sight of police vans, sealed-off roads and uniformed officers yesterday revived memories of him."He was always so friendly with my son," she said. "He used to wave at him from his garden."Police would not reveal yesterday whether the human remains they were searching for in the garden of Ford-Thrussell's former home at 107 Walton Green were those of children.Detective Chief Inspector Mark Stockford of Croydon police said he was ruling nothing in and nothing out. He said police had been alerted to the possibility that bodies may be buried in the garden by an anonymous letter 12 months ago. Forensic checks had been made on the letter to identify the author, who was later interviewed. Further evidence had come to light that had led the police to begin the forensic search of the property. He said fingertip searches would begin today and a forensic archaeologist would prepare for the excavation of the back garden.Ford-Thrussell's first wife Doreen, who lived around the corner in the New Addington area of Croydon, said she had known nothing about his paedophile activities. "I divorced him 20 years ago, I know nothing about this," she said.A year after divorcing her Ford-Thrussell married Shirley Dedman, who lived with her two sons at 107 Walton Green. He moved into the property and became a well-known face in the area, according to neighbours. The Guardian has been unable to speak to the current Mrs Ford-Thrussell.Mr Stockford said the anonymous letter had claimed that the remains were buried 35 years ago at the property. At that time Ford-Thrussell was not living at the property, he said, but with his first wife elsewhere in the area. His current wife was living at the house.He said the search had been prompted by an anonymous letter received by the current residents of the house, Richard and Fiona Newbury. Mr Stockford said the family had decided to move out three months ago and had nothing to do with the inquiry.At his trial in June 2004 Ford-Thrussell was convicted of 37 offences, including seven rapes and 23 indecent assaults of girls aged between six and 13. He admitted seven charges of taking and making obscene images. One of his victims, a 14-year-old girl, wrote a letter after his conviction in 2004 in which she said: "I am a victim of Les Ford-Thrussell and I hate his guts."I am happy that he got 12 years because he can't get me any more."Mr Stockford indicated yesterday that Ford-Thrussell had not been interviewed in relation to the claims in the letter. He said the search would be carried out over several days.