A woman who was killed in her home in Manchester has been named as international concert pianist Natalia Strelchenko. Strelchenko, who changed her surname to Strelle, died shortly after being found on Sunday by police and paramedics at a property in Newton Heath.A Home Office postmortem examination found that Strelle had died from head and neck injuries. A 48-year-old man, understood to be her partner, John Martin, has been arrested on suspicion of murder.Strelle, 38, described as a Norwegian pianist of Russian origin, has performed all over the world at prestigious venues including London’s Wigmore Hall, New York’s Carnegie Hall and the Französischer Dom in Berlin. She had been due to play several concerts later this year, including at venues in Norway, France and the UK. She also worked as an artistic director at the Menestrelles International Chamber Music Academy.Martin, a concert double bass player, has played at high-profile venues globally. He was previously with the Stavanger and Trondheim Symphony Orchestras and later played with ensembles including the Moscow Chamber Music Academy and Berlin Camerata.In a statement released through Greater Manchester police (GMP), Strelle’s family said: “Natalia was a talented, beautiful, much loved mother, daughter, sister and friend. She will be greatly missed.”In a 2007 review in the Observer, Anthony Holden wrote of Strelle: “Her passionate sensibility combined with formidable technique to produce passages of great poise and beauty, enhanced by her charming stage manner – a mixture of coquettish, conspiratorial eye-contact with the front few rows, unorthodox air-punching at the end of significant sections and head-rolls towards the ceiling in truly transcendental style.” He added: “I suspect we will be hearing much more of this engaging artist.”Strelle was educated at the St Petersburg State Conservatory and Norwegian Academy of Music, and was awarded a PhD in arts research from Norway’s leading music academy. She made her concert debut at the age of 12 with the St Petersburg Symphony Orchestra.Det Supt Phil Reade, from GMP’s major incident team, said: “This is a tragic incident in which a talented young lady has lost her life. Natalia’s family, many of whom live outside the UK, are understandably beside themselves at their loss and we are doing everything we can at this time to support them. We are determined to find out exactly what has led to Natalia being taken from them in this way.“We have a team of detectives investigating this murder and are asking for anyone with information that may assist our inquiries to please get in touch.”