A day after his release, seated in a cafe wearing a fresh pair of jeans and beige sweatshirt, Ryan Johnson protests his innocence. For a man who had barely slept or eaten for 72 hours, he seems unexpectedly relaxed. Or perhaps it is sheer relief.At 1.30am on Friday, Ryan was released on bail after several days in police custody and five hours defending himself before a judge. His alleged crime: the murder of his parents on Crete. Today, in his first in-depth interview, Ryan recounts the horrors of the day and accuses Greek police of seeking to intimidate him.'Some of the policemen were OK, but some were really cold and threatening,' he said. 'They sneered and gave me snide looks and said, "Killer", "Killer", and made gestures [as if he'd be hanged].'Terry and Jo Johnson moved to Crete last summer to begin a new chapter of their lives with Ryan, their only child. Last Sunday afternoon, Ryan reported finding them dead in the family's secluded, whitewashed house, perched on a bluff beneath an olive grove. Terry, 53, had been gagged, bound, strangled and stabbed, a stocking stuffed in his mouth, a towel wrapped around his head. His 54-year-old wife had been strangled with a piece of washing cord. Police said the inside of their house had been ransacked, but there was no sign of forced entry.Initial reports blamed Albanian immigrants but, after hours of interrogation, it was 32-year-old Ryan himself who was charged. Crucial to the case was the evidence of his friend, Andrew Bart, 30, with whom he had been drinking in a bar on the night of the killings. In his statement to police, Bart spoke of a 'family rift' because Ryan was gay.But Ryan criticised the lack of proper forensic procedures at the crime scene and said he feared he would be the victim of a miscarriage of justice. Recalling the moment police arrived at the house last Sunday, the dance teacher said: 'About 20 or 30 people came. You wouldn't believe the mess they made of the house. I can't explain it in any other way. They didn't work in a logical way. They walked all over the evidence, they turned the house into a right tip, the forensics didn't take my clothes for DNA, nothing. It was only in the third interview that I had a proper interpreter. All the time, they were keen to make me say certain things.'Emigrating had become an all-consuming dream for the Johnsons, and also something of a necessity. Terry's health problems are believed to have started with chest trouble when working at a tin mine, and in recent years he suffered high blood pressure and was told to take time off from his job co-running PT Auto Repairs in Newlyn. He told a friend: 'If I don't leave here in a year, I'll be dead.'Terry finally sold his half of the business and the family's four-bedroom semi-detached pebbledash home for £180,000. Moving to Crete last August, they built a three-bedroom home and rented a small shop, which they named Pebbles, to sell souvenirs. Jo also hoped to continue her passions for painting and spiritual healing. On Saturday evening, with only a few boxes left to be unpacked, they had a meal to celebrate their new house becoming a home. It was their last meal.Manolis Michalodimitrakis, the coroner who examined their bodies, said: 'Both Terry and Jo Johnson had full stomachs when they were killed, which meant they were murdered soon after their take-away meal. They hadn't even digested the chickens, mushrooms and salad. The murderer had to be in the vicinity, very close just after they had eaten, which makes the son a prime suspect.'Ryan claims that, when he returned from his night out, he went straight to bed without checking on his parents. It was only when he got up the following afternoon that he realised something was wrong - 14 hours after the murders. 'We had all said we'd get up late that day: it was our first day in paradise, in our new home. For a long time, I just pottered around. When I went downstairs, though, I began to think something was wrong. A window was open, which was odd because my mother always got very cold. When, at about 1pm, my parents still hadn't got up, I went to the bedroom, knocked on the door and asked: "Are you two getting up today?" It was dead silent. No answer. So, I opened the door. It was pitch black inside.'Ryan used the present tense as he continued: 'I switch the lights on, and because the switch next to the door is actually for the en suite bathroom I suddenly see my mum silhouetted in the darkness. She was on the floor kneeling, sitting at the side of the bed, leaning on it. You know, that old-fashioned image of someone praying, it was just like that, except that she had fallen forwards [on to the bed]. I checked her pulse: nothing. I checked her breath: nothing. She was blue and I realised she must have been dead a long time.'I stood up and it's then that I saw my father on the other side of the bed. I could see that he had been tied up. I started panicking and ran upstairs, grabbed the phone and just started phoning. The police came about two hours later. It took them a long time to get here, for us to communicate with them from English to Greek and for them to find the house.'He strongly denied suggestions that his father never came to terms with his sexuality: 'It's absolute rubbish. My parents knew I was gay before I did, probably from the moment I said I wanted to be a dancer when I was a little kid. And they'd never made me feel ashamed of it, they'd never said anything bad. If they had a problem with it, they would never have supported me to do all the things I've done, the dance training...and then going off to do an English degree. They've stood by me through everything.'In the eyes of the examining magistrate, Nikos Martinos, the evidence against Johnson is insufficient to warrant him remaining in custody: the Johnsons were missing four sets of keys to their new house (thus opening the possibility of the assailant being able to open the door) and there were witnesses to prove that their son spent the night, as he had claimed, playing billiards in a bar in the nearby village of Plaka. But Ryan is still a suspect and is unable to leave Crete because of the tough conditions, including £15,000 bail, imposed upon him.This weekend, authorities are believed to have widened their inquiries to include the 15,000 Albanians on Crete.Antony Johnson, Ryan's uncle, accused police of seeking a quick conviction to assuage fears of local crime, which could threaten the tourist industry. He said: 'Ryan was an easy nab because the Cretans didn't want bad publicity in the holiday season. He didn't do this; he's not capable of it. The family is 100 per cent behind him. There was never an issue with him being gay. Ryan is totally innocent in our hearts and minds.'Police captain Stelios Vardiambassis denied that Johnson had been mistreated by his team. 'That's just not true,' he said. 'He had an interpreter from the beginning; no policeman hit him.' Asked if the Briton had been verbally abused, however, he refused to comment.Ryan believes the physical evidence will prove his innocence. 'We now know from the autopsy that it needed at least three people to do what they did. To do what they did to my father would have taken at least two people, which still would have meant they needed another one for my mother. My parents were big people; they would have fought back and there's evidence of that, apparently.'That he should have been charged with the crime fills him with disbelief. 'I'm shocked. It's like something out of a sick-joke movie. Like all families, we had good and bad days, but we were three in one. It didn't matter whether we were in the right or wrong, the family stuck together. I guess, and it's just a guess, that the police thought, "If we can make it stick to him, we don't have to investigate." But the thing is, I am innocent and it's no problem that I have to stay in Greece, because I don't want to go anywhere until we find my parent's killers. And, you know, we'll catch them.'