Jill Dando was killed by a loner who had an obsession with female presenters and stalked women, the Old Bailey heard today.Dando was shot dead outside her house in Fulham, west London, in April 1999.Barry George, who denies murder, had a fixation with celebrities and lived out his fantasy by pretending to be a cousin of the late Queen singer, Freddie Mercury, the court heard.George lived half a mile from the home of the 37-year-old BBC News, Crimewatch and Holiday presenter. He would allegedly approach women in the area to try to find out their addresses. At his home, police found 4,000 undeveloped photographs of women. The jury was also told George had a "fascination" with the army and firearms, had pretended to be in the SAS, and had ordered "a number of items of military equipment" in April 1999, just two weeks before Dando died.Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting, said Dando's death had been the result of the actions of "a loner, a man acting alone with no rational motive to kill".He said George, 48, had a history of complex medical problems and had told police he had a "personality disorder". "He had a fixation with the famous and with celebrities," the prosecutor said. "For many years, he lived out the fantasy by calling himself after, and adopting the names of, various entertainers."George changed his name twice by deed poll, once to Paul Gadd, the real name of the singer Gary Glitter, and then to Steve Majors, an amalgamation of Steve Austin, the protagonist of the TV programme The Six Million Dollar Man, and Lee Majors, the actor who played the role. He also called himself Thomas Palmer, after one of the SAS soldiers involved in the Iranian embassy siege in May 1980, the court heard. For some years before his arrest, George also used the name Barry Bulsara, Bulsara being the given name at birth of Freddie Mercury. Laidlaw said George "appears also to have had a fascination with female TV personalities". Police found pictures of Anthea Turner, Caron Keating, Emma Freud and Fiona Foster at his home, as well as lists of female celebrities.Laidlaw told the jury the defendant would approach women and try to find out where they lived and what type of car they drove. "Some of the witnesses provide evidence that Barry George, having discovered where they lived, also spent time waiting in the area and observing their addresses; on occasions, that he was present outside watching when they arrived back at their homes."The court heard George would "hang around" the BBC offices in White City, also in west London, and possessed copies of the corporation's staff publication as well as BBC corporate cards. "There was also an occasion when the defendant had expressed a dislike of the BBC because of the way he thought the organisation had treated his cousin Freddie Mercury, as he described him," said Laidlaw.The prosecutor said the "obsessive aspects" of George's behaviour provided clues to Dando's death."They raise the question: had the defendant's fascination with female presenters, combined with Jill Dando's link with the BBC and his belief that that organisation had treated Freddie Mercury badly, resulted in this irrational plan to kill?" The jury was told six witnesses had made positive or partial identifications of George as being in Gowan Avenue, where Dando lived, on the morning she was shot."The defendant had also had possession of a gun which could have been converted into the sort of weapon which was used to kill Miss Dando," Laidlaw said.The jury was shown a photograph of George holding a handgun, as well as 150 pictures of women found at his home.George served a year in the Territorial Army after joining in December 1981. During this time, he attended courses that involved the firing, stripping and assembling of self-loading rifles and machine guns, Laidlaw said.He joined the Kensington and Chelsea Pistol Club in August 1982 as a probationary member, but the following month his application for full membership was rejected. The jury was told George had also applied to join the Royal Green Jackets and the Field Ambulance Volunteers in 1991. "It is clear that the defendant's fascination with the army and with the firearms endured long after his time with the Territorial Army," Laidlaw said. The judge, Mr Justice Griffith Williams, explained that a clinical psychologist, Dr Susan Young, was sitting beside George in the dock because the defendant "has psychological problems, which may make it difficult for him to follow the proceedings".This is the second time George has stood trial for the murder of Dando. He was first prosecuted in 2001. The trial continues.