Thieves armed with guns or knives should get the longest jail terms under new sentencing guidelines for robberies designed to help courts sentence all types of offenders, from a street mugger to a gang guilty of a bank hold-up.The guidelines from the the Sentencing Council for England and Wales cover robberies in the street, in people’s homes and on professional planned commercial raids. Judges are directed to take into account both physical injuries and psychological harm so that the full impact on victims is taken into account.Lord Justice Treacy, chairman of the sentencing council, said: “Through these guidelines, we want to reflect the public’s concerns about crime involving guns and knives, so we are emphasising that those robbers who use such weapons to commit offences will face the longest sentences. We also aim to ensure that the impact on victims is properly taken into account – robbery is not just about losing property. Victims can be seriously injured or traumatised.” The guidelines do not alter the law, but by setting out suggested ranges for offences they ensure greater consistency across the courts and reflect shifts in public perceptions of crime. They differ from previous guidelines in that they include detailed guidance on robberies in homes or professionally planned commercial robberies. The council stresses the distinction between robbery and theft, which always involves the use of threat of force. Theft means taking someone’s property but does not involve the use or threat of force. Burglary means illegally entering a property in order to steal property from it, such as the men recently convicted of the Hatton Garden Safety Deposit burglary.For street robberies involving a gun or knife and which result in serious physical or psychological harm, the starting point for sentencing will be eight years. Aggravating or mitigating factors allows the court to adjust the sentence accordingly within a range of seven to 12 years. For armed robberies targeting homes, the starting point will be 13 years within a range of 10-16 years. In the case of robberies on commercial premises involving the use of weapons and the infliction of serious harm, the sentence range is 12-20 years with a starting point of 16 years. The guidelines, which apply to adult offenders only, will come into effect in England and Wales from 1 April 2016.Under existing guidance, use of a weapon does not automatically mean offenders are put in the top category of seriousness. The council said that while it had not set out to increase sentence levels, the guidelines reflect increases that have occurred over recent years. The approach also reflects society’s concerns about the problems of robberies involving knives and guns, it added.Earlier this month, quarterly crime figures published by the Office for National Statistics showed that the number of homicides in England and Wales rose by 71 to 574 in the 12 months to September 2015 – an increase of 14% fuelled by rises in knife and gun crime. The police-recorded crime figures include a 9% rise in knife crime and a 4% rise in gun crime, which are thought to reflect a rise in gang violence largely in London and Manchester. The rise in gun crime is the first recorded for eight years and includes a 10% rise in London.