A prison reform charity has demanded an overhaul of privatised custody services to prevent suicides and self-inflicted injuries by those in court cells and prison vans.  The Howard League for Penal Reform said that cold and dirty court cells, the lack of welfare support and long hours spent in jail vans were contributing to serious mental health problems among prisoners. Nearly 400 people harmed themselves in cells and escort vehicles last year, according to the charity. The report, Suicide and self-harm prevention: court cells and prison vans, calls on the prison service to take responsibility for conditions in court cells and improve standards.It also demands an independent review of the prisoner escort services, which were privatised in 1993. There have been eight suicides in court cells since the contracting out of the escorting service, it says. Author of the report, Tim Colbourne, revealed that there were 376 incidents of self-harm in court cells and prison escort vehicles in the last year, including many attempted hangings."This is likely to be the tip of the iceberg, because men, women and children who are traumatised by their experiences at court carry their stress and anxiety with them into prison. 28% of suicides take place within a week of reception to prison," he said.The report also claims that the current system results in unnecessary delays and the frequent housing of prisoners in police stations overnight.One inmate who was interviewed said he would rather serve an extra five years on top of a 20-year sentence if he could avoid travelling in prison vans, nicknamed "sweat boxes". "People held in court cells are predominantly unconvicted or unsentenced. They should be treated at all times with humanity and respect," said Mr Colbourne. "They should not be kept in holding cells or prison vans for prolonged periods, and must be given information about what is going to happen to them," he added.The report also calls for welfare workers to be employed at larger courts to help prisoners and provide better information about prison for people held in court cells. 