Ian Brady and Myra Hindley were each sentenced to life imprisonment here today at the end of the Moors trial. Brady was found guilty of what Mr Justice Fenton Atkinson called "three calculated, cool, cold-blooded murders"; Hindley was found guilty of two "equally horrible" murders.The all-male jury found Hindley not guilty of the murder of John Kilbride (12), but guilty of being an accessory after the fact of his murder. On this charge she was given a concurrent sentence of seven years. The verdicts and sentences came after a retirement of 2hr. 14min by the jury, who had considered the evidence on seven separate charges. Brady and Hindley each pleaded not guilty to the murders of Edward Evans (17), Lesley Ann Downey (10), and John Kilbride (12). Hindley also denied the charge of being an accessory by harbouring Brady knowing him to have murdered Kilbride.After listening to the judge sum up the evidence for nearly five hours, the jury retired at 2.40pm. They were back just over 1½ hours later with a question for the judge. The court reassembled and the jury's question - about the date on which Hindley bought the two revolvers - was settled in a few minutes by judge and counsel. Soon after 5p.m. Brady and Hindley mounted the 18 steps into the glass-screened dock for the last time.The judge then said to Brady: "These were three calculated, cool, cold-blooded murders. In your case I pass the only sentence which the law now allows, that is, three concurrent sentences of life imprisonment. Put him down." Brady, who seemed unmoved, walked down the dock steps flanked by two prison officers. The judge then told Hindley:"In your case you have been found guilty by the jury of two equally horrible murders, and in the third case of being an accessory after the fact. For the two murders: sentences of life imprisonment; for being an accessory after the fact: a concurrent sentence of seven years' imprisonment."Speaking of the "unfortunate affair with the newspaper", the Judge said the offer of £1,000 to David Smith [Myra Hindley's brother-in-law] for his story was a temptation to which he should never have been exposed. Smith accepted that he had a vested financial interest in the conviction of the accused, but it did not seem that his evidence had been affected.The trial lasted 14 days and is expected to cost about £20,000.