Three men have been arrested in London and Wales as part of a long-running investigation into the Tamil Tigers, Scotland Yard said today.Counter-terrorism officers raided residential and business properties at dawn in Newtown, Powys, Mitcham, south-west London, and Surrey.Two men aged 39 and 46 were arrested at separate addresses in Newtown, and a third, aged 33, was held in Mitcham, a spokesman said.All three suspects were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism and will be questioned later today at Paddington Green police station in London. A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said: "At 6.30am today officers from counter-terrorism command supported by Dyfed-Powys police executed search warrants at a number of residential and business addresses in Newtown, Powys. "Further warrants were executed at addresses in Mitcham and Surrey. Three men were arrested. "A 46-year-old and 39-year-old were arrested at separate addresses in Powys and a 33-year-old was arrested in Mitcham on suspicion of the commission, preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism."The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) have been fighting for an independent homeland for the ethnic minority Tamils in the north and east of Sri Lanka since 1983.The group claims to have been subjected to discrimination under successive governments dominated by Sri Lanka's majority Sinhalese. More than 70,000 people have died in the conflict and thousands more have been forced to leave their homes. In June last year, two men, both from south London, were charged with terrorist offences in connection with the same investigation. There are thought to be LTTE networks in both London and Paris, where sympathisers work to raise money for sophisticated weapons and other support.One of the men is accused of arranging meetings of the Tamil Tigers and addressing an event in Hyde Park, in London. He is also accused of amassing a hoard of military equipment including machetes, combat boots, camouflage clothes and handcuffs.Last November, Colonel Karuna Amman, who once ranked second in command of the LTTE, was arrested in a joint operation by British police and immigration officials. No details have yet been released of where he was detained or whether Sri Lanka will begin extradition proceedings. Several days earlier, the head of the Tamil Tigers' political wing was killed in a wave of government air strikes in Sri Lanka.A spokesman for the Metropolitan police said: "This is part of a long-term investigation into alleged funding and procurement activity in support of terrorism overseas and two people have already been charged in connection with this investigation. "It is not linked to al-Qaida-type activity or inspired terrorism. It is in relation to support, procurement and fundraising for a proscribed organisation, the LTTE."