Local communities must be given a greater say in determining the punishments meted out to young people if youth reoffending rates are to be reduced, says a leading thinktank.The government is trying a number of community-based judicial initiatives in towns across England and Wales, partly inspired by "restorative justice" schemes such as the Red Hook Community Justice Centre in Brooklyn, New York. Under the US approach, community members meet offenders to agree "payback" contracts or to negotiate "restorative conferences" where the offender meets the victim to "face up to" the impact their crime has had on those they have hurt. Today in a report, "Towards a popular preventative justice system", the Institute for Public Policy Research calls for similar schemes to be extended to curb youth reoffending. An analysis of official statistics obtained under Freedom of Information requests by the IPPR has found that 75% of young offenders given custodial sentences re-offend. The institute argues the "restorative justice" approach with young people being "tried" by communities rather than the courts has been successfully pioneered in North America, New Zealand, Scotland and Northern Ireland. The approach can involve direct compensation to the victim, such as cleaning up graffiti or returning stolen property, or indirect compensation such as voluntary work in the community. If there is serious or persistent reoffending the community has the option to refer the offender to the criminal courts. "The government's approach to youth justice, which still relies heavily on police targets for people being 'brought to justice', has resulted in a disproportionate number of young people being arrested and prosecuted for easy-to-solve, low-level crimes committed by children and teenagers, often with complex problems," said Carey Oppenheim, co-director of the institute.Between 2002 and 2006 the number of under-18s brought into the criminal justice system increased by more than a quarter, two-and-a-half times faster than adults, while the number of under-15s criminalised increased by a third. Since the introduction of the Red Hook scheme, murder rates in the neighbourhood have fallen to zero for several years and police credit the centre as a factor. "Young people are more likely to give up crime if they face up to communities and victims to pay back for their crimes and tackle the causes of offending," Oppenheim said. Adam Mansky, a founder of the centre, said overall levels of crime in the area had declined faster than in the rest of New York, partly because offenders were more willing to comply with alternatives to custodial sentences."Before the Red Hook Centre opened, only 13% of local residents approved of the court system; within two years of its opening, approval for the justice centre stood at 78%," he said.Andrew Neilson, of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: "The problem of youth crime is rooted in social exclusion, and in factors which are more or less completely beyond the ambit of criminal justice agencies."