Search for the Asian community of Birmingham and you will search in vain. Sure, you can walk the streets for hours and see only Asian faces in neighbourhoods like Perry Barr. You can go a whole day and the only white folks you'll spot will be two police officers, three school secretaries, a couple of builders and a roadsweeper. That's it: a grand total of eight. (Not counting the faces on the advertising hoardings, every single one of which is white.)Still, there's no point looking for the Asian community round here because you won't find it. Instead you will see an elaborate series of Asian communities - Pakistanis in Sparkbrook, Bengalis in Perry Barr, Hindus in Sutton Coldfield. You realise how bland, how non-discriminating, the very word Asian is. No one here readily calls themselves Asian. Instead they speak candidly of a pecking order of the different ethnic groups. "Here's how it works," explains Ravinder Johal, Sikh cab driver and manager of a local "Asian" under-17s football team. "The English sell the houses and the Indians move in. Then the Indians move out and the Pakistanis move in. Then the Pakistanis sell their houses and the Bengalis move in." This cycle has played itself out across Birmingham's districts, from the poorest streets in Sparkbrook and Aston to the leafy avenues of Solihull where the new Asian (mainly Hindu) millionaires have recently taken up residence. But Perry Barr seems to be the starting point. At lunchtime a magnet of sorts is the President Saddam Hussein mosque on Birchfield Road, a house of worship that has been threatened with arson seven times. The faithful here have got used to the unwelcome attention their name - the result of a £2m donation from the Iraqi government in 1988 - attracts. In the vast, octagonal, carpeted space of the prayer hall there are no seats, no books and barely a sound - a contrast with the book-filled, permanent chit-chat of the synagogues I have known since childhood. At the stroke of 1pm there are as many as 200 people here, all men. They stand in three long lines at the front of the room, alternately bowing, bending and kneeling, according to the lead set by the imam. To the uninitiated this probably looks like a scene off the news, from Tehran or Kabul. The men are barefoot, many in the traditional kurta - a knee-length tunic worn over trousers. Some wear the safa, the trademark headgear of the mujaheddin. But look closer. One of the younger men is obeying the Muslim command to cover his head by wearing a balaclava, complete with Nike swoosh. Another is wearing a jellaba - over a Tommy Hilfiger fleece. Watching over it all, shushing and shepherding the flock, is the mosque's treasurer Ahmed Kazi. Born in South Africa, he's lived in Birmingham for 32 years. At 53 he qualifies as an elder of the community. I ask him about the young men in jeans and shellsuits. They were born here in Britain - they speak English with a Brummie accent - and yet they are also expected to come no fewer than five times a day, between shifts at the factory or the Post Office, to chant in Arabic. How do they live like that, in two worlds? "We try to teach them that this is the host country and they have to live in it," he says, but he acknowledges the tension. Those who do well long to move out of the traditionally Asian areas; the younger generation tries to fit in with white culture. I ask him about East is East, the film about a Pakistani father in Salford trying to keep his errant sons within the communal fold. He hasn't seen it but grins in recognition of the plotline about a young man called Tariq who tries to become Tony. "Oh yes, we have Mohammeds who become Mo or Suleimans who want to be Solly." I'm still chewing over that phrase Kazi had used, "the host country". What did he mean? "In the old days we thought we would come here, send some money back and eventually go home." But the new generation don't see it that way. "A lot of people don't consider it the host country, they consider it their home." And yet, he says, the old country is still home, too. "Sometimes when people say 'home' you have to ask which home they're talking about," he chuckles. Later a Sikh woman will put her finger on it. "I'm not an Indian, I'm not a British," she will say. "I live in between." She is Hardip Kaur, who, along with her husband Inderjit Singh, runs a newsagent and convenience store on the Soho Road in Handsworth. Inderjit is a former lawyer who edits the Panjabi Guardian, a weekly digest of news from both the Handsworth community and the Punjab. Like Hardip, the newspaper lives "in between". Their office is above the shop, on the Soho Road - Birmingham's Little India. Cramped into a tiny office, with half an eye on a closed-circuit TV set monitoring the shop, I ask them what I'd asked Ahmed. Where's home? "That's a difficult question, I wouldn't have a direct answer to that," says Hardip. Both were born in the Punjab, but she has lived in Britain since she was nine. "I've got a British passport, but I wouldn't say I'm British. I'm Indian because at the end of the day, that's all that people notice about me."  What about "British-Asian?" Would that label fit? Perhaps, she says. But no one ever calls her that. People tell her all the time that she's Asian; it's not often people point out she's British. Her two-year-old son, Gurbir, is on her knee, pressing the buttons on a mobile phone. Hardip has clear ambitions for him: "Not to be shopkeepers! Not to work like we do, 12 hours every day. I want them to have a better education and a better life." I find myself liking Hardip and Inderjit very much; I feel comfortable with them and their kids. I can't quite work out what the source of this warm feeling is until an unexpected word suggests itself: nostalgia. It strikes me that if a reporter for the Manchester Guardian had gone to Luton 50 or so years ago to write about the Jews of Britain, and had bumped into David and Lily Freedland, he might well have had the same conversation I was having with the Singhs. My grandparents would have spoken in the same way about their deepest wishes for their children (education), their dreams of success (a profession) - and their fears if those wishes were granted. "There are clashes over religion, customs, ways of living, ways of eating," says Inderjit, scaring himself with images of his children out in the big, wide, "English" world. "You will lose your roots if the kids venture out." There is a shadow over every immigrant's story, and so it is for the Singhs. Ask them directly about racism and they - like every Asian I spoke to - will initially wave it aside, as if to say "we can cope". But press harder and everyone has a stomach-curdling experience to relate. For the Singhs it's been personal, like the time some white lads forced open Inderjit's car window and started beating him. It's been professional - the threats from customers to burn down the shop, or the taunts at "you Indian bastards". And it's been institutional - the council's failure to install CCTV along Soho Road, for example, despite collecting £500 from each trader more than a year ago. Stop teenagers in the street and they'll tell you the same story. Shabab Ali, 19, tells how a white lad fired an air gun at him while he worked as a night cashier at a petrol station. He's still glad his parents came to Britain: "It's a better life here. More freedom, more modernised, more westernised." And will he find his place in it? "It's a mixed country now," he says. The politicians are still English, "but the rest is all mixed."