Within two hours of a detective telling me that my elder sister, Hazel, had been murdered by a stranger as she walked by a farm near my parents' home, the national press had begun knocking at their door. The street was full of young men in suits. They took it in turns to knock at the door - every 10 or 20 minutes, another would knock - and they swarmed up the road, trying every house to see if they could gain anything from the neighbours. At first, my parents, expecting friends and relatives, answered the door and politely thanked the journalists. Then I took over and, as soon as they began to explain they were "from the Daily whatever", slammed the door in their face. Then they started phoning. Again, my parents, being in their 70s, were courteous, but I became increasingly angry. We were in shock and overwhelmed with grief - it eclipsed everything - but, at the same time, we were expected to fit into what was going on, and play the game. And we didn't want to. We wanted to be left alone with our very private emotions. But the press didn't want it that way and we were under siege. They just kept ringing. And, after the men failed to prompt a response, women journalists started, as if I would respond to the female touch. It was just so obvious. "Oh Alison," they would begin, and I would think, "How did you get hold of my name? Who told you and Why are you pretending to be so intimate?" They kept asking about my feelings, and they made their voices warm and understanding, suggesting they were trying to help, that they were concerned. But it was all phoney and callous. At one point, the doorbell rang and I saw a scruffy teenage girl at the door with flowers. I assumed she was a neighbour - she certainly wasn't a journalist - but as I reached out to take them, I noticed she was drawing away from me slowly. I glanced up and saw a photographer on the other side of the street trying to take a photo, so I quickly slammed the door. Later on, the flowers were still there. They were from a tabloid newspaper. On another occasion my mother went out to see a neighbour and a photographer followed her, asking if we would pose for a photo - a request that seemed totally unnatural. On yet another, we went into the garden to talk to neighbours, and a journalist wearing a suit and carrying a briefcase walked confidently into the house. The police were coming and going, and, because the man was tall, like them, and smartly dressed, I assumed he was also a policeman. But I became suspicious when he didn't introduce himself. "Are you a police officer?" I asked. He started stuttering. I just told him to get out. Once they got the message that we did not want to speak immediately, the hand-written notes and cards of condolence started coming, all of them saying: "If you want to talk about your feelings, if you want to talk about Hazel and how she was, then please call." Then they tried other tactics. A journalist asked a friend whom they guessed knew me to ring me up and ask specific questions. "Just say nothing - and don't even say I said that," I told her. One tabloid newspaper targeted my mother, sending letters and flowers specifically to her, which made me irate as she was the most vulnerable. A reporter rang every synagogue in London trying to find out which one we belong to - a fruitless task since we belong to none of them. They obtained a photo of Hazel that we didn't even know existed. It was a photo from when she had done her MA in fine art some years ago, which they retrieved from the net. They also spied on us. There was an esoteric detail - about the family belonging to the Gush Shalom pressure group - which they could only have got by monitoring my internet use and seeing that I'd visited a website and received emails from this organisation. I'd only discussed it with my Dad, so there was no other way they could have known about this information. This went on for two days, and they remaining camped outside our house even after it was dark. The first night, we left the house and they were still there in groups, waiting. They didn't remain all night - but, first thing in the morning, they were back. They exerted so much pressure that I even began to suspect the police were working for them. When one detective started asking me questions that I felt were too personal, I worried that she was relaying the information. It turned out that all she wanted was a police statement."You might find this hard to believe, but we probably dislike them more than you do," she added. In a way we were fortunate. We had no need to talk to the press: the police had a body and a suspect - whom they found the day after Hazel was killed and who has now been charged with her murder. We weren't like the parents of the murdered schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, who had to engage with the press in the hope of finding their daughters. There really was no role we felt they could play. Nevertheless, there was an expectation from them that we would help. The police told us, that, due to the nature of the case - the fact that Hazel's was a random killing in a sleepy area, a complete slaying of an innocent - it had created a lot of press interest and that they were having to expend a lot of energy dealing with this. This greatly concerned me. And, to some extent, we were told we had "no choice" but to pander to the journalists' demands. We agreed to release Hazel's name so that witnesses would come forward, but when we refused to release her address, the detectives said we had to do so since such little pieces of information would "pacify" them. We were also asked to release a statement about our feelings as the press were "getting frustrated". "Why should we do that?" I asked a detective. "Because it might make them go away," she told me, which suddenly seemed like a very good reason. We wrote the blandest statement possible, trying to fill it with cliches, while barely speaking about our emotions. My Dad also added a paragraph thanking the press for showing restraint, and said they could take that on any level on which they were capable. This was read out on the news, which seemed completely bizarre. It was as if the media had created a parallel reality of which we were totally unaware. It was purporting to be about us, but it had nothing to do with us. But, incredibly, it seemed to do the trick. The police told us the press were happy with this. And soon after that, they melted away. The story had become old news and they must have realised they were getting nowhere with us. Yet it wasn't the end: just recently a local paper wrote to us asking if we would agree to it setting up a memorial fund in Hazel's name, the money from which would go to a charity of our choice. The idea was appealing, but we haven't agreed to it because it would mean the journalists would have access to us and it would be more or less on their terms. People ask why I didn't want to speak as a tribute to Hazel - a suggestion often made by the reporters. But we weren't taking part in a PR exercise and we never wanted to "put the record straight". Also, I didn't want to give any undeserved credibility to any reporting, particularly since there would be no guarantee of accuracy and no comeback. I knew if I contributed to any article that I felt was disrespectful, I'd be even more devastated. The only defence was to say nothing. I have never read a story about my sister, but I know from articles I have read on other murders, particularly of women, that the reporters use language and images that are stereotyped and cliched. I just didn't want to be used in this way. If I wanted to pay tribute to her, I'd do it my way, without an intermediary. I'd also do it at a time that was appropriate - and this wasn't it. Perhaps most importantly, there is also the concept of privacy. However upset people might have been when they heard about this, this was a private grief. Yes, details about Hazel might have helped to sell newspapers, but releasing details wasn't necessary: it would not have helped us, would not have helped the investigation, and would not have added to the lives of the readers in the end. So why am I talking now? Well, I thought that people should be aware of what it's like to be on the receiving end of this, to get some sense of the immense pressure imposed on families in these situations. Reading accounts of families' emotions after such horrific events, it is easy to assume that they have willingly gone to the media and offered to take part, but the reality is very different. These days, the media are so pervasive, I think people may feel they have to talk to reporters, that it's part of the package. And they give in because they are worn down by them.