Jack Straw last night defused some of the more controversial proposals put forward in the Stephen Lawrence inquiry report to maintain the momentum behind the Government's drive to confront racism in Britain. The centrepiece of the Home Secretary's 'action plan' published yesterday is his commitment to extend the Race Relations Act to the whole of the public sector, including the police, but it also makes clear the Government's reservations about some of the reforms proposed by the inquiry. Areas of concern to ministers include the proposals to introduce school by school league tables of racial incidents, scrapping the 'double jeopardy' rule which means a defendant cannot be tried twice for the same crime and making illegal racist remarks in private.  Mr Straw announced he is to chair a steering group to oversee the implementation of the vast bulk of the 70 recommendations put forward by Sir William Macpherson in his report into the black teenager's death. The group will include the Commission for Racial Equality and the Black Police Association. This drive will be backed up by announcements in the coming months by ministers on 'how to realise the broader vision of an anti-racist society'. The Home Secretary said the reforms required by the Lawrence inquiry would only work if they were embraced by the culture of the police service, as well its practice: 'That means they must be implemented within the mainstream of the service at every level, not seen as some 'bolt-on extra'. Providing a police service in which all sections of our multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society can have trust and confidence is not peripheral to policing, it is the core task of policing,' Mr Straw said. He said the agenda for change after the Scarman report following the 1981 riots had been lost within a few years because it was seen as a 'bolt-on extra'. The detail of the action plan shows that although all of the 70 Macpherson recommendations have been officially accepted in full or in part some have stronger ministerial approval than others. Last night Sir William said he was very happy with the way in which the action plan would take forward his report. Mr Straw has accepted the Macpherson definition of a racist incident, and he stressed yesterday that while it was based on a subjective judgment it would only be used in the initial reporting and recording of an incident and not to decide whether there had been a racial motivation when somebody was charged and tried. Among the issues discussed by the action plan are: Freedom of information: all aspects of policing will be subject to freedom of information legislation, but information relating to investigations and informers will be exempted as a class. Disclosure will be subject to an appropriate harm test. Wider exclusions than recommended by Macpherson. Double jeopardy: passed to the Law Commission to consult and report on what might be done. 'The process is bound to take some time."  Banning racist language and possessing offensive weapons in private: 'We have serious reservations about going beyond the law as it stands.' The action plan says it is important any new crime is enforceable and there are potential conflicts with the European Convention on Human Rights to be considered before a decision is taken. Advance disclosure of evidence and documents at inquests: disclosure should be normal practice at inquests involving deaths in custody. Legal aid to be available to families of victims at inquests but only in exceptional cases. Racism awareness training: all officers, including CID, will be trained in racism awareness and how to value cultural diversity. Police discipline: new tougher police discipline procedures come into effect next month which will mean that racist behaviour by officers will lead to their dismissal. But Mr Straw is to review the proposal that disciplinary action should be available for five years after an officer retires. He will also consider legislation to enable forfeiture of police pensions for serious disciplinary offence. Independent police complaints system: The Government is sympathetic to the principle of independent investigation of complaints. A feasibility study is to be carried out into the costs of a body totally separate from the police.  Stop and Search: the Home Secretary will consider whether a written record with reasons for all stops should be given to those searched as a matter of routine. Anti-racist education: 'We will ensure that citizenship education has a prominent place in the national curriculum.' Racist incidents in school: all incidents will be recorded and reported to parents, governors and the local education authority. 