Police officers are to face random drugs tests in an unprecedented crackdown on the growing problem of substance abuse in forces throughout Britain. To the dismay of some serving officers, anybody failing a test could face dismissal under the controversial proposals being drawn up. The scheme, which is expected to be introduced first in the Metropolitan Police, will see officers of all ranks tested. They may also face random alcohol testing. The move comes amid growing evidence that drug use within the police is becoming commonplace, particularly among younger officers, in line with the growing acceptance of drug taking among the public. But sources say the police cannot be seen to be charging members of the public for drugs offences when officers are themselves committing them. 'We want to be flawless when it comes to substance abuse,' said a senior Scotland Yard source. 'Drug use has no place in a modern police force.' Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner and Britain's most powerful policeman, has ordered one of his deputies to implement random drug testing for all officers in London. Other forces are expected to follow suit. Stevens has instructed Deputy Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman, head of the Met's new Drugs Directorate, to find the best method of introducing tests.The move is supported by Ministers and senior police officers in other forces. The police union in London, the Metropolitan Police Federation, said last night it was not opposed to random drug tests, provided they were of a high quality. Federation vice-chairman Dave Rodgers said: 'No one would want to work with someone whose ability is impaired by substance abuse. We do not want to see officers committing an offence either. The tests would have to be of the highest quality - which can be expensive. The stigma of an incorrect test result is hard to shake.' Research has revealed a burgeoning 'drug culture' within forces proportionate to that among members of the public. A Home Office-sponsored questionnaire by North Yorkshire Police and Middlesex University, the results of which will be published in October, found cannabis use among officers growing, mirroring public consumption - 42 per cent of 16- to 29-year-olds have taken the drug. However, alcohol abuse was found to be 20 times more damaging to safety and productivity than the use of other substances. Senior officers may extend the new tests to cover alcohol. Experts believe the tests could improve health and safety. Last year 25 people died in accidents involving police cars - a 178 per cent rise since 1997. Officers also take 11.5 sick days a year - nearly four more than the national average. It is expected that tests will also form part of the recruitment process, with all potential recruits being asked to participate. Guidelines published by the Association of Chief Police Officers outline a framework in which chief constables are permitted to introduce 'rolling random drug and drink testing'. But legal experts believe compulsory testing is a grey area.