A suspected serial rapist told a jury today he wished he could explain DNA evidence linking him to an attack.Giving evidence at Maidstone crown court, Antoni Imiela said that he had not been responsible for raping a 26-year-old woman in Epsom, Surrey, on August 7 2002. Asked by his counsel, Rebecca Poulet QC, to comment on DNA evidence suggesting there was a one in three million chance he was not the attacker, the defendant said: "I wish I could. It's not me. I'm no expert." Mr Imiela told the jury he had been in the area on the day in question, but had just been "having a look around". The 49 year old, from Appledore, near Ashford, in Kent, denies raping eight women and girls aged between 10 and 52 across the south-east. He also denies kidnapping, indecently assaulting and attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham. All the offences are alleged to have taken place between November 2001 and November 2002. Mr Imiela broke down in tears again as he gave an explanation for why he was spotted near St Albans in Hertfordshire by a woman who thought that he was following her granddaughter as she delivered newspapers. He said he had parked in the same cul-de-sac because he had just given a gay man he had met in London a lift home to the same area. He admitted having an argument with the grandmother but denied leaving his car and following the teenage girl along a street. Mrs Poulet asked him about the version of events the grandmother had given in court. Mr Imiela replied: "I just think she was confused. I don't blame her about looking after the grandkid." He was then asked about the last alleged rape in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, on October 25 2002. The prosecution alleges that a fingerprint found on a bag carried by the victim during the attack matched a print taken from Mr Imiela. However, the railway worker said he had never been to Stevenage and when asked by Mrs Poulet if it was his fingerprint on the bag, he replied: "It is now". He added: "You want to ask the coppers from Hitchin who put it there." He then claimed that when some prints were taken from him by a fingerprint expert at Hitchin police station last year there had been something "odd going on". Mr Imiela told the court that the expert had seemed to take some normal prints before suddenly moving his little finger onto a "piece of plastic". Mrs Poulet asked him: "Did you have any legal representation?" Mr Imiela said that his solicitor was around that day but added that he was "not there when he [the expert] did that." Earlier, Mrs Poulet asked Mr Imiela about a conversation about prostitutes he had had with work colleagues the day before the girl in Hertfordshire was attacked. He is alleged to have told one of them about a prostitute that was "tight like a virgin" and although was aged 18, "looked younger". However, Mr Imiela said that the recollection of this conversation by the man had only been "partly" accurate. He said: "I don't look for young girls or anything, most lasses that I know are nearly 30."Mr Imiela stood upright in the dock - today wearing a grey long-sleeved polo shirt rather than a suit - as prosecution barrister Mark Dennis began his cross-examination. He first asked the railway worker if he had spent time reading through all the paperwork connected with the case. Mr Imiela replied that he had "read through everything" adding "I was hoping to find something that showed that it was not me". Mr Dennis then questioned him repeatedly about the apparent similarities between the eight rapes that Mr Imeila is accused of committing. The prosecutor asked him: "It does rather look, does it not, that there has been a serial rapist going round committing these offence - the same man?" He went on: "The manner of attack always from behind, always without warning, always with the victim grabbed in an armlock around the neck. Do you recognise that similarity?" Mr Imiela said that he could see the similarity between some of the attacks but did not necessarily agree that they were all committed by the same person. Mr Dennis continued outlining the "similarities", talking about how the rapist seemed to have a "dual personality" and seemed obsessed with asking his victims if they were a virgin. He said: "An obsession with asking victims if they were a virgin, even if they are 52-years-old." At this Mr Imiela remarked: "It is bizarre." To which Mr Dennis replied: "It would be more bizarre if we had nine different rapists going around." Then Mr Dennis pressed Mr Imiela further. He asked him: "Would you agree that for each and every one of these attacks, the rapist has shown considerable callousness?" Mr Imiela replied: "Yes." Mr Dennis continued: "Really tormenting his victim, not merely the brutal fact of the rape itself. Showing, would you not agree, a contempt for females." Mr Imiela then said: "More than that, he's a beast. He is hating women."The trial continues.