A new wave of shootings, including one murder, was being investigated by detectives this weekend as it was revealed that specialist firearms officers are being deployed on London's streets hundreds of times a week in an attempt to curb the violence.One man was killed in east London yesterday while another three were injured in two separate shootings in Manchester. Yesterday's incidents come amid fierce debate among politicians, police and community leaders following the murder of three south London boys in a fortnight, over how to stop gun crime spiralling out of control and claiming ever younger victims.The death of Billy Cox, just 15 when he was shot in his own home last Wednesday, brought the issue to a head. Detectives are believed to be looking for a known drug dealer in connection with his murder.The operational head of Scotland Yard's specialist firearms unit, Superintendent Bert Moore, told The Observer that in December firearms officers were deployed on 2,232 occasions. 'The figures on average are between 2,200 and 2,500 a month. These are the number of occasions we use our feet, where we actually leave our vehicles,' said Moore.The total number of calls, including potentially mistaken reports of firearms, stood at 11,725 for last December - almost 400 a day.Downing Street last night announced an emergency meeting of police and community leaders to respond to the crisis with an immediate review of gun laws. Minimum five-year jail sentences for possessing firearms, currently applied to over-21s, are expected to be applied to over-18s and Number 10 is looking at new powers for police to mount surveillance on the homes of firearms suspects.David Cameron, the Tory leader, urged further police reforms. He told BBC1's The Politics Show in an interview broadcast today : 'At the moment we've got a situation where the police feel incredibly put upon by regulations and targets and instructions from above, from the Home Office, rather than actually looking at the people they're meant to be serving and responding to their concerns.' One solution was elected police commissioners, he said.The wave of shootings has put the Metropolitan Police firearms unit under pressure. However, Moore said it had the manpower - 552 officers -to cope.In Hackney, east London, a murder investigation was under way after a black man in his 20s was shot in his grey Fiat Punto just after 5.30am yesterday before climbing out and collapsing in Homerton High Street. A witness, Gabriel Ajayi, 50, said: 'It was a cold-blooded murder. I saw a man lying on the ground on the road and I saw three guys running away. All of a sudden they came back and shot him twice again at close range.'Meanwhile, forensic teams in Manchester were investigating why a teenager was shot in the back while standing with friends outside a community centre in Raby Street, Moss Side - yards from where 15-year-old Jesse James was killed last September. The attackers drove past at 9pm on Friday before opening fire and hitting the 18-year-old victim in the back.Surgeons were trying to free a bullet lodged in the victim's sternum last night, but his injuries are not thought life-threatening. Five hours later, a 19-year-old and 27-year-old man suffered gunshot wounds in the Longsight area of the city in what police said was an unrelated incident.