A former showjumper who stole antiques and art including a Picasso sketch and Ben Nicholson painting from a countess while working as her housekeeper has been jailed for three years. Kim Roberts was told by a judge that her offences against Lady Bathurst were “greedy and calculated”.Roberts, 59, admitted stealing from Bathurst’s homes in Cirencester, Gloucestershire, and south-west London. She also admitted taking a Volvo car from another former employer, the interior designer Emily Olympitis.In addition she pleaded guilty to giving false details to the employment agency Holland Park Staffing, which supplies butlers and nannies, so that previous convictions for dishonesty would not be discovered. Her barrister, Simon Burns, pleaded for leniency at Gloucester crown court, saying she had had a “disastrous life” and was terrified of going to prison because she looked after her disabled son. He pointed out that the artwork had not been missed until she came to sell it. But Judge William Hart said the law was there to protect everyone, “whether prince or pauper”.Ian Dixey, prosecuting, said Roberts worked for a little under a month as a housekeeper for Bathurst in the spring of 2013. Soon after she left, Roberts had a Nicholson painting valued. She was told it was worth £200,000, but dealers she spoke to were suspicious about where she had got it from. A gallery owner recognised it as belonging to Bathurst and contacted her.Bathurst did not realise it was missing as it had been kept in a study, covered up. It was only then that she realised other property, including the Picasso sketch, were missing. Police were called in and Roberts was arrested when she arrived at the Lansdowne Club in Mayfair, London, where she had arranged to meet a gallery owner hoping to sell the Nicholson painting. Dixey said: “As Ms Roberts arrived at the club she was arrested. She was searched and items found in her handbag included a set of keys, which were to Lady Bathurst’s London flat.“Her [Roberts’] home in Colyton [in Devon] was then searched and officers could immediately see there were a large number of items of value in the property. There were more than 50 items, mainly antique silver and things of that sort.“When the defendant was interviewed she said that the Ben Nicholson painting and the Picasso sketch had in effect been given to her and that she was entitled to sell them.” Roberts claimed that other items in her possession – such as a box with Bathurst’s name written on it – had been dumped. Items found had been taken from both Bathurst’s Gloucestershire and London homes. Later police found that the car she was driving had false number plates. It had been stolen from Olympitis in 2012.Dixey said Roberts’ fraud against Holland Park Staffing involved changing the 6 in her date of birth, 1956, on her driving licence to 8. This was clearly because she had a criminal record that she did not want to be discovered, he said. The prosecutor said Roberts had been convicted of offences including deception, shoplifting and forgery in the late 1980s and 90s. He told the court it was impossible to put a valuation on what she had stolen. “But it was in breach of trust and there were clearly items of sentimental value as well as high material value,” he said. “She worked for very wealthy people who perhaps did not miss things in the way that others might have done.” Burns, for Roberts, said she was “extremely contrite” but argued that it had not been “elaborate or complicated” offending. He told the court the paintings stolen would “not immediately have been missed” because they were “not on the walls being appreciated”.The Picasso sketch, he said, was a “very simple’” one and not worth more than £100,000. The Nicholson still life from 1945 was worth between £80,000 and £120,000. Roberts’ motivation was that she had “fallen from her very comfortable position that she once enjoyed a long time ago”, Burns continued. “She had been married comfortably and was looked after. But that marriage broke down. She has suffered from depression since 1987. The partners and relationships she has had have all failed. She has had what is quoted in the medical paperwork as a disastrous life.“She suffered a severe road traffic accident which resulted in her contracting a brain tumour in 2001. The only thing she could do was domestic work. She became a housekeeper. It was not a career of choice.“She was a single mum with a son who required constant care. He is 29 and she cares for him. He functions at the level of a 15-year-old and is on constant medication. She is extremely anxious about him and who is going to look after him if she is in prison. She had fallen on hard times and resorted to stealing to save herself from financial destitution.“A lot of people speak highly of her. She has looked after a number of families. She was a horsewoman who competed as a showjumper at Hickstead. All that has been lost.”Sentencing Roberts, the judge said: “These were premeditated offences by you as an employee with the clearest intention of selling the items on. There is a greedy and calculated nature to your offending. What you did in effect was to repay your employer’s trust with avarice and dishonesty.“Lady Bathurst is a wealthy woman from a wealthy family and you no doubt thought she could easily bear the loss, even if she did discover it. The fact she is wealthy is not a mitigating factor. The criminal justice system should protect all, whether prince or pauper.”He praised the “integrity and professionalism” of the art dealers involved in the case and said it was thanks to their honesty that all the stolen property Roberts tried to sell was recovered.