Well isn't this a fine mess? On the one hand there is outrage. We have lost the streets to antisocial behaviour, says Sir Denis O'Connor, the chief inspector of constabulary. Millions of examples of drunkenness and vandalism go unreported because such things are seen as close to normal.Keeping the peace has been relegated to a "second-order consideration" for officers who prioritise chasing the government's targets in solving sharp-end crimes. And in such a situation, outrage is perhaps a reasonable response. But where is much of it coming from? The same people who have constantly undermined the police's determination to get to grips with this very problem by deploying onto the streets the police community support officers (PCSOs). The whole idea of PCSOs was that they would give communities a greater sense of security by their very visibility on the streets.Home Office recruitment literature specifically describes their role as reducing crime, the fear of crime and antisocial behaviour. They are not fully trained, fully sworn police officers and perhaps, as a result of that, some do make bad judgements and occasionally they do embarrassing things. But they have a clear responsibility to intervene on behalf of beleaguered communities. There are 16,500 of them across the country and most of them do a good job.But has there been a group of workers more maligned and demoralised than the police community support officer? The Daily Mail leads the hand wringing today but the Mail has also led the gang putting the boot into our PCSOs. "Plastic police," it calls them dismissively. "Blunkett's bobbies", "plastic plods".Well what's next? We don't like the problem, but we have also done little to support the people deployed to deal with it. We are going to need a rethink. The critics of PCSO deployment, egged on by the Police Federation, argue that the only real way to get to grips with disorder on the streets is to have more fully fledged police officers out there rather than in their stations completing paperwork. And that would be nice. But in these cash-strapped times to come, it isn't going to happen. Just two weeks ago, the chairman of the Police Federation estimated that in total the jobs of 40,000 police officers could go.The Met was one of the first to embrace the concept of PCSOs and there too, the future for the fully trained, fully sworn workforce is one of contraction. The London mayor's budget unveiled earlier this year envisages a cut of 455 officers by the time the capital hosts the Olympics in 2012. Tellingly, the number of special constables will rise by 2,690. The number of PCSOs, 4,520, at last count, will remain the same.So there are hard choices and the most likely solution will be a greater reliance on a smaller core of fully trained officers, more part-time officers and something like the PCSOs who are, at present the target for so much hostility and populist denigration. If we are really that worried about antisocial behaviour and the surrender of our streets to yobs, we might first react by giving the poor PCSO a break.