The dark winter skies over Stornoway amplified the loneliness of the disused military store where the body of the first murder victim on the Western Isles for 43 years was found. It is a squat, single-storey building with boarded-up windows overlooking the far end of the runway for Stornoway airport. Beyond the line of police tape marking off the unsurfaced track, its edges twitching in the wind, and near the tail of a taxi-ing aircraft, an orange windsock was being held rigid by the gusting breeze.Liam Aitchison, a 16-year-old fisherman, was found there nine days ago by a volunteer member of the Stornoway coastguard. Close relatives have reported being told by the police he suffered a violent death, his head repeatedly struck with sharp-edged and blunt weapons.The teenager's body may have lain there, unnoticed, since he was last seen on Tuesday 22 November, first outside the main branch of the Co-op at about 9pm, and then by a taxi driver who ferried him from one address to another. He seemed to be another lad heading for a late-night party. In death Aitchison is now known to everyone in Stornoway and the Western Isles, and to many beyond. On Monday, Northern Constabulary confirmed the first murder on the Western Isles since 1968 when an elderly crofter was found beaten to death next to her bed and her money stolen. That case remains unresolved. "It's so rare that there's a shock, a terrible shock to the whole community," said Father Roddy Johnson, Stornoway's Catholic priest.At a press conference on Wednesday afternoon, as a heavy hail storm blew in off the Atlantic, the police confirmed that 60 officers were now dedicated to the inquiry. Many, including forensics officers and senior detectives, have been drafted in from the mainland. Detectives, heavily dressed against the brittle winter air, are continuing to search the building, a former RAF store and barracks on the outskirts of the small village of Steinish hailing back to an era when Stornoway was a cold war staging post for Nato air forces.Their activities are hidden from neighbouring bungalows and a busy farm by a stand of conifers and native trees which almost entirely shields it from view, but outside the building were two bouquets left by Aitchison's family. One sent by his father Norman and sister Natasha said "Liam, Shine on our Crazy Diamond. Love Always." Another, signed by "Granny London and Grandad Abbey, Tina, Finlay and Family" simply said "Liam, forever in our hearts."A few minutes drive away in Plasterfield, the small estate where the cabbie left Aitchison on 22 November, a weather stained bungalow has been meticulously stripped and searched by forensics officers in disposable white boiler suits, face masks and disposable gloves. In its porch window were a China shirehorse, fake flowers and a lifeboat model and in every window, the curtains are tightly closed.Drains have been prised up the road outside which, like much of Lewis, has been coated in a crisp layer of snow. Several people have been brought in for questioning, but none arrested. The inquiry team is still searching for three young men in hoodies seen near the crime scene.The police hinted broadly on Wednesday that they had a clear idea of what happened and were extremely confident they would soon get a result. Chief Inspector Gordon MacLeod , the area commander, said: "There's an awful lot of information that comes from various sources but I'm confident, as area commander here, we will have a successful conclusion to this case, and those responsible will be brought to justice."Townspeople in Stornoway are guarded about discussing Aitchison's death. This is a small but closely-bound community, in part because of its relative physical isolation from the mainland, in part due to its large family networks and in part because of its strong religious traditions – deeply orthodox presbyterianism in the northern parts, particularly outside Stornoway, and Catholic in the south."We're not strangers on these islands," noted Johnson. There are strong suspicions that he was killed elsewhere. Names are already circulating locally about who was allegedly responsible.Aitchison had a series of run-ins with the authorities and taxi drivers. On 22 November, he had been due in court to be sentenced for assaulting a paramedic trying to tend to him in July.Local sources say Aitchison, originally from Lochboisdale, South Uist, the largely Catholic island at the southern end of the island chain, had been living in Stornoway since August, dossing on friend's couches, drifting from house to house. In public, he was described as a "very engaging and likeable man." Alasdair Allan, the Scottish National party MSP for the Western Isles, knew him slightly. The teenager had been a member of the islands' children's parliament. "I can't really comment on Liam but I would say that the whole community is really shocked by what's happened," Allan said. "I actually met Liam once or twice at various events that were organised through schools. I think in a community, when something like this happens, everyone really feels at least a small share of the consequences."The local office of the BBC has calculated that cases such as Aitchison's occur once every few generations on the islands: just four in the last 150 years.The Western Isles has a population about 26,500 and Allan noted this year that recorded crime there had fallen by 43% since 2007, to 625 offences. The police clear-up rate is 85% and above; all 37 serious crimes of violence reported in 2010/11 were cleared up."If there's anything which is distinctive about the Western Isles it's simply the fact that most people genuinely knows or knows of all the other people, so it's a community which has strong values and ultimately a community where people look out for each other," Allan said. "So it is absolutely exceptional and unheard of for anything like this to happen. I'm not saying the Western Isles is not without problems – it has its problems – but it's the kind of place where you would like to think that people don't get forgotten about." Johnson agreed. "What is noticeable here is people have time for you and people do stop and talk, but the thing which is most noticeable is the general courtesy of people; it's just a very polite society, a very kindly people, and I would wrap it up in that wider courtesy," he said."Does the area have its problems with drink? Yes. Do every area have problems with drink? Yes. Do this area have its people with drugs?Yes. Does every area have problems with drugs? Yes. I wouldn't say it's any worse here."The community, I think, when you get this terrible events, the community get hit by an anger and by a guilt. You feel angry about what's happened, directed to those who committed this terrible act and a guilt maybe that all of us collectively should've done more, to help Liam and those like him."Also a sense that somehow our own community is threatened by that; it attacks your own sense of safety and off well-being."Stornoway's powerful sense of solidarity came to life on Wednesday after news of sneering remarks about Aitchison's death by Matthew Wright and his guest comedian Charlie Baker on his Channel 5 show The Wright Stuff quickly spread. With Aitchison's photograph on screen,Wright quipped "there's been a murder" in a cod Scottish accent, and Baker joked that the 43 years since the last murder was "the longest episode of Taggart", the crime drama set in Glasgow.The channel and the broadcasting regulator Ofcom were flooded with complaints from locals and from members of Aitchison's family. In a statement read out by their police family liaison officer, the family said Wright's remarks were "insensitive and offensive," adding: "This is very upsetting and insulting for not just the family, but for the whole community of the Western Isles."Allan said Wright's behaviour was "beyond belief, and has disgusted everyone who has seen the programme." Wright did apologise for causing offence, but grudgingly. He said the complainants ought to "grow up."