The Dragons' Den star Duncan Bannatyne has been forced to delete tweets after offering a £50,000 reward for anyone who broke the arms of a man who used Twitter to threaten his daughter.Someone going by the name of Yuri Vasilyev tweeted Bannatyne three days ago, saying: "I'm looking for a £35,000 investment to stop us hurting your Hollie Bannatyne. We will bring hurt and pain into your life. We are watching her. She is very attractive. Want photos?"After revealing that police had been informed of the threat, Bannatyne told his 371,653 Twitter followers: "I offer £25,000 reward for the capture of the coward who calls himself @YuriVasilyev_ Double if his arms are broken first."He added: "I am serious btw [by the way]. I think he is in Moscow."Bannatyne's strategy appears to echo the plot of the film Ransom, in which a millionaire, played by Mel Gibson, puts out a bounty on the criminals who have kidnapped his son.A number of Twitter users were quick to take Bannatyne to task for appearing to solicit violence."Just read it thought it was a bit irresponsible of @DuncanBannatyne. Some nutter will take it seriously," wrote one.Bannatyne replied: "Good I want you to."Another user went further, asking: "You are seriously trying to pay someone, to break someone's arms, on an incredibly public forum? Fair enough … Just to clarify, you 100% want everyone to know you are seriously doing this. Despite it being illegal?"The criticism appeared to bring about a change of heart, and Bannatyne deleted the offending tweets and amended his offer to "£30,000 reward for info leading to his arrest".However, he kept up the pressure, telling his followers he had tracked the alleged criminal to an internet cafe in Moscow."@YuriVasilyev_ My people are getting closer to you every minute, run and hide you little coward in Moscow," he tweeted. "Go home to your mum and cry we are closing in on you little boy."The saga was picked up across Twitter, leading parody – "I offer £25 for the capture of my 3-year-old. Double if her toenails are clipped" – and more serious points.Many users made comparisons with the Twitter joke trial in which Paul Chambers was convicted of "menace" for threatening to blow up Robin Hood airport in a humorous tweet."I hope Bannatyne doesn't threaten to blow Russian chap sky high if there's any snow in Moscow. Then he'll be in trouble," wrote David Allen Green, the New Statesman's legal correspondent who also represents Chambers.Bannatyne's agent confirmed that the police had been informed. On Tuesday afternoon, Bannatyne released a statement saying: "My family is well protected but I take any threat to them very seriously and will do all I can to ensure the person or people involved are caught."The entrepreneur, author and philanthropist made no mention of the deleted tweets.