From the moment she heard her sister, Arlene Fraser, had disappeared, Carol Gillies knew it was murder and that her brother-in-law, Nat, was responsible. The problem she faced over the days, weeks and months that followed was convincing other people. It took a decade, but with Nat last week losing his appeal against his conviction she has been proved right.'A policeman came to our door at 2.30am on 29 April, Arlene had gone missing on the 28th,' Carol said, recalling the moment in 1998 when her family nightmare began. 'He told me my sister had gone missing from her home and he was checking to see whether she'd come to see me. I remember saying right then: "Did you know her husband has been charged with her attempted murder?".'Carol was older than Arlene by 20 months. Growing up in Elgin she worked hard and was good at exams. Arlene didn't care about school; her mother Isabelle describes her as scatterbrained. In 1985, Carol, now 45, moved away with her husband, Stephen, a gas engineer. They now run their own business in Erskine, just outside Glasgow, and live in a smart suburb, in a neat bungalow. Her parents, who divorced, also left the town: her father to England and then Edinburgh, her mother to Hamilton.But Arlene stayed in Elgin close to where she grew up and married Nat in 1987. 'She had her friends and I had mine,' Carol said. 'We were very different and used to spark off each other a lot as teenagers. I wasn't the person Arlene would have come to with a problem.'But Arlene was deep. If you were sat here talking to her you'd be doing all the talking. So getting things out of her was difficult and often you just gave up. Perhaps Arlene didn't like to tell me things because she knew I'd tell mum.'By April 1998, Carol knew Arlene and Nat were living apart and that her sister had recently fled to a women's refuge.'Looking back, I realised there were signs,' said Carol. 'If you visited them, you might see a broken chair and when you asked what had happened, Arlene would say Nat had done it.'After the couple separated, Arlene took a business studies course at Moray College, made new friends and started having a social life again. Getting home after a night out she found Nat waiting for her. They had a row and Nat squeezed Arlene's throat with his bare hands so hard he had left her eyes bloodshot.Yet a month later when Arlene 'disappeared' many people were reluctant to believe she had been murdered. Nat had a cast-iron alibi - in court it was later claimed he had made a point of being seen in different places to ensure this stuck - and, crucially, Arlene's body was nowhere to be found.Nat, a fruit and veg wholesaler, told anyone who would listen that he was convinced she had simply abandoned her two children - Jamie, 10, and Natalie, five - for a new life elsewhere.The day she learnt Arlene had gone missing, Carol travelled to Elgin with her mother, staying at first in Arlene and Nat's bungalow on Smith Street, where police now believe Arlene died.'But I couldn't bear to be there for very long so I went to stay with my father-in-law,' she said. 'It was obvious to us that Nat wasn't looking for Arlene and I wanted to scream at people that it was because he knew she was dead.'Over the next few weeks, Carol threw herself into the campaign to look for her sister: posters were printed, she appeared at press conferences and spoke to journalists. She was convinced Arlene had been murdered, but without a body, it felt like pushing against a locked door. It was six months before the search became a murder inquiry.Arlene suffered from Crohn's disease, a chronic illness of the large intestine which meant she needed medication and a strict diet. She needed to undergo an operation but had put it off to complete her college course. She had poor eyesight and relied on contact lenses. Yet, if she had run off for a new life, she had taken neither her pills nor her contacts with her.'The problem is, Elgin is such a small place,' Carol said. 'Everybody knows everybody and everyone knew Nat because of the type of business he had. Because he was so friendly and chatty no one believed he would do anything to hurt Arlene. But there was a darker side to him as well with the attempted murder charge. The police were divided. Some just didn't believe it. I remember one shaking his head saying, "Not Nat, no, I don't believe it of Nat". It took a long time for the case to build up.'It was five years before Nat stood trial for Arlene's murder. The investigation threw up plenty of evidence, all of it circumstantial. The case eventually hung on the testimony of Hector Dick, a local pig farmer, who revealed that Nat had hired a hit man 'from down south' and boasted of disposing of the body by chopping it up, removing her hands and teeth so 'she'll never be found'.Carol followed every step of the case and knew the forensic detail as well as any of the detectives and can still recall facts and figures instantly. 'I really believed for a long time we would find Arlene. For five years that was my total focus, my aim,' she said. 'The year after Nat got jailed was possibly the worst for me because everything stopped. I suddenly realised what I had been doing for the past five years: I had to get a life.'But the suggestion that Arlene was still alive and Nat was innocent didn't go away. In 2005, Glenn Lucas, at one time a co-accused in the inquiry with Nat who has since died, wrote a book, Murdered or Missing?, portraying the sickly young mum as a drug-taking, promiscuous party-goer, and alleged Dick was a liar. Then Nat appealed and was released on bail in 2006. However, last week three judges threw out the appeal and Nat was told he would serve another 20 years behind bars. They considered the evidence, while circumstantial, to be overwhelming.