Police are trying to determine what caused the death of 11-year-old Rory Blackhall after last night identifying a body discovered during a search for him as the missing schoolboy.As forensic science specialists scoured the scene in Livingston, locals yesterday told of their fears for the "lovable, fantastic boy" who had just come through a difficult year and had been missing for four days.Rory's parents had recently separated, his grandmother had died and one of his closest friends had moved away. He was said to be unhappy at returning to school after the summer holidays.Livingston, in West Lothian, is a new town designed around families, a place of speed bumps and swings. Yesterday it was a town on edge. Rory was last seen when his mother, Michelle, dropped him off in a layby near his primary school at 8.30am on Thursday. A huge search was launched after his grandfather went to pick him up and discovered that he had never made it to class.His body was found on Sunday afternoon off a wooded pathway less than half a mile from Meldrum primary school, where Rory was a pupil. By late yesterday afternoon, it was still at the scene. Lothian and Borders police said it was crucial that every scrap of evidence was gathered before the body was removed."I walked to school with my weans this morning," said Sam Fowler, 36, the father of two teenage boys. "Everyone was taking their kids down until they find out what's actually happened. Until such time as we know we are going to be on edge, I think."Mr Fowler, who had come to lay flowers among the growing number of bouquets at the entrance to Nellburn path, where the body was found, said he had not joined the official search but had taken his dog around the nearby woods just in case. Most people wanted to do something, he said.A local minister, the Rev Colin Douglas, of St Columba's Ecumenical church, said: "We were hoping and praying that Rory would be found safe and well ... it is a very sad time."At the primary school, Karen Carroll, whose son was in Rory's class, said the community was struggling with the news. Officers were asking parents whether they remembered anything unusual about last Thursday morning."My son is quiet - he just hasn't spoken about it," said Mrs Carroll. "His dad told him that a body had been found and he just went up to his room, and he hasn't really said very much about it."There are different stories going about, but I think everyone is just feeling the same, especially when you have children at the school."Police said they had been inundated with offers of help in the search for Rory. On the day the body was found, about 200 police officers and 200 volunteers were involved in the hunt. Mounted police, marine units and dog teams had also been scouring the area near where Rory was last seen, checking the woods, a reservoir, a canal and a quarry.Posters bearing a picture of him in his school uniform were plastered across the town and handed out to matchgoers at the Livingston v Dunfermline fixture on Saturday.Sex offenders were also interviewed and police said they were keeping an open mind about what had happened.On Friday, Rory's mother had issued a plea to her "fantastic and affectionate" son to get in touch. She spoke of his passion for trains and diving, and his love of dogs, and begged him: "Sweetheart, come home. Mummy and Daddy love you very much."She said Rory had had a hard time lately. "There have been things happening within the family that have upset Rory - a number of things over this year. I think this final thing of going back to school, he was unhappy about."