Detectives "manufactured" a star witness to the Damilola Taylor murder because they were desperate to avoid a repeat of the Stephen Lawrence debacle, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.They fed information to a disturbed and damaged 14-year-old girl who had a history of attention seeking because they could not afford to fail, alleged Courtenay Griffiths QC. The barrister made the claim as he cross-examined Sergeant Carolyn Crooks, the officer who interviewed and took statements from the 14-year-old girl who has told the court she saw four youths surround and stab 10-year-old Damilola in Peckham, south London, on November 27, 2000. The girl is the only person to have said she witnessed the incident. Mr Griffiths said that criticism of the Metropolitan police over the way it handled the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence meant the force "could not afford to have another unsolved black death". "By January 2001, you officers were desperate. I suggest you were sent in to manufacture the eyewitness," said Mr Griffiths. "I am going to suggest that you quite simply took advantage of a disturbed and damaged young girl and turned her into an eyewitness... I am not suggesting for one instant this was one-sided." Mr Griffiths said it was "a brilliant coup" for the police when the girl started cooperating. The teenager, he said, was "going to save the day". He asked Sgt Crooks if she ever felt that the 14-year-old had taken her "for a ride". "No", she replied. She also denied that the investigation had stalled by January last year because there were no witnesses. Mr Griffiths asked Sgt Crooks about a moment during one interview when the girl looked at a map of Peckham and she asked her "Is that where Damilola was stabbed?". "Didn't your ears pick up? Didn't alarm bells start ringing?" asked Mr Griffiths. Sgt Crooks said the girl needed assistance reading the map and that she had not intentionally provided her with any help. "If my fingers went to where Damilola was stabbed, it was not intentional or meant to be a prompt." She also denied encouraging the girl to tell a story that would help the youngest defendant, who was once a friend of hers. "All I wanted was for her to tell me the truth," said Sgt Crooks. The officer admitted she was pleased when the girl finally admitted she had seen the attack, which took place in Blakes Road, but denied using the £50,000 reward for information as an inducement. The four youths accused of murdering Damilola have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers, one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17, have pleaded not guilty. Mr Griffiths said telephone records showed that the brothers' mobile phones were switched on near Tower Bridge shortly after the stabbing. "Unless they were beamed across like in Star Trek, they could not have got there in a few minutes," he said. The trial continues.