Britain's first dedicated prison wing for elderly inmates is to open next year. The move is a response to the Government's emphasis on tougher sentencing policies, which have resulted in more elderly prisoners serving longer sentences.The decision to convert a wing of Norwich prison into a specialist centre comes as penal reform groups express concerns that the needs of the burgeoning number of elderly prisoners are being neglected. Research by the Howard League for Penal Reform highlighted that there had been a gradual increase in the time served by people given life sentences. In 1975, 7 per cent of lifers were serving sentences of between 10 and 15 years. By 2000, this had risen to 17 per cent, while the percentage of those serving 15 years or more jumped from 2 per cent to 16 per cent. Between 1990 and 2000, the number of prisoners aged 60 and over in jails in England and Wales trebled to more than 1,200, or 2.4 per cent of the prison population. The rise can also be partly explained by a shift in sentencing policy. In 1995, fines accounted for the biggest proportion of all sentences - 31 per cent of the total. However, by 2000, imprisonment accounted for 31 per cent of all sentences and fines for 24 per cent. The new wing at Norwich will contain 15 beds, the majority of which will be devoted to infirm lifers. It will offer access to health professionals who specialise in treating the elderly, as well as staff trained to deal with their physical needs. A recent report from the Prison Reform Trust, Growing Old in Prison, said the Prison Service was failing to meet elderly inmates' 'specialist health, social and rehabilitation needs'. The PRT report found that more than 80 per cent of older prisoners have a long-standing chronic illness or disability. Of these, more than a third suffer from cardiovascular disease and more than a fifth suffer from a respiratory disease. Nearly a third suffer from depression. 'In terms of their physical and mental health, elderly prisoners tend to be up to 10 years 'older' than people in the community. Many prisons are Victorian and require people to go up narrow staircases,' said Geoff Dobson, Deputy Director of the PRT. The PRT's report confirmed an earlier analysis by the Prisons Inspectorate that 'the Prison Service is woefully ill-organised to care for the increasing number of elderly prisoners'. The Howard League came across one prisoner, 'Eric', who was 75 and suffering from Parkinson's, which had affected his vision and mobility and left him confused. 'Prison officers found him staring at the wall one day because he couldn't find the door to his cell. He often didn't know why he was in prison.' More than half of the male prisoners aged over 60 have committed sex offences, while just over a fifth of them are serving time for violence. One in 10 is serving a drugs-related sentence. Kingston Prison in Portsmouth and Wymott Prison in Lancashire have both refurbished units whose inmates are largely made up of elderly prisoners, but Norwich is believed to be the first prison to convert a wing with the explicit aim of housing older inmates.