This Labour government has been kicked very hard, sometimes justifiably, over its disregard for hard-fought civil liberties. So was the 2003 Criminal Justice Act, which enabled four Heathrow warehouse villains to be sent down without the benefit of a jury yesterday, a triumph for law and order or a defeat?My instinct is to say that – on balance – dispensing with a jury after the last one was tampered with was the right thing to do. Lawyers squealed, but lawyers and judges at all levels – high and low – are neither as smart nor as loftily disinterested as they tell each other. Juries are to lawyers what BA passengers are to cabin crew staff. The unconvicted villain of this case was a judge. More on him anon.That's not to say that juries are not central to our sense of justice. Liberty's Shami Chakrabarti was right on the money when she warned last night that without juries justice could come to seem like "the professional classes in permanent judgment over ordinary people". It's a bit like that anyway in most courts, since the working class in usually confined to the dock and the jury box.But in this instance – and many others – there was evidence that someone tried to nobble the third jury that attempted to try the case. Just to remind you, after the £1.75m robbery at Menzies Cargo Warehouse in February 2004 one trial ended in a hung jury and a second was stymied by a juror bunking off.We'll come back to that. It has cost £25m to jail this week's foursome, and now we will have to feed and water them for years to come. Still, they seem to be serious villains with serious form, so it was worth it. It always is with villains – as opposed to old ladies who sell goldfish to undercover narks pretending to be ordinary 14-year-olds. Read that case and weep.But it's not the robbery that tilts me towards the first deployment of David (who else?) Blunkett's 2003 amendment to the ancient law on juries. It's the nobbling. In 2003 the then-home secretary said that £9m a year was already being spent on jury surveillance as nobbling grew and grew. Judge-only trials were the system's response, just as Diplock courts were when Irish republicans – loyalists too? – started fixing juries in Belfast and Derry.Personally, I wasn't convinced when the law allowed complex fraud cases to be tried without juries on the grounds that they were so long and complicated that ordinary folk would not understand them. The Serious Fraud Office has a poor record in the courts – though it seems to be busy in the City under new management – and sometimes fails to make its case.But on petty theft, another target of Labour ministers, the lawyers who argued against the loss of the right to trial by jury were less convincing than they thought they were. Everyone who knows the system knows that those who opt for jury trials often do so in the knowledge that the evidence against them is such that only a daft jury would believe their defence. It's worth taking a punt on getting a daft jury.Not that judges are perfect. Heathrow trial No 2 was aborted in 2007 because the jury told the judge, Jeremy Roberts QC, that they had reached "very strong majority verdicts" despite having two jurors discharged.The judge sent them off on bank holiday without instructing them on majority verdicts, let alone collecting one. After a weekend off one juror refused to return, complaining that he/she felt "like a prisoner". I wasn't in court – you never know it all unless you are – but I'm amazed the judge tolerated that. It's cost us all millions.So, we should not allow ministers – Labour or Tory – to ski down the slippery slope towards non-jury trials in the way that German courts did in the 1920s and France where juries try only cases where the jail tariff is at least 10 years. Did you notice Helen Pidd's report last month on the kidnap of an American investment banker by his financial victims? They were tried anonymously with no surname given beyond X and Y.But the ability of juries to sit and pass judgment on the facts without fear of reprisal or private promise of reward is pretty fundamental to justice as we see it. So those who try to nobble juries – with threats or cash – deserve to be severely punished. It's like vigilantism: it's a dangerous development that needs to be tackled head on.It's tempting to say that those accused in such cases should also face additional punishment as a further deterrent, but even I can see the problem with that, just as I could when Tony Blair got carried away with 90-day detention for terror suspects: there was, and is, a problem: the remedy was disproportionate.But liberal societies occasionally to have act in illiberal ways to protect themselves from people who want to impose their views with bombs or earn a living by armed robbery. It's an eternal debate, with few easy answers. We can sleep a little better for knowing that John Twomey and his partners in crime are behind bars, jury or not.