A murder inquiry is continuing after a man apparently killed his family before taking his own life at a house in Pudsey, near Leeds.Richard Smith, 37, his wife Clair, 36, and their sons Ben, nine and Aaron, one, were discovered in the fire-damaged upstairs bedroom of the property in a cul-de-sac late on Sunday afternoon. Detectives are working on the theory that it was a case of murder followed by suicide, although the cause of death will be determined by a coroner's inquest at a later date. No one else is being sought as part of the inquiry, detectives said on Monday.Officers were called to the scene at 5.30pm on Sunday. The family are thought to have moved to the modern stone-built property some months ago. The only sign of anything untoward was a broken window in the lounge and two cars were parked outside.Detective Superintendent Paul Taylor, of West Yorkshire police's homicide and major inquiry team, said: "I can confirm this is a murder investigation but at this stage we are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident."Initially, we had concerns regarding the release of harmful chemicals or gases. Following testing, we no longer have any concerns with regards to those working at the scene and we will continue our investigations. Inquiries are at an early stage and I would ask anyone with information about the incident to contact the homicide and major incident team."A family friend, Sara Turnbull, was in tears as she left flowers by the police cordon outside the property. Her husband Dean told the Yorkshire Post that the families had known each other for 15 years and had been on a number of holidays together."We can't take it in," he said. "All we know is that they are a lovely family, two lovely kids and we're in shock. I went out for a drink a week or so ago and I saw Richard and Clair out." He said there had been no sense of any problems. It is understood that relatives discovered the bodies on Sunday and chemical concerns were raised after a mystery residue was found on the bedroom wall. Richard Smith worked for a shopfitting firm. His cousin, Gary Tempest, described them as the "perfect family." He said he did not believe that he could have hurt his family as he thought the world of them. "I've known Richard all my life. There's never been any bad things - arguing or anything."Another friend, Sarah Wilson, also wept as she laid flowers. "I can't imagine what's made this happen, I really can't," she said. "They were just ordinary. I'm making that sound like a bad thing and it's not."Other neighbours said there was no inkling there was anything amiss with the family. The deaths come days after a police inspector who had been dismissed from his force attacked his family in Melton Mowbray before apparently killing himself. Toby Day is thought to have killed his wife Samantha and their six-year-old daughter, Genevieve, days after he was sacked from Leicestershire police.