Belgian investigators were today carrying out DNA tests on a drink bottle used by a girl who resembled the missing British four-year-old Madeleine McCann.Officers were contacted by a child therapist who believed she had seen Madeleine in a restaurant in the town of Tongeren, on the Dutch border.A Belgian police spokeswoman said the child therapist was "100% sure" that the girl she had seen was Madeleine. Police said they were taking the sighting seriously and were looking for further leads."We had a witness who possibly saw Madeleine McCann," the spokeswoman said. "She [the girl] was accompanied by two people, a man and a woman. It is a trusted witness. She works with children and noticed something unusual - that is why we are taking it seriously."The witness told police that the woman with Madeleine spoke English and the man was Dutch. Both were acting strangely.The spokeswoman added that results from the DNA tests on the drink bottle, taken away from the De Pauze restaurant, were expected next week. Forces have been told to look out for a Volvo estate with Belgian number plates beginning VOV.A waitress at the restaurant said she served the couple with the girl when they visited the restaurant on Saturday. Jolien Houbrech, a 21-year-old student, said the child had long blonde hair and was aged around five or six.She said she had at first had no suspicions about the couple, who she assumed were the girl's parents, until another customer approached her."A woman who was a child therapist came up to me and asked if I noticed any resemblance between Madeleine and the child," she said."She said that, because of her work as a child therapist, she had noticed that the people's behaviour was not that of normal parents. After she said that, I said maybe she should call it in to the police." The couple and child left before officers were called.There have been at least two previous reported sightings of the girl in Belgium this summer.Madeleine disappeared from her family's holiday apartment in the Portuguese resort of Praia da Luz exactly three months ago.