The government today urged local authorities to make more use of antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) to crack down on so-called "yob culture" just hours after the orders were branded "cumbersome, costly and difficult to enforce".Home Office minister John Denham unveiled a radical overhaul of the system for the Asbos, which have been issued at a rate of only about 250 a year since their introduction in 1999.The relaunch of the orders comes a day before the Queen's speech, which is expected to have at its heart a string of measures to combat antisocial behaviour such as vandalism, graffiti, litter and public drunkenness, which Tony Blair said was "probably the biggest immediate issue for people in the country".It also follows a report published today by the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Nacro) which showed that Asbos took an average of three months to obtain, cost more than £5,000 each to enforce. The report called for more community action to prevent the offensive behaviour happening in the first place, and warned "a focus upon one element of intervention at the expense of others can only result in a quick fix at the expense of any long-term solutions". Nacro's Rachel Armitage said: "Asbos can work but they undoubtedly work better if they take into account local circumstances. Asbos can only ever prohibit behaviour. We must also realise that there are proactive ways for communities to prevent it from arising in the first place."Changes to ASBOs introduced in the Police Reform Act earlier this year will come into force on December 2, making them easier to use, said Mr Denham. He told a conference in London: "Antisocial behaviour is a blight on people's lives and can do lasting damage to fragile communities. Asbos and acceptable behaviour contracts are key tools in tackling low-level crime and disorder and when used effectively increase the community's confidence in the ability of the local authority and police to deal with the problem. "We have responded to the concerns of the public and practitioners by making the process of applying for Asbos simpler. The orders will be more effective and the public will see a greater difference as a result. "But the government cannot work alone and tackling antisocial behaviour needs a commitment from all areas of the community. Police, local authorities, housing, magistrates, social and youth groups must all work in partnership to more effectively tackle this problem that is such a blight on people's lives."