Police have been given more time to question the parents of a Muslim teenager who was the suspected victim of a so-called honour killing after they were arrested on suspicion of murder.Cheshire police were granted a further 12 hours to question the parents of Shafilea Ahmed, 17, from Warrington, Cheshire, whose badly decomposed remains were found by the River Kent near Sedgwick, Cumbria, in February 2004.She disappeared from her home in Great Sankey in September 2003, and there had been no sightings of her until her body was found five months later.Following her disappearance, it emerged she had refused an arranged marriage and, during a visit to Pakistan to meet a prospective suitor, had swallowed bleach after which she required regular hospital treatment. She had intended to go to university to become a lawyer. Her father later claimed she had swallowed the bleach during a power cut, mistaking it for a bottle of fruit juice.Cheshire police arrested Shafilea's father, Iftikhar Ahmed, 50, a taxi driver, and her mother, Farzana, 47, early yesterday at their home. They are being questioned at a police station in Runcorn, and their house is under police guard. The couple were arrested and bailed by police on suspicion of kidnapping in December 2004 but were never charged with any offence after the Crown Prosecution Service said there was insufficient evidence. They have strenuously protested their innocence and claimed police were racist, a claim denied by investigators. Six other members of Shafilea's extended family were also arrested and freed on bail in connection with her disappearance.A spokeswoman for Cheshire police said today: "The man and woman arrested yesterday morning in Warrington on suspicion of the murder of Shafilea Ahmed have had their custody period extended beyond 24 hours, and continue to be interviewed by detectives."The arrests follow an armed robbery at the couple's home in August when Shafilea's mother and two siblings were tied up. Her sister, Alisha, 22, was arrested in connection with the robbery. Nobody has been charged concerning Shafilea's death. In January 2008, East and South Cumbria coroner Ian Smith recorded a verdict of unlawful killing at an inquest – saying she had been the victim of "a very vile murder". Her family tried failed to overturn the verdict in the high court.