Police investigating the brutal murder of Marsha McDonnell today said that her killer may have attacked another teenager last month.Detectives said a 17-year-old girl from the Stawberry Hill, near Richmond, could have been a victim of the same person who bludgeoned Ms McDonnell to death just a couple of miles away. The girl's father discovered her lying badly injured in the snow on January 8. She had been returning from local shops, listening to a personal stereo, at around 9pm. She could not remember what had happened, and her family initially believed that she had fallen over in the icy conditions and hit her head. She was taken by ambulance to West Middlesex hospital, where she was treated for a serious head injury, concussion, a fractured cheek and a ruptured eye socket. The teenager then spent ten days at Charing Cross hospital before returning home to recover. However, the teenager's family contacted police when they heard of Ms McDonnell's death. A pathologist re-examined her, and concluded that a 6cm deep laceration to her head was consistent with being heavily struck once with a blunt instrument.Ms McDonnell, who police believe was the victim of a random attack earlier this month, was struck on the head three times while walking home from a bus stop last week. She was just 100 yards from her home in Hampton when the attack took place. The detective in charge of the investigation, DCS David Cook, said there was growing concern that the same person carried out the attacks, although the two incidents had not been conclusively linked."The attack on the 17-year-old girl in the Strawberry Hill area is similar enough to the murder of Marsha McDonnell for us to investigate the two incidents in parallel," he said. "We would appeal to anyone who may have information about this attack to contact the police on 020 8358 0100."Police said the victim was extremely traumatised. They have urged anyone who was in the Strawberry Hill area at approximately 9pm on January 8 to contact them. Detectives described the teenager as white, approximately 5'5" tall, and slim. She was wearing a black, knee-length hooded top and jeans.