Lawyers acting for the TV presenter John Leslie are planning to launch a landmark bid under the Human Rights Act to try to get indecent assault charges against him dropped.They will argue that a torrent of prejudicial publicity and an apparent campaign of leaks to the media by Scotland Yard's 'celebrity squad' have made it impossible for him to have a fair trial. Leslie, 38, will make his first magistrates' court appearance on Wednesday, after being charged earlier this month in relation to an alleged incident with an actress, said to have occurred seven years ago. Immediately after being charged, he told reporters there was 'absolutely no truth' in her claims and said he looked forward to clearing his name. His solicitor, Jason McCue, told The Observer that Leslie would vigorously assert his innocence. But other legal sources say that if the case does go before a jury, media coverage may already have made a fair hearing impossible. 'John wants to be proven innocent, but can he really be tried impartially on the facts of the case of which he has been accused?' said McCue. A continuing stream of tabloid stories has accused Leslie of a crime for which he has never been investigated, much less charged: the 'rape' of the TV celebrity Ulrika Jonsson by an unidentified man, as described in her autobiography. 'He's been publicly and repeatedly accused of this and other offences by newspapers who appear to assume he's guilty until proven innocent,' the legal sources said. Leslie's lawyers are still debating their strategy, but are likely either before the magistrates, or before the start of the Crown Court trial, to make an application to have the charges dropped under article six of the Human Rights Act. They may also argue the case amounts to an abuse of process under common law. The main plank of their argument is likely to be that the risk of prejudice was 'so grave it cannot be removed' by a judge telling jurors to forget what they had seen in the media. Although the effect of prejudicial publicity has formed the basis of a handful of successful criminal appeals, a successful Human Rights Act application pre-trial would be a legal landmark. Jonsson said in her book that she was raped in 1988, when a consensual encounter with a man who worked in television got out of hand. Although she continues to give no clue as to the identity of her alleged assailant, within days of the book's publication last October, the Channel 5 presenter Matthew Wright claimed on air that it was Leslie. Leslie is now considering suing Wright, and the papers which reported his assertion, for libel. Wright's claim was followed by a ferocious tabloid campaign. Newspapers launched telephone 'hotlines,' urging other women who had supposedly been assaulted by Leslie to come forward. More than 30 women did so, and their allegations were reported as fact. One columnist described Leslie without caveat or qualification as 'the groper, coke-snorter, the party boy with violent sexual tastes', while headlines published over his photograph simply stated: 'Rapist'. As recently last week, newspapers which cover Jonsson's activities were still reporting that Leslie was accused of raping her. The legal sources said they were particularly concerned by the apparent role of the police in stoking the media campaign against him and other celebrities. Leslie has been investigated by Scotland Yard's elite Special Enquiry Team, known within the Metropolitan Police as the 'celebrity squad', which previously handled cases such as the Who Wants to be a Millionaire? fraud trial and the botched prosecution of Princess Diana's butler, Paul Burrell.A Scotland Yard spokesman said yesterday that the team had been set up 'for the investigation of sensitive or high-profile inquiries involving non-life threatening crimes or situations'. The evidence suggests that one or more of its members enjoys a close relationship with the media. When Leslie was first interviewed by police last December, police and his lawyers agreed that the location would be decided at the last moment in order to avoid media attention. But when he turned up at Belgravia police station, more than 40 reporters and several live TV crews were waiting for him. The same thing happened when he was charged earlier this month. Media stories about Leslie published in the fortnight after he was accused of attacking Jonsson included 37 separate comments attributed to police spokesmen or police sources. This phenomenon has continued, although it is clear that some of these sources are far from accurate. For example, one police source claimed shortly before Leslie was charged that he was about to be exonerated. McCue declined to comment on the particulars of Leslie's case, but added: 'I do have a fundamental problem with a squad to deal with celebrities. It creates a minority, and when you do that, you create a potential for unfairness. It inherently undermines the principle of equality before the law, of a level legal playing field. What next? A gay squad?' It is understood that Leslie's lawyers received a full account of the charges against him only a week ago, after their alleged details had already been published by newspapers. 'Was that an attempt to create still further prejudice just for the hell of it?' legal sources asked. 'Surely Leslie and his lawyers had a right to know the full allegations first.' The sources were also critical of the long period - eight months - that elapsed between the first allegations against Leslie and his being charged. There is a rule in Scotland that a trial must start within 110 days of an accusation: 'Although their system is somewhat different, that rule acknowledges that 100 days ought to be long enough for a police investigation,' the sources said. And let's face it, the case against John Leslie is not that complicated. It's hardly 9/11.' Leslie is also said to be considering whether to sue Granada TV, which fired him at the end of October from his job as presenter of This Morning when he failed to answer the allegations against him. He had said nothing on the advice of both by his lawyers and the police, but when Granada decided to 'let him go', the press reported that he was 'damned by his silence'. 'When you're fighting a case that's about your client's innocence, you shouldn't have to be climbing over hurdles of this kind,' McCue said. Deprived of any income for nine months and facing huge legal bills, Leslie is selling his house.