A teenager told police she watched her parents suffocate her sister to death by forcing a carrier bag into her mouth so she could not breathe and placing their hands over her face, a court heard on Tuesday.Alesha Ahmed, now 23, said she watched her parents "acting together" during the murder of her older sister, Shafilea Ahmed, 17, on 11 September 2003, Chester crown court heard. She said that later that night she saw her father with a large object wrapped in binbags and brown tape – which she assumed was Shafilea – and which he drove off with in a car.Alesha's parents, Iftikhar Ahmed, 52, a taxi driver, and his wife, Farzana, 49, deny murdering Shafilea, whose badly decomposed remains were found near a flooded Cumbrian river five months later in February 2004. The couple sat impassively in the wood panelled courtroom, with Farzana occasionally dabbing her nose.The prosecution barrister, Andrew Edis QC, said Alesha watched as her parents suffocated her sister at their home in Warrington, Cheshire on the night she went missing. He said: "Both parents acting together got a carrier bag that they forced into her mouth. Their hands were over her face, closing her airways so she couldn't breathe."In the immediate aftermath of Shafilea's murder, Alesha "talks about looking into the kitchen and seeing her mother sorting through a pile of blankets and sheets. She saw her mother with black binbags and two rolls of wide brown tape and some black tape," Edis said.Then she looked out of the kitchen window and saw her father with a large object wrapped in binbags and brown tape, "which she assumed was the body of her sister", said Edis. Soon after, at around 10pm, she is said to have heard a car driving off with her father at the wheel and her mother remaining in the house.The following evening, there was a sighting of a white van in Sedgwick – where Shafilea's remains were eventually discovered the following year – when Alesha was "telling her mates in Warrington that her father had killed her sister and chopped up the body", Edis said.He told the jury that in November 2003, a covert listening device was placed in the Ahmeds' house and the couple were recorded discussing evidence and talking about using the press to get away with murder.Edis argues it was an odd thing to be doing if their daughter was alive and well, with Iftikhar Ahmed heard to say: "What are they going to find in the car?" and Farzana heard "discussing about bodily fluids and said, 'No, and even if they find saliva in the car, it's not as if she didn't sit in the car.'"Iftikhar Ahmed was said to be recorded saying: "By getting the support of newspapers you can get away with murder." A friend is heard giving them advice about the press and how to manage them, the prosecution said, and later urged Iftikhar: "Do not think about dishonour."The device, Edis told the jury, recorded Iftikhar saying that the UK system works on proof, adding: "Without any proof even if you sisterfuckers kill 40 people, until it is found, they can't do anything to you."Edis said from summer 2002 Shafilea was trying to form relationships with young men from her own ethnic and cultural background, but it was causing trouble with her family. In October, she was seen to have bruising around her neck and a cut lip. Around that time when she was absent from school, a teacher at Great Sankey high school, Joanne Code, phoned Shafilea and asked if she needed to be worried about her. "She got the answer 'yes'," Edis said.He said in August 2010 a serious robbery took place at the family home in Liverpool Road. Three men entered the house and tied everyone up, apart from Alesha. "The reason she was not tied up was she was involved," Edis said. She has pleaded guilty to her role in the robbery and will be sentenced at a later date."There are two possibilities – either she is telling the truth about the death of her sister which she has kept under wraps for years for family loyalty and eventually, perhaps, because that relationship with her parents has become toxic she allowed herself to become involved in the robbery," he said. Edis said it had released a blockage preventing her from speaking which indicated how "serious and dysfunctional the family had become"."Is it the truth or is it a wicked lie?" Edis asked. He described her revelation as a bombshell and questioned why she would make it up for fun.He said Alesha Ahmed now found herself estranged from the family as a result of what she had said and done and her life had turned upside down.The trial continues and the couple deny murder.