The family of a murder victim who had told police of death threats in the weeks before his killing won £50,000 damages yesterday in the first successful claim against the police in England for failing to protect a victim from a potential killer.Giles Van Colle, an optician, was shot three times at point-blank range in his car in November 2000, a few days before Daniel Brougham stood trial for theft. Mr Van Colle, 25, had been due to give evidence that Brougham, a former employee, had stolen property from his business.His parents, Irwin Van Colle, a Tory councillor in Brent, north-west London, and his wife, Corinne, brought the damages claim against Hertfordshire police, saying they did nothing to protect their son despite growing witness intimidation. In a ground-breaking judgment, Mrs Justice Cox ruled at the high court in London that the police failed in their positive duty to protect life under article 2 of the European convention on human rights.A disciplinary tribunal found that the officer in charge of the case, Detective Constable David Ridley, had failed to "perform his duties conscientiously and diligently" and fined him five days' pay. The police accepted he had made mistakes, but denied these had breached the optician's or his family's rights.Edward Faulks QC, for the police, said that no one could possibly have predicted the "appalling and drastic" action taken by Brougham, now serving a life sentence for the murder. The judge awarded £15,000 for Mr Van Colle's distress in the weeks leading up to his death and £35,000 for his parents' grief and suffering.Hertfordshire constabulary said it "deeply regretted" the death and would like to apologise to the family for any mistakes made in investigating the threats. It said: "Since the time of this case our procedures have changed. Furthermore we are anticipating further national guidance on witness protection which we will incorporate into our current policies."Irwin Van Colle said after the judgment that he and his wife were "mentally, physically and emotionally exhausted by what we have been through". He said: "We are also extremely poor. This case has drained an enormous amount of funds out of us."He added: "DC Ridley totally ignored the growing escalation of events, acted alone, and failed to consider asking a judge or magistrates to impose bail conditions on Brougham. The whole strategy of how to protect witnesses needs to be overhauled."Mrs Justice Cox awarded the family their costs and granted the police permission to appeal. Hertfordshire police said they would be consulting insurers before deciding whether to appeal. Mr Van Colle vowed to fight on to the House of Lords if the appeal court found for the police, and to take the case to the European court of human rights if necessary."This case is important because it's the first successful 'failure to protect' case against the police," said Dan Squires, a barrister and the joint author - with Cherie Booth QC - of a new book on negligence claims against public authorities.Until a ruling by the human rights court in 1999, the English courts had held police to be immune from negligence claims by individuals over failures in the way they carried out their crime-fighting role.