Colin Dixon, the manager of the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, was driving home in the late afternoon of February 21 2006 when he saw the flashing blue light of what he believed was a Volvo police car. He had just texted his wife, Lynn, to say he was on his way and was looking forward to seeing her and their young child. Pulled over to the side of the road for what he presumed was a routine check, he was told by two men dressed in police uniforms that he was being arrested for a number of speeding offences, bundled into the back of their car and handcuffed.His puzzlement at being detained so roughly for a minor offence increased with the realisation that Radio 1 was playing on the car radio and by the erratic way in which the driver set off. He asked to see their ID but was told that it was "back at the station". Puzzlement turned to panic when one of the "policemen" told him: "You'll guess we're not policemen. Don't do anything silly and nobody will be hurt."The bogus officer pulled a gun out and pointed it at Dixon, assuring him: "We are not fucking about - this is a 9mm."It was the start of Britain's biggest ever robbery.Yesterday some - but certainly not all - of the conspirators were convicted of the part they played in a heist as spectacular as it was doomed.The first hint that the audacious plot was under way came in July 2005 when one of the alleged conspirators was stopped at Strawberry Vale, near the depot. Was he checking out the location, assessing the risks? Would the robbery have happened earlier if this member of the team had not been injured in an unrelated stabbing later that year? Certainly, months of planning had gone into the operation that was to culminate that February night. As Dixon was transferred to a white van, he was told to get in if he didn't want to "get a hole" in him. Once inside, his legs were bound.Back at the family home, Lynn Dixon was already starting to grow concerned as she watched a Channel 4 television show about wedding planners. She had been aware of the risks that her husband's job carried since he started work there seven years earlier, so they swapped cars weekly and varied their routes to and from work. She rang her husband and was greeted by a message - odd in itself because he invariably answered the phone when she rang. She rang again with the same result. Then came a knock at the door.Standing outside were two men in police uniform. They said her husband had been in an accident and she should come with them to the hospital. They suggested that she should bring her child with her and stood in the child's room while she got a bag ready.Heightened panicWhen she got into the car, she, like her husband, was puzzled to hear the radio playing. She asked for identification and was told that it was "in the boot". The way the driver looked at his companion heightened her panic. She screamed. A gloved hand was put across her mouth as her child started to cry. She was warned that the men had guns and would use them. Twenty minutes later they were bundled into a van and taken off on the next leg of the kidnap.Elderden Farm had been the home of John Fowler for years and it was there that the Dixons were separately brought by their kidnappers. The jury accepted yesterday that Fowler, who was acquitted, had been unaware of the plot.Mr Dixon's eyes were bound with tape, so his wife was told to say something to him so that he would realise that she, too, had been kidnapped. Then Mr Dixon had the tape removed from his eyes and was shown a map that had been drawn of his Securitas depot. A convoy set off for the depot: a Volvo S60 in the lead, a seven-and-a-half tonne Renault lorry and a Vauxhall Vectra. At the entrance Mr Dixon, accompanied by the "policemen", used his swipe card to gain entry.Gary Barclay, the Securitas man on duty in the control room, saw what he thought was his boss and a policeman and did not realise a robbery was about to take place. As he opened the door, Dixon told him: "Just do whatever the bloke says." Barclay, mindful perhaps of the poster on the wall that advised employees "Don't be a hero", did as he was told. He was tied up while Dixon allowed the convoy to enter the depot. All of the 14 Securitas employees were tied up as the robbers set to work.Melanie Sampson, the supervisor on that night, thought when she saw Dixon with the "police" that it must have been a training exercise. She was soon disabused of that idea when she and her colleagues were told to raise their hands in the air and lie on the ground. Her hands were bound so tightly that she lost the circulation in them. She realised that the robbery was over when one of the robbers shouted: "Come on, let's rock and roll!"They had arrived at 1.28am and, by the time the last robber had left at 2.43am, they had taken £53m with them - leaving behind £150m only because they could not fit it into the lorry.Once the story broke, there was amazement that such an audacious crime could be carried out with such apparent simplicity. But could the robbers get away with it?Kent's chief constable, Mike Fuller, who has a background in investigating serious and organised crime while at the Met, was in bed with flu when the news first came through. He assigned 100 officers - three times the number used for a murder inquiry - and they employed every method at their disposal. "It was probably the first time we used every trick and technique," he said. Kent could call on the help of outside forces, from Suffolk's helicopters to the specialist divers of Sussex.The man with the task of tracking down the perpetrators and the cash, Detective Chief Inspector Mick Judge, 46, had been a detective for more than 20 years when he was assigned to what would be known as Operation Deliver. So how did he and his team of 100 officers crack the case? "We had," he said, "a little bit of luck."That little bit of luck - a tip-off - took them, within 24 hours of the robbery, to the door of Michelle Hogg, 32, a hairdresser who had created the latex masks worn by the gang.Make-up skillsHogg had trained at the London College of Fashion, and had worked in the theatre and at Harvey Nichols on the make-up counter. Using material bought from a theatrical goods store in Covent Garden she had helped to change the looks of four of the robbers, using her make-up skills and improvising: she used her elastic bra straps to pin back one man's eyes and give them a more slanted look and the rubber teats of a baby's bottle were inserted in the same man's nose to change the appearance of the nostrils.But she left some material, with DNA traces of the robbers, in her rubbish bin, which had not been cleared. Initially, Hogg claimed she had thought she was making the masks for use in a music video and refused to identify the men. Her mobile phone showed she had been in touch with Jetmir Bucpapa 12 times on the day of the kidnapping. She was charged with conspiracy and started the trial as a defendant before being acquitted and becoming a crown witness.The police also looked for the inside man. "You have to assume that, to gain entry, you would have had to have known some of the details, like how to lower the ramps," said Judge. "You don't risk going in without that information." Colin Dixon, who, with his family, has now been relocated to a secret address, was never a suspect but the police soon realised that a young Albanian, Emir Hysenaj, a friend of Bucpapa's who had briefly been employed in a desk job at the depot, was their man.And while the plotters had made use of the most sophisticated of modern technology in using a tiny surveillance camera to film the inside of the depot, it was technology that was to be their final undoing. They had used both "clean" and "dirty" mobile phones, the former in their own names, the latter, they hoped untraceable, but they were easily "cell-sited" - located at the places and times tied to the robbery.The sum of money stolen was also so large that the police were bound to commit enormous resources to tracking the robbers - had the sum been, say £2m or £3m, the uproar and attention would have been much less.DCI Judge agreed that the sheer volume of notes was a problem for the robbers. "I don't think they knew how much they would get," he said. "What on earth do you do with £50m? It's a lot of money to manage. There was a lot of preparation work and it's very difficult to cover your tracks once the ball started rolling, it's a snowball effect."Popular bolthole"It was very clever in parts and very naive in others," said Roger Coe-Salazar, who headed the Kent Crown Prosecution Service's team. "There were some very sophisticated preparations and some very silly mistakes but it's quite wrong for it to end up being romanticised in an Ocean's 12 way. There is nothing romantic about a child being held at gunpoint by a masked man. This was a callous crime."Rewards are not paid to informants until after a conviction. A million was on offer in the case and it is likely some of that money will be available to the people who came up with the tip-offs.As for the £53m haul, more than £32m is yet to be recovered. A large chunk is believed to be in northern Cyprus, which does not have an extradition agreement with the United Kingdom and has become a popular bolthole for some British criminals. Other money is believed to be in Morocco.At least one and possibly two further trials connected with the case will follow this year, although one defendant is resisting attempts to extradite him to stand trial. One key figure remains at large. Security arrangements at Securitas and elsewhere have been changed.In numbers57 people arrested and 14 charged£3m given to Kent police by the government for the investigation£21.1m of the stolen money recovered3,085 statements were taken82 days of prosecution evidence and 21 days of defence rebuttal£600,000 on prosecuting counsels' fees£15m estimated total for seven-month court case, including defence costs