For a nation of animal lovers, it is a peculiarly disturbing trend. Britain's fastest-growing crime is not in fact the increase in iPod muggings or 'happy slapping' attacks, but a sharp growth in the number of family pets stolen for ransom. Figures reveal that more than 150 dogs and cats a day are taken by thieves.Dogs are being stolen at knifepoint in city parks and offered back to their owners for a ransom. Recent cases have even seen 'dognappers' demanding sex as well as money in return for family pets.The missing pets charity DogLost has dealt with almost 200 cases of stolen dogs in 2006, a fourfold increase compared with the same period last year. Figures from Direct Line Pet Insurance reveal an increase of nearly 40 per cent in dognapping claims in 2005 compared with three years ago.The issue hit the headlines last year after the suspected theft of Emily, a labrador puppy belonging to actress Liz Hurley, and a German shepherd, Charnie, owned by the singer Engelbert Humperdinck.Last week a DNA identification programme was made available to British pet owners in response to the growing problem. A man appeared at Maidstone magistrates court in Kent last Wednesday accused of the theft of a Jack Russell, the first such charge since Victorian times. Legal experts said that the case, which has been adjourned, could set a precedent for courts to tackle what an increasing number of criminals view as an easy way to make money.Of particular concern to police and animal charities is the number of cross-breed dogs being stolen. Owners will typically pay hundreds of pounds in return for their pet. One recently handed over £25,000 to get his labrador back.Lori McKellen is among the latest victims. Her chihuahua was snatched from her back garden in north London. But posters of the missing pet, Balou, have elicited only a flood of hoax calls. 'They would be laughing that my dog had been taken or bragging that they had Balou. One even pretended to be from Victim Support,' she said.A possible sighting of the chihuahua has led her to London's Regent's Park and today, like hundreds of other people in a similar position, she will go there hoping to glimpse of beloved pet.Simon Worsfold, a spokesman for the Missing Pets Bureau, a national rescue group which recovers thousands of lost or stolen animals, said: 'It's like holding a close family member to ransom. Burglars will take a dog and call back saying "Give us £1,000 or the dog gets it". It's a very hot issue at the moment.'Jane Hayes, who founded an organisation called DogLost three years ago after her own pet was stolen from a back garden, said the robberies were becoming so widespread that it was increasingly difficult to deal with all the calls she received.'It gets busier every week. Everybody seems to know somebody whose dog has been taken,' she said. Hayes woke last Thursday to find 12 phone messages from anguished families. Among the callers was a man who had been beaten up at Exeter station in Devon as his two labradors were stolen. Although one, aged 15, was later found, the other - a four-month-old puppy - was still missing. Another caller described how upset he was when his black labrador was stolen from an Oxford garden. 'We think it's safe to let our dogs out in our gardens, but mine was stolen when I answered the phone,' said Hayes.Those who have studied the problem claim thousands of pets are being stolen and sold on the black market. Posters put up by owners seeking information on missing pets are phoned by thieves telling them to turn up with an agreed sum of money at an arranged meeting place. Hayes estimates that 80 per cent of her cases involve 'suspicious circumstances', and at least one in 10 involves a ransom demand or some other racket.Thieves' top targetsDogs1. English springer spaniel; 2. Border terrier; 3. Boxer; 4. Yorkshire terrier;5. Labrador.Cats1. Burmese; 2. Persian; 3. Siamese;4. Maine coon; 5. British shorthair.