An incorrigible big spender who stole a security van and £1.2m nearly 20 years ago has been jailed for five years after missing one small trick.Fast Eddie Maher, also known as Two Jags, vanished in 1993 and built a series of secret lives in the United States while police initially combed Suffolk for him, and later followed false leads in Cyprus and Jamaica.His extraordinary trail of moves and identities in at least eight states, shielded behind a beard, oversized glasses and an elaborate marriage ceremony in Las Vegas, was undone because he could not resist talking about his crime.It was only at home; but his son who was three years old at the time of the Securicor heist in Felixstowe, made references to the crime to his American wife. The marriage ended unhappily and she set to work Googling and then contacted police.  Eddie Maher's house in the Woodland Park neighbourhood of Colorado. Photograph: Suffolk police/PAMaher, now 57, was arrested a year ago at a rented house in Missouri, the native state of Mark Twain who would have relished the escapades which emerged, in part, in Southwark crown court. He was held initially on suspicion of having an illegal firearm but a startlingly larger picture soon emerged.  Eddie Maher's false US documentation showing his name as Stephen King. Photograph: Suffolk police/PAProsecutor Richard Southern QC told the court that a Monopoly board of properties was found across the States, which Maher had bought, sold and, more recently, rented before doing a flit. They included an 80-acre ranch in Colorado and a house with a hot tub in wintry New Hampshire – and they also revealed a second mistake.The court heard that the former Royal Green Jacket trooper and firefighter, who lied about previous dishonesty convictions to land his Securicor job, had used the name of Stephen King in US property transactions.Detective Inspector David Giles of Suffolk police, said: "The alias worked against him. One person who had bought a house from him clearly recalled Maher as he liked to joke that he'd had dealings with the famous horror novelist." It prompted others to recall the unusual English family.Smith said that Maher's house-buying spree in the States mirrored the spendthrift life in the 1980s and 1990s which led to his spectacular crime. The Securicor van was found abandoned after Maher's colleague was delayed taking money into a late-opening bank, emerging to find the vehicle gone."We found a string of properties which he had left leaving rental arrears and debts from living beyond his means," said Smith. It later emerged that Maher's partner Deborah Brett, a former flight attendant, and their small son, Lee, had flown to the US on a late booking the day before.  The Securicor van stolen by Maher from outside a Lloyds Bank branch in Felixstowe on 22 January, 1993. Photograph: Suffolk Police/PAIn mitigation for Maher, who was originally from South Woodham Ferrers in Essex and had also run a pub and worked as a locksmith, David Nathan QC said: "It does take a degree of courage to face up to an offence as old as this." Revealing the family twist, he said: "An extraordinary aspect of this case is that Mr Maher's daughter-in-law had originally been the partner of his son Lee's best friend."Lee won a lot of money on the lottery and she left her partner to marry Lee. When the money ran out, she did a little research on Google on the name Maher and found out he was wanted for the theft back in 1993. She heard that there was a £100,000 reward and she went to the federal authorities."Maher originally denied theft and blamed others for pressuring him into involvement with the heist, because of gambling debts. After his last-minute change of plea just before a trial was due to start, he was told by Mr Justice Nicol: "You made a very substantial gain even if, as you say, the money has now gone."The judge added: "This was a very significant breach of trust. The temptation to commit the offence must have been too great. It will be for confiscation proceedings which will follow in due course to decide quite how much your benefit was from this theft."Brett, 47, Maher's sister, Margaret Francis, 64, and a 54-year-old man, from Woodford Green, east London, remain on bail after being arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to commit theft. In a Twain-like moral, Giles suggested that the crime had not paid."Since his arrest, Maher has displayed no remorse for what he did," he said, "but I get the impression he has spent 20 years looking over his shoulder."