The official inquiry expected to be announced early next week into the Monckton case after a second man was yesterday found guilty of involvement in the death will centre on the performance of the London probation service, which at the time of the fund manager's murder was ranked for performance bottom of the 42 probation areas in England and Wales.Two years ago the situation in London was so alarming that Rod Morgan, then chief inspector of probation, sent in an emergency team because vital court reports were not being written and released prisoners were barely being supervised. He gave them a year to come up to scratch before another inspection. His successor, Andrew Bridges, who is likely to lead the Home Office inquiry, reported the results of that follow-up inspection in June.There had been some improvements in management but they had yet to improve the quality of work with offenders. "We are particularly concerned about the quality of risk of harm assessments and supervision plans written on offenders and the level of management oversight."The service is turning the corner. Last month's performance table ranked it 29th but it was still bottom when it comes to the supervision of offenders released on licence from prison - the issue at the centre of the murder of John Monckton by Damien Hanson, 24, three months after he was given an early release from a 12-year sentence for attempted murder.Hanson was convicted of the murder of Mr Monckton, 49, and the attempted murder of his wife, Homeyra, in an attempted robbery at their home in Chelsea, west London, at the Old Bailey on Thursday. Yesterday Elliot White, also 24,was convicted of manslaughter.The parole board decision to release Hanson after seven years was based on reports from the prison service and probation service. Both would have been written by probation officers and included a risk assessment.The inquiry will initially focus on the risk report.The assessment would also have been crucial in determining the arrangements after he came out of prison. It is believed that it was decided he should go to a probation hostel in Essex, away from London, in an attempt to discourage him from returning to his old haunts. But the hostel was full; instead he was released to a similar institution in Lambeth, south London.A succession of probation officers are believed to have been in charge of his case but he was never referred to his local Mappa - the multi-agency public protection arrangement - where police, probation and others manage dangerous offenders at the end of their sentences.Last month the National Probation Service sent out new instructions stressing the need to drive up the quality of the work done with those rated as high or very high risk. This murder case will make that task all the more urgent.