As the man who presided over the birth of the Crown Prosecution Service, Sir Thomas Hetherington, who has died aged 80, following a degenerative illness, was present for one of the most momentous changes in the English criminal justice system. He was also one of the longest-serving Directors of Public Prosecutions at a time when the the operation of the law was under its greatest scrutiny.Hetherington was born in Dumfriesshire, Scotland, but went south for his education at Rugby school. Although born into a medical family, "Tony" Hetherington, as he was always known, chose the legal profession after he had spent three years in the Royal Artillery, with whom he saw service in the Middle East. He studied law at Christ Church, Oxford, graduating in 1951 and being called to the bar in 1952.He decided to enter government service rather than pursue the potentially more lucrative career on offer at the bar, joining the legal department at the then Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance in 1953. He moved to the Law Officers department as legal secretary in 1962 where his role was to advise the attorney general on the more delicate issues regarding the law and prosecutions. A spell as the deputy treasury solicitor followed and he became a QC in 1978. He was knighted the following year, having already been made a CBE in 1970.It was his period as Director of Public Prosecutions from 1977 to 1987, a post he took over from Sir Norman Skelhorn, that was to be the most challenging of his career. He was chosen for the job by one of his admirers, the then home secretary, Merlyn Rees. His lengthy tenure as DPP came during a time when it was becoming clear that many previous high profile prosecutions had led to grave miscarriages of justice, and corruption within some areas of the police had reached disturbing levels. The solicitor-general of the period, Peter Archer, later praised Hetherington and described his style in office as "meticulous."The case of Clive Ponting, the former Ministry of Defence civil servant who was acquitted of an Official Secrets Act charge in 1985 for passing on information about the sinking of the Argentinian cruiser Belgrano during the Falklands war of 1982, drew Hetherington into the public eye. It was revealed that he had asked the then attorney general, Sir Michael Havers, for permission to vet the jury in the case. He also authorised such vetting in other official secrecy cases. In 1979, he faced criticism from some quarters for the decision to prosecute the former Liberal party leader, Jeremy Thorpe, who was acquitted of a plot to kill a former lover, and for the failure to bring any prosecution of police officers over the death on a demonstration of anti-racist activist, Blair Peach.Partly as a result of many emerging concerns and following a Royal Commission on Criminal Procedure, a decision was made to form a new national body, the Crown Prosecution Service, and it was Hetherington's task to oversee the changeover and to head up the new operation in 1986. He had offered to stay on beyond his retirement date to assist in the difficult early days. He had to weather the storm of criticisms which greeted the new organisation as it experienced many teething problems and staff shortages. Colleagues of the time praised his low-key manner and quiet wit.He had come to the DPP's office at a time when there was little openness about the department's work. He helped to change this attitude and even allowed a BBC television team access to film the department at work. He liked to keep a low profile but was willing to explain his decisions, notably that he had a rule that there had to be at least a 50% chance of a conviction for a prosecution to proceed. He would ruefully complain that he sometimes felt that he was seen as a cross between a district attorney and Batman - one woman had even once insisted that it was his responsibility to ensure that the monkeys in London Zoo wore knickers.After leaving the CPS, he took on a related task, conducting an inquiry into alleged war crimes committed by people, mostly from eastern European states, now living in Britain. It was a delicate issue, with some arguing that the passage of time that had elapsed since the second world war would make a fair trial impossible. He and his colleague, Thomas Chalmers, the former crown agent for Scotland, examined more than 300 allegations involving British residents and decided that there would be a realistic chance of conviction in only four cases. Their precedent-setting conclusion, published in their report, was that "the crimes committed are so monstrous that they cannot be condoned; their prosecution could act as a deterrent to others in future wars. To take no action would taint the United Kingdom with the slur of being a haven for war criminals". Two prosecutions followed.He was a member of the Territorial Army for nearly 20 years until 1967 and a president of the Old Rugbeian society from 1988 to 1990. He was the author of Prosecution and the Public Interest which was published in 1989 after he had completed his work at the CPS.He married June Catliff in 1953 and they had four daughters. All survive him.· Thomas Chalmers Hetherington, lawyer, born September 18 1926; died March 28 2007