The home secretary, David Blunkett, is to announce today that England and Wales now has the biggest police force since records began in 1921.A Home Office bulletin to be published today is to report that the latest available figure shows there were 129,603 police officers in March this year, including a record 100,000 constables. The figure represents an overall increase of 3,922 or 3.1% over the previous 12 months. In fact 10,215 new officers were recruited in the last year in the biggest annual recruiting drive since 1975. Mr Blunkett is expected to argue that the record number, which is only 400 short of the 130,000 target he set when he became home secretary in June last year, "gives the lie" to the claim that the police recruiting campaign has been an expensive flop. At the same time the home secretary is to announce to the annual conference of the Police Superintendents' Association his intention to abolish half of the most common forms in use by the police.Mr Blunkett hopes this will cut down the time they spend on paperwork instead of patrolling the streets. Mr Blunkett is also due to announce an "anti-bureaucracy blueprint" in response to a report from the inspector of constabulary, Sir David O'Dowd, which makes 52 rec ommendations on how to increase the visibility of police officers to the public. A recent Home Office "diary of a police officer" research project found that 43% of the time of the average police officer was spent inside the police station and only 17% on patrol. More than 250 forms are in regular use by the police. Some are considered too long, others repetitive or redundant. For example, the form for reporting a missing person varies from a two-sided document in one force to a 32-page booklet in another. The home secretary will say that he will cut the number of the most used forms from 15 to eight. Among those being declared obsolete is PNC (150), which is used to report stolen vehicles. Nowadays the information on each car is directly input to the police national computer and yet this form is still completed by hand, duplicating the information at a waste of an estimated 41,250 police man hours each year. Also scheduled to disappear is the "Phoenix" form used to update the police national computer on crime activity. Three forms used to deal with malicious phone calls will be consolidated into one.