Pete Doherty and two of his closest friends will be reinvestigated by police over the death of an actor who fell from the stairwell of a flat in east London after arguing with the rock star.The coroner at the inquest into the death of Mark Blanco, 30, ruled yesterday that the Cambridge graduate had not committed suicide and said suggestions he had fallen accidentally from the building while trying to clamber down a lamppost were "purely speculation".The coroner, Andrew Reid, ordered that the Metropolitan police reopen and review the investigation, which initially concluded there were no suspicious circumstances surrounding Mr Blanco's death in December 2006. Recording an open verdict, he said he could not draw any "satisfactory inferences" from CCTV evidence about the involvement or not of "third parties" in Mr Blanco's death.In testimony at Poplar coroner's court, Mr Doherty's minder, Jonathan Jeannevol, revealed he had confessed to police that he pushed Mr Blanco to his death after the actor had annoyed the Babyshambles frontman at a party in Whitechapel.He described the confession as "the stupidest thing" he had done in his life, and said he had retracted it. "I'd lost my mind because people were doing my head in. People like that sitting there with their smug faces," he said, pointing at the family and friends of Mr Blanco.Mr Jeannevol described how Mr Doherty asked him to "have a word" with Mr Blanco, who had arrived at the party on December 2 in what another guest described as a very hyper state. Mr Blanco was rehearsing Dario Fo's The Accidental Death of an Anarchist, a play in which he was to star as a man thrown to his death from a window, and hoped Mr Doherty would attend. "He was bugging Peter. He got so annoying."The court heard that the host, Paul Roundhill, Mr Doherty's literary agent, took Mr Blanco's hat and set it alight before dragging him to the door of his flat. Mr Roundhill said he alone ejected Mr Blanco. CCTV evidence from the street showed Mr Blanco leaving and returning two minutes later.He was next seen plunging on to the pavement from an open balcony on the stairwell of the flats, but it was not clear whether he had been pushed. He lay for 10 minutes until a woman at the party opened the front door and raised the alarm. He died in the Royal London hospital a day later.Ashley Fegan-Earl, a Home Office forensic pathologist, said Mr Blanco died from severe injuries consistent with hitting his head on the pavement. He found no injuries "consistent with assault".Mr Roundhill admitted he had punched Mr Blanco three times, possibly hitting him in the face, as he threw him out of his flat. He did not mention this to police because they were "weak, ineffectual gestures".Mr Doherty, who was not called to give evidence, was caught on CCTV passing by Mr Blanco's body and jogging away from the scene before an ambulance arrived. One woman present admitted she had not told police the singer was at the party.Mr Blanco's mother, Sheila, said it was "a great relief" that there would be a new investigation. "I don't feel anything positive or negative for Pete Doherty. I just want the truth."