Two cyclists killed when their tandem was involved in an alleged hit-and-run accident have been named as a married couple.Ross and Clare Simons, 34 and 30, died in the crash at Hanham, east of Bristol city centre, on Sunday afternoon.A 38-year-old man remains in police custody having been arrested on Sunday evening on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. A 35-year-old woman has also been arrested on suspicion of dangerous driving.Avon and Somerset police said the matter had been referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. It is understood this relates to the fact that police were in pursuit of a car before the fatal collision.Police said that shortly before 4pm on Sunday an officer's attention was drawn to a Citroën Picasso travelling along Lower Hanham Road at speed. The officer indicated that it should stop but it carried on."The officer began to follow the car but it was lost to sight almost immediately," a force spokesperson said. "Very shortly afterwards the car struck another vehicle and then collided with two cyclists on a tandem bicycle."The cyclists died at the scene. Inspector Frazer Davey, from the force's collision investigation team, said: "Following investigations overnight, the circumstances of this collision have become much clearer."However, I would appeal to anyone who witnessed this incident or saw this car in the area shortly before the collision to come forward and contact us. This is a tragic incident in which two people have needlessly lost their lives. Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with their families."The man who was in custody handed himself in to police hours after the crash, having initially allegedly left the scene on foot.Residents in the street spoke of their shock. Andrea Swerley, 28, who lives next to where the police cordon was set up, said: "We got home and saw a helicopter in the air."Bunches of flowers were left at the scene of the collision. One card read: "Our hearts go out to you and your families xxx." Another said: "Be at peace. Love always."In 2008 Bristol was chosen as England's first cycling city and received £11m from the Department for Transport to help improve the lot of cyclists and grow the sport and pastime in the city.