I am delighted by the Heathrow eco-protesters. It feels like ages since there was a decent, bed-down, in-it-for-the-long-haul demonstration. The subject is the proposed expansion of the airport and consequent increase in flights, but let's focus on the legality of this protest. BAA initially applied for legal protection so broad that it would have banned members of the RSPB from the Piccadilly line. Yes, that is true. Its case was thrown out by the high court, however, and only one group - Plane Stupid - has been banned from entering the airport. Nobody's been banned from the Piccadilly line.Everyone else, in consequence, is occupying the site between Sipson and Harlington legally. Don't get me wrong, they don't have planning permission - they're not allowed to build proper houses and live there. It is a legitimate protest, with appropriate permissions sought, and legal barriers overturned through proper channels. You'd never know it from the policing, which - the local force having commandeered 1,800 extra officers - outnumbers the protest group by more than 12 to one.Italian riot police have tear gas, and Swedish coppers, apparently, the right to drive marchers 20 miles down a motorway and leave them to walk back. Our police use overreaction. In the 2001 London May Day demo, where the police famously hemmed protesters into Oxford Circus for eight hours, effectively arresting everyone without having to jump through all the boring hoops associated with arresting people, police outnumbered protesters by six to one. That event, in fairness, had not been cleared through the channels of legitimacy.There is something galling about being told how much these things "cost" the taxpayer (Newbury bypass demos: £5m; May Day 2000: police applied for £3m but were only granted £1m), when that cost is swallowed up not by damage, but by police histrionics.To get back to the legitimate protesters, by the time they'd been there half a day, questions were being raised about heavy-handed police behaviour. The roads leading to the site had been blocked off; cars approaching were being searched under the Terrorism Act. One protester remarked: "They know we are not terrorists. It's an abuse of the law." And while they can't have it both ways, these liberals - you can't complain about racial profiling in stop-and-search tactics, and then say that you can't be a terrorist because you're obviously white and middle-class - this is nevertheless correct. They are obviously not terrorists.The police are overdoing it because they always do. They are behaving as they've been behaving since Greenham and Twyford Down and Aldermaston and the miners' strikes. While this may be in keeping with some guidelines they've got somewhere, they are well behind the curve of culture.It is no longer as simple as authority versus anarchy; both the main political parties have more in common, ideologically, with Friends of the Earth than with BAA. There is nothing remotely cranky about trying to limit flights. The absence of Hilary Benn and Peter Ainsworth (environment secretary and shadow, respectively) from the site is not because they represent respectability and the protesters lawlessness; from their green rhetoric, at least, we can only imagine they are busy with holidays and whatnot.There is nothing, in other words, to make the police suppose they need to protect the right-thinking holidaymaker from the savage crusty. The protesters are far more likely to be civic-minded and law-abiding than the holidaymakers are. Protest does not necessarily mean disobedience, and disobeying BAA is unlikely to make you an enemy of society. It's amazing how long it's taking the Met to catch up with all this. Its protest guidelines should be discarded to the policing of times past, along with institutional racism and wooden truncheons. mszoewilliams@yahoo.co.uk