David Blunkett's ultimatum yesterday to the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, to reduce street crime within six months or be replaced by alternative management, marks new political pressure on the police to perform. Less welcome, however, is political interference as to how that performance should be achieved.Since last year's general election, Home Office policy has shifted away from crime prevention and detection towards public reassurance. Policy makers argue that, while recorded crime has for some years steadily decreased, the fear of crime has risen.The response to this shift has been the introduction of high visibility policing designed to reassure a nervous public: officers wearing bright yellow jackets walking the streets, hoping to be seen by as many people as possible. Unfortunately, this is an inappropriate response to violent crime, which has bucked the general crime trend and continued to rise in recent years. Policies designed to reassure are therefore inappropriate.Politicians fail to appreciate this. They urge police to deploy large numbers of bobbies on the beat, even though this policy is designed to decrease the fear of crime, rather than crime itself.They point to the success of Operation Safer Streets, which saw redeployment of traffic and other officers in the first week of February. Although 1,536 arrests were made, only 121 were for street robbery, indicating that the bulk of these officers' efforts were distracted by other crimes.The point is made by a simple example. Place a uniformed officer outside a tube station during rush hour, and a robbery will not occur. Instead, it may happen, unobserved by police, at a different place, or at a different time. In either case, no arrest will ensue.If, instead, the Tube station, a crime hotspot, is placed by those same officers under plain clothes surveillance, the robbery which occurs will almost certainly result in an immediate arrest.This has numerous advantages. First, the offence has been witnessed by police officers, probably video-recorded, and the suspect arrested in possession of the stolen property.This eliminates most of the problems of victims having to identify their attackers, usually the crime takes place so quickly that they are unable to do so.Even when an identification is made, perhaps from photograph albums held by the police, a lengthy process of identification parades ensues, during which the victim's chances of pointing out the attacker are small. Parades can take months to organise, and some suspects repeatedly fail to appear at them. The requirement, intended to ensure justice for the suspect, to match skin tone and distinguishing features of all those appearing in a parade makes a positive identification less likely.With so much inconvenience, added to numerous court appearances, many victims and witnesses simply give up. With a successful covert operation, however, the suspect will usually plead guilty, without the victim even having to attend.Second, claims such as "police arrest only one in 20 robbers" are incorrect. Police arrest almost all street robbers, repeatedly, but perhaps for only for one in 20 of their crimes. Make one good arrest, therefore, and many more crimes may be prevented.Finally, the deterrent effect of repeated but irregular covert operations is much greater than a uniformed presence. With plain clothes officers possibly present, the robber never knows when it is safe to strike.Senior police officers know the effectiveness of such tactics, but must be left free of political interference to pursue them.Covert operations target only those committing offences. Although the selective use of uniformed stop and search can be productive, a widespread use of the tactic in any "zero tolerance" approach will, inevitably, result in increased friction with parts of the community.Regardless of the tactics used, however, politicians must be braced for the upsurge of complaints a crackdown on robbery may bring.This having been said, there is no intrinsic inconsistency between effective and sensitive policing, despite the claims of some in the wake of the Macpherson inquiry to have predicted the upsurge of street crime.Police efforts will, however, come to nothing if effective action is not taken elsewhere in the criminal justice system. Current policies towards juvenile crime, of diversion away from punishment, have failed.Politicians like to repeat the myth that the greatest deterrent to crime is the fear of being caught. When nothing happens as a result, however, arrest becomes merely an inconvenience, an occupational hazard.Those I arrested for street crime in the late 1990s would often say "I'll give up when I'm eighteen. I don't want to go to prison". Statistics seem to bear this out, with recent Home Office figures showing that some two-thirds of mobile phone robbers, for example, are below this age.The problem is that for most of those who do receive custodial sentences, prison does not stop offending. All that can be said for prison is that, while inside, robbers will not be committing crimes.David Blunkett's comments yesterday have been labelled as political opportunism. This, however, dismisses the genuine sense of crisis and despair caused by violent crime, particularly in poorer communities.Politicians and others should understand that what happens on the streets is not the product of police action or inaction, but of criminal justice policy as a whole.David Blunkett's ultimatum might have been better directed towards senior staff at the lord chancellor's department, the Metropolitan police authority, and his own department.· Charles Shoebridge was a Metropolitan Police officer from 1988-2000.