A 19-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of shooting dead a 15-year-old boy on a street in Derby last night.The victim, Kadeem Blackwood, was walking with a group of friends close to a recreation ground in the south-west of the city just before 9.20pm yesterday when he was shot in the chest.He was taken to Derbyshire Royal infirmary, where he died of his injuries.Police announced this morning that they had arrested a 19-year-old man on suspicion of the murder.Assistant Chief Constable Peter Goodman of Derbyshire police said it was too early to say whether the murder was gang-related.Residents speculated that the killing could be linked to rivalry between local gangs.A local resident said there were three gangs in the area, known as A1, BCT or Browning Circle Terrorists, and 38 Estate.He said: "I can imagine it being gang-affiliated. It's gone pretty far with someone being shot, hasn't it?"Speaking at a press conference today, Goodman said: "We are aware of speculation but it is too early to state the motive or comment on that particular speculation."He added that gun crime in Derby was rare and that the last previous incident occurred in May when a window was damaged."This is a major incident. Fatal shootings are not commonplace in the city of Derby," he said.Police officers stood guard today at a cordon blocking off the street where the boy was shot. A white tent was erected at the murder scene.A 51-year-old woman, who did not want to be named, said: "I heard this car pull up and somebody jumped out and shot him."One 15-year-old boy, who also did not want to be named, said: "There was a gang with him and there was a lot of arguing. I heard the gunshot and I came running down and I saw the gang and he was lying on the floor. It looked like he was really suffering."In an earlier statement Goodman said: "This is a terrible tragedy in which a young teenager has lost his life."He appealed for witnesses and said people could pass on information anonymously.The teenager is the latest to be killed in a violent attack this year. Twenty-eight have been killed in London alone.It comes just a few days after the murder of teenage model Amy Leigh Barnes.She was among five people murdered in 48 hours and was the first of three teenage murder victims in England over the weekend.In London, a 19-year-old Mauritian, named locally as Nabil Bakurally, was stabbed to death in a brawl in Ilford, east London. Three men have been arrested.In Leeds, an unnamed 18-year-old was killed in the Woodhouse area. Five men are being questioned.A man has been charged with Barnes' murder and is due to appear in court today.Barnes, 19, was taken to hospital with stab wounds after police were called to her home in Farnworth, Bolton on Saturday. She died later from her injuries.View Larger MapRicardo Morrison, 21, formerly of Birmingham, is due to appear before Bolton magistrates' court today, charged with her murder.