A man who infected three women with HIV by having unprotected sex with them was jailed for 10 years yesterday for causing them grievous bodily harm.Teesside crown court heard that Feston Konzani, a 28-year-old musician, did not tell the women he had the virus. He admitted infecting the women in Middlesbrough between 2000 and 2003 but denied causing them grievous bodily harm. A jury of eight men and four women took less than three hours to find him guilty of all three charges. The women were a 15-year-old virgin whom he kept prisoner at his home in Middlesbrough, a 27-year-old student who had a child by him, and a 26-year-old voluntary worker. The jury was told that one of the women said she still loved him and would stand by him. Judge Peter Fox told Konzani that the grievous bodily harm he had caused "fell into the category of the very worst sort". The lives of the women had been curtailed and they faced the future "with growing apprehension". "You knew you had the infection and you knew you should have told them," he said. "Whether it was your pride or your lust which stood in the way it matters not." Judge Fox said he hoped the sentence would act as a deterrent to any other people with HIV who had unprotected sex. "I have a public duty to include in the sentence a clear message, the clearest message that I am able to [give], that those who suffer your infection must disclose it to their sexual partners and they must take precautions if sexual intercourse is to occur." The court had heard that Konzani came to Britain from his home in Malawi with the help of Christopher Henderson, a British diplomat who met Konzani, then 18, at his rural village and invited him back to his official residence, where a gay relationship developed. In 1998 Mr Henderson, 38, paid for Konzani to fly to Britain in the hope they could continue their relationship. When he arrived at Gatwick Konzani claimed asylum on the grounds that he was gay and that homosexuality was illegal in Malawi. He was sent to Middlesbrough by the immigration service, embarked on a string of affairs and was arrested in 2003 and accused of inflicting GBH. "No matter what the outcome of this case, it is a tragedy for the women involved and our thoughts must be with them and their families," Detective Sergeant Ted Allen of Cleveland police said after the trial. "Their lives have been torn apart and no one can fully understand how they feel. They have been caught by a sexual predator who has lied and inflicted upon them an injury which will affect them for the rest of their days." In a letter to Konzani read out in court, the 27-year-old student wrote: "I love you and cherish you. I am still there for you and together we will stand strong. I am always yours." The 26-year-old voluntary worker said Konzani "made you feel like you were the only person on the planet". She added: "If when I met him he had told me he was HIV-positive I would have gone and taken advice. "Now? I don't feel anything for him; I pity him more than anything. I don't think he sees himself as a normal human being and think he sees himself as some almighty force." Konzani, who was earlier cleared of a fourth grievous bodily harm charge on the directions of the judge, was given one four-year sentence and two three-year sentences to run consecutively.