The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday June 8, 2005.In the feature below we mistakenly described David Miliband as an "Asbo minister". Mr Miliband is the minister of communities and local government at the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister. Hazel Blears is the Home Office minister for policing, security and community safety, and therefore responsible for Asbos.'We are living under siege," says Indya Hemp. "I am scared about my kids going down the road or getting on the bus. They're always telling me to stop worrying but it's going to give me a heart attack." The 32-year-old single mother, who is half-Kashmiri, her terminally-ill daughter, and her three teenage sons, have been the victims of a 10-month racist campaign by a gang of youths near their home in Kingstanding, Birmingham.Hemp's boys have all been beaten up in attacks - her eldest was left with a ruptured testicle. In January seven teenagers were issued with antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) following action by Birmingham council and West Midlands police. A few weeks ago three were back in court over threats made against Hemp after the Asbos were imposed. They had threatened to "NF" her house. "It means torch it - as in 'National Front'," she explains. Reporting restrictions were lifted and the seven youths, aged from 14 to 17, were "named and shamed" by the Birmingham Evening Mail..The most shocking aspect of the almost daily attacks on the family is that Hemp's daughter, Shian, suffers from a rare viral infection known as congenital CMV. The seven-year old has a catalogue of serious medical problems. She is profoundly deaf, partially-sighted, suffers severe respiratory problems, and has an enlarged liver and heart. She also suffers from microcephaly, a disorder that stunts brain growth. "She is dying as she is growing," says her mother. "Doctors told us she would never make it to five years and she needs constant supervision."Hemp approached the youths in January to explain that her daughter was dying. They riposted: "Good, that's one less Paki", and attacked her with pieces of ripped-up fence from her garden. After that confrontation, the violence escalated to the extent that the nurses who provide medical support to the family refused to visit unless accompanied by the police. "The kids tried to kick the door in, there were fireworks going off and banging on the windows," recounts one of the nurses from the specialist palliative care team. "It was terrifying." Shian, she says, was so ill that she could have died at any moment. "The Asbos have given me a break but we aren't safe because those kids are still out there," says Hemp. "I don't understand why if they've breached the orders they aren't locked up."In the run-up to the general election, politicians from all sides treated Asbos as a quick-fix solution to cure any number of society's ills - teenage delinquency, nuisance neighbours, and pretty much any kind of yobbish behaviour affecting their constituents. "The experience of almost 4,000 Asbos, nearly 60,000 penalty notices for disorder and the closure of over 150 crack houses shows communities can fight back," claimed New Labour. "We are ready to go further." Ministers want witnesses to be able to give evidence anonymously and propose specialist "antisocial behaviour response courts" so justice can be "seen to be done quickly". Asbos also featured highly in the Conservatives' criminal justice proposals. They proposed that the parents of those who persistently breach orders should be stripped of housing benefit and evicted from their neighbourhoods. As a result of the post-election reshuffle, we now have an Asbo minister - David Miliband - whose brief is to cover "anti-social behaviour and community cohesion".But while those whose lives are made a misery from antisocial neighbours feel Asbos fall short of the protection they need, many lawyers believe the orders are too easy to get. Roger Smith, director of the law reform group Justice, calls Asbos a "jurisprudential Frankenstein". He argues that they are an uneasy legal hybrid which effectively criminalises people for behaviour that is not criminal. Orders can be made solely on the basis of hearsay evidence, even though breach of one can result in five years in jail. "They require someone to act 'in a manner that caused or was likely to cause harassment, alarm and distress to one or more persons not of the same household as himself'," Smith says. "The alarm may be conjectural, not actual, or the police may just say it is likely."A new group, Asbo Concern, formed in April, is calling for a government review. Backed by the Howard League for Penal Reform, Liberty and the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo), it has published an analysis since Asbos were introduced under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998. "This year Asbos have gone out of control," says Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary. "It appears that some councils and police forces are using them to get rid of any sort of unacceptable behaviour, whether it is eccentric or anti-social." Some 2,600 orders have been made since November 2003, with councils such as Camden and Manchester blazing the way. (Manchester's website proudly claims that it "now leads the UK in the use of Asbos".)"You are five times more likely to be Asbo-ed in Manchester than Liverpool," reckons Fletcher who calls them "a cheap way of avoiding criminal prosecutions". Applications by councils, police - or both - for orders are almost always successful. According to Fletcher, the success rate for applications is 97%. "I don't think there is a hit rate like that for any other measure in the criminal justice system."In the past few months the boundaries of what constitutes anti-social behaviour have been stretched. Orders have been served on a Norfolk farmer after his pigs ran amok in neighbours' gardens and on a Scottish woman banning her from answering her front door in her underwear. She faces jail if she is seen in her garden or windows in knickers and bra (neighbours have been equipped with "Asbo diaries" to record the event). In March, magistrates in Bath served an Asbo on a 23-year old woman who repeatedly tried to kill herself. She has been rescued from the River Avon three times, found "hanging by her fingertips" from a railway bridge and has been loitering at the top of multistorey car parks. The magistrates considered it an appropriate response to issue an Asbo banning the suicidal woman from going near railway lines, rivers, or bridges.The relentless march of the Asbo was dealt a blow last month by a judge who threw out an attempt by the Ministry of Defence to issue an order against Quaker peace campaigner Lindis Percy. There was applause when Judge Roy Anderson dismissed it as an effort "to use a club to beat down the expression of legitimate comment and the expression of views on matters of public concern".But relatively harmless activities can still be treated harshly. Matt Foot, a criminal defence lawyer at Michael Fisher solicitors in central London, recently represented a one-legged beggar with learning difficulties who had breached his order and ended up in prison. "His order stipulated that he shouldn't show his stump while begging," he says. "I thought in a civilised society that's going too far." Begging is not an imprisonable offence, he points out, and yet his client faced five years for breaching his order.While ministers might be convinced that Asbos can sort out problem estates, the Home Office's own figures published in March show that one in four are breached. Hemp, recently moved by the council 10 minutes down the road, still sees her tormentors on the bus as it passes her new house. She has heard that they have been boasting that being "named and shamed" by the local press has given them instant street cred. A few weeks ago when three of the boys were back in court over the post-Asbo threats, they faced charges of breaching the orders and witness intimidation. Two of the gang were found guilty, but the magistrates gave them a 12-month supervision order plus a tighter curfew. "I can't believe it," says Hemp. "What's the point of an Asbo if next-to-nothing happens when you breach it?"PC Kevin Jones, who has been seconded to the council's antisocial unit and worked on the case, is "horrified" that the court was so lenient. "What sort of message is it sending out to people? The magistrates' courts are supposed to lean towards a custodial sentence or at the very least a stringent community service."Why wasn't the full force of the criminal law used to deal with a racially-motivated campaign to harass a family as they cared for a dying child? "Any allegation that could have been reported to the criminal standard was prosecuted," says PC Jones. "The biggest problem is always having individual witnesses that can prove the case to the criminal standard and with an Asbo you can rely on hearsay evidence."Roger Smith of Justice reckons that the offences suffered by Hemp appear to go "well beyond anti-social behaviour, involving serious violence and extensive intimidation". "The criminal law should be able to deal with this," he says. "The key will be to get witnesses whose evidence will be accepted by a court. But it will do no good to lock up the wrong people on the basis of hearsay and gossip."