On an August night in 2004, Amelie Delagrange was making her way home after a night out drinking with friends.A little tipsy, the 22-year-old had missed her usual bus stop and was walking towards Twickenham Green.The student, from Amiens, France, had been in London for only four months, and had discussed with her friends whether Twickenham was a safe area before setting off alone. They agreed it was.But on that night, August 19, a predatory killer was cruising the streets in his white Ford Courier van. CCTV footage shows the van with distinctive markings, several times around the green.Its location, combined with footage of Delagrange's last movements, suggests it would have passed her at some stage as she headed home, alone and vulnerable.Within minutes of seeing her, the killer parked up and viciously attacked her. She had no time to defend herself as he struck her three times over her head with a blunt instrument, fracturing her skull and leaving her dying on the ground before making his escape.That man, a jury concluded today, was Levi Bellfield - also known as Lee - a 39-year-old former nightclub doorman and wheel clamper from West Drayton. It was not the first time he had killed.He was found guilty of a campaign of violence, spanning three years, which left two women dead, two with serious injuries and a third, who managed to escape with her confidence in tatters. Bellfield murdered Marsha McDonnell, a 19-year-old gap year student, in the same way he killed Delagrange, battering her over the head as she walked from a bus stop, leaving her lying face down in a pool of blood yards from her home. She died two days later.All three of the women he attacked between February 2003 and August 2004 were aged between 17 and 22. All were fair-haired and slim.The attacks all took place in an area of west London south of the M4 corridor and just east of the M25 - an area Bellfield knew well, having lived and worked there most of his life. Emma Mills, a former girlfriend and the mother of three of his children, who was an important witness for the prosecution, lived close to Twickenham Green, equidistant to where Delagrange and Bellfield's first alleged victim, Anna Maria Rennie, were attacked.The court heard how his modus operandi was to drive around west London late at night, following buses to stalk vulnerable young women. A friend of his told how he kept a stash of weapons, including hammers and knuckledusters, in the back of his van. What the jury did not know was that Bellfield - described as an "animal" by a friend because of his depraved attitude to women - harboured a hatred of young, slim, blonde women.Up to the day before his arrest, Bellfield was on the lookout for women to degrade. Under police surveillance, he approached and made lewd comments to two schoolgirls, aged 14 and 16, at a bus stop. This too, was not heard by the jury.Police believe he may have been behind a string of unsolved attacks, the most serious of which is the alleged murder of the 13-year-old schoolgirl Milly Dowler on March 21 2002.Scotland Yard is also investigating a further dozen offences, including five rapes and seven assaults, for which they believe he is responsible.They include attacks on accountant Edel Harbison, 34, who survived an assault on Twickenham Green on April 16 2004; accounts clerk Dawn Brunton who was badly beaten in Hatton Cross in November 2003; Sonia Salvatierra, who escaped an attempted attack on her near Twickenham Green on November 3 2002; and a 17-year-old who was attacked in Strawberry Hill in January 2003. All were assaulted within the area in which Bellfield operated.The former bouncer, a man police described as clever, was careful not to leave clues. His trademark "blitz" attacks - three blows to the back of the head - were vicious, quick and left no forensic evidence behind that could link him to his victims. During each attack, with the exception of that on Delagrange, he had his mobile phone switched off so his whereabouts could not be traced. Vehicles that could be linked to the attacks were quickly sold on or otherwise disposed of. Some have never been traced.Vehicles played an important part in his crimes, but they also played a role in bringing him to justice.No one witnessed his attack on McDonnell in Hampton, west London, on February 4 2003, just as no one was to witness the murder of Delagrange. But a silver Vauxhall Corsa was picked up on CCTV moving oddly near the 111 bus in which McDonnell was preparing to alight. The car slowed down and stopped as the bus approached. The behaviour of the driver was "identical" to that of the motorist in the people carrier that was to run over another victim, 18-year-old Kate Sheedy, after she got off a bus. After the murder of Marsha McDonnell, Bellfield sold a silver Corsa for £1,500 - £4,500 less than he paid for it.Sheedy, a former convent head schoolgirl who was returning home from end of term celebrations, saw a white Previa people carrier with blacked out windows that she felt was "sinister", and crossed the road.It was the prosecution's case that this move thwarted his intentions towards her. Bellfield then drove at her at speed, knocking her flat, before driving over her twice. The attack lasted less than a minute, but left her with internal injuries so severe she was in hospital for three weeks. Once again, Bellfield sold the vehicle a few weeks later.