Waseem Hussain says he has been bad since he was about eight years old. He was always messing about, fighting and swearing. After exclusion from a number of schools, Waseem took his trouble out on to the streets of Rotherham. Hanging around in gangs, Waseem, 16, started looking for fights every day. But he never seemed to get caught. One day, though, the scale and violence of Waseem's offences escalated. "I was in the bus station and I followed this lad in the toilets and I punched him twice. After that it started getting more serious. I thought I liked it then, getting into trouble. Put it this way, I enjoyed it, it felt powerful," he says, admitting that the severity of the offences increased. "I put the boot in as well." Waseem says he has been caught for between 10 and 12 offences and admits to "at least another seven or eight on top of that". He goes on: "I was in Worcestershire one day and this lad, I saw him, he were running and I asked him what has he done and he said "I nicked something off a bus". The police came and he told the police that I did it. The next day I saw him and I told him "let's go for a joint". I took him into the subways and said to him "this is for grassing me up". I was stamping him, I kicked his face and when they found him he was unconscious. I got arrested and they found forensic evidence, they found his blood on my trainers." Waseem was given a detention training order of eight months, four months of which he spent inside Wetherby young offenders' institution. He says: "I was still having fights in there. I did one month in segregation. My problem magnified then because I was meeting the same crew. When I came out of prison, my offences started to change and I was messing about with cars and knives. Being in prison made me more interested in cars. Then I started carrying a lock knife." Waseem is the perfect example of what the government classes as a hardcore persistent young offender, one of the 3% of young offenders reckoned to be responsible for up to 25% of crimes. He is also a boy whose crimes escalated to a terrifying degree after his time in prison. He says he could have easily used that lock knife. Waseem is sitting in an office in the Rotherham intensive support supervision advocacy programme, a place he hopes will make him think twice about ever picking the lock knife up again. He is one of 22 young offenders who have had to come to this project since it started last August. The project's aim is to prevent reoffending by young offenders who have broken the law on more than three occasions by offering support and help with their difficulties. The Rotherham project also has a dedicated police officer known as a "tracking officer" who keeps a very close eye on all the offenders. The Rotherham project is a blueprint for the government's intensive surveillance and supervision programme to be launched on Wednesday. While the Rotherham pilot has not used electronic surveillance, its tracking officer checks up on the young offenders all the time. PC Bill Thomas is with the Rotherham project. He says it works: "It's fair to say that Waseem's offending has not been on the same level of escalation. Waseem has had problems with his anger and we have been working on his self-esteem. But since he has been on the programme, he has become a little bit more mature and is making more informed choices. "So far, we have not completely excluded offending from Waseem's life but we have reduced the seriousness and the impact of it. Waseem was very much a lad who was destined to do a lot of time because he was so chaotic. Within the project, he has got a little bit more structure and he is calmer and perhaps his future has changed." As a tracking officer, Mr Thomas uses his intelligence-collating skills garnered from his police work to make sure that his offenders feel them breathing down their collar. If they don't turn up at the programme when required, he goes out and finds them and hauls them back in - if they persist with this behaviour they find themselves back in the criminal justice system without the project's support. "In real terms my role is about getting to know people like Waseem, about his family, about his habits, his environment, what his expectations are. I will then devise a plan on how we can incorporate all of those and at the same time work within the confinements of the law. If it does go wrong, I pull him up and maybe have to deal with his family and the situation in the neighbourhood if that becomes a problem," explains Mr Thomas. "It should make a marked impact on some people's lives. We have had youngsters who have been on the project who have not been back inside. One young man has never reoffended and has got a steady job." Simon Perry, manager of Rotherham youth offending services, says the Rotherham project (based on a successful American one) is a sort of blueprint but adds that it is not required that the new programmes across the country replicate it. "What we know is that there's a very small group of very hard to reach, socially excluded children who don't go to school, don't work, are very often homeless, very often victims of abuse and often involved in drug taking. A significant number are involved in persistent offending and because of that the more socially ostracised they become. And young people commit a disproportionate amount of crime. It is incredibly difficult to engage these chil dren," he explains. "There is a greater chance that they will become potentially violent, criminally offending adults. Because they are difficult to engage, we have to take longer over doing it and that's where the word intensive is appropriate." The Rotherham project has a social worker, police officer, probation service officer, a volunteer coordinator and three development workers who work with housing, drugs and alcohol, and employment issues. It also uses volunteer mentors from within the community to work with offenders. Jackie Key, the project manager, says she has dealt with 22 offenders involved mostly in assaults, burglary and car crime. "The majority are white and male, a proportion are mixed race or Asian children and we have had two females. A lot of them want to stop reoffending but their life circumstances have stopped them from doing that." Even in the short term, she says, the Rotherham project seems to be working. Prior to the young people coming on the programme, the number of offences they committed was 156. While on the programme the number of offences they committed was 28. The average number of weeks of the programme is 14.3; the average number of offences committed by young people prior to the programme is 7.09, while on the programme it is 1.36. Waseem thinks the project works. He is less violent but he hasn't stopped offending completely yet. He says it is difficult. "I think I want to stop but sometimes it's a thrill, a buzz. But I am trying."  Waseem Hussain is not a real name