A teenager who stole clothes and accessories worth more than £1,000 from a designer store in central London was remanded in custody after pleading guilty to charges of theft and violent disorder in one of London's most exclusive neighbourhoods.Mario Quiassaca, 18, a student, was one of about 60 youths who headed to Sloane Square on Monday night and smashed their way into shops and businesses including a bureau de change and a branch of Hugo Boss.Quiassaca, who lives on the Churchill Gardens estate in nearby Pimlico, central London, was found to have seven new Hugo Boss items in his possession when police raided his family's flat, including a padded 'puffa' jacket. Together, they had an estimated value of £1,133.On a third frantic day for magistrates courts throughout the country, Quiassaca's was one of many cases to be heard concerning the riots and looting.In London, 1,132 people have been arrested and 693 charged, according to the Metropolitan police. Across the country, police have made 1,600 arrests and 796 people have appeared in court, the Ministry of Justice said.Speaking for the prosecution at City of Westminster magistrates court, Malachy Pakenham said Quiassaca told detectives he wanted to cause chaos and was motivated by resentment of the police, who he said had stopped him while he was on his way back from football. He wore latex gloves during his looting spree to avoid getting fingerprints on the items, Peckenham added.Appearing alongside Quiassaca was Charlie Burton, also 18, who pleaded guilty to violent disorder in Sloane Square but told police he left the scene after seeing other youths behaving "like a pack of animals". He admitted having gone to Sloane Square to "create havoc" but, after overturning a wheelie bin in the road to prevent police access, he went home and told his mother what had happened. Burton, an apprentice at Transerv in Battersea, south London, did not participate in the looting of Hugo Boss, the court heard.As in many of the cases on what the court usher was calling "the riot list", the judge refused the men conditional bail and committed them for sentencing at Wood Green crown court.Also refused bail was Shereka Leigh, a 22-year-old single mother from Tottenham, north London, who denied burglary at shops in Tottenham Hale retail park on Sunday. She has been accused of stealing shoes from JD Sports, a Samsung laptop worth £429 from Argos, computer equipment from Comet and hair straighteners.Levent Mustafa, 22, from north London, was remanded in custody by a judge after a court heard he had been found by police to have been carrying a black woollen balaclava, a pair of Marigold gloves and Adidas swimming goggles in Wood Green, north London, at 1am on Thursday morning and lingering outside a house where he didn't live. Mustafa pleaded not guilty to going equipped for theft.One defendant who was granted bail was a 14-year-old girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, charged with stealing makeup, CDs and clothes from high street shops. She did not enter a plea and was told her mother was coming to collect her. The girl is due to appear at Haringay youth court on 18 August.The volume of cases was taking its toll on staff at the central London court. "We're all meant to be off work now, but we're still here. There's no end to it," said one police officer on duty at the court. A listings officer complained of the rush of cases, which has seen staff working long hours. "There's no way we should be volunteering for overtime. This court is badly equipped – we are the last court which should be offering to help," he said. "I've done a complete U-turn. I came here because I wanted to be here. Now I hate the job and I hate the service."It wasn't just in Westminster that the courts were busy, however.At Croydon magistrates court, model Shanola Smith wept as she was jailed for six months for looting a branch of Argos in the town on Monday. The 22-year-old, from South Norwood, admitted entering the shop with intent to steal with her sister Alicia Smith and their 22-year-old friend Donness Bissessar.Handing down maximum sentences for all three women, district judge Robert Hunter said it was a tragedy because the women were well-educated and of previous good character.He added: "However, I can't ignore the context in which these offences were committed. You have played your part in a wider act where devastation was caused to businesses and local residents."Their lawyer told the court: "I was taken by surprise. Talking to them and recently talking to their families, they come across as perfectly ordinary, reasonable, dare I say it, civilised young women."At Manchester magistrates court a third day of hearings brought a succession of defendants, among them Dane Williamson, an 18-year-old man charged with causing £319,000 of damage to clothing at a branch of Miss Selfridge set on fire during rioting. Williamson, of Salford, was remanded in custody to Manchester crown court on 18 August accused of criminal damage and recklessly endangering life.Among preliminary cases heard on Friday was that of a 13-year-old who admitted carrying a hammer into Manchester city centre on the evening of the riots.Paul Antony Matthews, 42, of Newton Heath, Manchester, admitted trespassing in a Spar to steal alcohol on Tuesday. Matthews, who the court heard was a "dependent alcoholic", confessed the theft to police the next day. His case was adjourned to the crown court and he was remanded in custody.Mark Slater, 22, of Cheetham Hill, Manchester, denied possession of a face mask but admitted a separate public order offence, and was remanded.Karlie Kanger-Kamara, 18, of Crumpsall, Manchester, denied two counts of burglary. One charge related to a branch of Cow Vintage Clothing, the second to the theft of lottery tickets from a newsagents.Lee Gargan, 30, of Higher Broughton, admitted throwing rocks at police during rioting in Salford. The road worker, who had been on a week's holiday, had been drinking all day and joined a group of men attacking riot police. He said he could not recall the incident.District judge Khalid Qureshi told him: "A lengthy custodial sentence is inevitable."A 17-year-old youth appeared in court charged with breaching bail conditions. The court heard that he left his home address and stole a T-shirt during the riots. His case was adjourned to 24 August.Gemma Booth, 26, from Salford, pleaded guilty to the theft of a laptop, saying she "found it in a bush". She denied taking a TV from Salford Cash Generator, on Tuesday night. A 16-year-old admitted looking after the TV.• This article was corrected on 15 August 2011 because the original misspelt Malachy Pakenham as Peckenham.