The tactic used by the carjackers who attacked a woman driver on Friday was as cunning as it was brutal.The 41-year-old company director's £50,000 Mercedes was hit on a roundabout in New Charlton, south-east London. When she got out to speak to the other driver, she was "punched so hard that she was rendered unconscious immediately and was lifted off the ground by the force of the blow," police said. The "bumping" tactic is one which the RAC Foundation has been warning about for 12 months. The motoring organisation's research arm said there have been 100 carjackings in the past 15 months. The thieves in the New Charlton case were counting on the fact that a driver involved in an accident would stop. But the law permits a driver not to stop in "extraordinary circumstances". Edmund King, the foundation's executive director, said: "If somebody bumps into your car and you are suspicious - don't stop. Drive to a police station, or dial 999." The attack came five days after estate agent Tim Robinson, 25, was stabbed in what may have been an attempted carjacking. His attackers loitered until he parked his £20,000 Audi A3 Quattro outside his home in Battersea, south-west London and then tried to seize his keys. The rise in violent car crime comes as increasingly sophisticated vehicle security is frustrating conventional theft. It can be easier for a criminal to attack the owner instead. Experts said the vehicles most frequently targeted are BMWs and Mercedes - giving rise to suspicions that these makes are being stolen to order by organised criminals. The crimes appear to be most prevalent in the West Midlands, Salford, Bristol, Newcastle and London. Mr King, of the RAC Foundation, warned that some police forces did not pay enough attention to carjacking because it was not recognised as a separate offence. The RAC Foundation's advice on carjacking is: · Do not leave laptops or mobile phones on the seat · Always lock your car doors in urban areas · Always know where you are going. A hesitant motorist can be more vulnerable · Leave a small gap between your car and the one in front so you can get away · If you are bumped and have suspicions, do not stop but go to the police