The taxi drivers who work the rank in Whitehaven have tired of fielding questions about the day their colleague Derrick Bird turned from the good bloke they knew into a mass murderer.At noon today, though, as a bell marked the end of a minute's silence observed across west Cumbria, the cabbies sounded their horns in their own wordless tribute to fellow driver Darren Rewcastle and the 11 other people Bird killed last Wednesday.That was the moment tears appeared in the eyes of many of the 2,000 or so people gathered among the ruins of an old church in Whitehaven's St Nicholas square. Paul Wilson was one of them. The taxi driver was shot by the man he knew as "Birdy", when Bird summoned him over and blasted him in the face.Wilson was among the 11 people hit by Bird who lived to tell the tale. A number of others are still in hospital, including another Whitehaven cabbie, Terry Kennedy, who had his hand amputated this week.Eight simultaneous services were held across the region today to remember Bird's dozen victims. At each event the same statement was read out: "The world is watching west Cumbria – and we must ensure that as a region we are not defined by the shootings, but by our response to them."At the service by the war memorial in Cleator Moor, home to Bird's elder son, Graeme, local priest Father Manny Gribben said he was very proud of how west Cumbrians had rallied around to help each other. "There is a quiet dignity among people and they have been courageous in very difficult times," he told a congregation of about 500.That quiet dignity is on show at every spot on the 45-mile route Bird took last Wednesday. It would be all too easy for those who knew the 52-year-old killer to demonise him in death. But people here don't do that."He was such a nice lad – I can't believe what he did," said Les Taylor, a 63-year-old who once worked at Sellafield nuclear plant with Bird. Flowers laid on Duke Street offered best wishes to Bird's two sons as they struggle to come to terms with what their father has done, killing not just friends and colleagues but also his own twin brother, their uncle David.Even at the services, Bird's family were remembered in prayer. In Gosforth, the pretty village that will tomorrow host the funeral of Bird's ninth victim, rugby player and farmer Garry Purdham, the minister prayed for the murderer's family."We would think too, about Derrick Bird's mother in her double loss, his brother, his ex-wife and two sons, struggling to understand, as so many of us are, how this could have happened," said the Rev Jonathan Falkner.Bird killed 12 people, but at the service in Whitehaven 13 candles were lit.In Boot, the Lake District village where the only person to die was Bird himself, about 30 people still gathered for a service. "Sadly, Derrick Bird's journey ended here and people were shot here," said local vicar the Rev Ann Baker. "But I think it's important that we remember that lives can be rebuilt and throughout the whole of this area we will be joining together to help people come to terms with last week's tragedies."After the Whitehaven service, Rodney Flanagan said he too had been praying for Bird's relatives. "I hope the community can forgive them. It is a terrible thing for them to face," said the 63-year-old Whitehaven man, who had travelled from his adopted home of Crewe to attend."To me Whitehaven is the best place on God's earth and the community will survive – we've got through all the mining disasters in the past," he said, as he stood by a mosaic memorial marking the deaths of the 1,200 men, women and children who lost their lives in the Whitehaven coal mines between 1597 and 1987. Flanagan grew up in Whitehaven one of 10 children and worked down the mines at Haig colliery.Five and a half miles down the road in Egremont another 2,000 people stood in the cool wind to pay their respects to the murdered.The village – and its adjacent neighbourhoods of Haile and Wilton – lost five residents last Wednesday. They were mother-of-two Susan Hughes, 57; ex-military man Kenneth Fishburn, 71; part-time mole catcher Isaac "Spike" Dixon, 65; church council secretary Jennifer Jackson, 68, and her husband James, 67.The Rev Richard Lee said the simple peace and tranquillity of village life had been shattered. "We have all walked the roads, streets, pavements of Egremont," he said."We have walked the hills of Wilton and Haile. We have delighted in the trees and views and the beauty of that small hamlet and that small village. We have liked all the roughness of Egremont – all the meeting and the greeting and all the craic and conversation."All the beauty and friendship. Suddenly it all stopped. It stopped absolutely for our friends and for many of us we held our breath wondering when we could breathe again."Sometimes there is no logic, there is no explanation, there is no easy way through it. You are just in pain."