Parliament rises on Tuesday, as MPs retreat wounded at the end of a torrid session. When they return in October it will be for the last time for the hundreds who will be propelled towards the exit at the next election. The Norwich North byelection next Thursday will send Labour MPs on their way with the glummest forebodings. Regrets, they've had a few on the Labour benches but, then again, far too many to mention.A government on the wane is a sorry sight. It suffers humiliations and some disgraceful reporting that would have been rebutted with ferocity in Labour's heyday. Now ministers greet it with a hang-dog shrug – what can you do? Take this week's remarkable crime figures: the murder rate fell by 17%, the lowest for 20 years. Overall, the crime rate was probably stable, though the less reliable recorded crime figures show a fall of 5%. The Home Office warned that recession would see property crime rise by 4% – but in fact it only rose marginally, by 1%.Guardian readers will have noted the crime trends graph showing a historic fall since 1995 – including violence, car crime and burglary. Good news, you might think. But not if you read headlines in the Telegraph, "One in Four adults is a crime victim", let alone the Sun, "Crime crunch UK". The Financial Times news pages, these days a daily Cameron cheerleader, ignored the murder figure altogether, their headline reading: "Surge in shoplifting and fraud reveals effects of recession on crime." Just as outrageous was the BBC's 10 O'Clock News' drumbeat headline: "Is the recession to blame for an increase in some types of crime?"Only the Guardian, Independent and Mirror were straight. But most correspondents treated to lengthy briefings from Home Office statisticians returned to their newsrooms to write what their politically motivated editors demanded, even if their readers might be more intrigued by the good news on murder than by exaggerated shreds of bad news in a 1% rise in burglary.Never mind unfairness to Labour, deliberately frightening everyone on crime does great damage. Three-quarters of voters are convinced that crime is always rising: as in perceptions of the NHS, one or two terrifying anecdotes sweep away any number of statistics saying it's not so. Ipsos Mori, monitoring long-term public attitudes, notes: "Media portrayals of crime and justice do seem particularly perverse."Wicked misrepresentation of crime figures makes people unhappy – convinced the country is going to the dogs, the young are dangerous and dragging us all to a perdition of moral decline. Cynical and frightened citizens make bad choices, ripe for exploitation. That's why the opposition nurtures those fears so ruthlessly: Cameron's "Broken Britain" trope never refers to the fact that the risk of being a victim of any kind of crime was 40% in 1995 and is now 23%. Nor would he point to vastly more young people staying on at school or college, education reducing risk in their crime-prone years.Labour has played its own part in stoking fear of crime. Some 3,000 new laws invented new crimes, while often meaningless criminal justice acts brought heavier sentences, more than doubling the prison population. Blair/Blunkett/Reid rhetoric suggested crime was indeed worsening. True, it's hard for ministers to boast of crime success when there are always plentiful horrors with which to fill front pages. As Alan Johnson said this week, it's scant comfort for a victim to know the figures are going down. What's more, it's far from clear how much credit Labour can claim: crime has fallen across the western world, regardless of prison policy, partly due to rising prosperity, education and jobs. If Labour has never found a way to talk wisely about crime for fear of sounding soft or complacent, a rapaciously crime-frenzied press makes sensible debate well-nigh impossible.Things can only get worse when parliament returns to mounting election fever. There will be no holds barred from a Conservative press within sight of restoring their own party to its rightful place in the Whitehall it occupied for most of the last century.However, Labour's end of days is a far cry from the John Major cones-hotline era of emptiness. The government still bustles with announcements and plans for a future unlikely to be theirs. This week offered difficult and important policies that earned credit for honesty. The green paper on care spelled out the likely £20,000 cost per head to make sure everyone gets the good care they expect at the end of their lives.But most stirring was the radical roadmap Ed Miliband laid out for achieving the climate change target his brother put on the statute book. Between them the Milibands have now made Britain – the worst performer on renewable energy – the first country to enforce compliance on itself. So precise and prescriptive is the programme that usually critical green lobbyists from Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth gave it remarkably favourable support. They were joined by the conservation trio CPRE, RSPB and the National Trust, which in a joint statement "welcomed" the plans and together have "backed the drive to generate 15% of the country's energy from wind, wave, sustainably sourced biomass and solar power by 2020, while protecting [the country's] natural and historical environment".Puzzlingly not all the NT's custodians of old England seem entirely on board yet for wind turbines and new planning laws. But it was good to hear the Conservatives sounding likely to keep to the Miliband strategy, accepting the tough targets for renewables. This is radical, difficult and expensive, but essential for any serious government from now on.So why aren't Labour's troops more cheerful? More announcements in next weeks' last days will include a boost for electric cars and new rail electrification, with more jobs promised. But it's unlikely these signs of life will quicken Labour's heartbeat in Norwich North. The trouble is that these policies come with no recognisable political narrative, nor a narrator capable of igniting flagging spirits.It is now so late. For 12 years Labour has done virtually nothing about climate change or old age care. Had the child poverty pledge been fulfilled, these future promises would be more persuasive. A government that looks as if it will not be there to implement change lacks a certain credibility when it talks of long-term plans, however good. Better late than never, but oh how it reminds us of all Labour's missed opportunities.