Victims, witnesses and jurors in court cases will not be allowed to be filmed if the televising of court cases goes ahead, the lord chancellor announced yesterday.Lord Falconer released a summary of responses to a consultation paper, which showed a majority believed the ban should continue, except for appeal courts. Even for this court, where a six-week pilot has been done, more than 40% of respondents opposed lifting the ban on broadcasting court proceedings in England and Wales, imposed in 1925. But the judges are believed to have been happy with the results of the pilot, and, when he comes to making a decision, Lord Falconer is expected to allow the filming of appeals. During the pilot last November and December, footage from civil and criminal appeals were turned into mock news items and documentaries and shown to ministers, judges and legal professional bodies. The consultation drew 259 responses. Individuals were more strongly opposed to filming than the organisations responding, which mainly represented lawyers, government departments, community and voluntary groups, broadcast companies, and judges. Overall, 55% of respondents wanted a complete ban in the crown courts, where serious criminal charges are tried, and another 77% wanted a ban in the family courts. Some 63% overall felt witnesses' examination and cross-examination should not be filmed in any circumstances. Only 49% of organisations supported a total ban on broadcasts involving witnesses. Individuals who supported filming cited open justice. Some believed they had suffered injustice in their own cases, which might have been exposed or prevented if the proceedings had been filmed. Those opposing were concerned about the protection of participants, the right to a fair trial, and judicial integrity. Some said they would be nervous at participating in a broadcast trial. Others felt television was synonymous with entertainment and were worried for its effect on proceedings. A barrister said he would not want the public to see him at work. Lord Falconer said: "The consultation has provided a wide range of considered responses, often heartfelt from individuals and organisations. Their input has confirmed my very strong view that victims, witnesses and jurors should not be filmed. "There remain powerful reasons and arguments for protecting them, and the justice process in general, from the impact of cameras and microphones in court. "I am not announcing any further conclusions or proposals at this stage."