Police were last night searching for two teenage assailants who launched a series of brutal attacks on gay men along London's South Bank, leaving one dead and others injured.David Morley, 37, who lived and worked at a pub in Chiswick, west London, suffered serious head injurie and died in hospital following the 15-minute frenzy of assaults close to the Royal Festival Hall on Saturday.Detectives said the victim was subjected to a "savage beating" and a post mortem examination confirmed he died from multiple injuries.The two youths, one white and one black, carried out the assaults along a few hundred metres of the riverside route.Police said six people, five of them men, were beaten with fists, feet and improvised weapons, in four eparate incidents near the Thames. It is understood that several of those injured had been walking back to the Waterloo area from Heaven, a leading gay nightclub under Charing Cross station.Police said that the assailants, accompanied by two young women, stole property from two victims. A police spokesman said: "Some of those who were attacked, including the murder victim, are gay and one line of inquiry is that the attacks were homophobic in motive."Detective Chief Inspector Nick Scola, leading the murder inquiry, said Mr Morley had been punched and kicked, and suffered 40 distinct bruises. "Clearly thi was a series of violent attacks. All the victims were returning home from evenings out and the assaults on them were violent and random," he said.Mr Scola said the first attack was at 3.15am on Saturday. A 35-year-old man sitting alone in Jubilee Gardens was battered over the head with an unidentified object. Ten minutes later, a 29-year-old man and a 25-year-old man were assaulted close to the Royal Festival Hall and suffered minor injuries.At around 3.30am, a few metres from the scene of the two earlier assaults, Mr Morley and his 29-year-old male friend were beaten. Both men were taken to hospital, with the younger man treated for minor wounds. Mr Morley died at St Thomas' Hospital at 7.45pm on Saturday.Police interviewed 70 people at the scene. One witness claimed the youths had also set upon a woman, punching her in the face at the bottom of step leading to Hungerford Bridge. No weapons have been found and officers are examining CCTV footage from the area."This is a well-lit area and would have been busy with people returning home from the theatre, from restaurants and from the city at the time the attack took place," said Mr Scola. He said it was not yet known if the two women took part in the assaults. The group had fled on foot following the clash with Mr Morley, running through Jubilee Gardens towards the Shell Centre.In 1999, a law student, Timothy Baxter, was beaten unconscious and thrown into the Thames from the Hungerford Bridge which links Charing Cross station with the South Bank. Mr Baxter and his friend, Gabriel Cornish, both 24, were attacked on their way home from a party. Six gang members aged between 15 and 22 were convicted for murder and attempted murder the following year.