A detective was severely injured yesterday after an escaping fraud suspect allegedly drove over her outside a Heathrow hotel.Catherine Corbett, a 39-year-old detective constable with 18 years' experience, sustained serious head injuries when a man she was trying to arrest outside the Sheraton Skyline hotel jumped into a car and sped off, apparently knocking her down and driving over her.She was taken by ambulance to Charing Cross hospital, central London, where she was said to be in a critical condition. West Midlands police issued a picture of their injured colleague last night.Two other male officers received minor injuries during the incident. A 41-year-old man was arrested last night, Scotland Yard said. The Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime squad is treating the incident as attempted murder.DC Corbett was part of a team of five officers from the economic crime team of West Midlands police who had tracked their suspect to the four-star hotel in a fraud investigation.At 8.10am yesterday, as the officers spotted him leaving the hotel, they moved in to make an arrest. But the suspect leapt into a blue Peugeot 207 and accelerated across the hotel forecourt. His car allegedly hit DC Corbett and rammed a grey Ford Focus before he escaped eastwards down the Bath Road.The car was later found in nearby Hayes, west London, and the area around the abandoned vehicle was cordoned off for examination.The scene outside the hotel was cordoned off yesterday and medical equipment lay discarded next to the damaged Ford Focus. Clothes bearing scissor marks, which had been cut from the wearer, were also visible as well as a tube used to artificially ventilate patients. Guests were able to come and go from the hotel opposite the entrance to Heathrow's Terminal 1.Wonsang Park, 42, a Korean businessman who was at the Sheraton Skyline for a conference, said: "I was in the lobby to meet someone for a business meeting. I could see a woman lying on the ground. She was not wearing a uniform. There were around five or six police officers and hotel staff standing around her trying to help but I didn't see her move once. They spent 15 minutes trying to help on the ground but she was put into an ambulance. She looked in a very bad way."Catherine Gordon, sales and marketing manager for the Skyline Sheraton, could not confirm if the suspect had spent the night at the hotel.