Police investigating a former children's home in Jersey where a child's skull was unearthed nine days ago said today that no further human remains had been identified at the site.The deputy chief officer of Jersey police, Lenny Harper, said an anthropologist who examined the remains excavated from the home at Haut de la Garenne believed most of the bones were animal.But he said a sniffer dog specially trained to find human remains had given a strong reaction to some of the items uncovered.Harper, the detective leading the investigation, said: "We continued to excavate the first site at the house and have taken out a few items. It is too early to say what the significance of those are. They're possibly pieces of bone."The officer said the investigation could go on for another four weeks, but he was not in a position to say when the next arrests would be made. Only one person who worked at the home has been charged.Police have compiled a list of 40 suspects, many of whom worked at Haut de la Garenne, after talking to more than 160 alleged victims and several dozen witnesses. Among the suspects are people who had "some official connection with the Jersey establishment", according to the island's chief police officer, Graham Power.Detectives are understood to be keeping a watch on ports and airport for suspects leaving the island.Police say they have reason to believe a former care worker at Haut de la Garenne has threatened a former resident to try to dissuade him from cooperating with the police investigation. Harper warned that anyone attempting to pervert the course of justice would be committing a "serious criminal offence", and added: "This is a stark warning - we will not tolerate it."A former care worker at the home today told how she saw young residents "absolutely ice cold and frozen with fear".Christine Bowker, a former volunteer at the home at Haut de la Garenne in the early 1970s, said she left due to the conduct of some of the staff but was met with a "wall of silence" when she tried to raise concerns. Bowker described some staff at the home as "very rigid and very controlled"."They had no civil contact with me whatsoever, and watched me very carefully with the children," she said. "And if the children relaxed at all or responded to my affection, they glared at the children and they glared at me, then the children just went back into their shells."Bowker told BBC News 24 that she was "in total shock" that the allegations of physical and sexual abuse were emerging. She said: "I left in distress and abuse I received from some of the staff... I couldn't get anybody to listen to the problem. Nobody would listen. There was just a wall of silence. "I mentioned it to some of the people in Jersey. Everybody covered everything. The attitude was really nice people managed by the state, we get decent people to run things. "I didn't say anything to the staff because I knew something was going on which I couldn't quite put my finger on." Police confirmed yesterday that one individual against whom serious allegations have been made is Wilfred Krichefski, a business leader and politician who died in 1974. Officers are understood to have spoken to at least one former resident who claims to have been repeatedly raped by Krichefski at Haut de la Garenne in the early 1960s.Police sources disclosed yesterday that officers had been monitoring some islanders' use of child pornography websites for up to 12 months before the existence of the operation was made public in November. Although police kept the inquiry secret for a year, there have been rumours on the island about abuses at Haut de la Garenne for a generation or more.The Rev Lawrence Turner, the Anglican vicar of St Martin's, the parish within which the home lies, says he first heard whispers about physical abuse shortly after arriving in the area in the mid-60s. He was told of a number of specific incidents by a senior figure within his parish and advised the man to contact the authorities. "Either he didn't tell them, or he was ignored. That is the bad part; that is the thing we all have to live with," he said.Photographs of the cellar that is being searched, released yesterday, show a low bath or cattle trough that is said to feature in a number of statements taken from abuse victims. Many have talked of being held in the cellar. One photograph shows a pillar supporting the ceiling on which someone has scrawled "Ive been sad 4 years & years". The pictures also show the dirty, rubble-strewn conditions in which police teams are slowly searching, not only for any human remains but also for other pieces of evidence.Officers have discovered there may be as many as four rooms beneath one wing of the 140-year-old building, and suspect there may be other cellars that will need to be examined. However, it is thought that shackles found in a cellar last month may have been used to restrain livestock and may have played no part in the abuse.While many of the crimes being examined date back to the early 60s, others took place in recent years and one was allegedly committed a few weeks before Christmas, it emerged yesterday.It is unclear where that offence is said to have taken place. The home at Haut de la Garenne closed in 1986, but officers are investigating allegations of abuse at other institutions on Jersey. A spokeswoman for the island's government declined to identify the institution yesterday but indicated that a member of staff had been suspended.Police think it may be another 12 months before the investigation is completed. An extra 12 detectives from the mainland joined the team today.