Nearly 20 years ago, on 2 May 1992, a young student wrote to his MP, Virginia Bottomley. "I am a man at the absolute end of my tether," said the letter. "I have reached the end of my resources, emotionally, mentally, physically and spiritually. Just over five years ago my younger brother Daniel was murdered … Since that day, my mother and I have spent almost every waking moment in a horrible and debilitating battle to expose the truth about why Daniel met such a horrible death."On Friday the author of that letter, Alastair Morgan, stood outside the Old Bailey and expressed his dismay that "we have been failed utterly by all the institutions designed to protect us". The collapse of the trial of three men accused of involvement in the murder marked the latest in a long line of painful disappointments in Morgan's campaign to expose the truth of why and by whom his brother was killed.Had it not been for Alastair Morgan, then a journalism student living in a hostel in Surrey and now a translator in central London, it is likely that the case would have been long forgotten. He has written, phoned, lobbied, picketed, pleaded, hassled, demonstrated and campaigned so that the case would not be abandoned and the people responsible for killing Daniel in the car park of the Golden Lion pub in March 1987 would never feel that they had got away with murder.His battle has taken him to the commissioner's office in Scotland Yard, to the houses of parliament, to the Home Office, the then Police Complaints Authority, and to the chambers of the Greater London Authority. Although he has often encountered indifference and hostility – as well as compassion and concern – he never abandoned the case.Sometimes his frustration has boiled over. "I think I've lost the will to live," he announced to the court just after the judge had left at the end of one interminable and obscure pre-trial hearing earlier this year. His family have shared his sense of despair. "This is a pantomime," his sister, Jane Royds, told the court in the midst of another session."It has turned my life upside down but I felt that I had to do as much as I could after the [original] police investigation failed," Morgan said. "I owed it to my brother." With his mother, sister, sister-in-law and niece beside him, he addressed the press once more on Friday, this time to seek a judicial inquiry. No brother could have done more.