The daughter of a man killed as he remonstrated with a gang of drunken youths for damaging his wife's car wept yesterday as she recalled the moments when she saw her father beaten to the ground during the fatal attack.Zoe Newlove, 18, giving evidence from behind a screen at Chester crown court, described how she saw her father trying to shield himself as his attackers kicked his head like a football.She said she had returned from a part-time job 20 minutes before the attack on her father, Garry Newlove, outside his home in Warrington, Cheshire, in August. He died in hospital two days later having never regained consciousness.Zoe told the court her sister, Amy, who was 12 at the time, was upstairs in her bedroom when she heard a smashing sound. She alerted her father, who went outside without his shoes on.She said the youths were "just laughing at him, swearing and being awkward. He put his arm out to one of them on his shoulder and said: 'Was it you who did it?' "One of the youths hit her father on the left-hand side of his face. "There are five or six of them who went to hit him," she said. "One was behind my dad, two went to hit him and he put his arm up to block them."Her father fell to the ground, then "curled up and put his hands over his head", she said. "They started to kick him - about five of them," on his head, shoulder and upper body, but "mainly his head"."They were kicking him like they were kicking a football," she added. Asked what the youths were doing, she replied: "Laughing at him."Five youths, aged between 15 and 17, four of whom cannot be named for legal reasons, are charged with murder. They have all pleaded not guilty. The oldest, Adam Swellings, 19, from Crewe, Cheshire, pleaded guilty to manslaughter, but this was rejected by the prosecution.The court heard Zoe was unable to pick out any of the youths responsible during a police identity parade.Amy, who is now 13, gave evidence via a videotaped interview, which was played to the court.She told detectives she was unable to look at her father after he had been attacked."I turned around and my dad was on the floor," she said. "Blood was coming from his head ... he had cuts and bruises. I couldn't look at him again. I was crying and in shock."She said that as the gang walked away, she had to push away one of the youths as he returned to attack her father again.Other youths who had walked ahead were shouting "hit him" towards the group who were attacking her father.The trial continues.