Two televisions in an outhouse of Hyde library, with flaking paint and barbed wire on the roof, will for the next two years be the focal point of a community that once harboured Europe's worst serial killer.In a white-washed room, relatives of Harold Shipman's deceased patients will gather daily to watch a video link-up to the inquiry they hope will tell them how many the doctor killed and how. A security guard will protect them from the media, and counsellors will be on hand every day until spring 2003. Yesterday, from the satellite screens, a witness told how he had gone to his kitchen to make a cup of tea for the "friendly" local GP, and came back to find his brother dead in the living room. Relatives of pensioners who died mysteriously watched in silence, arms crossed and defensive. Shipman had more than 3,000 patients in Hyde, a close knit former mill town seven miles from Manchester. When the general practitioner was arrested in 1998, residents sent him cards saying "be strong". They have fought for more than a year for a public inquiry to find out the true scale of his killing. The macabre viewing room is a two minute walk from Shipman's former surgery, which remains in use although at least five murders took place there. Yesterday, through frosted glass, a sign at the surgery read: "If you don't understand what the doctor told you, just ask." This was why people had come to watch the inquiry, said one woman who believed Shipman had killed her aunt. "We still don't understand. We need answers." Claire Treloar, a solicitor whose firm represents 180 families, attended the viewing with two clients - one being Freida Hibbs whose sister, Joyce Woodward, was unlawfully killed. She said families just wanted to find out how many Shipman had killed and how. Ms Treloar said: "They are apprehensive. This is the first inquiry of its kind. Given that it is for someone who has murdered so many people, families are suspicious of what is going on. They want someone to recognise what happened to their relatives, so that it can't be brushed under the carpet." Only eight relatives attended the viewing in Hyde yesterday. Some of Shipman's former patients sat through the morning's evidence. Others felt it was too horrific to attend. One pensioner arrived with a bag of sandwiches, then could not bear to go in. Another watched the relatives come and go through the net curtains of her terraced house across the road. Janice Goodwin, who believes her aunt may have been a victim, said: "My whole family is involved, but I won't be going to the viewing room. I can't face it. I have read one of the books about the Shipman story, and that is enough." Mildred Dawson, a pensioner, said "amazement and horror" would grip the town as details emerged. "For people in my age group, this hangs in the air constantly. So many women were murdered. We all knew them. The leader of my women's club had a sister-in-law who was a victim. People want to find out what happened and when. But the inquiry has to delve deep now. I am interested, but I don't think I will watch the inquiry in Hyde. There are so many relatives involved, I just don't want to intrude." Outside Shipman's surgery, one pensioner shouted: "Never mind the inquiry, just get him hanged."IT logistics• The inquiry is expected to last at least two years. • 120 witnesses are expected to be called in the first phase. • 1m pages of documents relating to Shipman's career have been put on databases. • Pages can be displayed on large screens in the council chamber at Manchester town hall and relayed to screens in a room at Hyde public library. • £500,000 has been spent on installing IT equipment: 29 monitors in the council chamber; 380 data points; and seven miles of cables. Photo gallery The story in picturesAudio Angelique Crisafis in Hyde. (2mins 03) Harold Shipman is questioned by the police Read the transcriptGovernment audit Download the report Extracts from the reportThe trial Complete case reportsRelated articles 11.01.01: Police investigate deaths of more Shipman victims 08.01.01: Minister admits watchdog is not Shipman-proof 05.01.01: Safeguards were not tough enough, admits department of healthUseful links The Shipman inquiry Greater Manchester police General Medical Council Department of health