For six days he sat withdrawn in the dock, listening impassively to a procession of witnesses, police, lawyers, psychiatrists - and yesterday a public prosecutor - describe him as a remorseless and dangerous deviant.Just once did Francisco Javier Arce Montes, who was sentenced to 30 years in prison yesterday by a French court in Rennes for the rape and murder of the 13-year-old Cornish schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson, show any emotion: when the presiding judge read out testimony from his mother. It featured the word "repulsive". No flicker crossed Montes' face yesterday either when the prosecutor, François René Aubry, demanded a life sentence with no possibility of parole for 22 years. There was no redeeming feature in the accused's character, nor in the manner in which he had committed his crime, to warrant anything less, Mr Aubry said. "This is a man who has devoted his life entirely to his sexual deviance," the prosecutor declared at the end of his two-hour summing-up. "What has he done with himself, apart from wander around the youth hostels of Europe looking for 13-year-old girls to rape, searching for a few brief seconds of sexual pleasure? He has never shown remorse, he has never called for help? No."Much of the debate on the last day of the trial focused on the accused's intent. Did the 54-year-old Spaniard, an itinerant sexual predator for three decades, mean Caroline to die when he assaulted her in the Pleine Fougères youth hostel, in Brittany, on July 17 1996? For Hervé Rouzaud le Boeuf, the Dickinson family's lawyer for nearly eight years, there was no doubt. Montes, he reminded the court yesterday, had returned frustrated to Pleine Fougères that night at 4am after failing to gratify his sexual urges during an almost identical assault on another British schoolgirl at a hostel in St-Lunaire, some 30 miles away. The girl's room mates woke up and switched on the light, forcing him to leave. "I am completely convinced that after his failure at St-Lunaire he was determined to obtain satisfaction, come what may," he said. "There was an absolute determination and ferocity to succeed. He wanted his pleasure, whatever the cost to his victim. It was imperative that she did not cry out." Betrayed by incontrovertible DNA evidence, Montes had eventually admitted sexually assaulting Caroline, he said, and had even admitted placing his hand and a wad of cotton over her mouth to stop her making a noise. But he denied that he intended to kill her. "Pressing very strongly with a hand and a wad of cotton on your victim for some considerable time, you must know that asphyxiation is the likely consequence. That constitutes a murderous intention," the prosecution lawyer said. For the defence, Montes' lawyers, Olivier Dersoir and Fabian Lahaie, insisted that there was nothing in their client's past to suggest that he intended to kill Caroline. Mr Lahaie said the prosecution had exaggerated its case. "On the strength of this evidence, I cannot see a homicidal intention," he said. "The facts to which Mr Montes has admitted are grave enough. Why inflate them into what they're not?" He asked the jury to reject the charge of murder and judge Montes for a lesser and rarer crime, death as a result of rape. On its final day, the trial returned at length to Montes' character and past life. "This is a suspect who is wholly out of the ordinary," the prosecutor said. "Someone who is capable of raping and killing a young girl, and then of walking away calmly leaving almost no trace. "That degree of assurance sends shivers down the spine. Someone who has crossed Europe for 20 years to satisfy his sexual urges and fantasies. Someone who we find in France, in Switzerland, in Spain, in Holland, in Germany, in Britain. Someone completely out of the ordinary."The son of parents who were married for 50 years and ran a mini-market in Gijon, northern Spain, Montes was portrayed in testimony - including his own - as a lonely and unhappy child who disliked school and left home early. Obsessed by cleanliness and with anxieties about sexual impotence, he was treated briefly by psychiatrists three times in his late teens, but never diagnosed with mental illness. The first indication of his perversion came in 1973 when he indecently exposed himself to his parents' cleaner. In 1980 he was arrested in Germany, for indecency. He met a French woman, Christine Lemenez, who eventually became the mother of his son, after breaking into her room in a hostel the following year. Between 1984 and 1988 he committed or attempted at least three rapes in Germany, picking up young female hitch-hikers in his car and threatening them at knifepoint. In 1993 and 1994 he was picked up by gendarmes in France after breaking into a holiday centre near Tours and trying to lure teenage girls out to his car. But since the mid-1990s, his assaults followed a pattern: breaking into a young girl's room while she slept, removing her underwear and masturbating over her body. That was the technique he deployed in St-Lunaire and, fatally, in Pleine Fougères in 1996, and in Llanes in Spain in 1997, where he was arrested and released on bail. It was also the technique he used in 2001 after fleeing to Florida. That assault led to his incarceration and eventual extradition to France. An alert US immigration official read about the Dickinson inquiry in a British newspaper article that named Montes. He ran the name through a computer, and found that the Spaniard was in a Miami jail.