A taped recording of the last moments of Damilola Taylor's life were today played at his Old Bailey murder trial.The jury heard a tape recording of the frantic 999 call made by carpenter Bill Casal when he found the 10-year-old bleeding to death in a stairwell. This is a transcript of the 10-minute 999 call, starting from when Mr Casal has given the address for the ambulance, and has passed the mobile phone to his colleague Mr Tunstall. Mr Tunstall (T): This boy is approximately 12 years of age. He has lost a hell of a lot of blood. Operator (O):  How has he done that? What happened? T:  We do not know, sir. We have just come out and found him on the staircase. He's tried to climb up. O:  Where is he bleeding from? T:  He's going ... O:  Where is he bleeding from? T:  We cannot tell. O:  Have a look to see what part of his body is bleeding. T:  Can you see where he ... where this blood is coming from? Just see where the blood is coming from... Look, look it's coming from here, look. Hold his leg up. O:  What part of his body? T:  Actually it looks like it's coming from his leg. O:  Is it the upper leg? T:  It looks like from the upper leg, shall we raise his leg? O:  No, don't move him. T:  Don't move him, don't move him. O:  Is he awake? Is he conscious? T:  No, it looks like he's drifting off. O:  Is he conscious? T:  No. O:  Is he breathing? T:  Is he still breathing? Is he still breathing? He's still breathing. O:  He's definitely breathing? T:  He's still breathing, yeah. O:  Listen. What I need you to do is to get a clean cloth or a towel. T:  Got a clean towel? Has someone got a clean towel? O:  A clean dry one. Is it on a building site? T:  No, no. No, it's actually in a block of flats. O:  What's the name of the block of flats? T:  What's the name of the block of flats? Promenade West, Blakes Road. O:  What number Blakes Road? T:  80A Blakes Road. We will have someone out on the street looking for ... O:  Can you get a clean cloth or a towel? Is he awake at all? T:  No, it looks like he's going unconscious. Is he still with us? O:  Speak to him, try to bring him round. Sir, can you go to where the patient is please? T:  I am with him right now. O:  Get a coat over his body to keep him warm. T:  We got that, we got that. O:  Is he breathing normally? T:  Is he breathing all right? He's breathing, but he's ... O:  Get one of those people to go outside ready to meet the ambulance. T:  Colin, can you go out into the road and wait for the ambulance? O:  And you stay with him. Is he making any noises as he is breathing? T:  No, he's very quiet. O:  But he is breathing, yes? T:  He's very quiet. O:  Is the blood squirting out? T:  He's actually wearing trousers and the blood seems to be coming from underneath his leg. O:  The upper leg? Is there anything you can cut the trousers with? You are going to have to do it. T:  Get some scissors. Cut his trousers. O:  Be careful though, all right? T:  We will be very careful. O:  Now listen. Me speaking to you does not delay the ambulance. T:  I'm aware of that. I can't see exactly where it's come from but it does look like it's coming from his leg. O:  Is there a lot of blood? T:  There is a hell of a lot. O:  We really need to stem that bleeding. Have you got anything to put on it yet? T:  We've got him covered over. We're just getting someone to cut the trousers away so we can see where it's coming from. O:  He is still breathing, yes? T:  He is still breathing but he is in a very bad way. O:  And he's bleeding heavily, yeah? T:  Very. I've seen some cuts before, there's blood. O:  Listen, I want to you to check that he is still breathing. T:  Is he still breathing? Keep checking him, keep him talking, try to keep him talking. Is he awake? Keep him talking, try and get him to talk to us. We need to cut the trousers, can I have that knife? We need to cut his trousers nice and carefully. O:  Have you got something to put on it yet? T:  We've got some gauze. O:  You are going to have to stem the bleeding. Now whatever it is you've got you are going to have to fold it over a couple of times and then hold it on the wound directly where it's bleeding. You've got to hold it on there firmly and stem the bleeding. T:  Keep going up, keep going up. We can't see where. We still can't see the cut. O:  You are going to have to keep cutting the trousers. Don't worry about the trousers. T:  Right, yeah. O:  Right where is it? On the upper leg? Is there anything in the wound? T:  Keep going up, it looks like it's coming down his groin. This could be a stomach wound. It looks like it could be the stomach, it's coming down his trousers. O:  Have a look at his top then, try and locate where the bleeding is. T:  Lift the top up until we find this hole. Pull the top up, lift it up, lift it up, we've got to lift it up. It might hurt him a little bit but we're gonna have to. It's from his leg. Right, keep cutting up, keep cutting up. Right, we've found it. Right, hold the gauze in it. O:  Is there anything in the wound? T:  Is there anything in the wound? Can we see anything? I don't want to twist his leg and it's partly under his leg. O:  Right. if you're gonna have to move his leg, you're gonna have to move his leg. T:  Right, twist his leg. O:  Carefully. Try and do it together. T:  I'm worried about making it open up more. O:  Can you place the gauze on the wound? Can you manage to do that? T:  Hold that up underneath it. O:  Right, you are doing well. What you need to do is hold it on there firmly. That will stem the bleeding. T:  We think that is the wound but to be honest, he's stopped bleeding. O:  Can you see any blood pumping? T:  Keep him going! Keep him going! O:  Is he awake? T:  No, he keeps drifting off, he's ... O:  Can someone, can you ... T:  They're here, they're here. The police have just arrived. O:  Is the ambulance there? T:  The ambulance is not here yet but the police are. O:  Have you got that on the wound? T:  We haven't, no, no. We can't actually find the wound. It looks like it's come from his leg, but ... O:  Are the police trying to locate the wound? T:  No, they are just putting their gloves on to have a look to see if we can find out where he is actually bleeding from. O:  But is he still breathing? T:  I don't actually know. Has he stopped breathing? O:  Has he stopped breathing now? T:  He's just checking. Has he stopped breathing? They're actually trying to check now. No pulse, no pulse. Is anyone still out on that road for that ambulance? O:  Are they saying he's stopped breathing now? T:  Has he stopped breathing? O:  Have the police checked to see if he is breathing? T:  The police are just checking. Has he stopped breathing at all? I've got the, yeah, hang on. PC Paul Drew (P):  Hello, this is PC Drew from Peckham. O:  Has the patient stopped breathing? P:  Yeah, apparently so. O:  Right, OK, do you know how to do resus [resuscitation]? P:  Basic, yeah. We will try to get on it. O:  Right. He's definitely not breathing? P:  Is he definitely not breathing? Jim, is he definitely not breathing? He's definitely stopped breathing. We are going to have to try ... O:  What I want you to do, listen. Try and get one of your hands under his neck, put one on his forehead and pull his head back slightly. P:  Jim, Jim, I've got the ambulance up. We need one hand behind his neck, tilt his back about an inch. [He then relays the operator's instructions] Open his airway. Look in his mouth to see if there is anything blocking his airway. Obstructions Jim. Pinch his nose tight and breathe two deep breaths into his lungs. Cover his mouth completely Jim. OK, he's doing that. O:  Have you located the wound yet? P:  Yes, we've located wounds on his legs. We haven't located any other wounds at the moment. O:  Is the breath going in? Is his chest rising as you are doing it. P:  Is the chest rising? Hold on a sec ... No, the chest is not rising. O:  Is there anything in his airway? You need to check if there's anything in his airway. P:  Jim, can you check if there's, is he definitely unblocked? They are unblocking his airway now, they're trying to unblock it. Jim, put your fingers in, put your fingers in. He's going to stick his fingers in and find out. His tongue's up, there's nothing blocking it. O:  There's nothing there? They've put their fingers in there, yeah? To look and see if there is anything in there? P:  Yeah. O:  OK, try once more. Cover his mouth completely. Remember to pinch his nose closed. P:  Yeah, it's moving. O:  Is his chest rising? P:  Yeah, it's rising. O:  OK, what I want you to do now is feel for a pulse. Put the index and middle fingers into the groove next to the Adam's apple just under the chin. Feel for five seconds. See if they can get any pulse. P:  Yeah I'm doing it. I can't feel a pulse. O:  OK, what I need you to do now is get the heel of your hand in the middle of his chest, lock your fingers and press down 15 times. P:  I'm going to have to put the phone down. O:  Right. Hello? Hello? Hello?