The home secretary, David Blunkett, today announced the most radical overhaul of sex crime legislation for more than 100 years.Mr Blunkett said the legislation is aimed at sweeping away the "archaic" laws governing homosexuality, while tightening protections against rapists, paedophiles and other sex offenders. Defendants accused of rape will have to be able to show they took "reasonable action" to ensure the other person consented to sex. A new offence of "grooming" children for sex abuse - previously only thought to apply to adults who lure youngsters on the internet - will be applied to every aspect of life, not just online, and will carry a maximum five-year penalty. Laws on child abuse will be updated, the sex offenders register will be tightened to include those convicted of violent offences thought at risk of committing a sexual offence and there will be entirely new offences to combat the sexual exploitation of children and adults. The proposals received strong backing from the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said he welcomed Mr Blunkett's refusal to make sex offenders registers public, the protection of disabled people and minors, and the decision to retain the presumption of innocence in rape cases. "I cannot say I believe the changes proposed in the law of rape are very likely to make any actual difference to conviction rates, but the home secretary has at least avoided doing any harm and for that we must be grateful," he said. He hailed Mr Blunkett's attempt to find a way through "a nasty thicket" but warned the legislation's effectiveness would depend on how well it was drafted. "We shall accordingly look in great detail at the drafting of each clause of the bill when it comes," he pledged. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, welcomed the reforms: "The law on sex offences must be reformed to meet the needs and values of modern Britain. It contains outdated offences which discriminate against some sections of society." Under the sections of the white paper on rape, defendants will not be able to claim a victim consented if he or she was threatened, abducted, unconscious through drink or drugs, or unable to communicate. Convictions for rape have fallen from 25% in 1985 to just 7% in 2000, and ministers said a reason for this might be that prosecutors cannot prove a victim did not give consent. It will be rape if a defendant cannot show he did not take reasonable action to ensure his partner gave consent, and "reasonable" will be judged by what an "objective third party would think in the circumstances". Mr Letwin said the new test of reasonableness in relation to sexual consent must also reflect the "delicate balance" between a women's right to be protected and a man's right to be exonerated from slanderous accusations. "All good criminal law strikes a balance between public protection and the protection of civil liberties," he said. Ministers have also decided not to create a specific offence of "date rape" after consulting rape support groups, with the paper commenting: "Our view is that rape is rape, and cannot be divided into more and less serious offences." However, there will be a new offence of administering a drug with intent to commit a sex crime, which will carry a maximum penalty of 10 years, as well as an end to anonymity for rape defendants.Mr Blunkett also revealed that action will also be taken to prevent "inappropriate adult behaviour", such as the sending of explicit e-mails and photographs. A further offence of an adult committing a sex act with a child will cover anyone over 13 but under 16. Children under 13 will not be capable in law of giving consent to any form of sexual activity. He said there would be new offences and tough penalties to tackle the trafficking of children and adults for sexual exploitation and announced a review of prostitution in a bid to stamp out the "mafia-style criminality," which often bedevilled "this terrible trade". Mr Blunkett said: "The law on sex offences is widely recognised as archaic, incoherent and discriminatory. "Much of it belongs in an age before the light bulb or motor car yet we now live in a world of global communications, with children two clicks away from internet porn sites generated by a multi-million pound sex industry. "We must have laws that are fit for the 21st century, that reflect today's society and attitudes and provide effective protection against today's crimes." The Home Office paper said the so-called "cottaging" offences, which date from 1956, will be repealed because they "criminalise consensual sexual activity in private between men, which would not be illegal between heterosexuals or between women".They will be replaced by a new offence of sexual behaviour in a public place - which will apply to both sexes and carry a maximum six-month penalty. The paper stressed this did not amount to legalising cottaging - when gay men meet in public places for sex. Nor would it criminalise people who have sex in an isolated place outdoors where they would not expect to be interrupted, or those who kiss or cuddle in private. It added: "Sexual activity in public that offends, irrespective of whether the people engaging in the activity are heterosexual or homosexual, will remain criminal." Mr Blunkett said: "What people do in private is their own business, but what they do in public clearly affects others. Our intention is to send a clear signal about what is unacceptable behaviour and ensure the police and prosecuting authorities have the tools to tackle it."