Maxine Carr could be given a new name and have her appearance altered as the best way of ensuring her safety when she is freed from prison, a probation service spokesman said yesterday.Carr, convicted of perverting the course of justice will be eligible for release next May, having served half of her 3-year sentence, including 16 months on remand. She could be released in less than two months, if she applies and is accepted for the Home Office's new electronic tagging system for low-risk, non-violent prisoners. But this would make her more vulnerable to vigilante attacks, given that the tag triggers an alarm unless she remains at one permanent address, and she would have to observe an overnight curfew. Roy James, Carr's solicitor, said she accepted it would be very difficult for her. Michael Hubbard QC, her lawyer, said: "She faces an unenviable future, and I really cannot say more than that. She will be blighted for years." Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation service union, felt it was likely she would remain in jail until mid-May and would choose to accept a new identity under the witness protection scheme. He acknowledged she was in an "extremely fragile emotional state" and concerns that she could harm herself meant her case would require sensitive supervision. "It may well take the full five months to plan her release and reintegration into society," he said. Mr Fletcher said a probation officer would have contacted Carr yesterday for an initial discussion of her options, and she would report to probation for 10 months on her release. She would have to keep the service informed of any change of address or circumstances. "She cannot go abroad during her probation period, except in exceptional circumstances," Mr Fletcher said. "Initially, she will be relocated within the UK, and her mother may go with her. "Ideally, defendants like her would go to a women's probation hostel, but there are only four of them in the country, and there is too great a risk of other residents revealing her whereabouts. "There is a very strong possibility, given the notoriety of this case and the threat of attack, that she will take a new name and change her appearance under the witness protection scheme." The scheme is generally used by supergrasses and vulnerable witnesses, such as Danielle Cable, who witnessed Kenneth Noye's road rage murder of her fiance, Stephen Cameron. But it is also open to vulnerable defendants in high-profile cases, such as Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, the two boys convicted of murdering James Bulger. Mr Fletcher said of Carr: "We know she was very depressed and suicidal during her time in Holloway, and that she has suffered from eating disorders most of her adult life." "She will see a very senior, experienced probation officer at least once a week, possibly more, and her GP may refer her for pyschiatric counselling."