New measures to protect women from forced marriage could become law by the end of the year, after the government yesterday confirmed it would back the bill.All three main parties now support Lord Lester's forced marriages (civil protection) bill, designed to tackle what the Lib Dem peer described as a "serious social evil".Young people at risk would be able to apply for court orders preventing them being forced into marriage, while those who had already become victims could sue for damages. Third parties would also be able to apply for court orders on behalf of those at risk, helping to protect those too frightened to lodge a case on their own behalf.The government has spent several years examining ways to prevent forced marriage, but ruled out introducing a specific criminal offence following consultation. It initially opposed Lord Lester's proposals but made a U-turn after consultation.Pragna Patel of Southall Black Sisters, which has backed the bill throughout, said: "We hope it will send a very strong message to all communities in which this practice takes place that it won't be tolerated. We thought criminalising was probably impractical because we didn't feel children would come forward to see their parents prosecuted and probably convicted and imprisoned. This bill is approaching the matter from an entirely different angle, which is largely to do with protection and prevention."The government's forced marriage unit, which is run jointly by the home and foreign offices, supports around 250 men and women at risk every year. But campaigners fear that its caseload is merely the tip of the iceberg and hope the new measures will persuade more vulnerable young people to seek help. Lord Lester said: "I hope this will leave the Lords by June and then go to the Commons ... I understand the government is treating it as a high priority to get it through by Christmas."A spokesman for the Department for Constitutional Affairs said that amendments tabled this week by Lady Ashton, the constitutional affairs minister, would ensure that orders would cover anyone who attempted to force marriage - not just named individuals - because third parties were often paid to intervene.He added: "Although some elements of the bill try to improve the situation for victims retrospectively, the thrust of this is to allow courts to pre-empt the marriage. But if the court does put measures in place and the order is breached that person could be subject to arrest, because breaching an order is a criminal offence."It is unusual for a backbench bill from the Lords - equivalent to a private members bill in the Commons - to reach the statute books.The Home Office recently announced plans to tackle forced marriage by raising the minimum age for a marriage visa for potential spouses from 18 to 21 and requiring them to pass an English test before they come to Britain. The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants has warned that could prevent many voluntary marriages. Forced marriage is defined by the Foreign Office as "a marriage conducted without the full and free consent of both parties, where duress is a factor".The joint Home Office-Foreign Office Forced Marriage Unit was set up in 2005 and deals with 250-300 cases a year. About 65% of cases involve people of Pakistani descent and 25% are of Bangladeshi descent. About 85% of cases concern women, 15% men.Cases mostly involve women aged between 15 and 24, and one in four is under 18. Suicide rates among young Asian women are more than three times the national average and about 12 women are thought to die in Britain each year as a result of so-called "honour killings".