An inquest jury is thought to have made legal history yesterday by returning a suicide verdict on a gunman shot dead by police.Michael Malsbury, 62, was killed by a police marksman after an armed siege last November in which he attacked his wife with a rolling pin following an argument, then barricaded himself inside his terraced house in Harrow, Middlesex. Hornsey coroner's court heard how firearms officers surrounded the house for more than 10 hours after Malsbury, a minicab driver, locked himself in his bedroom armed with a silver revolver. He told police he was actually in possession of a more powerful 9mm Glock. Although Malsbury did not fire the fatal shot, the jury heard that he took a "cowboy attitude" towards armed police during the nine-hour standoff. He was shot in the chest by PC Philip Joyles after stepping out of the bedroom, declaring "better get your guns out lads, I'm coming out", and firing a shot in the direction of officers. Police found an arsenal of ammunition in the house, including boxes of bullets, as well as two suicide notes Malsbury had written. William Dolman, the coroner, offered the jury the opportunity of returning a verdict of suicide in his summing up. "I want you particularly to bear in mind the words 'suicide by cop'," he said. The American phrase describes people who commit certain crimes knowing that it will force a police officer into shooting them. The jury returned a verdict that Malsbury killed himself. It is thought this is the first time in the UK such a verdict has been recorded on a person who did not die by their own hand. The verdict was immediately condemned as "perverse and dangerous" by experts who investigate deaths involving armed police. Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest, a campaign group that helps the families of those who die in police custody, said that it set "a dangerous precedent". "Common sense says this was not suicide. He was shot dead by the police. How can that be suicide? It might well be lawful killing but it was not suicide," she said. "Suicide by cop could be a verdict used by police to deflect attention away from the lawfulness of their actions." The police complaints authority investigated Malsbury's death and sent its report to the coroner. A PCA spokesman, Richard Offer, said: "Mr Malsbury did leave a suicide note and did verbally indicate what he wanted to happen."