The woman found hanging in her prison cell at Maghaberry jail last week had repeatedly warned she would kill herself unless she was given psychiatric help, it was revealed last night.Roseanne Irvine had told her lawyer that she would commit suicide if she was sent to prison rather than to a secure unit in a hospital. The 34-year-old had been diagnosed with a personality disorder and had continually asked to be sent to a psychiatric hospital. She had tried to kill herself several times since her release from Maghaberry last November. Last night her solicitor claimed Irvine had been let down by the system, alleging that her client had spent several weeks in jail without being examined by a psychiatrist and was taken off suicide watch 24 hours before her death. A spokesman for the Northern Ireland Prison Service said the death was now the subject of a police inquiry.'Given that there is an outside investigation by the police as well as our own internal inquiry it would be inappropriate to comment any further on this case at this stage,' he said. In the days running up to her death, Irvine cut a pathetic, pitiful sight, according to her lawyer and friends. When she appeared at Belfast Magistrates Court on 20 February, Irvine wore only pyjamas, was barefoot and her face bore several deep cuts, self-inflicted lacerations according to her lawyer Kiera Duddy. Irvine had faced arson charges after she tried to kill herself in a fire she started at the Ark hostel for the home less in Belfast's university area. 'Roseanne was let down on three different fronts,' said Duddy this weekend. 'Firstly, she was caught in a grey area of the law concerning mental health. She was diagnosed as having a personality disorder but this was not enough to have her sectioned, for her to be committed to a psychiatric hospital, which was exactly what she wanted. When we went back to court on 27 February the magistrate admitted that he was powerless to have Roseanne committed although he did say that Maghaberry Prison had a duty of care to protect her. 'The second way she was let down was the way she was treated inside the jail. Accord ing to one of the nuns who worked for her in the prison, Roseanne had seen neither a doctor nor psychiatrist between the 27th and the day she died. A psychiatrist who could have examined her might have been able to make a judgment, to recommend she be transferred to a hospital. Roseanne told me that she was 100 per cent in favour of going into a secure hospital. She was desperate to get there. I was extremely concerned that they decided to remand her back into Maghaberry where she would stay for four weeks until the next court hearing. 'Finally we have been told that Roseanne was taken off suicide watch last Tuesday and yet by 10.30 the next night Roseanne was dead. At every stage, from the legislation on mental health, to her transfer into jail and the final 24 hours of her life, Roseanne fell through the nets. Her death was entirely avoidable.' Duddy added that staff at the prison and police officers who dealt with her at the PSNI's Musgrave Street station in central Belfast are 'devastated' over her suicide. She said her client was treated extremely well by police on her arrest on 19 February. 'But if there is one thing that could be done in police stations it is that a psychiatrist could be on call to examine those people in custody who the police fear may be having mental problems,' said Duddy. 'If that mechanism had been in place when Roseanne was arrested then she would have been sent to a hospital not a prison. One of the last things she said to me over and over again was that she would kill herself if they put her in jail again. It's very upsetting.' Her death is the second tragedy the Irvine family have endured over the past two years. Roseanne's brother James died in a fire at the Morning Star hostel for the homeless on Belfast's Falls Road in December 2002. The hostel's management was later fined £250 after a court heard that when firefighters arrived at the building they found the front door padlocked. Critics of Northern Ireland's prison regime point out that Irvine's death is the sixth suicide at Maghaberry in the past six months. They claim the Co Antrim jail has become a 'dumping ground' for the authorities who have nowhere else to put people with psychiatric problems and asylum seekers.