A former drama teacher who fathered a child during an affair, which began when the girl was a pupil, has been jailed for 12 months, despite a plea from his wife for leniency.Simon Parsons, 52, had sex with the 17-year-old girl at the school where he taught for 30 years, as well as at hotels and his home in Gloucestershire.The court had the option of suspending the sentence – as happened in London last week when a judge caused huge controversy by saying that religious studies teacher Stuart Kerner had been “groomed” by a 16-year-old pupil he had sex with.But Judge Neil Ford QC, the recorder of Bristol, told Parsons he was giving him the longest sentence he could, taking into account his early guilty plea. Ford said: “You were a mature married man with a child of your own. She was your pupil living at home with her parents.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Simon Parsons, 52, was jailed for 12 months.“You didn’t see the girl as a victim of unlawful or inappropriate behaviour but you now know that your behaviour has had a real impact upon her. I am sure that she is right when she describes the consequences of your actions as resulting in her feeling confused and lost. She said she was let down by a teacher whom she looked up to and trusted.“Pupils from time to time will find themselves attracted to teachers. A teacher, of course, has a duty to ensure that he does not take advantage of that situation. It is important that the public appreciate that those who behave as you have will receive immediate custodial sentences.”Parsons, who resigned as a teacher last year, was banned from working with children and vulnerable people. Bristol crown court heard the relationship began with kissing and sexual touching when the girl was 16. Parsons first had sex with her in a London hotel room after treating her to a trip to the capital to celebrate her 17th birthday. The relationship continued for about four years.Parsons, of Dursley, Gloucestershire, would see the girl at weekends, take her out for meals and the theatre and to his home. The court was told the relationship continued after the girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, left school.Police arrested the respected teacher of 30 years after the girl’s family uncovered the identity of her child’s father and wanted to protect other pupils.Prosecuting, James Ward said: “This relationship began in a way normal relationships do. The sex was consensual but illegal, because teachers cannot have sex with schoolchildren.“She acknowledges that she had a crush on the defendant and she thought that it maybe was her fault that it happened.” In a statement, the girl said: “I felt grossed out at one point and then I thought, ‘oh well, he fancies me’.”Representing Parsons, David Scutt said his client, a “passionate and committed teacher”, was arrested in April 2014 – years after the relationship ended. “There is no suggestion that there was ever anything inappropriate happening with any other pupil at the school,” Scutt said. “If he had not been her teacher these offences could not and would not have been committed. He accepts the relationship was amoral and inappropriate. He had her trust as a teacher, he breached it.”Parsons’ wife of 12 years, and the mother of his daughter, is standing by him. “She knew about it while it was going on and bore it,” Scutt said. “Since it finished, the family unit has got closer and closer.”In an email to the judge, Parsons’ wife, who was not named, said: “He is not a monster, he is a gentle man who made a massive mistake.”Speaking after the case, the victim’s mother said: “Every parent sends their child to school where they expect them to be safe, and to find out that school is the very place where your daughter is abused is a very horrifying ordeal for your daughter, and indeed all of your family, to have gone through.”Parsons admitted five counts of sexual activity with a child while in a position of trust. Dressed in a black T-shirt and trousers, he remained emotionless as he was jailed.