Tuesday 1 June, 5pm, WhitehavenDerrick Bird makes an impromptu visit to Gary Kennett, a scuba-diving friend, at his allotment in Whitehaven. Out of the blue, Bird gives his diving equipment to Kennett, saying: "You'll get more use from them than I will."Approximately 7pm, RowrahBird calls in on old schoolfriend and drinking buddy Neil Jacques, 52, who lives on the same street. The pair spend at least five hours together, drinking coffee and watching a violent Steven Seagal film called Exit Wounds, about police corruption. Bird tells Jacques he is being investigated by the Inland Revenue and fears he will go to jail.Jacques: "He wanted to talk about his money problems. He thought he was in proper trouble. He was that bothered because of the tax demands, he could not cope. He couldn't see how he was going to get out of it. I tried to talk him down but he wouldn't have it. I told him that he had to think straight. But for some reason, he thought he was going to jail. He never mentioned the will [of Bird's mother that allegedly caused a family feud] at all. It was just the tax. He had been doing the taxis for 15 or 16 years and had never paid any tax."Bird leaves shortly after midnight, promising to be in touch the next day.Wednesday 2 June, around 5.30am, FrizingtonA former schoolfriend of Bird sees him repeatedly drive his taxi past the home of his solicitor Kevin Commons while out walking her dogs.Iris Carruthers: "He passed me and went down to the bottom of the main road, turned, and he came back up. Slowly he drove alongside me and I said: 'Hiya lad, you alright?' He didn't speak, he was in a world of his own, and I just carried on walking."At Bird's home, letters from Commons's legal firm, KJ Commons & Co, can be seen stacked on the windowsill – and colleagues say the two men had an appointment for the afternoon of the murders.Police believe that shortly before or after encountering Carruthers, Bird shot dead his twin brother, David, in his farmhouse in the small village of Lamplugh.Later, police arrive at Commons's home on Yeat House Road after locals dial 999 reporting gunfire. The solicitor's body is found slumped in the driveway.10.33am, Duke Street, Whitehaven town centreBird arrives at the taxi rank in Duke Street and opens fire. Fellow cab driver Darren Rewcastle is his first victim. Don Reed, another cab driver, witnesses the murder and becomes Bird's next target, but survives by crawling away on his hands and knees.Reed: "At around 10.30am I was on the car rank on Duke Street and threw an empty bottle of juice in the boot as I locked up. Then I see Derrick Bird who I've known for 20 years. He turned up and shouted 'Darren' before walking up to him and taking his face off. I saw it. He just shot him."Then Derrick pulled up by me, raised his shotgun and got me in the back as I took a flying dive. Half the bullet got me and the other half went into a shop window across the road. Everything kicked in. I started crawling on my elbows and knees which are now ripped. My legs wouldn't let me stand up as I saw him walking towards me. I got next to Darren Rewcastle on the floor. His face was gone. I stood up and Derrick came forward as I tried to open taxi doors to put between us."10.34am, Scotch Street, WhitehavenBird shoots another taxi driver, Paul Wilson, who survives with facial injuries.Wilson: "I was walking down Scotch Street in Whitehaven when I saw Derrick Bird. He shouted: 'Oi Paul', and I replied: 'Alright Birdy'. He had a blank look on his face and came over and before I knew what was happening, he had shot me. I didn't feel any pain, I just heard a gunshot and saw a flash – I didn't have time to move out of the way. I didn't even realise I had been shot. I saw the gun but I assumed Birdy had fired a blank, as a joke."A guy came running out of a car, he came up to me and said: 'Are you okay?'. I said: 'Yes it is fine, it was just a prank', but the man said: 'No, he has shot you'."Resident Paul Goodwin hears gunshots and urges passing policeman Mick Taylor to get into his car to follow Bird.Goodwin: "Just as we got to the corner there were policemen coming down from the police station and I saw the local town bobby, so pulled over and shouted: 'Get in the car – it's him in the taxi'. We got to the traffic lights, and we're probably about 10 or 15 yards behind and there's a man walking round the corner."I saw him jolt back and put his hands on his face and there was blood there."I said: 'It's Paul, it's another taxi driver'."10.35am, Coach Road, WhitehavenBird shoots his friend and fellow cab driver Terry Kennedy, 51, who had accompanied Bird on holiday to Thailand at least once. Kennedy survives with serious wounds to his face and hand. His female passenger is also hit.Kennedy later tells the Sun: "The bastard aimed a gun straight at my head and pulled the trigger. I just had enough time to get my hand up. It blew a bloody great chunk out of my hand and has taken out all my teeth at the front – but I'm alive. I'm going to need a lot of operations and to be honest I look a bloody mess right now."Local teenager Ashley Gastor has a lucky escape when Bird pulls up alongside her.Gastor: "He was pointing a gun at me through the window," Gastor said. "I put my hands over my head and ducked down to protect myself, and the gun was fired. I felt the bullet go past my ponytail. Then I ran down the hill and he fired another shot."Police deploy 42 armed officers to try to find and follow Bird. A helicopter is scrambled from Lancashire.Public warnings are issued to people in Whitehaven, Egremont and Seascale to stay inside. 10.55am, EgremontBird reaches the village of Egremont and kills Susan Hughes, 57, as she walks home with her shopping. She is found lying in the street in Orgill, Hagget End, with her shopping still in her hands.Barrie Moss encounters Bird while on his way home from Egremont by bike.Moss: "I came round the corner and there was a Citroen Picasso parked in the middle of the road with the driver door wide open. I cycled up to it, thinking it was a bit strange and as I got up to it, it said taxi on the side."My first thought was that some teenagers had got out and run off into the estate and the taxi driver had got out and chased after them."When I got past I saw a short, fat guy looking up the hill and I thought that's got to be the taxi driver."I turned round and very briefly got a look at his face and there was no expression. But my eyes were drawn to a massive telescopic sight, sniper rifle. It just looked like something out of a James Bond movie."My thought was that it was a prop or something. He stared at me, probably not for very long, but seems longer now."He scurried into the car and drove down the hill. It was only when he had driven off that I saw a body slumped on the pavement. I looked and I shouted out: 'Are you okay?'. There was two bags of shopping and a handbag dropped as well." It was Hughes.Bird then drives off and kills Kenneth Fishburn, 71, a retired Sellafield worker, who is found dead on the old bridge in Egremont. Bird pulls up alongside Leslie Hunter, 59, who had been visiting a friend.Hunter: "[Bird] said: 'Can I see you mate?'. So I was thinking that he needed some help to find someone. I stepped off the kerb and walked towards the passenger side of his car and as I did I saw a shotgun lying across the seat pointing towards me. He was sitting back in the driver's seat calm as anything. I saw him start to lift the gun up and I knew it was wrong, so I turned away and he fired one shot, which caught the side of my face. I tried to crouch down behind a nearby parked car and he fired another shot right after and got me in the back."When he fired at my face I didn't know what to think. When he got the one in the back, I just felt wet and hot. He could have taken my side out for all I know. There was a big hole the size of my hand in my jumper from the pellets."Bird carries on to a road near Oxenrigg farm near Egremont and kills part-time mole catcher Isaac Dixon, 65, while he is talking to a farmer.11am, LamplughDavid Bird's body is found by a colleague who goes to check on him when he doesn't turn up for work. 11.02am, WiltonBird is seen banging on the door of the house of Jason Carey. The scuba instructor is still in bed after working a nightshift and does not get up in time to answer the door, according to neighbours. Carey, who teaches Bird's diving club, reportedly had a trivial spat with the gunman.Shortly afterwards Bird fatally shoots pensioner Jennifer Jackson. Her husband, James, who used to work for the ambulance service, is killed as he comes looking for his wife.Christine Hunter, who had recently moved to the village with her husband, Steve, is caught in the firing. She is hit in the back and her lung collapses, but survives.Approximately 11.21am, GosforthBird shoots rugby league player Garry Purdham, 31, at point-blank range as he works in a field. The murder is witnessed by Suzanne Horner, her husband, Dave, their three teenage children and her mother-in-law.Horner, a French teacher and farmer who knew Purdham well, had been driving up a hill and noticed Bird's taxi sitting on the brow of the hill, close to the Red Admiral pub."We got level to go past and Dave said: 'He's got a gun, but don't look'. He [Bird] was leaning from the driver's side through the passenger side and Garry was talking to him. He must have engaged him in conversation or something. As we drove past we heard two shots, and we saw him fall to the ground. Dave wanted to stop but I told him to drive on and to call the police. My son Tom was in the back of the car, and saw him get out of the back of the car and shoot him again."The family then saw Purdham's father discover his son's body."His dad came out of the field, crying, saying: 'He's shot my lad. He's shot my lad. He can't do that.' Other people had stopped by then and people were trying to stop the police cars but they were just flying off, trying to catch him."11.29am, SeascaleBird shoots 23-year-old estate agent Jamie Clark, who is driving along Gosport Road. It is unclear whether it was one of Bird's bullets or the resulting crash that killed him.Bird carries on until he meets pub landlord Harry Berger on a narrow stretch of road under the railway bridge where only one car can pass. Berger is on his way to the chemist to pick up an urgent prescription for his wife, but is shot by Bird under the bridge.Bird then drives up Drigg Road, which begins parallel to the beach, and kills cyclist Michael Pike, 64.Jordan Williams, aged nine: "I just saw a man just coming up the hill on his bike and then a crazy, like, taxi just came up and shot his back wheel and then shot him in the cheek and then he just drove off. He stared me in the eyes, and my mum, and he just kept on driving and he just zoomed off. He looked a bit mad. He had his eyes like a hawk staring at something."The final person to be killed by Bird is Jane Robinson, 66, who is shot while delivering home shopping catalogues in Drigg Road. Her body is discovered just a few hundred metres from the home she shared with her twin sister, Barrie. 11.33am, DriggBird carries on driving towards the village of Drigg, where he shoots pensioner Jacqui Lewis on Old Shaw Road. She survives with head injuries.12:20, Eskdale valleyBird arrives in the Lake District national park via obscure, single-track roads. On a road near the King George IV pub in Eskdale Green, he fires more shots and injures one woman.He then moves on to the Hollins Cottage campsite, where he injures one man.[• The above item was amended on 10 June 2010. The original placed the pub in Holmrook, Eskdale.]Approximately 12.30pm, BootSchoolteacher Samantha Christie is taking a photo on a country lane near Doctor's Bridge when the gunman opens fire. She survives after the camera takes most of the impact.Campsite owner Mick Parkin, 49, later tells the Mail on Sunday: "The only thing Samantha remembers about the incident is Bird saying 'Have a nice day' as he shot her in the mouth. It was just like something out of [the film] Terminator."Bird encounters Reginald and Kathleen Miller, a holidaying couple from Dorset, as they walk along a country lane.Reginald Miller: "He slowed down and drove his car over to the right-hand side of the road where we were walking. I assumed he was going to ask the way to somewhere. He slowed right down, but he didn't say anything or stop. He looked right at me and I looked back, and then he drove off again. He had a perfectly normal expression on his face – he had no look of a crazed killer about him. I saw this thing pointing through the window and thought he had a fishing rod. I didn't give it too much thought, although it was a bit odd."12.41pmOfficers name the suspect as Derrick Bird, 52, from Rowrah, near Frizington, and issue a photograph of him. His mother, Mary, sees her son's image flash up on the news at her eldest son Brian's house.Rev Jim Marshall, the family vicar: "She was horrified, she was astounded. She was just stunned and still can't take it in. That is the last time she watched the television. She doesn't want to turn the TV on now."1.04pmPolice reveal that Bird has abandoned his car near the hamlet of Boot and is now believed to be on foot.Craig Mackey, chief constable of Cumbria police: "Bird entered the hamlet of Boot and had headed into very rough, wooded terrain. Officers on the ground believed that he was armed with a .22 rifle with a sight and a silencer – and knew that he had travelled uphill. A number of firearm officers and dog handlers were deployed into the woodland and the dogs located Bird's body and weapons at approximately 1.30pm."Reporting by Severin Carrell, Caroline Davies, Rajeev Syal, Owen Bowcott, and Helen Carter