Lianne Smith, the British woman suspected of murdering two of her children in a Spanish hotel room, was taken back to the family's flat in Barcelona today as UK police referred the case to the police complaints commission.Spanish officers scoured the premises in search of clues after the bodies of Smith's daughter Rebecca, five, and 11-month-old son Daniel were found in a hotel room in Lloret de Mar, on the Costa Brava, on Tuesday.The woman's partner, Martin Smith, was returned to the UK on unrelated sexual abuse and child rape charges on the day the children's bodies were found.Today, as Lianne Smith left the apartment close to Barcelona's famous Sagrada Familia temple in handcuffs with a jacket draped over her head, investigators were looking for any possible link between the killings and her partner's extradition to Britain."She was perfectly calm," a police spokesman said. "We covered her head to protect her intimacy." Local TV reported that after the deaths of her children Smith attempted to commit suicide but Spanish police refused to confirm the reports.A judge will decide today whether to send her to prison, release her or send her to a psychiatric unit while the investigation continues.The family had disappeared for more than two years after Martin Smith was accused of child sex offences in the UK in 2007. They are believed to have gone first to Costa Brava and then to Barcelona, where Lianne retrained as an English language teacher.After his arrest on 8 May Lianne took the two children to the Hotel Miramar in Lloret de Mar. On Tuesday afternoon she asked hotel staff to phone for the police and an ambulance. When they asked her why she reportedly said: "You will see." Officers arrived to find the bodies of Daniel and Rebecca in the triple room they had been sharing with their mother.Spanish press reported that the children had been suffocated using plastic bags and forensic scientists are conducting autopsies.The police refused to give any further details and declined to confirm reports that Smith had confessed to the murders.Locals in Lloret de Mar held a minute's silence in memory of the two children. The deputy mayor Ignasi Riera i Garriga said: "People can't understand what has happened. We all have children, brothers, sisters, and we can imagine what this means."In the UK, Cumbria police, who first arrested Smith over the child abuse allegations in 2007, referred the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, raising concerns that more should have been done to protect the children when Spanish police arrested him earlier this month.The IPCC is expected to make a decision on whether to launch a full investigation tomorrow. A spokesman for Cumbria police said there were no specific concerns, adding it was "standard practice to refer high profile cases to the IPCC".More details of the couple's life in the UK began to emerge today. Lianne Smith worked in education services for Lancashire county council between 2003-5 and as a manager in the children's services department for Cumbria council between 2005-07. Officials said that she did not work directly with children in either case.Before that the couple, who had met in 1992, had rented a bungalow in Brampton, near Carlisle, Cumbria. From there, they moved to Blackpool, where Rebecca was born in 2005. Rebecca's birth certificate states Martin Smith was her father. Spanish police said today that one of the children was not his.The family then returned to Carlisle before moving to Lichfield, Staffordshire, for six months. A former neighbour said: "They just did not want anything to do with anyone on this road. They were surly and he was always in a hurry. Their daughter was very sweet."After Smith was arrested in 2007 Rebecca was referred to the council's social care team in Cumbria. Child protection procedures were put in place before the matter was passed to social services in Staffordshire, where the family moved in October.In an interview given after Smith had been arrested in Spain Lianne said this was when they decided to leave the UK and to start a new life in Spain. She said: "We were not prepared to sit back and be the victims and for the sake of our daughter we had to act quickly." They took a ferry from Dover to Calais and drove to Spain.On Wednesday Martin Smith, the youngest of four born to a Catholic family in North Shields, Tyneside, appeared in court in Carlisle. He was charged with 13 sexual offences including rape and attempted rape against a girl under 16. He was remanded in custody until 7 June.