They laid flowers and gazed at the spot where the body was found. Holding hands, the couple tried to find the right words to comfort each other with.Then the heartbroken mother and father were driven to a morgue to formally confirm that the body found on a snowy roadside verge early on Christmas morning was indeed that of their beloved daughter, Joanna Yeates.The police will tomorrow confirm that Yeates, the landscape architect from Bristol who vanished after an early evening Friday drink with friends, was murdered.A postmortem has taken longer than expected, partly to give Yeates's parents, David and Theresa, time to view the body but also because the body was frozen in the wintery conditions, making the examination even more delicate than usual.Though officially the death was still being treated as "suspicious", privately detectives were certain Yeates was murdered. They are hoping that the postmortem will confirm how the popular 25-year-old was killed – there were no obvious injuries on the body – and how long she had been at the spot where she was found.By the afternoon forensic officers had already spent almost 30 hours examining the area, a country road called Longwood Lane three miles from the flat in Clifton, an affluent area in central Bristol where Yeates lived with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon.But work was briefly halted when Mr and Mrs Yeates, together with Ms Yeates's brother, Chris, his partner, and Reardon, arrived in two unmarked cars to view the scene.Mr Yeates, an IT worker, placed a bouquet of yellow roses and a graduation photograph of his daughter 20 metres inside the police cordon but well away from the actual spot where the body was found – this was still a sealed-off crime scene and even a bunch of flowers could affect the forensic tests being undertaken.Reardon, who reported that Yeates was missing two days after she was last seen leaving a pub in Bristol on his return from a weekend away with family, placed a bunch of red and white carnations next to the roses.The group then walked to the crest of a rise in the lane 250 metres away – close to the entrance to a quarry – where the body was found, clothed and partially covered in snow.For five minutes they were briefed by Mike Rourke, a detective sergeant overseeing the scene and then walked back down the hill. Mr and Mrs Yeates, 63 and 58, held hands or interlinked arms, clearly distressed. Mrs Yeates frequently dabbed tears away from her eyes.Wearing a woolly hat against the cold – the snow had largely melted but it was still very chilly – Reardon, 27, was also comforted by a friend. It was the first time he had been seen in public since a press conference a week before.Police had been expecting to make a fresh appeal for information about Yeates's disappearance but delayed it because the postmortem results were not through.Chief Superintendent Jon Stratford said: "You only get one opportunity to gather the forensic evidence that will be so vital in this case. It is important not to rush the postmortem or any other of the processes."Yeates vanished on 17 December after leaving a pub on Park Street in Bristol, where she had been drinking with work colleagues. She went to two supermarkets and bought a pizza from the second. It is understood that she also visited a third shop and bought cider.Two days later her boyfriend returned home from a family gathering in Sheffield. He found possessions of Yeates including her mobile phone, keys and coat at the flat – but there was no sign of her.During the eight days she was missing Reardon and Yeates's parents made appeals for information about her. But their fears were confirmed when a couple walking their dogs found the body on Longwood Lane.The most direct route between the flat and the lane is via the Clifton suspension bridge and detectives are beginning the painstaking process of looking through hours of CCTV footage from the 30-odd cameras on and around the famous landmark.Officers are hoping the postmortem will make that job easier by helping pinpoint the time of death. One theory that Yeates may have been held captive for up to a week and her body dumped just hours before it was found is not being taken very seriously – one well-placed police source told the Guardian that he believed the body had been on the verge for a number of days.Police sources have also downplayed a suggestion that she may have been dumped alive at the scene and died of hypothermia. But detectives admit there are still many baffling aspects to the case. Among the puzzles is the fact that there was no sign of forced entry at the flat. And, most bizarrely, no trace has been found of the pizza, the wrapping or the box in the flat, though the receipt for it was there.More than 70 police officers and civilians are working on the case and uniformed patrols in Clifton have been stepped up to reassure residents who are worried that a killer could be in their midst.Chief Supt Stratford said detectives were working hard to establish what happened to Yeates after she left the pub on that Friday night and paid tribute to her family."It must have been a terribly difficult day for them. Our hearts go out to them. They have been very brave. We will do everything in our power to make sure we find out what has happened here."CCTVSilent witnessesOld-fashioned detectives will say that the use of CCTV to solve crimes is over-hyped, but there can be little doubt that evidence from the growing number of cameras has proved invaluable in many investigations.The "Crossbow cannibal" killings is one. Stephen Griffiths was jailed this month after a caretaker examined CCTV footage which revealed him firing a crossbow and dragging his victim into his flat. CCTV is routinely used by police in incidents from the terrorist attacks on London in 2005 to the student protests in the capital this year. Among the most striking, if bizarre, news images of 2010 was of Coventry woman Mary Bale caught dropping a cat into a wheelie bin.As well as helping to prove a crime was committed, CCTV footage is useful to get witnesses to come forward and determine a victim's last movements.In the strange case of the MI6 worker Gareth Williams, whose body was found unclothed in a padlocked holdall at his London flat, police released CCTV images of him as they sought to piece together events leading up to his death.In the Yeates case, CCTV footage showed her visiting two supermarkets and buying a pizza from the second. Tracking footage helped police map Yeates's movements after the last confirmed sighting in a pub. Finding her remains on a country road gave another focus, the route from her flat in an upmarket suburb to where her body was, presumably, dumped. Police are examining footage from the 30-plus cameras on the Clifton suspension bridge, part of the most direct route between the flat and the verge.• This article was amended on 21 January 2010. In the original, the Clifton area was described as a suburb of Bristol. This has been clarified.