The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday January 11 2003In the article below we said there were six deaths at Styal Prison, Cheshire, last year. There were four. We should clarify that our figure represented the total in the 12 months ending August 2003, an average of one death every eight weeks. The suicide rate in women's prisons in England and Wales soared last year with 60 per cent more female inmates taking their lives than in 2002, according to new research.Most of the women who died were under 25 and convicted of non-violent crimes. Many were prime carers of young children. 'These are deeply shocking statistics; these women were mentally unstable and traumatised before they even got to prison and many were already repeatedly self-harming,' said Claire McCarthy, of the Howard League for Penal Reform, who carried out the research. 'The vast majority of these women represented no danger to the community,' she added. 'They were a danger to themselves only.' The numbers of female suicides previously reached a historic peak in 2002, forcing the Government to announce an independent inquiry which, although investigations were concluded last autumn, has yet to be published. This fresh surge in numbers has now led campaigners for prisoners' rights to demand immediate publication of the inquiry and the launch of a fresh investigation into alternatives to imprisonment for women convicted of non-violent crimes. According to the Howard League's findings, 14 women killed themselves in 2003 compared to nine in the year before, itself a record high. Over half the women who died were under 25, with almost one in three aged 19 or under. Almost 80 per cent were in prison for non-violent offences. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, believes most female inmates are completely unable to cope with the prison environment. 'Female prisons are being used as psychiatric holding cells on the cheap,' she said. 'Solutions are not to be found by putting a little bit more money in to repaint some walls and increase prisoners' out-of-cell time. These women simply should not be in prison at all; they should receive community sentences.' Although women make up 5 per cent of the total prison population, they account for over 15 per cent of suicides and 45 per cent of the incidents of self-harm. 'After a typical lifetime of childhood sexual abuse, domestic violence and severe mental health problems, these women are too vulnerable to be imprisoned,' said Lyon. Of the 19 prisons in England and Wales which take women prisoners, it is Styal prison in Cheshire, New Hall in Yorkshire, Brockhill in Worcestershire and Bullwood Hall in Essex that have the worst records. In Styal prison there were six suicides last year alone, a record that forced the then Prisons Minister, Paul Goggins, to commission an independent inquiry which has yet to see the light of day, although it was due to be published in October. The findings from the Howard League have been greeted with fury by Pauline Campbell, mother of 18-year-old Sarah who killed herself with an overdose in Styal prison in January last year despite having repeatedly told both her mother and officers she was feeling suicidal. 'Prison should be able about loss of freedom, not loss of life,' said Campbell. 'The Government would do well to remember this, as well as acknowledging that all prisoners are owed a duty of care.' More than 90 per cent of female inmates have at least one personality disorder, with 40 per cent having attempted suicide in the past. Home Office statistics claim one in 10 women self-harms, with 21,000 incidents recorded in the past 12 months alone. Roll callLeanne Gidney, 18, died at Brockhill. Offence: robbery Sarah Campbell, 18, Styal. Manslaughter Clare Parsons, 20, Eastwood Park. Witness intimidation Jennifer Clifford, 19, Bullwood Hall. Crime not knownHelena Price, 27, New Hall. Handling stolen goods Sue Stevens, 48, Durham. Wounding Jolene Willis, 24, Styal. Theft Jayne Buck, 28, Durham. Arson Hayley Williams, 41, Styal. Theft Jessica Adam, 22, New Hall. Handling stolen goods Julie Walsh, 39, Styal. Theft Emma Levey, 25, Downview. Robbery Wendy Booth, 35, Durham. Murder Petra Blanksby, 19, New Hall. Arson