The father of James Bulger, the toddler murdered 20 years ago by two 10-year-olds, has said he cannot forgive his son's killers.Ralph Bulger described the lifelong pain he and his family had experienced since his two-year-old son was abducted, tortured and murdered by Robert Thompson and Jon Venables."It's always there. It always comes back. I still feel the same, but I think you just learn to live with it a bit, just live with the pain," he said during an interview with Winifred Robinson broadcast on BBC Radio 4's Today programme.James was taken from his mother at the Bootle Strand shopping centre by Thompson and Venables on 12 February 1993, after she was paying for some meat and turned around a moment later to find him gone.The two boys were tried at Preston crown court in November 1993 and convicted of murder. They were both freed from secure children's homes eight years later. In 2010, Venables was sentenced to two years in prison for the possession and redistribution of indecent images of children.The killers were treated too leniently, said Bulger. "They didn't just kill James," he said. "They tortured him and they mutilated him. For them to be like that at such a young age … They're older now, imagine what they could do now. If they're not getting watched all the time what's to stop them trying to take one of our kids again?"He added: "What they did was just evil and they shouldn't be in society."Bulger said too many people had sided with the killers after the trial. "It seemed like after the trial they couldn't really do anything wrong," he said. "The powers that be, they have the last say. I have got no say at all."Bulger described how his marriage to James's mother, Denise, had disintegrated after James's death. "It ripped us apart, I just didn't know how to deal with it. I still don't really," he said.He said in the following months and years he had resorted to heavy drinking to escape the pain."It was non-stop drinking, binge drinking and I was just killing myself really," he said. "Sometimes I was drinking a bottle of whisky and I couldn't even get drunk, so I'd go on to two bottles of whisky a day, wake up, fall asleep, wake up, start again. I wouldn't eat and I'd just go back on the drink to try and kill the pain."Bulger has written a book about the impact of his son's murder on his own and his family's life."Sometimes you feel like you're having a heart attack. It's just a big knot in your chest and that's been there since day one," he said. "I don't think it's a pain you can heal. I think it's with you for life. It's been with me since it's happened … It's always there."