A man whose partner is accused of murdering their two children in a Spanish hotel was facing a long prison sentence today after he was convicted of raping and indecently assaulting a young girl who says he tried to use hypnosis on her for almost a decade.Martin Smith, 45, who had regular access to the girl, abused her from the age of seven, Manchester crown court heard. A jury found him guilty today of 11 counts of rape, attempted rape, indecency with a child and indecent assault, between May 1995 and May 2004. He will be sentenced in the new year.The victim, now in her 20s, told the jury that Smith, a "psychic" who appeared on Living TV's Most Haunted show, would attempt to hypnotise her and hit and bully her to ensure she complied with his demands. Smith's daughter, Rebecca, five, and son Daniel, 11 months, were found dead in the Hotel Miramar in Lloret de Mar on the Costa Brava on 18 May.He had been arrested in Spain on a UK extradition warrant days earlier. The children's mother, Lianne Smith, 44, is in custody in Spain on suspicion of murder. She gave evidence in support of her husband via video link.The couple fled the UK in December 2007 after Martin Smith was accused of child sex offences. Lianne Smith told the court she feared the authorities wanted to take her daughter into care. "We left to protect Becky from Staffordshire social services," said Smith. "They had already made that threat on the telephone, they retracted that in front of our lawyer, but they made that threat."Her husband, originally from North Shields, was extradited to the UK this year to stand trial. He made no reaction when the guilty verdicts to each of the 11 counts were announced.The judge, Mr Justice Stephen Irwin, told Smith: "Having been convicted you know that you inevitably face a long sentence in custody."I'm prepared to accede to the request there should be a pre-sentence report. I am told there is also a psychiatric report."You will be remanded in custody and come up for sentence in the new year."The couple met though a dating agency in 1992 while Lianne Smith was going through a divorce. She described her partner of 18 years as very generous. "Martin, from the very first day, always seemed to be the most honest person I have ever known," she said.She told the court she never had any concerns about her partner's behaviour towards young girls.His victim said in a statement: "I am delighted with this verdict. My motivation has always been to protect other children from Martin Smith."He abused me for more than a decade. Even after his arrest he prolonged my agony by fleeing abroad.I hope this case encourages other victims to come forward with confidence."Detective Inspector Kim Fulton of Cumbria police said: "Today the court has found Martin Smith guilty of the serious sexual abuse of a child over the course of 10 years. The impact this prolonged abuse has had on the victim is immeasurable but the bravery she has shown and the trust that she put in us from the outset has been tremendous."Her strength has brought us to this point today and I hope this result will help her to move on and begin to put the past behind her.."Linda Vance, divisional crown prosecutor for Cumbria, said: "The prosecution of Martin Smith has taken place at the same time as investigations and proceedings in Spain around the tragic circumstances of the deaths of his children."Martin Smith subjected the victim in this case to systematic and serious sexual abuse throughout a significant part of her childhood."For over 10 years from when she was seven years old she was abused regularly. By the time she was a teenager the assaults had escalated in seriousness to rape."She has shown courage in coming forward and giving evidence against him now, and today the jury have found him guilty of all the charges. I hope that as a result she is now able to continue to move on positively with her life."