David Blunkett is afraid of the dark. Britain's streets, the home secretary believes, are plagued by a class of teenage criminal that operates under the shadow of the night. He has therefore proposed juvenile tagging, in effect implementing a dusk-to-dawn curfew on troublesome 12-year-olds.Contrary to much of the clamour raised against such a scheme, it is not in itself illiberal. Surely, clamping an electronic wristband on a bailed teenager which sends a message to a private security company every time they wander outside their own four walls is far preferable, and less damaging to their personal freedom, to incarcerating them on remand in overcrowded secure institutions, with no freedom of movement whatsoever. But that aside, the real problem is that such measures are totally ineffective. Rather than paying attention to real patterns of criminal behaviour, they play on popular and incorrect assumptions about when and where offences are committed. Every statistic shows that most crimes, from street robberies to brutal murders, are carried out during the hours of daylight. In the case of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor, tagging any alleged offenders would not have saved him; he bled to death from broken bottle wounds at 4.45 in the afternoon. According to research produced by Blunkett's own department, the classic teenage crime is not a mugging in a moonlit alley in the early hours, but mobile phone "jacking" on the way home from school. The time of day during which the highest number of all robberies is committed is from six until 10 at night. After 10pm, the incidence of crime quickly begins to fall. The quietest hours for these criminals is from two until six in the morning, when only 13% commit their crimes, less than in any other four-hour period. Instead of being afraid of the dark, we should all live in fear of the afternoon. Such grossly misleading representations of the real nature of street crime, made in the full knowledge that this is not the case, are in themselves an effective curfew, although not of alleged young offenders. When the dangers of the dark are falsely highlighted as a result, all of us start being too afraid to venture into it. We curfew ourselves, becoming overly anxious about leaving the house after we've eaten our supper. We take a minicab home rather than facing the perceived human perils of post-midnight public transport. Electronic tagging any and all potential victims could not be a more effective way of getting the vast majority of us indoors in time for the 10 o'clock news. Ironically, these self-imposed night-time curfews are particularly inappropriate for young people. Last December, a home office study on mobile phone theft showed that most robberies of under-18s, who are five times more likely to have their phones taken than adults, occur between 2pm and 6pm, and that the classic attack takes place outside the school gates shortly after the time-to-go-home bell has rung. Of course, that does leave open the possibility of daytime curfews. But curfewing young people who haven't even been charged with a crime when the sun is up would be even less acceptable than keeping them inside at night; it would also be as unworkable. Electronic house arrest, which is what it would be, would prevent them not only from attending school, but even going to the dentist to get their teeth fixed. No one can seriously believe that subjecting a handful of young people (police say each area has its own 20-strong core of "untouchable" juvenile wrongdoers committing the vast majority of crimes) to a diet of daytime Richard and Judy, rather than Key Stage 6, will help protect anyone from being mugged. But the government's big idea behind teenage tagging is that it is always better to remove wrongdoers from the public arena, whether schools or streets, than try to re-integrate them. In January, education secretary Estelle Morris proposed a change in the law to enforce "one-strike-and-you're-out" offences for school bullies, allowing a head teacher to exclude a bully after a single incident. Oddly, this policy of exclusion on all fronts is being promoted at the very same time that the government is trumpeting something called the Social Exclusion Unit, whose aim, I thought, was to entice those who feel outside the fold of society back in again. Tagging is also tugging two ways: a measure to exclude those whom, through other measures, the government is hoping to include. Surely it would be better to keep these children in an institution that is both supportive and secure, where they would be required to spend almost all their daylight hours when they are most likely to be dangerous. They would be subjected to strict supervision, with their behaviour monitored by responsible, specially trained adults, and benefit from mixing with their better-behaved peers. There are such institutions scattered all over the country, some admittedly better than others. Unfortunately, they're the very place from which the government wants the bad boys and girls to be excluded. They're called schools. · deabirkett@cs.com 