In the kitchen of his parents' south London house, Patterson Mark pushes a dishcloth through a pool of spilt milk with a stockinged toe. We are doing the washing-up. He washes, I dry, while he tells me about the time he broke into someone's house, tied them up and assaulted them. "It was panic stations," he says, looking thoughtfully out of the window into an overgrown yard. "I never took pleasure in it. But if it comes to a confrontation, you have to stand your ground."When people talk about fear of crime in this country, they generally mean fear of burglary. According to UN crime statistics, a British home is almost twice as likely to be burgled as an American one, and three times more likely than a home in France. After peaking in the early 90s, burglary figures have fallen over the past five years, but at half the rate of most other European countries. While the defining crime in Spain and Italy is street robbery, burglary is indisputably British: discreet, stealthy and executed for the most part in the absence of the victim. In 2001, burglary cost British insurers £568m. Even Russia has less of a burglary problem than Britain. Which is why when, earlier this month, Lord Chief Justice Woolf recommended that first-time burglars should, in some circumstances, be treated to community rather than prison sentences, people reacted as if he had advocated the reintroduction of child chimney sweeps. It doesn't matter that only 9% of burglaries turn violent, or that most burglaries happen during the day, or that, in terms of middle-class clamour, one is far more likely to get burgled in a poor than in a middle-class area (less than 1% of households account for 42% of burglaries, chief among them low-income and single-parent households). Put it down to the lingering demons of childhood, or sensationalist coverage of a few bad cases; for whatever reason, the context in which most people imagine meeting a violent end is at the hands of an intruder. What to the teenage burglar seems like a trivial rake through the underwear drawer, is like an evening with Charles Manson to the victim. Patterson Mark is what is known as a persistent offender. He is also the guy people cast in their nightmares: towering and slender, as quick as water, a man with a heavy temper and no regard for his victims. His most recent prison sentence was two years: for being caught in a woman's house, armed with a meat cleaver. In reality, this makes him untypical, as does his age, 42, since most burglars are men under the age of 25, and his race - 90% of burglars are white. He is also untypical because, since the age of 11, he has devoted himself almost exclusively to burglary. Mark has been called a "career burglar", but this flatters him. He only stuck to burglary because everything else was too bothersome. For example, he feels disdain for shoplifting because (a) he thinks it's beneath him, even though (b) it requires organisational skills he doesn't possess. Hypothetically, he says, it is much easier to burgle a house in one's own neighbourhood than to figure out which bus to get into town in order to poach cardies from Marks & Spencer. He holds the view that getting a job is like putting your neck beneath the boot of the oppressor, an attitude derived from watching his parents, immigrants from St Lucia, work all their lives for tiny wages. As a teenager, Mark decided that he "didn't want another person to obtain wealth through me, on the minimum wage, while they got a huge chunk of the pie". In the 10 years he spent at school, nothing happened to persuade him that he might, one day, aspire to earning more that the minimum wage. Then, at the age of 42 and with 51 convictions behind him, that suddenly changed. "I'm going to take a chance on you," said Judge Simon Goldstein at Mark's most recent trial, on the strength of some exotic evidence: poetry. Deciding that he had a "natural talent", the judge let him off a prison sentence and urged him to devote himself to verse. Rolling a cigarette between tapering fingers, Mark tells me: "I have a gift, shall we say. A rare gift." After an initial period of astonishment, he has absorbed the judge's pronouncement like a thirsty plant absorbs water. The British burglar of popular myth is either noble and dashing (doesn't steal from his own, looks after his nan), or dim and brutish, but never the combination of sly wit and overbearing vanity that characterises Mark and his peers. Meanwhile, the reason Brits are believed to be more uptight about burglary than other nationalities is because an Englishman's home is his castle. (There is limited evidence to support this cliche; namely that, in Britain, the cultivation of bushy hedges to separate properties and fortify a sense of privacy is far more common than in Europe and the US.) Mostly, however, the reason we go on about it so much is that we have so much more of it to deal with - particularly the scary night-time variety - and this is down, in part, to an accident of town planning. "In a lot of continental and US cities, flats and high-rise developments are more prevalent than here," says Rob Mawby, professor of criminology and criminal justice at Plymouth University. "In England, it's relatively easy to break into a house at night and go through the downstairs rooms without disturbing people upstairs. But with a flat, it's far more problematic because you don't know which rooms are being used as bedrooms." "The view is that there's no such thing as a burglar," says Ken Pease, visiting professor at the Jill Dando Institute of Crime Science, based at UCL. "There is somebody who does burglary as part of a raft of other crimes. If you've got people who are defined as burglars, I reckon that a lot of their income will come from other things, such as shop theft."Nevertheless, of all offences, burglary has one of the highest rates of recidivism (80% of burglars are reconvicted within two years). While violent crime is often provoked by circumstances which the offender will never meet again - revenge or a crime of passion - the convicted burglar is released from prison into exactly the same environment that encouraged him to offend in the first place. "People are lonely when they come out of prison," says Mark. "They seek comfort and assurances, and that's when they're vulnerable. Your associates will be like, 'All right, mate, you coming out? All right, sweet, let's go and do a bit of gear.' And you want friendship, company. When most people want to find spiritual development, they go somewhere quiet. But you come out of jail, and there you are, trying to find it in the belly of the beast." Most burglars live on council estates and steal from council estates. "It's about proximity," says Roger Matthews, professor of criminology at Middlesex University. "A lot of burglaries are carried out by young people within a mile of their home. They're a cross between inept and pathetic. Most burglars don't even have cars, the stuff they steal is very trivial. They're looking for a video or stereo, something they can physically carry to wherever they live." This accounts for high instances of burglary among the middle classes in London, where, unlike in some US cities where "white flight" has separated the two, rich and poor neighbourhoods tessellate. "You've clearly got a sizeable group of middle-class people who've got their perspectives of burglary totally out of proportion," says Mawby. "Middle-class people are far less likely to be victims of burglary, and if they are burgled, they're more likely to respond by improving their security because they can afford to. And so you get a self-fulfilling prophecy: that inner-city, poorer homes are even more targeted, because they can't afford the burglar alarm." "We call it grafting," says Paul Starkey. "I did regular hours, nine till three. When I left home to do a burglary, I'd say, 'I'm off to work now, see ya'." We are in the probation office at Newcastle-under-Lyme magistrates court. Recently out of prison, Starkey, 26, comes here thrice-weekly to see Stephen Stockall and Liz Evans, a probation officer and police constable. Stockall and Evans are amazing. Through a shrewd mixture of cajoling, babying, shaming, praising, encouraging and conscience-prodding, they try to keep young, mainly male and very prolific offenders on the wagon. The average prison sentence for a burglar is 5.3 months, but adult offenders serving less than 12 months don't qualify for a probation officer. So the ex-burglar is released, often into homelessness, always penniless and into a situation in which the only support he can rely on is from his former "associates". At best, he might be enrolled at a substance misuse clinic, where more dealing gets done between outpatients in the waiting room than in the crack dens. Or, if he lives in Staffordshire, he can volunteer for the Newcastle Initiative and have Stockall and Evans ferociously patrol his intentions. Before Starkey's appointment, 21-year-old Lee Eggerton rolls in. Evans tries not to think about where he got his £120 Nike trainers. Unlike Starkey, who, at his most prolific, knocked off 200 houses in one year, Eggerton is sloppy and chaotic, combining burglary with other petty crimes. If there is such a thing, he is the typical young burglar: infantile, charming, cocky, prolific, opportunist, utterly thoughtless - a man who fancies and pities himself in equal measure. "So," says Stockall, smiling through his beard, "we've got a theft, a failed bail and a handbag snatch." This is a summary of Eggerton's achievements since Christmas. "And the driving offence," he says. "Oh, yes, you were driving while disqualified." Today, Stockall and Evans will continue with the task of educating Eggerton in the art of Considering How The Other Person Feels. Evans tells him that the theft of the handbag will probably incur a prison sentence. Patiently, she asks: "Why do you think that out of the four offences, the bag theft is the worst?" Eggerton shoots back: "'Cos I've got previous convictions for it." Evans allows a short pause. "What about the woman whose purse it was?" Another pause. "I hadn't really thought about that," says Eggerton. "No? Well, you've got to look at it from the magistrate's side. If you nick some sunglasses, it's, you know, a bit corporate, you haven't attacked anybody. But this is different. I know purses don't fetch much, mate, but a woman's life's in her purse. If I lost my purse, I'd be gutted, all my cards." Eggerton frowns. "All your cards... " Eggerton did most of his burglaries during the day. He mainly stole cash. For 12 months he made £200 a day, enough to fund his two addictions, heroin and designer clothes. Then he got caught, was sentenced to Shrewsbury jail where he came off the drugs, and was transferred to Stafford where he went back on them. "I went into Stafford 13 stone, muscly, first night I was sitting in the cell, nothing to do, he's only got a load of gear on him. He's offering it to my face for nothing. He's sitting there smoking, I've got nothing else to occupy my mind except watch a bit of telly, and I smoked it. There was that much heroin in there I was just smoking and smoking. I was smoking half a gram every morning. Which is a lot. For jail. Came out a bag of bones. People said to me: 'What's happened? You used to be massive.'" Although 90% of the people on Stockall and Evans's programme have drug habits, the link between crime and drugs is not universally recognised. Stockall says, "If you took away heroin and cocaine, you'd eliminate burglary," but Roger Matthews thinks the relationship is "exaggerated". He says: "A couple of years ago we were doing research with young people in prison, many of whom were in for burglary. We'd say to them: 'Do you take drugs?' And they'd say: 'Yes, we take this and this and this.' And we'd say: 'Do you do crime?' And they'd say: 'Yes, we do burglary.' And we'd say: 'Do you do burglaries to pay for the drugs?' 'And they'd say: 'No. We do drugs, but if we weren't doing drugs, we'd still do the crime. And if we weren't doing crime, we'd still do drugs.' The common denominator here is not that drugs lead to crime, but that certain young people have a risk orientation in ways that make both crime and drug-taking attractive." Matthews cites a burglar who told him that he got his biggest buzz from rifling through the drawers in people's bedrooms while they were still asleep. "It was real risk stuff and it required a certain skill and dexterity. He thought that was the business." There is also research to suggest that more often than not, criminality in young male offenders precedes drug use. But since drugs are known to massively accelerate the rate of offending, it's not clear how useful this is. Paul Starkey has angel-fine hair and a slight frame: perfectly built to get through small windows. He relates to Stockall and Evans with the same combination of cheek and neediness as Eggerton. He used to burgle to buy crack, but also because, as far as he knew, it was what he did best. He was brought up in care, in what Stockall calls the "culture of low expectations", and at his most prolific, was doing three or four burglaries a day, specialising in pottery. (In Stoke-on-Trent, where Royal Doulton used to be based, there's a thriving black market for ceramic figurines.) "When you walk past someone's house and you see figurines in the window, you know the back bedroom will be full of them and you know you're going to get 20 or 22 pieces," explains Starkey. "Which is £50 a shot. Which is... " " ...a grand," says Stockall. "Ex-actly," says Starkey. "How did you get in?" asks Stockall. "Doors, windows, put my hand through the letterbox. If they were alarmed, I still done 'em. You just do the control panel, send a fireman's axe through it. Unless there's a battery back-up, but it can still take the police half an hour to respond. PVC windows, take the seals out. On the front door, take a TV aerial, bend it, put it through the letterbox, hold the wire tense and push the Yale lock open. They don't even know they've been burgled. Insurance companies accuse them over the claim because there's no forced entry. I've cut my own cat-flaps with Stanley blades." His criminality, he says, extends from the fact that he was the only boy in a family of three girls and "felt left out". (He had some therapy during his last prison sentence.) Evans tries to hide her incredulity and Stockall says gently: "Wasn't it also to do with your uncle pushing you through a casement window when you were 12?" "Yeah, that's true" says Starkey, equably. "He'd get me to let him in the front door, 'cos if I got caught, they couldn't do anything to me. All they ever did was put me on combination orders, send me go-karting. I was already in care any way. They couldn't touch me until I was 14." "What happened when you were 14?" "I went to prison. For almost four months." "And when you came out of prison, you didn't last long, did you?" "One week. Then I got another four and a half. I did three years out of that." "So when you got out last time, how long were you out before you went out burgling again?" "Same day. Day of discharge." Back in London, and we are nearly done with dishes, and with Patterson Mark's story of how, one night almost 20 years ago, he was interrupted while burgling a man's house. When the man tried to restrain him, Mark assaulted him and tied him up. He got a total of eight years imprisonment, for robbery, attempted GBH, ABH and theft. Mark refers to this period of his life as "murky". In just under half of his burglaries, he was interrupted and he reacted violently, he says, to those few in which the homeowner "over-retaliated". While he has no shame about the burglaries, he's uneasy about being characterised as violent. Drying a plate, he employs the last defence of the guilty-minded: moral relativism. "I didn't take pleasure in violence, whereas there's people who do take pleasure and they're evil people, pure and simple. And those people can never change." Generally speaking, he says, "Violence is for low-lives," whereas the violence he displayed was not of the low-life variety, but due to an anger problem which is now under control. And yet he doesn't feel sorry for his victims. "No. That's just something you do for the parole board. You don't mean it." What about the theory that there's no rehabilitation without remorse? "Rubbish. I'm a realist. There's just some that can be helped, some that can't." Since most burglars don't ever see their victims, it's easy for them to rationalise that they haven't hurt anyone. Starkey learned to reverse this perception through therapeutic exercises in prison. Consequently, he says of Lord Woolf's appeal: "What shite is that?" (I suspect there's also an element of: "Why should they get off lightly when I didn't?"). Stockall and Evans rate his chances as good - he is bright, ambitious and has a steady girlfriend of whom he says: "She's my backbone. I don't want to lose that girl." Eggerton is still struggling. So far, prison hasn't worked for him. Last time he was inside, he advanced through the tutorial system from knowing how to steal a Vauxhall Vectra, to learning how to steal a Porsche. From the outside, his progress on Stockall and Evans's programme looks agonisingly slow, but the success of those who've come before him is encouraging. One graduate, a former car thief, recently took his driving test and bought what Stockall says is the first legitimate set of wheels belonging to anyone on the programme. The cliche, "You never think it'll happen to you", doesn't apply to burglary: most people think it will. But the weird thing is that until it does, they tend to fear the idea of it more than those who have actually been burgled. "There was a study," says Ken Pease, "which showed that victims rate offences less seriously when they've happened to them. So, when asking burglary victims how serious burglary is, their estimation of how serious it is is less than people who haven't suffered it. In other words, the image of burglary is more serious than the average actual burglary." And this is what is known as the culture of fear. "A cross between inept and pathetic," says Matthews. "Stupid but not fools," says Evans. "There is no such thing as a burglar," says Pease. Mark lights another cigarette and shrugs. "I've been burgled myself," he says. "But what's the point in upsetting yourself? It's just the way of the world." · Some names in this article have been changed.