The charity Crimestoppers has launched an internet film that aims to persuade men who visit prostitutes to pass information on sex trafficking to the authorities.The film is part of  freesextraffic.co.uk, which has been designed to look like a pornography site, with a link reading "click here to view beautiful young slaves".The charity hopes men surfing the web for porn or contact details for escort services will view the film, which depicts the misery of trafficked women, and feel compelled to tip off Crimestoppers if they visit brothels in which such women are working.The police have been attempting to crack down on the growing problem of sex trafficking with the launch, in February, of the multi-agency initiative Operation Pentameter.As part of this initiative, it was  revealed today, men who knowingly have sex with trafficked prostitutes may be prosecuted for rape.An advertising campaign, including adverts in men's magazines, will inform men who have sex with foreign prostitutes that they must ensure the women are working of their own free will before they pay. If they suspect a woman is working against her will, they are urged to report the information to Crimestoppers.David Baksh, the director of Traffic Signs, said the film was not meant to be judgmental. "Men aren't all bad," he said. "All they need is to be reminded to do the right thing and be given the means to do it.""Seeing prostitutes is not something most men would want to shout about - or stand up in court and testify to. The girls' best hope of rescue and the police's best source of intelligence [so often] slinks off and hopes that someone else has the guts to give information."Many of the trafficked women are from eastern Europe, South America and Africa. They are often lured to the UK on false pretences, with fraudulent offers of jobs as dancers or in restaurants. Some women are held against their will, assaulted and raped. Once installed in a brothel or sauna, some trafficked women are forced to have sex with as many as 40 men a day.The chief executive of Crimestoppers, Mick Laurie, said people contacting the charity would not be obliged to give their name or any other details about their identity. "Calls are not traced, and they will not have to give evidence in court. We guarantee they will remain anonymous," he said.Operation Pentameter has so far led to 51 arrests and the discovery of 14 apparent trafficking victims from the Ukraine, Brazil, the Czech Republic, Poland and Zimbabwe, whose ages ranged from 15 to 39. Crimestoppers can be contacted on 0800 555 111.