The Philpott case has not only told us about the horrendous deaths of six children but has also lifted the lid on the domestic violence perpetrated by Mick Philpott towards his female partners. However, the words "domestic violence" have not been used by many people in relation to this tragic case, including those reporting it. It is vital that we do not ignore the significant role domestic abuse played in this case, and the long-term effects on Philpott's victims.This case is not the result of a family claiming benefits or living in a council house. At Women's Aid we know only too well that domestic violence happens at every level of society. Philpott is a serial perpetrator of domestic violence, who repeatedly targeted women to abuse and control. The number of children he had with his partners has been described in the media as a means to access increasing levels of child benefit, but in our experience a perpetrator of domestic violence may try and keep his abused partner pregnant as a further means of control.The judge, Mrs Justice Thirlwall, addressed Philpott's history of domestic violence in her sentencing remarks, referencing his three relationships before his marriage to Mairead, and the "life-long damage" he had caused. Referring to one of his ex-partners, Thirlwall said: "You controlled her through physical and sexual violence, threats and emotional abuse."We now know that his wife lived in fear of him, as did his girlfriend Lisa Willis who had fled to a refuge with her children to escape him. He was violent to them and was clearly a dangerous man. The point at which a woman tries to leave a violent relationship is the most dangerous time, as was later shown in this case. He stabbed his ex-girlfriend and was jailed for seven years for the attack on her and her mother. His threats to his wife and girlfriend were backed up by their knowledge that he had been found guilty of the attempted murder of a previous partner.We have heard in court that the violence was psychological as well as physical. Both Philpott's wife and girlfriend worked, and their money and benefits were paid into his bank account. They were not allowed to go out shopping on their own and were driven to work by Philpott – he tried to control every element of their lives. They did not have keys to the house and had to ask permission to leave. When his girlfriend fled to a refuge to escape his abuse, he lost control. He decided to take revenge by framing her for arson, a plan that led to six children dying in their burning home. This case highlights more than 30 years of domestic violence – where Philpott's partners have been controlled, manipulated and terrified – not benefit abuse.We need to have greater support for those experiencing domestic violence, yet local services are facing the impact of spending cuts and welfare reform that threatens to undermine their funding, including measures that will impact on women seeking refuge with more than two children. We should increase help for abused women and children living with domestic violence so that they can safely escape life-threatening situations.Domestic violence ruins countless lives, with two women every week being killed by a current or ex-partner. One in four women experience it at some point during their lifetime. We need to act now before more tragedies happen.