The remains of two people have been discovered after police dug up the back garden of a Nottinghamshire house following information about an incident alleged to have taken place there in the late 1990s.Police said it could take several weeks or months for the bodies to be formally identified.Neighbours in Blenheim Close, Forest Town, near Mansfield, said an elderly couple had lived at the property in the 1990s.One resident, who did not wish to be named, said: "I've lived here for 18 years. They were living at the house when I moved in."But they never had any visitors. I never saw anyone coming or going. My friend and I always used to say 'I wonder what happened to that couple'. They just disappeared. We thought they had emigrated." She said she believed the house then stood empty until the present occupiers moved in around seven years ago.Mark Webster, neighbourhood policing inspector for the Mansfield north neighbourhood policing area, said the two bodies had been removed from the address. "As a result of information we received last week, we commenced a search at premises on Blenheim Close in the Forest Town area of Mansfield and yesterday we uncovered the bodies of two people."Forensic tests are taking place at this moment to identify who they are formally."Asked whether they had made any arrests, he said: "No, we haven't at the moment."The current tenant and the owner of the property had been "extremely helpful" and did not feature in their investigation at this time, he said.The officer refused to comment on the information they received last week and also refused to rule out that they were looking for anyone else in connection with the incident. Police are appealing for anyone with information to come forward.Reassuring the local community, Webster said: "We don't believe that there is any risk of any harm coming to the community. People are clearly going to be concerned when an incident of this nature happens and we would like to reassure them. And we'd like to thank people, particularly the local neighbours on Blenheim Close. They've been really helpful to us."