Trouble flared in west London last night after Chelsea were defeated by Manchester United in the Champions League football final.Police were called to Fulham Broadway, close to Chelsea's Stamford Bridge ground, after violence broke out at the end of the match, which ended with Chelsea beaten 6-5 in a penalty shoot-out.Scotland Yard said 12 people were arrested for public order offences. One man was arrested for grievous bodily harm, drink-driving and dangerous driving after he attempted to drive up Fulham Broadway and hit a 31-year-old victim who was taken to hospital with leg injuries.A police spokesman said around 400 people gathered in the street after the match. A group of 200 became violent, throwing bottles at police."The more violent crowd were noisy and abusive, blocking the pathway of a bus," the spokesman said. "Despite repeated warnings to leave the area the crowd of 200 remained and police were under sustained attack from objects being thrown from the crowd."Five police officers are believed to have suffered minor injuries.It was a different story in Moscow, however, where 5,000 police were on duty to quell fears of a repeat of the violence seen after last week's Uefa Cup final in Manchester. Police said there were no arrests among more than 40,000 visiting fans."Everything was calm, there were no big fights," a police spokesman told Reuters. "The fans, both Russian and English, were followed by policemen to provide a stable and calm situation at night. No one was detained."Thousands of Chelsea fans who went to Moscow were arriving back in the UK today. They were kept waiting on buses for two hours at Moscow airport before being able to board flights to Stansted.Sudhir Rawal, 44, an accountant from Harrow, north London, said he was exhausted: "We walked to the buses after the game. Then the bus driver got lost. And when we got to the airport, the trouble really started."We were put on buses out to the plane, then they discovered there wasn't a plane to get on. I don't know how long we were sitting on the bus at the airport, it seemed like hours."I flew out yesterday. I've been up for 24 hours. I'm just exhausted."Scaffolder Richard Samuels, 25, of Luton, Bedfordshire, flew to Moscow on Tuesday. After arriving back at Stansted he said: "We were held up for about four hours going out and delayed for about six hours going back."Tired isn't the word. And I thought we deserved to win. But that's football."