Detectives were due to question missing canoeist John Darwin today as the story surrounding his sudden reappearance began to unravel, with his wife reportedly admitting she had known he was alive.Anne Darwin yesterday said that her life had become a "nightmare" and admitted a photograph - apparently taken on July 14 2006 - showed her and her husband in an apartment they had just rented.When she was confronted with the photograph she told the Daily Mirror who originally published the image: "Yes, that's him. My sons will never forgive me."Mr Darwin, 57, who turned up at a London police station on Saturday claiming not to remember anything about the past five years, was arrested on suspicion of fraud early yesterday morning.The photograph shows a smiling Darwin with his wife in Panama, four years after he was supposed to have died in a canoeing accident in the North Sea.The Darwins are shown posing with Mario Vilar, head of the firm Move To Panama, in an apartment. Vilar said: "They said they were starting a new life in Panama and we helped them get their feet on the ground. Then they moved on. I thought nothing of it."Yesterday detectives admitted they had had doubts about the case at the time of Darwin's disappearance. They also said there had been a reported sighting of him in his home town of Seaton Carew, Hartlepool, two years ago."There was some concern at the time he went missing," said Detective Superintendent Tony Hutchinson. "But there was no evidence and what we are doing now is going back through everything that was done by the police back in 2002."Yesterday it emerged that Mrs Darwin, who sold two houses worth £455,000 and left the UK for Panama six weeks ago, has cashed in his life insurance policy. Her new home in the Los Angeles district of Panama City cost £38,000 and a new car in the drive is registered in her name. The Guardian understands the house was registered to a company created in August 2005, a year before the couple were pictured looking for property in Panama.Mrs Darwin had earlier insisted that she believed her husband had died in a canoeing accident and said she had claimed the insurance money in good faith. The former doctor's receptionist had said she was delighted he was alive but that she had no immediate plans to return to the UK.Yesterday locals said Mrs Darwin had not been at the address since Tuesday evening when she left with reporters thought to be from two British tabloids.Darwin, a former prison officer, went missing in 2002 after a kayaking trip near his home in Hartlepool. He was officially declared dead 13 months later.This weekend he walked into a London police station and told the desk sergeant: "I think I am a missing person." He gave them his name, address and date of birth but said he could not remember anything about the past five years.He was reunited with his two sons, Anthony and Mark, who released a statement saying they were delighted to see him but said he could now not remember anything since 2000, two years before he went missing. Hours after the statement was released detectives arrived at Anthony's house in Basingstoke and arrested Darwin on suspicion of fraud.Yesterday police admitted Darwin's account left a lot of questions unanswered. "Obviously Mr Darwin's reappearance has raised a lot of questions and created worldwide interest," said Hutchinson. "Without doubt it is an unusual case. There will be people out there who will know exactly where he has been, where he has been living and what he has been doing. We want to hear from them. It may well be he has been living abroad; he may well have been known by another name."He said police had reopened the file on Darwin three months earlier but news of his reappearance was a shock. "Nobody was more surprised than I when he walked into that London police station."He said one of the key questions was why Darwin had decided to hand himself in at the weekend. "Clearly there has been some trigger for him to walk into the London police station, but I do not know what that motivation is."Hutchinson said the police had no immediate plans to speak to Mrs Darwin but he said they had not ruled out using the UK's extradition agreement with Panama to force her to return home if necessary.Mrs Darwin said she had talked to her husband by telephone three times since he reappeared but she said she was unable to return to the UK immediately because of issues with her visa.Tax havenThe Republic of Panama is the southernmost country of central America, bordering Costa Rica to the north and Colombia to the south. With a population of around 3.3 million, the Spanish-speaking country is an international business centre and the largest consumer in central America.Panama, one of the primary offshore tax havens in the Americas, has a mortgage rate of 1% and income tax is only payable on income generated in the country, which means expatriates can receive tax-free income from anywhere else in the world. There are estimated to be 1,000 Britons in Panama. Britain has had an extradition treaty with the country since 1907, though no British citizen has ever been extradited.The country is best known for its canal, which opened in 1914 at a cost of $375m (£182m) and 25,000 lives.Fay Schlesinger