Constable Keith Mulloy yesterday became Scotland's first policeman to be seconded to a school in a year-long pilot project to tackle crime in the community. Constable Mulloy will be stationed at Northfield Academy, a school with more than 1,000 pupils, set in the sprawling council estates of Aberdeen, a city with some of the richest areas of Scotland, but also some of its most deprived.The project will build on the Scottish Executive's new community school area initiative, similar to England's safe schools scheme. The idea is to foster a multi-agency approach to local crime and deprivation, placing schools at the centre of the conundrum. Constable Mulloy's responsibilities will include dealing with crime in the school and where it spills out into the community. He will also contribute to the school's personal and social education programmes, participate in outreach activities to divert children away from crime and "break down the barriers" between young people and the police. He will be in full uniform while in the school, minus the hat, which he thinks he will only wear while patrolling the local area at break times.He will not, however, be responsible for disciplining children in the classroom."I will be dealing with crime in the school grounds and the immediate local community within school time," said Constable Mulloy. "It's about crime prevention to a certain extent, but also education. I will also be identifying offenders and victims of crime, and working alongside teaching staff to persuade them against crime."The area surrounding the school has pockets of severe poverty. Susan Alley, deputy head at Northfield, said eight years ago the school was not highly regarded by the local community. "Now the community look to the school for support and the education we provide is valued," she said. "The school was finding itself increasingly dealing with community problems, more related to social work, health and housing rather than focusing on education. So we applied to pilot the project."The scheme made sense, said Ms Alley, because the pupils who were causing the most trouble in school, tended to be those causing trouble in the community outside school hours. When teachers talked to the police about problem children, the same names kept cropping up, she said.The initiative is modelled on similar schemes successfully operating in parts of England, New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the US.Constable Mulloy began his school patrol yesterday when pupils returned after the summer break. How are they reacting? "They are all quite intrigued as to why I'm here. There's lots of questions. It's been quite positive so far," he said.