Grace Hall, 40 Sentence: life Crime: murder I was 21 when I got convicted in 1982. It was my first sentence. I served 18 years and saw a lot of changes in that time. When I got my sentence there wasn't much help available; they just put you in jail. I'd been in six months when I stumbled across Alcoholics Anonymous. They were holding meetings in the chapel. My friend, Patsy, and I had gone to look for communion wine but we heard voices from the meeting and ended up joining in. Nobody had recommended I go, it wasn't set up that way in those days. Prison was about containment, especially for the lifers like me. It wasn't until I reached about eight or 10 years into my sentence that they started rehabilitating us. Patsy was a short-termer and when she finished her sentence she went out and died of a drug overdose. So many die like that. It was ridiculous that nobody tried to give me treatment for my addictions. My crime was alcohol- and drug-related because I killed my ex-boyfriend when I was totally high. I kept up my drug habit inside for 11 years. Drugs were easier than booze to get hold of. Towards the end of my sentence I started on heroin because it was harder to pick up in the mandatory drugs test, which really upped the number of heroin users in the system. The figures say drug use has gone down. The reality is smack use has gone up. But what's disturbing is that, in some prisons, the governor wants to prove she's got a drug-free prison so the prison officers just don't test people. My friend and I once set up an experiment. We told a prison officer about eight people who'd been using heroin that evening and they busted one of them. That's typical. It's their way of fiddling the figures so they look drug-free. More prison courses and treatments started in the late 80s and early 90s, so now there are more options available. But there's still problems. For a start, there aren't enough courses because mostly the officers are running these things and they are needed for discipline. Towards the end of my sentence I became a born-again Christian. An ex-lifer came in, she had a job with a Christian organisation and used to come in and talk to me. Then one day, I totally stopped my drinking and drugs and I haven't had anything for nearly eight years. The religion helped me more than prison, but prison gave me an environment where I was kept safe until I could find a way to stop. If I'd been on the street I would have been dead before I found a way to stop, like my friends. Prison saved my life until I was able to get straight enough to find a way.