A young mother wept with relief yesterday as a jury cleared her of killing her 15-month-old son by poisoning him with salt.A jury of six men and six women deliberated for only 2½ hours before finding 24-year-old Marianne Williams, from Wiltshire, not guilty of either the murder or the manslaughter of Joshua Taylor following a six-week trial at Winchester crown court.She was cleared of giving her seriously-ill son, who was born prematurely with failing kidneys, excessive amounts of sodium, leading to his death on February 27 2004.During the trial, the prosecution alleged that Ms Williams, who was on antidepressants, killed her son because she felt she could not cope with caring for him. She had seen the consequences of too much sodium in his system earlier in February, when the child was taken to hospital suffering from high salt levels, the trial was told.The defence said Joshua died as a result of a combination of his medical condition and the drugs he was taking for his care.Ms Williams stood trembling in the dock as the verdict was read out and wiped away tears when she was cleared of both charges. The verdict was received with cheers by her supporters in the public gallery.Outside court, shaking with relief and her mascara running from tears, she said: "I'm just overwhelmed. It has been a long time coming. I keep having floods of relief going through me. I can't concentrate or even think about what has happened."Her legal representative Jacqui Cameron said in a statement: "We, as lawyers, are very concerned that the parents, usually mothers, are continuing to face the grave charge of murder on what can only be described, at best, as complex and, at worst, dubious evidence. Clinicians are far too prone to point fingers of suspicion at persons who are already vulnerable."The verdict today gives us hope that the general public is learning the lessons that doctors are failing to learn despite other high level cases such as Sally Clark, Trupti Patel and Angela Cannings. These allegations, when made, have devastating effects on families and should never be made unless there has been full, independent investigation of the facts."She said the jury had investigated the facts but "by the time these matters come before the jury, irreparable damage has already been caused."Detective Inspector Matt Johnson, of Wiltshire police, said he was "satisfied that every possible piece of evidence that could be found was properly presented to the jury in this case."He added: "The decision to bring charges was only taken after lengthy consultation with the Crown Prosecution Service and a meticulous review of all the evidence that was available."I would like to say that from the very start we felt very sorry for Marianne Williams. She has obviously undergone a terrible trial and she has lost her child."Ms Williams, who was 21 at the time of Joshua's death, was in a long-term relationship with his father, Paul Taylor. Joshua was born 12 weeks prematurely by caesarean section after his twin had died in the womb.The baby weighed only 1.2kg (2lb 10oz) at birth and had a number of medical problems, including very small kidneys. The trial heard that because Joshua's kidneys were failing, they expelled too much sodium - an essential element in the body to maintain a normal fluid balance. He was given daily doses of sodium chloride to replenish his salt levels.In early February 2004, he was taken to Southampton General Hospital in a seriously ill condition suffering from very high salt levels. He slowly recovered and was released home on February 23. But the next morning he was admitted to the hospital once again in a serious condition, again with high salt levels. Doctors gave him drugs for dehydration which contained salt.The baby died three days later in hospital of brain damage brought on by abnormally high levels of sodium in the blood.An expert prosecution witness, Professor George Haycock, admitted during the trial that it would be impossible to say whether Joshua's high salt levels had occurred before he was brought to hospital on February 24, or while he was being treated there.Rob Welling, a crown prosecution service lawyer for Wiltshire, said the case against Ms Williams was always going to be difficult to prove but there had been sufficient evidence to bring the case to court.He said: "The prosecution obtained evidence from a number of eminent medical experts in the field of paediatric care and toxicology who all agreed that Joshua's condition did not occur naturally, but as the result of administration of an excessive amount of salt."