A mother has been arrested on suspicion of trying to murder her baby girl and her young son in a breakfast-time knife attack.The 16-month-old girl and seven-year-old boy were being treated for knife wounds in hospital. Their mother also sustained knife injuries and needed hospital treatment.Neighbours who heard screams and witnessed the aftermath of the incident in Newport, south Wales, on Wednesday said the woman and her three children were staying with her parents at a complex for elderly people.They said they saw a woman wearing a dressing gown being led away in handcuffs while the injured children were wrapped in blankets and carried out to ambulances. The third child, a six-year-old boy, was not hurt.Ch Supt Mark Warrender, of Gwent police, described the incident as tragic and asked members of the public to come forward with information.A police spokesman said: "A 27-year-old woman from the Newport area has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder and has been taken to the Royal Gwent hospital where she is receiving treatment. A knife has been recovered from the scene. We are not looking for anyone else in connection with this incident."Ten police cars and three ambulances arrived after the alarm was raised at about 8am.Neighbour Maureen Harrhy, 65, said: "I saw a young woman being led out of the house in handcuffs. She was dressed in an orange dressing gown and was put into the back of a police car. We were all upset – there was police everywhere."A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "The mother and her three children were staying with her parents, sleeping in the same bedroom."One of her children screamed and their grandfather came in and snatched the knife."She made the grandparents tea while they gave statements to police. She said: "I think she is their only daughter, she comes and goes with her three children. She has been looking for a council place but they haven't got one yet. The middle child who wasn't hurt was taken to McDonald's around the corner for a treat. But he later went to the hospital with his grandparents to see his brother and sister."Local councillor Bob Poole described the street as a quiet part of Newport.He said: "There is never any trouble down there at all so it is a big shock something like this has happened. It is a really lovely place to live and the people there are the salt of the earth. It's sad, but I know everyone there will pull together and help out where they can."The conditions of the two children and the woman were described as stable.