Scotland Yard has suffered another self-inflicted blow to its record on race after agreeing to pay damages of over £100,000 to a distinguished black officer it wrongly suspected of corruption, the Guardian has learned.Chief Inspector Leroy Logan was investigated for five months over an £80 hotel bill at a cost estimated by police insiders at a further £100,000. Supporters of Mr Logan, who chairs the Metropolitan section of the Black Police Association, say he was picked on and subjected to an investigation to neutralise his support for Superintendent Ali Dizaei. Mr Dizaei was cleared twice at the Old Bailey of corruption after a multi-million pound, four-year inquiry that his supporters called a racist witchhunt. The Iranian-born officer was cleared of two relatively minor offences. He had earlier been accused of drug dealing, involvement in prostitution and acts to pervert the course of justice, but was never charged. Black officers urged a recruitment boycott of their own force after Supt Dizaei was acquitted in September for the second time. A fortnight ago Supt Dizaei returned to work with £80,000 in damages and with the force admitting his integrity was intact, in return for him dropping legal action. The recruitment boycott was then called off. Mr Logan's employment tribunal against the force for racial discrimination and victimisation was due to start on Monday. Instead it is expected that he and the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, will stage a joint press conference where an agreed statement will be read out. In a rare admission the force will say: "It is not in the public interest to defend the case of racism and victimisation that was put by Ch Insp Logan." The Met will declare that the "conclusion of this investigation leaves Ch Insp Logan's integrity and reputation demonstrably intact", and that the officer "has made a significant contribution to policing and diversity issues in the capital". Settlement talks began a fortnight ago and broke down at least twice, according to insiders. The settlement allows the Met to walk away without admitting liability or that its actions were discriminatory. It also spares top officers, headed by the deputy commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, from being grilled by Mr Logan's lawyers. The statement will also say: "We look forward to continuing dialogue between the [Met] and BPA as to how we may speedily address the remaining matters of concern raised in recent meetings". This is a reference to a Metropolitan Police Authority inquiry into the alleged disproportionately high level of investigation of ethnic minorities by the Met's anti-corruption squad. Ch Insp Logan was an adviser to the inquiry into the failed Damilola Taylor prosecution and last month was praised by Sir John at a BPA conference. He was also praised by Sir William Macpherson's report into the Met after testifying before it, and in 2001 was awarded an MBE. Dr Richard Stone, an adviser to the Macpherson inquiry, which found the force was institutionally racist, said: "I've always been impressed by his professionalism and he seems to be the sort of police officer who all of us who are supportive of high quality policing would like to meet." He added: "A lot of energy, time and money has been spent investigating black po lice officers and I hope that will reduce now and will instead be devoted to investigating serious criminals. "I hope the settlements with Supt Dizaei and Ch Insp Logan are going to move the issues of professionalism and anti-racism by the Met more urgently up the agenda." The roots of Ch Insp Logan's ordeal start in the corruption investigation against Supt Dizaei, who was the BPA's legal adviser. Detectives from the investigation, code-named Helios, seized documents from the BPA, including an expenses claim from Ch Insp Logan. He was served with a disciplinary notice in June 2001 saying he was not entitled to claim £80 for a hotel bill. Detectives trawled through three years of Mr Logan's expenses, but found no wrongdoing. The Crown Prosecution Service declined to prosecute and the Met did not bring internal disciplinary charges. Mr Logan has said the ordeal left him feeling humiliated. Barrister Peter Herbert, a member of the MPA, said: "The decision to investigate Leroy Logan was not motivated by issues of fairness and anti-corruption but motivated by victimisation for his outspoken defence of Ali Dizaei and by racism against him personally. If his case had proceeded the Met would have lost heavily." Toby Harris, who chairs the Metropolitan police authority, had warned that the BPA boycott and strife in the force over race threatened to undo the progress made. The Met will hope that the settlement with Mr Logan will repair relations with Asian and black officers who were left in near open rebellion over the alleged victimisation of colleagues for reasons they believe were motivated by race.