The man convicted of the murders of Lin Russell and her daughter Megan was "fitted up" by a violent heroin addict with psychiatric problems who lied to two juries, the court of appeal heard yesterday.Michael Stone, 44, who is serving three life sentences for the hammer attack on Mrs Russell and her two daughters as they walked home from a swimming gala in 1996, looked on intently from the dock yesterday as lawyers began the second appeal against his conviction in four years. His sister, Barbara Stone, who has fought for seven years to prove he is the victim of a miscarriage of justice, watched from the public gallery. Edward Fitzgerald QC, for Stone, said new evidence proved that Damien Daley, a career criminal who was the prosecution's key witness, had a motive to lie and had perjured himself twice. His testimony that Stone had admitted to the killings in a so-called cellblock confession when both men were in the segregation unit was "inherently unreliable", he said. In further new evidence, Mr Fitzgerald said Daley, 29, had told fellow prisoners his evidence against Stone was "lies and bullshit". "There is a body of material which undermines his reliability," Mr Fitzgerald said. "This is someone quite prepared to lie on oath ... if this material had been available at the trial, what effect would it have had?" Mrs Russell, 45, and her two daughters, Megan, six, and Josie, nine, were attacked as they walked through a cornfield to their home in Chillenden, Kent, in July 1996. Josie, now 18, survived with severe injuries but was able to give police an account of what happened. Stone, who suffered from a severe personality disorder, was convicted in 1998 on the basis of alleged confessions he made in prison to Daley and two other prisoners. There was no forensic evidence to link him to the scene and no eyewitness evidence to incriminate him. Within days of his conviction two of the prisoners were discredited. One confessed he had lied and another that he had received money from a newspaper. Stone had his convictions quashed on appeal but was convicted again at a retrial in October 2001 on Daley's evidence alone. Daley, who has convictions for violence, robbery and burglary, admitted he lied to get by in life. But he told the court he was telling the truth when he said Stone had confessed the murders to him through a pipe connecting the two men's cells at Canterbury prison. Stone, he said, started to talked about "smashing eggs", and the inside being "mush". Challenged in court about his drug-taking, Daley told the jury in Stone's first trial he had never taken heroin, and the second that he only used it occasionally. But Mr Fitzgerald told the appeal court that Daley had admitted to his probation officer in an undisclosed interview that he had been using heroin since 1996. "He has now repeatedly admitted to probation officers his heavy abuse of heroin both in and out of prison since 1996. He had clearly used it for some time, and that shows that he perjured himself." Daley's undisclosed drug addiction also provided further motive for him to have lied about the confession, Mr Fitzgerald said. As a remand prisoner he had motive to lie to ingratiate himself with the authorities. As a heroin addict he had further incentive for making up the confession "to obtain medication and/or get off the segregation block and secure access to heroin on general location". After making the allegations against Stone, he was moved from the segregation unit by the prison governor. Evidence from Daley's medical notes, which were only disclosed to Stone's legal team last September, revealed that he suffered from psychiatric problems, none of which were presented to the jury. In a police interview, which Mr Fitzgerald said did not appear to have been disclosed, there was more evidence of Daley's unreliability and psychiatric state. He talked of taking an overdose of drugs which caused "funny reactions in his head" and of hearing things, the court heard. Mr Fitzgerald said the judge should have given an express warning about Daley's evidence. "It is the duty of the court to give an express warning on the dangers of relying on such evidence, and we say that no such warning was given here." But challenged by Lord Justice Rose, Mr Fitzgerald admitted there was an "uphill struggle" with one plank of his appeal involving a new witness, Paul Gilheaney, a former prisoner. He had come forward last year to say Daley had recently confessed to him and other prisoners that his evidence against Stone was "lies and bullshit". But Lord Justice Rose, sitting with Mr Justice Moses and Mr Justice Walker, said Gilheaney's evidence to the appeal was "demonstrably false". "There could not have been a conversation where he said it took place, between the people he claimed, triggered by a television broadcast at that time," said Lord Justice Rose, the deputy president of the court of appeal criminal division. The appeal continues.