Two teenagers were arrested today in connection with the fatal stabbing of a 14-year-old schoolboy in east London.Shaquille Smith became the youngest of 25 teenagers murdered in the capital this year when he bled to death from a single stab wound to the stomach during the weekend.Earlier today, the Metropolitan police said a 19-year-old had been arrested in east London during the early hours of this morning. A 17-year-old male was arrested this afternoon.Shaquille died after being attacked by a group of youths as he walked his dog with his 16-year-old sister, Tahira, and an 18-year-old friend outside his home in Hackney.Tahira suffered knife wounds to her face and neck and was treated in hospital.Shaquille's family said he had been a happy teenager who was devoted to his baby sister and had ambitions to live and work in Jamaica."Shaquille was special to us," his mother said in a statement. "We loved him dearly and he will always be in our hearts. There is nothing bad I can say about him. He was only 14. He was just happy.''Residents described seeing a group of around 15 youths arrive on bikes and attack the teenager as he sat on a bench in a small park in front of his house.Shaquille's aunt, Jackie Green, said her nephew had been sitting outside his house when the youths attacked him. "I don't think the others realised Shaquille had been stabbed at first - they thought he had just been punched," she said. "It's just terrible."Earlier, police said they were exploring the possibility the attack was gang-related, but said there was no evidence that Shaquille had been involved with gangs.Friends claimed he was the innocent victim of a long-running gang war. One said there was ongoing violence in Hackney between a gang from the London Fields area and a group from the E9 postcode. "This isn't a feud - it's a war now," the friend, who asked not to be named, said. "It's gone from fist fights to knives to guns and back to knives." Members of the London Fields gang would travel to E9 to attack teenagers simply for being in the area, he added. A total of 1,900 knives have been seized in London through stop and search measures during Operation Blunt 2, the Metropolitan police anti-knife campaign, which began in May. 