A man who admitted murdering his partner and the mother of his three children in knife attacks just minutes apart has been given two life sentences. Alan Bennett was told by a judge at Teesside crown court that he would serve a minimum of 32 years and 233 days.Bennett, 34, called police himself after he stabbed Lynne Freeman, 46, in the neck in Redcar on 23 March.Seven minutes later, Cleveland police received a second call from members of the public to say Jodie Betteridge, 30, had been stabbed repeatedly less than a mile away.Bennett, who appeared at Teesside crown court on Thursday, was arrested at the second bloody murder scene in Byland Close. Police and paramedics were also at the scene in Mapleton Crescent, where he had killed Freeman.Cleveland police said Bennett had been involved in previous domestic violence incidents with both women.The force said Bennett, from Lingholme in Redcar, called to ask for an ambulance to be sent to Freeman’s bungalow at 8.45pm. He had been drinking with her at a number of pubs in Redcar and had been involved in altercations.  Alan Bennett. Photograph: Cleveland policeAt about 8pm Bennett and Freeman took a number 63 bus home, during which witnesses said they saw the couple arguing. Bennett raised his voice several times and the row continued as they made their way towards Mapleton Crescent.A police spokeswoman said: “Police and ambulance attended that address where the body of Lynne Freeman was found in the front room. It was evident that Lynne had been stabbed a number of times to her upper torso and neck area.”Bennett made his way to murder Betteridge, who had spent most of the day with their children, aged four, six and nine.The spokeswoman said: “Approximately seven minutes after receiving the call from Alan Bennett, police received a second call asking officers to attend Byland Close, Redcar, where it was reported that a woman was being violently assaulted on an open grassed area.“Police attended the scene, where 30-year-old Jodie Betteridge was found with stab injuries to her legs, arms, face, neck and torso. Efforts were made to administer first aid to Jodie but unfortunately she died at the scene as a result of her injuries.”Bennett and Betteridge were in a relationship from 2005 to 2014 and they had three children, who lived with her. Early last year he started a relationship with Freeman, who he had known for some time. They lived apart but were often seen together and frequently stayed at each other’s homes.The spokeswoman said: “Previous domestic incidents had been reported regarding Alan Bennett with Jodie Betteridge and with Lynne Freeman.”Andrew Robertson QC, prosecuting, said: “Both women were stabbed to death with an unequivocal intent to kill.” Bennett had got drunk with Freeman in Redcar and he was “aggressive and confrontational”. During a row with his partner, a friend of hers saw him push Freeman to the ground. When the friend told him: “There’s no need for that”, Bennett grabbed the witness and, apparently referring to his ex-partner, Betteridge, said: “You don’t know what’s fucking happened. I’ve lost my kids, I’m not allowed to see them. I’ll fucking kill her.”Robertson said the witness was unsure who the “her” referred to. The couple sat on opposite sides of the bus on the way home, the court heard. Bennett made threats to Freeman, telling her: “I will get your attention when we are home.” Once there, he inflicted four stab wounds to her neck and nine other sharp force injuries to the neck and chest. She was first attacked on the sofa and then on the floor.Bennett then left to attack Betteridge in front of their children, starting the assault inside the property and continuing it in the front garden. He inflicted 132 sharp force injuries, Robertson said. Two of those were significant enough to kill. Robertson said 30 injuries were to the head and Betteridge would have been significantly disfigured if she had lived. The knife used to kill both women snapped during the second murder. Robertson said: “The next-door neighbours heard screaming and shouting. They looked out and saw the defendant strike the deceased in the front garden. The children of the defendant and the deceased were standing and screaming near their mother.” When the neighbour challenged Bennett, he told her to call the police. She said later: “The defendant was constantly stabbing Jodie like a crazed maniac.” Police arrived quickly and Bennett told officers: “I have done what had to be done.” He later told detectives he could not remember killing either woman. Bennett had previous convictions for attacking someone with a bottle in 2002 and battery in 2012. Tim Roberts QC, defending, said his client had pleaded guilty at the first reasonable opportunity. Bennett had a mental illness, he said, but it was not severe enough to allow him to claim a defence of diminished responsibility. Roberts added: “He has not had the normal capacity of self-restraint which a healthy individual would possess.” 