Police officers of all ranks yesterday welcomed the plans to crack down on problem drinking.But the proposals were heavily criticised by representatives of licensees, who argued that the police already had the power to take action both against premises whose proprietors act irresponsibly and individuals who cause trouble.They also expressed the concern that creating an "alcohol disorder zone" could make some areas notorious and attract more troublemakers.The Association of Chief Police Officers led support for the new measures, saying that the creation of alcohol disorder zones would make the "polluter" pay. Chris Allison, a Metropolitan Police commander, said: "The licensees talk about how much they already pay in taxes, but all businesses do that. The difference is that licensed premises are providing something which can cause someone to act in a disorderly or violent way."Mr Allison acknowledged that a lot of work would be needed to make the changes workable. "We will have to work out what makes an alcohol disorder zone, what level of disorder would trigger it, how to define it."The officer also said that the underlying causes of drink-fuelled crime also needed to be addressed. "That is down to culture and education," he said.Inspector Steve Torr, of Plymouth police, also welcomed the plans. His patch includes the Union Street area of the city which is packed with clubs and pubs. He said: "One night it is quiet there, the next everyone wants to kill each other. We used to think it was the full moon but then we had a full moon night and it was peaceful so that theory went."Plymouth is piloting a minor injury and victim reception unit in the city. Ambulance staff treat people with minor injuries while police officers take details of what happened and respond quickly. "Anything which gives us more power to tackle binge drinkers is a good thing," he said.The idea also won the approval of Sgt Dave Holtby, based in Weston-super-Mare. Weston is already running a scheme in which people who cause trouble in pubs and clubs are banned not only from licensed premises but from shops in the town.But licensees and their representatives were less impressed. Chris Kimitri, of the Nook and Harbour bar in Weston, said it was "unfair" to make licensees pay for troublemakers.