A man from Ivory Coast wanted in connection with the killing of British student Meredith Kercher has been extradited to Italy.German prosecutor Karl-Rudolf Winkler confirmed today that Rudy Hermann Guede had been handed to Italian authorities.He had been held in Koblenz, Germany, since November 20 and was transferred to a holding facility in Frankfurt yesterday.Guede has denied involvement in the killing of Kercher in Perugia, but has admitted being in her room the night she died in the Italian university city.Forensic evidence placed Guede at the crime scene. His fingerprints, DNA and hair were found in Kercher's bedroom.Two weeks ago it emerged that Guede, a convicted drugs dealer, went dancing at a club after the murder of the 21-year-old, who was found semi-naked with her throat cut on November 1.Witnesses have told police that they saw him at the Domus disco from 2am until 4.30am on Friday November 2. Police in Perugia believe he fled to Germany within hours of Kercher's death.Italian detectives are said to believe Kercher was murdered after a sex and drugs party that went wrong. Kercher's flatmate, American student Amanda Knox, 20, and Knox's boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, 23, are also in custody.Guede, who has dual Ivory Coast and Italian nationality, was stopped for travelling on a train without a ticket and arrested last month in the western German city of Mainz.He had been tracked down after using the web-based voice and chat service Skype. One of his friends agreed to help the police contact him. Police recorded an internet conversation in which Guede's friend said: "They are after you for the murder of Kercher. What have you done?"Guede admitted he had been at Kercher's house the night she died, saying she had invited him for a drink.During the three-hour internet conversation, Guede is said to have claimed he had sex with Kercher and she was a willing participant, but denied he had killed her. He said he had gone to the bathroom because of an upset stomach and then heard the doorbell ring and "the English girl" screaming. "Then I ran away, I was scared. I am not the one who killed her," he said.