David Norris, the second man accused of murdering the teenager Stephen Lawrence, has told the Old Bailey he cannot remember where he was on the night of the murder.Norris, 35, who suffers from hearing difficulties, spoke in a thick south London accent as he was questioned about the killing.He repeatedly said: "I am an innocent man … I am no angel but I am not a murderer." He told the jury he was not in Well Hall Road, Eltham, when 18-year-old Lawrence was fatally stabbed but could not remember where he was.He was pressed by the prosecution during cross-examination about this evidence. Mark Ellison, QC, read extracts from an interview Norris and the other suspects had done with Martin Bashir in 1999. In the interview, Norris said there was a 50% chance he was in Eltham on the night with his girlfriend Cheryl. But Norris said in court he was not in Eltham and he never had a girlfriend called Cheryl.Ellison said the transcript showed he told Bashir that he was "most likely at home or at my girlfriend Cheryl's house", in Archery Road, not far from Well Hall Road. But Norris said today he could not remember any of it.Ellison asked whether the name Cheryl rang any bells?"No," said Norris.Pressing him further Ellison said; "Is it possible you were in the Eltham area?"Norris replied again: "No"How do you know?" said Ellison."Because I am innocent," said Norris.Norris denied that a pair of jeans and a jumper on which new forensic evidence was discovered were his.A father of five, Norris, 35, is accused of being one of a gang of five white men who attacked Lawrence and his friend Duwayne Brooks in Well Hall Road, fatally injuring Lawrence in April 1993.Stephen Batten QC, defending, asked him: "Did you have anything to do with the death of Stephen Lawrence?""Certainly not sir, no," replied Norris."Were you in Well Hall Road on the night?" asked the barrister."No, I wasn't, certainly not," said Norris."Do you know if you were in the company of either of the Acourt brothers, Luke Knight or Gary Dobson," said Batten."No," replied Norris."Do you know in fact where you were?""I don't sir, no," said Norris.Norris was 16 at the time of the murder and was living with his mother in Berryfield Close, Chiselhurst. The jury was told he had "given up on school".Batten showed Norris an image of the jumper which the Crown says holds crucial forensic evidence putting him at the scene. "What do you say about it?" said Batten."Nothing at all," replied Norris. "It's a jumper.""Is it yours," asked the barrister."I don't believe it is, I am sure it isn't," Norris replied.When the jeans were displayed to him he also said he did not recognise them as being his.The court has heard that Norris was arrested for the murder in 1993, 1995 and last year when he was charged on the basis of new forensic evidence found on the jeans and jumper. A bag used to store a pair of jeans taken from Norris's home contained two of Lawrence's hairs and fibres that could have come from the victim's trousers and polo shirt were found on a jumper that was also seized from his home.Norris was asked about the violent racism he displayed in police surveillance footage filmed in 1994. In the footage Norris talks about torturing a black man, and boasts about fighting with a "black cunt" in a park. He talked of going to "kill every black cunt … every Paki … every copper."Norris apologised to the courtroom for what they had heard on the tape. He admitted he would have made racist comments in 1993 but put it down to immaturity. He told the court he had made the comments because he was angry."I had been accused of murder, a terrible murder. I was angry especially with the police." Norris said that after his arrest in 1993, "I had to see my mum cry herself to sleep every night and it broke my heart".He told jurors that after his arrest he was recognised as a suspect for the murder and came to despise the police."It was general looks, swearing threatening words, that sort of thing,"he said.Gary Dobson, 36 and Norris deny murder.The case continues.