Police officers will face disciplinary action if they leak the names of men accused of rape and other sex crimes to the media before they are charged, under an agreement being worked out by ministers and the police.Home Office ministers hope that tightening the guidelines will head off an attempt this week by MPs to push through a statutory ban on naming defendants in rape and other serious sexual cases before they are charged. The home secretary, David Blunkett, intends to use Labour's majority in the Commons to overturn a little noticed defeat in the sexual offences bill he suffered in the House of Lords earlier this year. Lord Ackner, a former law lord, succeeded in writing into the bill a lifetime ban on naming defendants even after conviction. He argued that they should have the same right to anonymity as victims. Ministers are confident that they can overturn such a sweeping ban when the bill returns to the Commons this week, but are anxious that there is growing support among MPs for a ban on the media naming those being questioned by the police. The demand for fresh statutory action intensified during last month's controversy about the treatment of the former television presenter John Leslie, who was cleared of two charges of indecently assaulting a 23-year-old woman. Talks have begun between the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers on how to tighten official guidelines about the naming of rape suspects. The Home Office wants it become a disciplinary matter for an officer to have leaked the name of a rape suspect to the media.But there will have to be exemptions to enable the police to appeal for witnesses, or for victims to come forward, and to act if the suspect absconds.The Home Office has also held talks with media organisations, including the Newspaper Society, on whether to appeal to editors for voluntary self-restraint.But a growing crossparty group of MPs is pushing for a legal ban on the media naming suspects. The Commons home affairs and culture, media and sport select committees favour statutory action to enforce anonymity until a suspect is charged. The Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats have said they favour such a move.But Vera Baird, Labour MP for Redcar, rejected that, saying that the ban existed in an era when women were commonly believed to make false allegations against men.