A mobile phone thief was given a four-year "deterrent" sentence at the Old Bailey today for robbing a 16-year-old boy in the street and punching him in the face.It is one of the first sentences passed since new guidelines were laid down by Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, yesterday, who said mobile phone muggers will now face minimum jail terms of 18 months, and those using violence, five years or more.However, the severity of the sentence handed down to 23-year-old mobile phone thief Dean Healey today may prompt disquiet in some quarters of "going too far". His counsel said the court had heard character witnesses that he was honest, trustworthy and conscientious. The pre-sentence report had not considered him to be a high-risk re-offender.But Judge Valerie Pearlman told Healey that she regarded the street robbery as serious enough to warrant an immediate custodial sentence. She said: "The sentence I pass is to keep the public protected from you and as a deterrent to show that this type of offence will not be tolerated. "This is, as the courts repeat, a very prevalent offence, in this case aggravated by the fact there were two of you." Healey, a tyre-fitter of Challis Way, Brixton, south London, was convicted last month of robbing Lee Staples in February last year, and had been remanded for reports until today. Healey will not be considered for parole until he has served at least half the jail term. He and a friend - who has not been caught - had approached Mr Staples, an office worker, as he walked along Streatham High Road, south London.Mr Staples was in court with his mother, Lorraine Crawley, to see Healey jailed and, outside court, she said had been shocked by the length of the sentence. But she added: "Basically he got what he deserved. Maybe it will deter other people. Lee is much more withdrawn since this happened and always goes out with others now." Mr Staples said he was relieved and happy. "It is great it is all over. When I am out I look over my shoulder a lot. I cannot walk off on my own. I am much more careful about where I use my mobile." He had been to a colleague's leaving party at a pub with friends and was spotted by Healey and his friend as he used his mobile and then withdrew cash. They started talking to him and walked up the street before punching him in the face, searching for his wallet and demanding his phone. Anthony Montgomery, defending, told the court that Healey had not been the chief aggressor in the robbery. Mr Montgomery asked for the sentence to be "as short as possible consistent with the gravity of the offence".But Judge Pearlman said: "I regard this as a bad case of gratuitous street violence on a younger man."