Criminals who turn 'supergrass' will have their sentences drastically cut if they testify against gangland associates under an American-style crackdown on organised crime to be announced tomorrow.Jail terms could be cut by up to two-thirds in exchange for valuable information which helps crack drug smuggling, people trafficking or money laundering rings. So-called plea bargaining will be put on a statutory footing for the first time, making it clear what supergrasses can expect in return, while a new national witness protection scheme will be launched to discourage revenge attacks. The move, outlined in a white paper on organised crime to be published jointly by the Home Office and the Foreign Office on Monday, will be highly controversial given the temptation for supergrasses to make up evidence in order to reduce their jail sentences or settle scores. It may also be resented by the victims of future supergrasses, who will have to watch their assailants serve far less time in jail than they might have done. But Ministers will argue supergrass evidence is widely used abroad - Italy's 'pentiti', Mafia members prepared to inform on fellow mobsters, have proved crucial in disrupting several high-ranking families while plea bargaining is relatively routine in the US and Australia - and should be more widespread in the UK. 'We can make it much clearer what the sentence reductions might be, and what the incentives are,' said a Home Office source. 'The knock-on effects are that it will encourage more people to plead guilty, speed up trials and sow mistrust within the criminal gangs. We want to focus on breaking up these tight-knit gangs.' Plea bargains are already established unofficially in British case law, but have no formal basis in statute: until now British criminals have proved reluctant turncoats. Only around 1 per cent of defendants in Customs cases give evidence in exchange for reduced sentences, against up to a quarter of Australian cases and 15 per cent of American cases defendants. Putting plea bargains on a statutory footing will, officials argue, send a signal both to courts that they should be more widely used but also to criminals of what they might have to gain. The White Paper is not expected to dictate how much should be slashed from specific sentences in return for information. But the Home Office is studying arrangements in the US and in Australia, where sentences can be cut by up to two-thirds for information on a high-ranking organised crime figure. 'It depends on what you know and how freely you co-operate: if what you know is about someone absolutely at the top of the tree for example, so it can range from [two-thirds reduction] to just a couple of months,' said the source. 'It also depends on what crime you have committed yourself: if you have committed a horrendous offence you still need to be punished.' Organised crime in Britain is now worth up to £40 billion a year, and the White Paper will argue its effects are corrosive: every kilo of heroin smuggled in triggers the equivalent of up to 200 burglaries, as addicts steal to fund their habit.