A children’s doctor who abused 18 boys in his care has had his 22-year jail sentence reduced to 16 years.Myles Bradbury, 42, from Herringswell, Suffolk, who worked as a paediatric consultant haematologist at Addenbrooke’s hospital in Cambridge, had his custodial term reduced by three judges at the court of appeal in London on Friday.Lady Justice Hallett, Mr Justice Haddon-Cave and Mr Justice Goss said they were “restructuring” the original 22 years, replacing it with a custodial element of 16 years with an additional six years on licence.Bradbury watched proceedings via video link from prison on the Isle of Wight. He was jailed in December after pleading guilty to more than 20 offences including sexual assault, voyeurism and possessing more than 16,000 indecent images, involving boys aged between 10 and 16.Children’s doctor jailed for abusing young patients All of the victims suffered from leukaemia, haemophilia or other serious conditions. Some have since died. Bradbury filmed some of them using a spy pen and abused others behind a curtain while their parents were in the room.Hallett described Bradbury’s offending as “wicked” and said the court agreed with the sentencing judge that “a total figure of 22 years was appropriate”. But she said the appeal judges believed that a “better way both to punish the appellant and protect the public” was to restructure the sentence. She described Bradbury as dangerous and said the consequences of his offending had been widespread and devastating for the victims and their families. Hallett said the circumstances of Bradbury’s offending were extremely grave. The harm caused was far-reaching and “precious resources” had been diverted “which should have been used in treating sick people”. Bradbury exploited and manipulated his position for his own sexual gratification and appeared to have targeted the particularly vulnerable. The judge added: “We have yet to encounter a more egregious breach of trust.” He had said himself he was “addicted” to his behaviour. The judge said: “We have no doubt that he poses a significant risk of serious harm to other boys who may cross his path.” She said there was only one mitigating feature. That was his plea of guilty and he was “entitled to full credit for that fact”.