Police chiefs in England's second largest force have employed specialist medical staff in an attempt to curb a rapid rise in long-term sick leave over the past year.Hit by a recruitment crisis and rising crime, Greater Manchester police revealed yesterday that 1,183 of its 7,000 officers were off work for 28 days or more last year - one of the highest levels in Britain. A report to the area's police authority concluded that long-term absences had reached unacceptable levels. In-house psychiatric advice is now available at force headquarters to counsel staff in an attempt to bring down sickness levels, while trials are to begin with a company specialising in the rehabilitation of back-pain suffers. "It is considered that early intervention, where appropriate, should lead to a reduction in long-term absence patterns but this will take some time to demonstrate its effectiveness," the report said. Andrew Marston, chief executive of personnel for the authority, said: "We have to be prepared to try something different. We are less productive because officers are not here doing the work and it is a depressingly downward cycle if this is not addressed." Mr Marston said there was concern among force chiefs at the 34% rise in the number of officers off work due to stress-related illnesses. Psychological disorders now account for more than a quarter of all long-term sickness in the force. "Doctors are more willing to put stress as a diagnosis and people are much more likely to self-diagnose," he said. Vin Sweeny, deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester police, confirmed yesterday that he would be seeing the Home Office to request a tightening of the guidelines laid down for the calculation of absence statistics. Greater Manchester police says its figures for absence are artificially inflated when compared with other forces. An independent auditor's report commissioned by the area's authority concluded that comparisons with other forces should be treated with "circumspection" because of differences in the methods of calculation.