The new commissioner of the Metropolitan police is barely in his post and already he has been forced into a screaming, rubber-burning U-turn of an order that takes most holders of public office years to achieve. If he had been in the job much longer, he would probably now be fending off demands that he leave it. For the Met's pursuit – halted dramatically this evening – of a Guardian reporter for the crime of revealing the truth about the phone-hacking scandal, coupled with its abuse of a law designed to safeguard national security, represented a misjudgment so gross, it should have counted as a sacking offence.Officially, we're told it was not Bernard Hogan-Howe's decision to issue an order demanding this newspaper reveal its sources by handing over reporters' notes and other key documents relating to several hacking stories, an order that repeatedly cited the Official Secrets Act. Supposedly that was taken at a lower level, by the Met's department of professional standards, as it investigates what it believes was a leaker or leakers within the force. That department reports directly to the deputy commissioner, who was, and remains until 26 September, one Bernard Hogan-Howe. So he was either incompetent – unaware of a major decision in one of the Met's highest-profile cases, a case that had claimed the scalp of his predecessor – or responsible for this appalling error.And appalling it certainly was – as the Met, with this hasty reverse, now clearly recognises. The entire British press, including the Murdoch-owned Times, joined in lambasting the stupidity of shooting the messenger in this way. As the Telegraph put it: "Are they seriously contemplating that the first prosecutions arising from the phone-hacking scandal should involve the very people who exposed it?" Or, to quote my colleague Marina Hyde, the Met showed itself to be "not tough on crime, tough on the reporting of crime".The detail of the Met's case was even more laughable. Among stories it described as "gratuitous" – literally, without merit – and not in the public interest was the revelation that the News of the World had hacked into Milly Dowler's voicemail. The textbooks of the future will struggle to find a better example of a story in the public interest than that one: it had an enormous public impact, from the closure of the NoW and abandoning of the BSkyB bid to the departure of the Met's commissioner and one of his most senior officers. The Met called it gratuitous, but when the previous commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, appeared before MPs in July, he lavished praise on the Guardian for persisting where three inquiries by his officers had failed. Even in its statement last week, the Met paid tribute to this paper's "unwavering determination to expose the hacking scandal". So what was the Met position, that the coverage was gratuitous or praiseworthy?But worst was the Met's abuse of the Official Secrets Act. That legislation has been used to pressure journalists to reveal their sources before, whether in the Shayler or, much earlier, Vassall episodes, but the substance of those cases related to genuine affairs of state and national defence: think Clive Ponting and the Belgrano. What was at stake substantively this time was not the safety of the realm, even cynically defined, but criminality inside a powerful corporation. Of course the Met would want to pursue a leaker in its midst, but to invoke the Official Secrets Act was to abuse the law – and for no better purpose than to try and force a Guardian reporter to reveal their confidential sources, which is barred under the act. The courts would surely have thrown out this order, realising the chilling effect it would have had on journalistic inquiry, which in the phone-hacking affair proved the only protection available when both police and politicians so signally failed. Perhaps a phone call from the attorney general or director of public prosecutions spelled that point out to the new commissioner.But the Met should realise the damage it has inflicted on itself. Morale at Scotland Yard is said to be lower than at any time since the Stephen Lawrence inquiry; apparently the force feels humiliated. Perhaps this fed a desire for revenge against the newspaper that dragged its failings into daylight. But the attempt to hound reporters in this way will have only weakened the Met's reputation further, entrenching its image as the outsourced security department of News International, jealously guarding that company's secrets and lashing out at those who break them.With the Olympics just 10 months away, there is no appetite to have a fourth Met commissioner in two years. But had it not been for those circumstances, Hogan-Howe may well have paid for this mistake with his job.Now the Met must return to what should always have been its task – pursuing not those who revealed the scandal, but those who perpetrated it. Rather than poking around in Guardian reporters' notebooks, here are some lines of inquiry his officers could be pursuing more vigorously.The Met could start by determining whether the criminal methods deployed by the NoW were confined to hacking voicemail. Tom Watson, the MP who has led on this, wants to know if private investigators or others also hacked into people's computers, perhaps using so-called trojans, to harvest information "on a scale that will make the phone hackers look like teaboys". He adds that at least one former cabinet minister believes a tracker device was used on his car, so that all his movements were known to the newspaper group.There are specific questions to examine, especially relating to the conduct of the company after July 2009, once senior management became aware that phone hacking was not limited to a single rogue reporter. Did its inaction meet the legal definition of "wilful blindness", under the rules on corporate governance? Even after News International clearly knew that the "one bad apple" version was false, it did not go back to police or parliament to correct its earlier account. Does that amount to a cover-up, even perversion of the course of justice?More widely, the police have the enormous task of establishing whether criminal activity was not just conducted at the margins but somehow central to how the business worked. It is striking that so many of the targets of News of the World hacking were political, very many of them Labour politicians. Was this the modus operandi, gathering dirt on public figures by criminal means as a form of currency, a threat held in reserve to pressure policymakers to tilt the regulatory playing field in favour of Murdoch's multiple media interests?One highly respected, establishment figure believes that this eventually operated in a directly partisan way, that News International was, in effect, running a shadow intelligence operation, funnelling the information it gathered on the Conservatives' political enemies to that party – in return for benign treatment of its businesses.But it might not always have run on such party political lines. The police have before them a complaint from Gordon Brown. He believes he was targeted as early as 2000 by a "blagger" working for the Sunday Times who sought access to Brown's legal and financial records, apparently in search of damaging information. That cannot have been designed to help the Tories: at that time the Murdoch papers strongly backed Tony Blair, whose only serious rival for power was Brown.We don't know the truth of these allegations or of the many others that still surround News International and the phenomenal power it has exerted over British public life. We need the police to help discover the truth – not to hound those determined to find it.