Thousands of victims of domestic violence get a powerful new ally from today, in a single national helpline - 0808 2000 247 - designed to end a long-standing and dangerous backlog of calls. The £2m project brings together separate charity lines which are regularly overwhelmed by demand. It includes a confidential computerised system for helpline operators, to allow them to refer callers to vacant places in refuges. Staff and volunteers dealt with nearly 17,000 calls to the Women's Aid 24-hour line during the first 10 months of this year, but more than 88,500 calls failed to get through. Joint funding for the new, free and untraceable service has been arranged by Comic Relief and the government, which is pushing the issue higher up the political agenda with the new domestic violence bill. But the full cost will still have to met through fund-raising by domestic violence charities, one of the subjects of this year's Guardian Christmas charity appeal. Attacks in the home account for almost a quarter of violent crime, compared with only 2% due to street violence. They also cause 16% of Britain's homelessness, according to Jeff Rooker, the minister for homelessness. He will launch the line with the comedian Dawn French from Comic Relief, and staff from Women's Aid and the domestic violence charity Refuge, who will jointly run the service. French said that Comic Relief's £1m share of the cost was the charity's largest current grant in the UK, reflecting the seriousness of the issue. The project, initially funded for three years, was welcomed by Refuge and Women's Aid, which have long pressed for an extended service. The line includes simultaneous translation and cannot be traced, with no ringback or 1471 service. Calls will be automatically excluded from records and bills. "Every day at Refuge we see the black eyes and broken bones of many women," said Sandra Horley, the chief executive of the charity which helped nearly 80,000 women and children find safe havens last year. "It's the helpline which acts as the first and most crucial source of support."