The gun crime figures have been falling in England and Wales over the past 18 months but that recent decline follows an eight-year rise in firearms offences since the ban on handguns introduced in 1997 following the Dunblane massacre.So far this year, eight children have died after being shot, with Kamilah Peniston, 12, in Manchester the youngest before Rhys Jones's death in Liverpool this week. The other six victims, all teenagers, died in shootings in London.Even though the number of people shot dead dropped from 77 in 2004-05 to 49 the following year, the police were saying they were worried about the rise of a teenage gang and gun culture.Gordon Brown last night promised tougher enforcement of gun laws and to pass any new legislation needed to deal with the growing problem of teenage gang culture. He was speaking after he and Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, held a prearranged Downing Street youth crime "summit" with the police and voluntary agencies to step up their efforts in the wake of the recent spate of stabbings and shootings involving young people.Ms Smith said last night she would consider fresh legislation to compel witnesses to give evidence in high-profile shootings.In February, Bernard Hogan-Howe, Merseyside's chief constable, warned of the growing number of teenagers involved in gun crime and called for witnesses to be forced to testify to "break the wall of silence". If their families shielded them, then they needed to be taken away he said, echoing concerns by other senior police officers that gun crime was fast becoming a child protection issue.The murder in Liverpool and the grim official statistics for the 12 months to April appear to testify to the fragile nature of that progress when the death toll rose to 58, even though the overall number of incidents involving guns fell by 13% to 9,600. This is still far below the peak of 95 deaths in 2001 but alarming enough to suggest that there is a gun culture in Britain that is never far below the surface in some inner cities.The Tory leader, David Cameron said that while all the recent incidents were separate, there was now a situation in Britain where "we have had a spate of children killing children and we have got to ask what's going wrong with our country?"In 1998, when the Dunblane handgun ban was introduced, only 5,000 gun-crime offences were recorded. Since then the figures have risen to a peak of more than 11,200 in 2005. It is not widespread - more than half of the 9,600 offences on the most recent figures were concentrated in London, Greater Manchester and the West Midlands.Offenders and victims are also getting younger. In London, the average age of victims has fallen from 24 to 19 with a substantial number younger than this and the Metropolitan police say that gun crime is now mainly committed by men aged 16 to 25.Recent Home Office research based on prison interviews with 80 convicted gun criminals aged 18 to 30 revealed that illegal weapons are most readily available in Liverpool and Manchester. Nottingham, once dubbed the gun crime capital of Britain after a series of shootings, does not figure in this particular list with criminals having to travel outside the city to buy guns.The research by Portsmouth University criminologists also showed how cheap and accessible these firearms have become with a sawn-off shotgun available for as little as £50. "It's evolution ... from fists to knives, from knives to guns," claimed one Nottingham gang veteran. A Manchester offender told the researchers: "For the old schools guns are for business, where for young lads the guns are fashion accessories."The guns come from illegal imports or "leakages" from legal sources. Ammunition does not appear hard to come by."You have to be very careful, 'cos you can buy a gun that killed people ... you can get life for that, for things you haven't even done," one London criminal told researchers. Typically the convicted armed criminals interviewed had been in a gang: "Same schools, same estates. Most of the people I hang around with I have known since I was about six," said a Manchester offender.