Juries in inquests into jail deaths are to be allowed to blame failings in the prison system for contributing to an inmate's suicide, following two landmark judgments by the House of Lords yesterday.The campaign group Inquest hailed the judgments as "a major breakthrough for inquest law, with the power to open up the inquest system". Five law lords unanimously ruled that an earlier ruling virtually barring jurors from blaming shortcomings in the prison system for contributing to a prisoner's death no longer applied.The Human Rights Act, with its guarantee of the right to life, now meant that jurors were entitled to say not only "by what means" a prisoner had died, but also "in what circumstances", the judges ruled. In the two cases juries had delivered verdicts that the prisoners died by their own hands, but they were not allowed to add publicly that failings in the system had contributed to their deaths. The judges said that removing this prohibition was the only change required to the coroners' rules to comply with the Human Rights Act, which required a proper investigation into any death in state custody. But there must be no finding of criminal liability on the part of a named person, and words suggesting civil liability, such as "neglect" or "carelessness", should be avoided.A possible verdict would be: "The deceased took his own life, in part because the risk of his doing so was not recognised and appropriate precautions were not taken to prevent his doing so." One of the two cases involved Colin Middleton, 30, who was jailed at the age of 14 for murdering his 18-month-old niece, and hanged himself at Bristol prison five years ago. An inquest jury at Western Somerset coroner's court took the view - shared by the coroner - that there were "significant deficiencies" in the care given to Middleton. In the second case Sheena Creamer, 22, a single mother-of-two on a heroin withdrawal programme, was found dead at New Hall prison near Wakefield, while on remand for an offence of dishonesty. A coroner, although expressing concern at a prison doctor's failure to recognise that Creamer was at risk of self-harm, did not give the jury the opportunity to add a rider to its suicide verdict indicating that neglect had contributed. Lords Bingham, Hope, Walker and Carswell and Lady Hale said that when appropriate inquests should "culminate in an expression, however brief, of the jury's conclusion on the disputed factual issues at the heart of the case". In the Creamer case, brought by her mother, Helen Sacker, a new inquest was ordered. Middleton's mother, Jean, did not seek a fresh inquest, but just an order that the jury's findings be publicly recorded.The number of deaths in custody was "shocking", the law lords added, with suicides more than doubling from 1982 to 1998.