Barely three weeks after Sally Clark's conviction for murdering her two baby sons was quashed, an independent television production company wants to turn her story into a primetime drama. Producers from Company Pictures in London have already approached her family to make a programme, which could be screened on ITV1. But ITV will only proceed with the drama if the Clarks agree to the project. Mrs Clark, a 38-year-old solicitor, had served three years of a life sentence when she was freed last month. Company Pictures insisted the programme would not be a docu-drama, a genre often criticised for being too sensational. "It is a drama, not a docu-drama," a spokeswoman for the company said yesterday. "We wouldn't proceed unless there was full cooperation from the family." Former Coronation Street actor Sarah Lancashire is being considered for the lead role. When a docu-drama about the serial killer Harold Shipman was screened last summer the families of his victims urged the independent television commission to halt the screening. There was similar consternation when Hillsborough, about the death of 96 Liverpool supporters, was screened. The Falklands Play and dramatisations of Bloody Sunday also sparked considerable controversy. Sue Stapely, a solicitor who works for a London-based consultancy which is representing Mrs Clark's family, said the couple were away at the moment "getting to know each other". She confirmed they had been approached by a television company, but added that they had not yet responded to the request and she thought it unlikely they would collaborate. Company Pictures said it had only recently approached the Clarks and a script had not yet been written. But if the project were to go ahead the drama could be screened within the next 12 to 18 months. Mrs Clark, who has a four-year-old son, was jailed for life in 1999 after a jury at Chester crown court found her guilty by majority verdict of murdering her sons, 11-week-old Christopher in December 1996, and eight-week-old Harry in January 1998. The murder convictions were overturned when new evidence came to light that one of the babies had suffered a bacterial infection that had spread as far as his cerebral spinal fluid. Statistics quoted at the trial - that the chances of a double cot death were 73m to one - were also grossly misleading. Mrs Clark's 40-year-old husband Stephen, who is also a solicitor, and her father Frank Lockyer, a retired chief super intendent, tirelessly insisted she was innocent - as did many friends and supporters. Mr Clark described her conviction as one of the worst miscarriages of justice of the past decade. When Mrs Clark walked free from the court of appeal last month she asked that she and her husband be allowed the privacy to rebuild their lives.