Organised criminals are stealing up to £5bn a year from the government's coffers through an increasingly sophisticated series of frauds. The scale of the losses - which one senior official describes as "the equivalent of two Tonbridge robberies a week" - has staggered customs investigators and Treasury officials and set alarm bells ringing across Whitehall.The amounts being stolen are rising rapidly. Last year's haul would have been more than enough to build and equip a dozen big hospitals or 300 secondary schools, and exceeded Britain's total annual spending on overseas aid. More than 500 customs officers are trying to stem the losses, but investigators say they are hampered by the complexity of some of the frauds, and by the criminals' use of top lawyers to frustrate prosecutors. They also say there is increasing evidence that well-established crime gangs are turning to tax fraud as an alternative to drug trafficking, robbery or internet pornography. The money is being lost to a swindle described officially as missing trader intra-community fraud, but known to criminals as carousel fraud. It involves bogus companies being set up to trade goods between each other, and Revenue & Customs being tricked into handing over VAT refunds for each fake sale. The goods are usually small high-value items such as mobile phones or computer chips, but criminals have also been trading soft drinks, razors, kidney dialysis equipment, computer software, luxury cars and soap powder. The goods can circulate among the companies several times, each turn being known as a carousel. Some gangs are also known to have developed software that allows them to create "virtual carousels" in which no goods change hands, but which generate bills of sale that are used to claim VAT refunds worth hundreds of thousands of pounds with each bogus trade sequence. Roy Clark, director of criminal investigations at Revenue & Customs, said: "This is not a matter of tax evasion and it's not a victimless crime. These criminals are stealing taxes which have been gathered, and which should be spent for the benefit of the public. We are all losing out." The Treasury estimates that in 2004-05 between £1.1bn and £1.9bn was lost to carousel fraud, which is distorting the UK's trade balance figures. Estimates for the last financial year are not due to be made public until the chancellor's pre-budget report at the end of the year. But the Guardian has discovered that estimates from Revenue & Customs passed to the Office for National Statistics suggest the amount of fraudulent trading has more than tripled since 2004, which would take the losses to £5bn a year. Revenue & Customs says it is too early to put a precise figure on the haul, although it does not argue with the estimate of "two Tonbridge robberies" - £100m a week. "There is no doubt the sums involved are rising very rapidly," a Treasury source said. "This is now our No 1 problem." The issue is having a direct impact on Gordon Brown's finances. The ONS reported last month that VAT revenues - the third biggest source of tax after income tax and national insurance - fell by £100m to £72bn in the last financial year, the first drop since the tax was introduced 33 years ago. Mr Brown had forecast a £3.5bn increase. Officials admit that carousel fraud was largely to blame. The fraud would have punched a politically embarrassing hole in the public finances had other tax revenues not been so buoyant. The scale of the crime is rising so rapidly, however, that losses could reach £7bn during the current financial year, equivalent to 2p on the basic rate of income tax.