The growing fear of knife crime in Britain is forcing hospital trusts and local authorities to supply body armour to frontline workers, including A&E staff, hospital porters, teachers, benefits officers and traffic wardens.Stab and bullet-proof vests are being ordered in their tens of thousands to protect employees from increased levels of aggression, a move described as 'a shameful indictment of violence in Britain today'. The Local Government Association said councils had started responding urgently to staff who 'need a greater level of protection'. Already more than 20,000 sets of Home Office-approved body armour have been issued to local government staff. The revelations came as Scotland Yard announced that knife crime had eclipsed terrorism as the number one priority for the Metropolitan police. The announcement followed a week in which the latest stabbing deaths included two 16-year-olds: Shakilus Townsend, who died calling for his mother after being stabbed on a south London street; and Ben Kinsella, who was knifed outside a party to celebrate the end of his GCSEs. A senior Scotland Yard homicide detective said: 'Once councils start resorting to this, it can only be interpreted as a shameful indictment of violence in Britain. Everybody must be asking: when are we going to start tackling this properly?' In an attempt to curb the menace, Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, is urgently considering whether to require doctors to report stabbing injuries to the authorities, thereby allowing the police to gather intelligence about gang attacks that would not otherwise be reported to them. The move confirms worries that official crime figures underestimate the number of attacks taking place, and intensifies fears that some victims are settling their own scores rather than going to the police. Smith has told Channel 4's Street Weapons Commission initiative, in an interview to be screened tonight, that the Home Office was 'moving towards' requiring the routine reporting of knife injuries, adding: 'I think it's pretty unlikely that we [wouldn't] expect hospitals to be routinely sharing that information with police and others locally.' Her comments came as the LGA vowed to take 'all the necessary steps to ensure staff are safe' by ordering body armour for those most at risk. The Oxfordshire-based Body Armour Company said it had received about 10,000 orders for protective vests from local government, with frontline NHS staff accounting for most of them. The most popular item requested by councils is the £300 Home Office-approved KR1 stab vest. The firm said it was also receiving more orders for body armour from teachers, whom it views as its 'biggest growth market'.Peter Warren, a spokesman for the company, said: 'Councils are becoming aware of the need for armour and protecting their staff. We have had many private inquiries from teachers and the rate is going up. Headmasters are aware that teachers are at risk and knife crime is getting worse.' Experts believe councils are responding to new corporate manslaughter laws that mean organisations failing adequately to protect employees may be prosecuted. Warren said: 'If a schoolteacher can sue for £300,000 for stress, what price a school that failed to protect its staff from knives?'Tomorrow, body armour firms will meet staff from the Royal Parks authority, which maintains London's green spaces, to discuss supplying stab vests for its 120 staff. Warren said an order had also been placed by a railway operator for 'ballistic body armour' to protect workers.