As project manager at Derbyshire Rape Crisis (DRC), Jazz Kang was very familiar with clients' lack of confidence in the police, and with the long tradition of Rape Crisis locking horns with the police over the treatment of women in rape cases. But Kang had no interest in a status quo that did nothing to help her clients. She told colleagues things had to change, that she would change them. When they smiled sympathetically and refused to give her their support, she did it anyway.The result is a unique partnership between DRC and Derbyshire police that is revolutionising the police approach to rape, as well as guaranteeing a future for Rape Crisis groups across the country.Millfield House, which opened last November, is the only sexual assault referral centre (Sarc) in the UK to grow out of a partnership between the police and Rape Crisis. Jointly funded with £82,500 a year, it is located in a former police house on a housing estate and offers victims of rape and sexual abuse support, counselling and forensic examination. Its centre manager is employed by DRC and administrative support by the police.Jayne Scott, 35, knocked on the door of Millfield House in May. She wanted to address the sexual abuse she suffered more than 30 years ago. "The fact that it looked like any other house on the estate made it feel much more accessible and, with Rape Crisis involvement, I knew I'd be supported by specialists," she says.Four months into counselling there, Scott has recommended the Sarc, and the police, to other people. "The police have a reputation for being unsympathetic," she says. "Coming here has reassured me that they are not like that in our area. I can tell other people that with confidence."Dave Gee, former detective chief superintendent for Derbyshire constabulary, was receptive to the idea of working with Rape Crisis when Kang first approached him in 2001. "I told him that to make a difference to victims we had to get rid of the suspicion between the police and our particular area of the voluntary sector, that each side had to acknowledge and draw on the other's expertise," Kang says.Gee acknowledged that police could be clinical. He says: "For the die-hards, it's all about getting the evidence, locking people up. But since my first conversation with Jazz, the Rape Crisis approach has been slowly rubbing off on the force. Now it's about giving victims confidence in the process and helping them to move on."Rape is a largely unreported crime, and of those who do report it in England and Wales, only 5.6% see their assailant convicted. As rape cases can take up to 12 months to reach court, it is too early to assess the impact of the Derbyshire Sarc, but detections (reported rapes that went on to be charges) in the area increased by 15%, to 61, between November 2003 and June 2004. "If we increase confidence in victims and offer them the right support, it is hoped we'll increase reporting and reduce the numbers dropping out before they reach court," he explains. "Sarcs are only part of the jigsaw," Gee stresses.Satinder Panesar, Millfield House project coordinator, says there is no pressure to involve the police. "The excellent relationship we have with the police, however, means I am confident that if a client takes that step, all the good we have done will not be destroyed," she says.Kang, who has just taken a post as senior lecturer in counselling and psychotherapy at Derby University, says Rape Crisis services cannot achieve their aims alone. "Multi-agency working is not a compromise," she says. "It is the way to thrive - and it gives victims the best service."It is a message that Gee, now chair of the National Sexual Assault Referral Centre Forum, will be taking next month to a multi-agency conference dedicated to all aspects of support for rape victims. "Millfield House is a pioneering example," he says, "a real force for change."· Some names have been changed. Information on Millfield House: info@drcg.freeserve.co.uk. Details of the rape victims support conference: sarah@ellis-salsby.co.uk