A 39-year-old bus driver was charged last night with the murder of the college student Alicia Eborne, whose body was found concealed in thick woodland at an isolated spot on Dartmoor, in Devon, earlier yesterday.Lee Holbrook, from Plymouth, was arrested last week on suspicion of abduction. He will appear before Torbay magistrates today. Ms Eborne, 18, was last seen leaving her home in the hamlet of Corntown, near Ivybridge, at 8.45am on November 7 for the half-mile walk to catch a bus to college in Plymouth. She failed to show up for her health and social care course at the city's college of further education and missed her part-time job in a patisserie that afternoon, when she was due to collect her wages. Her friends contacted police when she missed a meeting in the evening. Devon police announced yesterday morning that as a result of their inquiries they knew where Ms Eborne's body was located. Hours later police found her remains in thick woods beside a road near the river Tavy. Speaking close to the spot where the body was found Sergeant Mike Rose, who led the search, said: "Our first priority now is preserving the crime scene so a full forensic examination can be carried out. "We came here very early this morning as a result of information received and we found the body this morning. "It is on a very steep wooded area of very rough terrain with loose rocks which makes it potentially hazardous to work in, which is why we have asked for safety advice from the Devon cave rescue organisation." Last night forensic experts were continuing to examine the scene while other officers searched two other isolated Dartmoor beauty spots close to the route of the bus Ms Eborne intended to catch when she vanished 10 days ago. Police have not said if they think the teenager was killed at the site where her body was found or one of the other beauty spots. Police broke the news to Ms Eborne's parents, Anthony and Joan, and her brothers, Matthew and Mark, shortly after the body was found. Detective Chief Superintendent Jim Webster, the head of CID at Devon and Cornwall police, said: "At this time our thoughts are with Alicia's family and friends. We would like to express our deep sympathy for her family and to state the distress and concern this has caused to all those who have been hunting for Alicia in the hope she would be found well." He added: "This place is a crime scene but it is a place of great sadness. We would like to pay our respects to the memory of Alicia." Police are appealing for anyone who was in the Hele Lane area of Bickleigh, on the edge of Dartmoor, between 8.45-10am and 4.15-6.15pm on November 7 to get in touch. Detectives have also appealed to any local bus passengers who may have seen anything unusual in recent weeks to contact them.