A killer who was freed from jail and then killed again has been found guilty of murdering a stranger.Nicola Edgington, 32, pinned Sally Hodkin, 58, to the ground and slashed her throat with a butcher's knife, virtually decapitating her.Moments before, Edgington had attacked artist Kerry Clark, 22, at a bus stop but fled when she was disarmed.Edgington, of Greenwich, south-east London, was found guilty of murder and attempted murder by a jury at the Old Bailey.The prosecution said she was suffering from a borderline personality disorder and her actions were deliberate.But the defence argued that she was mentally ill with schizophrenia and her responsibility was diminished.In 2006, she was ordered to be detained indefinitely under the Mental Health Act for killing her mother Marion, 60, the previous year.She had stabbed her nine times after returning to the family home in Sussex.By 2009, Edgington was released to live in the community while being monitored by a doctor, nurse and social worker.But when her private life began to unravel and she stopped taking her medication, Edgington was unable to cope, the court heard.In October 2011, she tried to seek help at a local hospital, but walked out shortly after being taken to the psychiatric unit.She had hoped to make a new life but a couple of romances went sour.The court heard that a former boyfriend from a local gym sent her abusive messages, she became pregnant but had a miscarriage, and an attempt to reconcile with her family fell flat.Messages on Edgington's Facebook page, where she signed in as Princess Nicole, were read to the court.On the day before the killing, she sent a message to her brother Tom saying: "I am missing mum bad. I have just had a miscarriage and to be honest, no one is taking care of me like she did."It ended, "Love you xxx".But the reply read: "You stabbed her to death and left me to find her body. It's good news about your miscarriage. People like you should be sterilised. Do us all a favour and cut your wrists."In the early hours of 10 October, the day of the killing, police were called when she told cab office employees that she needed to be sectioned.She was taken to the Queen Elizabeth hospital in Woolwich, where officers helped her book in at reception at around 4.30am.But as they left, Edgington told them she did not feel safe there. She made a series of phone calls and later 999 calls.In one call, she said: "I'm a very dangerous schizophrenic. If you don't come and help me, I'm going end up hurting someone."Edgington was accepted to the hospital's psychiatric unit, Oxleas House, but was not taken there until 6.30am.But just after 7am, Edgington said she was going to call her care co-ordinator and left. Staff called police.Edgington calmly took two buses to Bexleyheath and bought a large knife from an Asda supermarket.Clark told the court she had to fight for her life. She said: "I fell to the floor and she was on top of me. I had to fight her off."We were grappling. I managed to grab the blade with one hand and kick her off me. It happened very quickly."A passers-by rushed to help Clark, screams were heard round the corner after Edgington grabbed another knife from a butchers.Hodkin was on her way to work as an accounts manager at a legal firm when Edgington targeted her.Mark Heywood QC, prosecuting, said: "She set upon her with the bigger knife, attacking her with such sustained force that her neck was cut completely open."She was overwhelmed. She died almost immediately from the catastrophic injuries inflicted on her."Miss Edgington approached and deliberately and viciously attacked each of these women without warning, without any provocation."