A newspaper columnist who confessed to killing a terminally ill relative has been arrested by police on suspicion of murder. Last month Maureen Messent, 67, used her column in the Birmingham Mail to say that she had given her great aunt, who was stricken by cancer, a fatal dose of morphine more than 30 years ago.Ms Messent, of Balsall Heath, Birmingham, was arrested in the city on Thursday by police from Devon and Cornwall, where the columnist said the killing took place. She was released on police bail to return to the police station on June 23 and charges including murder are being considered.In her column Ms Messent wrote that she had killed her great aunt Eileen O'Sullivan out of love, because her suffering from lung cancer was so great, using a bottle of morphine left by a doctor."That night ... her rasping and obvious pain became worse and worse. I had to stop that noise and the pain I knew she felt when she tried to breathe in. I just had to stop it. In the middle of a crisis I became quite calm, almost cold. I knew what had to be done. I said goodbye and gave her the whole bottle."Steve Dyson, editor of the Birmingham Mail, said his columnist knew the consequences of admitting to the killing: "I checked she knew what would happen and the seriousness of her piece. She was quite aware of what she was saying."Ms Messent's column and coverage of her confession in the newspaper produced four times the reader response in terms of letters and calls, compared with her usual pieces, with most of the readers supporting her actions.Mr Dyson said: "Maureen has worked for us since the mid-1960s and is a class writer, thinker, and is wonderfully thought of by our readers. We will stand by her legally and provide her with whatever support she needs."Devon and Cornwall police say the case is being investigated by officers from its major crime team.Ms Messent, a Roman Catholic, wrote the column to support calls for the limited legalisation of euthanasia, though she believes that only family members should carry out the killing."I know that some will be angry at me for what I did. Perhaps some friends will even tell me that I have sinned. But it never crossed my mind for a minute that I might be committing one of the greatest sins in the Roman Catholic church," she wrote in her column "... I felt absolutely no remorse about my great aunt. What I did, I did - and I will still go to my God saying, 'Yes, I did it'."