The "tough and tender" reform of criminal sentencing in the bill will "modestly increase" over a number of years the already record 72,500 prison population, Home Office minister Lord Falconer said yesterday.The official estimate of the impact on the prison population of the measures in the criminal justice bill means that, if anything, the new sentencing regime will be slightly tougher than the existing law on sentencing. This is despite ministers' decision to opt for the most lenient choice in the introduction of their new "custody plus" - which will replace all prison sentences under 12 months. Instead of inmates serving up to six months as at present, they will only be in prison for between two to 13 weeks, with the rest of the sentence served under the probation supervision in the community. But the thousands who will not be in prison as a result of the introduction of this new sentence alongside the use of "custody minus" and weekend-only jails are not sufficient to turn the package into one that will cut the prison population. This is because the increased severity of prison sentences for persistent offenders in the new regime and the battery of longer sentences for the most serious criminals is sufficient to outweigh the more liberal measures. Lord Falconer said yesterday that the overall impact would be broadly neutral and would add fewer than 1,000 to the daily prison population. In fact, it is likely that the bill will initially push up the prison population by more than that because the new custody plus and custody minus sentences are unlikely to be introduced until the Treasury finds enough funds to expand the probation service sufficiently to carry the extra load. The official estimate is that they will have to deal with 80,000 more cases a year - about 40% more. The detail in the bill reveals that the new indeterminate sentencing for the most dangerous offenders is even more stringent than previously thought. Those who are assessed as dangerous and have committed an offence which carries a maximum length of 10 years or more may be given a new sentence of imprisonment for public protection. The court will specify a minimum term and they will remain in prison until the parole board decides they are safe to be released. That could result in them being kept in prison for an indeterminate time. The bill does, however, contain an overhaul of community sentencing, with the baffling alphabet soup of orders - community service, community punishment, probation, supervision - replaced with a single generic community order with various options, including compulsory work, and drug and alcohol treatment, for courts to choose from. But the legislation creates one key body which will prove a new engine in either driving up or cutting the prison population. A more powerful sentencing guidelines council is to be created to issue guidance on what the "going rate" should be for the most common offences, to be used by every criminal court in England and Wales. It will also issue guidance on the length of sentences given to repeat offenders. If a judge or a magistrate decides to depart from the "common starting point" they will have to explain why they are doing so. The new body will be chaired by the lord chief justice, but the home secretary will have the power to ask it to frame specific new guidelines. In the hands of liberals, it could prove an engine to end the courts' "love affair with custody" and reserve prison for the most serious offenders. Alternately, it could be used to drive up the prison population even faster. Last night, the home secretary, David Blunkett, made his intentions clear. "We will put on the statute book a range of tough and effective community based sentences that get people off drugs, away from crime, and out of chaotic and anti-social lifestyles. We will ensure prison is used for dangerous and violent sexual or persistent offenders, and that such offenders are dealt with robustly and consistently."