The future of a maverick police commander will come under scrutiny today when allegations that he smoked cannabis regularly and allowed the drug to be stored at his home are assessed by Scotland Yard's commissioner, Sir John Stevens.Sir John will advise the Metropolitan police authority (MPA) chairman Lord Harris about what action, if any, should be taken in the light of damaging "kiss and tell" claims by an ex-boyfriend of commander Brian Paddick, who is in charge of policing in Lambeth, south London. It seems likely that the MPA will seek an inquiry that could lead to suspension and disciplinary charges. Though the Met would be loth to move Mr Paddick on the basis of lurid allegations made in a tabloid newspaper, the MPA may decide that the commander is attracting too much negative publicity to leave him in charge of such a sensitive policing area. Mr Paddick inspired the controversial cannabis pilot project, where officers caution rather than arrest users of the drug, and has been rebuked twice recently for outspoken remarks, including saying that he found anarchy attractive. The latest furore erupted when the Mail on Sunday published an interview with a former lover of Mr Paddick, 43, the highest ranking openly gay officer in the Met. James Renolleau claimed that he shared at least 100 marijuana joints with Mr Paddick at their flat in London during a five-year relationship, which ended two years ago. Mr Renolleau, 36, told the paper that Mr Paddick was a superintendent when they first smoked together and that the officer had become very "giggly". Mr Paddick has strongly denied the claims and suggested that Mr Renolleau is motivated by bitterness because he ended their relationship. "He says that we took cannabis together in private. I totally deny having smoked cannabis," Mr Paddick said. However, the officer has admitted that he knew Mr Renolleau was buying cannabis.He also admitted he knew Mr Renolleau was storing small amounts of the drug at their home. "On a couple of occasions James purchased some cannabis while we were living together and smoked it in front of me," said Mr Paddick. "I argued with him about the implications for me being in the same place when he was doing this. If the media found out that my partner was smoking cannabis in my flat it would put my career at risk. I remonstrated with him but at this stage my relationship was more important." It is an offence to allow someone to take drugs in your home. The MPA may want to consider another matter. When the relationship started, Mr Renolleau was on bail pending an investigation that exonerated him. Under police guidelines, Mr Paddick should have notified a senior officer that his partner was under investigation, but he failed to do so.