Sir John Stevens, commissioner of the Metropolitan police, said his force intends to plant informers in its classrooms to root out racist recruits.It will also allow community representatives to sit on recruitment panels to prevent racist applicants entering the force. At the Met's training school at Hendon, which trains 3,500 new officers a year, one recruit in a class will be secretly selected to inform on colleagues. Their identities will remain secret for the rest of their careers and they will act as intelligence gatherers. If racism is discovered by undercover officers, they may be used to provide evidence for a criminal prosecution for incitement to racial hatred. Cheshire police said yesterday that it was reviewing its recruitment and selection procedures and would be working with community groups to screen out racist views. Every officer in Greater Manchester police will be given advice and information about how to conduct themselves by their divisional commander. The training course at Bruche, near Warrington, Cheshire, which is run by Centrex, lasts 15 weeks, and costs £7,100 per officer, including food and accommodation. Diversity training is introduced in the second week for a total of 12 hours. During this time recruits are taught about their legal requirements and the Lawrence inquiry. They also discuss issues such as stereotyping and prejudice before talking about their individual attitudes, values and behaviour in a group session. In the eighth or ninth week they put what they have learned into practice through case studies or mock case studies. They are encouraged to talk about their own experiences. Police trainers in the documentary will be investigated after concerns emerged about how they had behaved. The Home Office said recruits are tested seven times on diversity and race views. Since May, a new training system has been implemented across the whole police service. The Home Office minister Hazel Blears said 4.5% of recruits (79 people) had failed the training on diversity testing alone. A number of recruits had failed because of comments they had made "in the corridors".