Lawyers acting for a leading Premiership footballer alleged to have been involved in the rape of a 17 year-old girl will attempt to sue individuals who spread rumours of the player's identity online.The threat of action comes in the wake of widespread speculation on message boards and websites about the identity of eight players alleged to have been involved in an assault. It would mark one of the first time lawyers have sought to bring a defamation action against an online source. The player's agent said yesterday that he was doing all he could to keep his client's name out of the public domain, and said he was considering legal action to protect the player. "We're working to protect a guy who is completely innocent and when the dust has settled people will get sued, we are going to have to make an example of someone. There's been a lot of rubbish around about these allegations, some reckless newspaper reports as well as rumours on the internet. There are one or two people we have identified who have sent emails and just because this stuff is on the internet doesn't mean that they are immune from the law. "We will protect our client aggressively - his name has been dragged into allegations that are completely untrue and we will defend him to the hilt." It is understood that one individual who sent an email containing footballers' names has been warned he could face a libel action and been asked to hand over the names of the people he sent the message to. Several websites have closed down their message board facilities after they became inundated with postings referring to the case. Rivals.net, which operates unofficial club sites, closed all of its message boards after fans spent much of yesterday speculating over the identity of the players. "It was felt that given this unique situation and the intense interest in the press and public in general, it was prudent to ensure our network was not used for any unsavoury comments or unsubstantiated rumours," said a spokeswoman. "This was a pre-emptive action and this decision has not been taken as a result of any particular post but to protect ourselves from people who may want to use our boards in a manner that is incorrect." The Internet Service Providers Association has called for a change in the law to make those who circulate rumours via the internet liable to legal action rather than the ISPs that host the material. Currently ISPs are viewed as the publisher of the material making them liable, despite the fact they have no power over what is posted on sites. Last year David Beckham at tempted to tackle internet gossip when he issued an injunction against the website Popbitch, which had carried allegations that he was having an affair. Despite a warning to editors from the attorney general about the dangers of prejudicing a possible trial, interest in the allegations has not waned. Several newspapers yesterday carried quotes attributed to relations of the girl detailing her alleged attack. Scotland Yard declined to comment yesterday on rumours that the case was about to be dropped. It is likely to be several days before police decide whether to bring charges. Because of the huge interest in the case Scotland Yard will want to ensure it avoids a repeat of recent high-profile failures. Sexual assault charges against the TV presenter John Leslie were dropped earlier this year, while trials involving royal butlers Paul Burrell and Harold Brown were abandoned amid criticism of the police.