A woman awarded a record £48m divorce payout has been tied up and robbed of jewellery worth £300,000 at her home, in an incident police believe could have been motivated by news reports of her wealth.Beverley Charman, 54, the former wife of Lloyd's insurance tycoon John Charman, was confronted by a balaclava-clad gunman in dark clothing at her £3m mansion in Sevenoaks, Kent, on Friday night.The intruder broke into the house at around 9.40pm and confronted Mrs Charman, who was alone.The man, who was armed with a gun which may have been an imitation or ball bearing gun, forced her to open the safe and hand over jewellery, before tying her up and escaping.She was discovered and released by her son within 20 minutes of the ordeal. Kent police confirmed that she was not subjected to any violence during the incident.Friends said that although Mrs Charman, the chairman of the bench at Sevenoaks magistrates' court, was not physically harmed during the robbery, she remained in a state of severe shock. She was not prepared to comment yesterday.Officers from Kent police's serious organised crime squad said they believed the timing of the raid was too much of a coincidence not to be connected with the publicity surrounding the divorce proceedings. It is thought the robber may have had an accomplice waiting nearby in a car. One line of inquiry is that it was carried out by a career criminal who had read publicity about the case.Mrs Charman was awarded the £48m payout - including the former family home where the attack took place - in Britain's largest contested divorce settlement last year.The attack took place two days after Mrs Charman appeared at the high court in the latest round of the increasingly acrimonious legal battle with her former husband, who is now a tax exile in Bermuda.One theory being investigated by detectives is that media coverage of the case attracted the attention of criminals.A police source said that it seemed too much of a coincidence that the raid took place days after the divorce battle hit the headlines again. "It could be that the offenders have been planning the robbery since Mrs Charman was awarded the record £48m settlement last year and decided now was the time to strike," the source said.A spokesman for Kent police said: "Kent police are investigating a burglary that occurred on Friday evening. It is reported that the incident occurred around 9.40pm. It is said that a man forced entry into the house and tied up a woman, who was at the premises alone. Several hundred thousand pounds worth of jewellery was stolen in the incident and a safe was targeted."The suspect was reported to have used a weapon, which was possibly an imitation or BB gun. The suspect is a white male who wore a balaclava and dark clothing. The ordeal ended after the woman's son came home at 10pm and found her. No violence was used and she was not injured."Mr Charman, who was worth £131m prior to the case the case, is challenging her demand in the appeal court, having described it as "grotesque and unfair". The settlement reduced his personal wealth to around £87m.She has turned down as insufficient his offer of a £20m payment, which would secure an income of at least £500,000 a year for the rest of her life.Neighbours in the exclusive street, which is popular with financial market traders and company directors, said that they knew nothing about the robbery until it was reported in the media.