The case of the working-class Bradford student Majid Ahmed, who was turned down for a place at medical school, as revealed in the Guardian today, is a vivid example of why social immobility in Britain appears so entrenched. Our politicians talk stirringly in the abstract about creating opportunities for the brightest, about enabling the smartest children to transcend the most humble backgrounds, even about the importance of rehabilitating offenders. But then you read about Ahmed, and you realise just how hard we make it, as a society, to change anything.Ahmed, 18, was the brightest student in his year in a school in the one of the most deprived areas of Bradford. He achieved the best GCSE results ever recorded at his school. He applied to, and got into, medical school, and scored 4 A grades at A-level. Then he was advised he should write to the medical school to point out that he had a spent criminal conviction for burglary incurred in 2005, something that would have come up anyway as a result of a criminal records check. The offer of a place was withdrawn. Ahmed appealed, but lost.Is Ahmed a victim of discrimination? Possibly, but Imperial and the other medical schools can argue that there are long-established protocols underpinning their decision not to offer him a place. Race does not appear to be an issue – there are plenty of Asian medical students. What is more depressing – on the basis of their defence so far – is their apparent failure of imagination, and of curiosity. Britain's medical schools have a surfeit of applications from potential students, all of who have the requisite grade A A-levels and time clocked up volunteering at the local hospital, GP surgery and residential care homes. When everyone applicant has top marks, you must turn to other criteria: what is this student's potential for development? What is their aptitude, character, qualities of leadership and empathy? To those you might add: how far has this student come, what challenges has he had to overcome, what wider benefits – to the medical profession, to patients, to wider society – will accrue from training a doctor with life experiences like Ahmed's?Burglary is serious – although there degrees of seriousness, and although the full details of his "one-off" misdemeanor are not clear, the punishment, a four-month community service order, suggests it was at the less serious end of the spectrum. Ahmed has paid his dues, and gone to extraordinary lengths to make amends. His supporters call him a "role model" for his community. The Bradford North Labour MP, Terry Rooney, says Ahmed has "outstanding qualities". The local NHS – in the form of the local primary care trust – has written in support of his application. The local regeneration and housing group, Accent, has fought his corner. At what point will a medical school decide that the past misdemeanor is outweighed by the positive future potential?A few months ago I was talking to a consultant at a central London medical school. He said the most depressing thing about the medical students he taught was how so many showed no vocation. They have the intellect, he said, and they know they have made their parents very proud, but they have no love of medicine, and they are not happy doctors. Strangely, the medical school in question had failed to spot these flaws when it considered the matter of their "fitness to practice" at interview stage. Ahmed will go on to do well in another profession, I'm sure. But he may well be a loss to the medical profession. His case makes me wonder, who are we choosing to be our doctors, and why?