A self-taught gunsmith who ran an illegal arms factory converting replica submachine guns into lethal weapons was today sentenced to life imprisonment, with a minimum term of 11 years.At least eight people, including a teenager, Michael Dosunmu, were killed by weapons converted by Grant Wilkinson in a shed in Berkshire.Dosunmu was shot by mistake as he slept in his bed in Peckham, south London. Another weapon was used during the robbery in which PC Sharon Beshenivsky was murdered three years ago in Bradford.Wilkinson, 34, of no fixed abode, was convicted yesterday at Reading crown court of buying replica MAC-10 submachine guns and converting them to fire. Police said his operation was one of the largest they had ever discovered. They believe it produced 90 guns used in a fifth of shootings in the capital over two years.The judge, Zoe Smith, passing sentence, said: "The scale of this criminal enterprise is unprecedented in this country."The roll call of deaths and injuries is horrific. Some 30 to 40 of these weapons are still unaccounted for, and regrettably but doubtlessly, the roll call of death and serious injury will continue to rise."Detectives have offered a £10,000 reward for information to help find the weapons still on the streets.Wilkinson, who grew up in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire, was first arrested in his early teens for stealing a £100 pair of trainers from Lillywhites in London, and was in trouble with police regularly thereafter."Grant was expelled from Beaconsfield secondary school in the fourth year, probably age about 15, for persistent disruptive behaviour," a family friend said."He never went back to school after that. He worked subsequently on building sites as a labourer, but became involved in drug dealing, which was what his first prison term was for, as well as more thieving."Wilkinson's previous convictions date back to 1995, beginning with minor dishonesty, motoring and drugs matters.In 1996 he was jailed for four year for inflicting grievous bodily harm with intent. In 2002 he received another three years for possession of drugs with intent to supply.Wilkinson bought the replica guns claiming to be involved in making a James Bond film.His gun factory produced weapons and bullets linked to nine murder scenes. Wilkinson paid £500 each for the replica MAC-10s, which are made in the UK. After conversion they were sold for £2,500, including ammunition. It is believed middlemen sold them on to criminal gangs.Wilkinson bought the replicas from Sabre Defence Industries, which had supplied previous Bond movie productions. Using the false name Wilson, he bought 90 guns and ammunition in batches and paid £55,000 in cash.Guy Savage, a director of Sabre, became suspicious of Wilkinson, who he said was "desperately disorganised", and secretly took his photograph on his mobile phone. Wilkinson converted the submachine guns in two garden sheds behind a derelict property in Three Mile Cross, near Reading.One shed was used as a workshop and the other was soundproofed as a firing range for testing. Police were called in July 2007 after tenants in a nearby house accidentally came across the sheds.Officers discovered expensive industrial equipment used to smelt and cut metals. There were 27,700 spent cartridges at one shed and another site. The cartridges had been bought from gun clubs and could be reloaded.Dosunmu was sprayed with bullets from a MAC-10 after his killers mistook him for his older brother, whom they had intended to kill in a criminal feud.Wilkinson was convicted of a series of offences, including conspiracy to convert an imitation firearm, conspiracy to sell or transfer firearms and ammunition, possession of a firearm with intent to enable another person to endanger life, and possessing a prohibited firearm, namely a MAC-10. A second man, Garry Lewis, was cleared of all charges.Denis Burke, of the Crown Prosecution Service's complex case unit, said the racket "met the demand nationally of the criminal fraternity. The firearms have since been used in all of our big cities, especially London".Abdullah Al-Yunusi, Wilkinson's defence barrister, said in mitigation that his client was "of low intelligence", having not only supplied drugs in the past but used them.He said Wilkinson had no direct connection with the end users of the guns he manufactured and a complex supply chain had been involved.Police say even their own firearms officers have difficulty using a MAC-10 accurately.