Ronnie Biggs was doing time until he done a bunkNow he says he's seen the light and he sold his soul to punkAnd boy, did he pay for that bunk. Ronnie Biggs has been doing time ever since he voluntarily returned to Britain in poor health in 2001. Now his family and friends have been told that Biggs could be released next Valentine's Day.But surely, this begs the question: why hold him till then? And, for that matter, why has he been held till now?Biggs knew he would go to jail when he returned to Britain from his refuge in Rio – by then, he had been a fugitive from justice for 35 years, having escaped a 30-year sentence for his part in the Great Train robbery. But he also expected that the government would show compassion and release him on a tag when a decent amount of time had passed. After all, Biggs was hardly a threat to either the public or national security. Here was a failed robber (to be honest, he'd never been much cop at robbing – the reason why he wasn't allowed on the train is because he was regarded as an unlucky omen), then a man in his seventies who had suffered two strokes that left him incapable of speaking, eating and walking properly, never mind doing a runner.I visited him a number of times in 2003 in Belmarsh prison (in the course of researching an article for Guardian Weekend) and he was a pathetic sight. He dribbled. He could only communicate by pointing, excruciatingly slowly, to letters on a board, which we then had to spell out. He was fed via a tube in his stomach that was often unclean, and as a result of which he has developed skin cancers. He had a third stroke in prison.There were often rumours that he was about to be released, but that's all they turned out to be. Biggs often made the point that paedophiles and terrorists started and finished sentences while he was left to languish in jail. So what was the terrible crime he committed? And why does the government seem so determined to make an example of him?Biggs was one of a gang of 16 who netted £2,631,784. Biggs' shared was £147,000. What made the crime even more unforgivable for the authorities was that it happened in August 1963, just after the Profumo scandal with the establishment rocking. And nothing symbolised this more than the robbery.It was Biggs' fingerprints that were found on a Pyrex bowl, a bottle of ketchup and a Monopoly set found at Leatherslade Farm, where the gang had unloaded the money and divided it up. Typical Biggs: a useless thief. It was the largest sum taken in a robbery. But, in a way, that wasn't Bigg's greatest crime. Perhaps that was to be the most celebrated member of an iconic gang, and to be regarded as a lovable rogue, rather than a public menace. Even though there was nothing public-spirited about the Great Train Robbery, somehow the train robbers came to be seen, irrationally, as Robin Hood figures. When Biggs escaped from prison, he became even more of an unlikely hero. Newspapers would often send out photographers to picture him on the beach in Rio, living it up, beautiful women on his arm, drinking champagne, living the high life, saying "Here's looking up the Queen's skirt!" and taunting the authorities.Then, he found further fame with the Sex Pistols, singing with them and being sung about, and writing the above lyrics for the song No One Is Innocent – a punk legend. Of course, the British establishment was bound to give him a hard time if he ever returned.When I asked him why people liked him, despite his crimes and misdemeanours, he spelled out the answer. "M.Y. C.H.A.R.M." He was right. And I can't help feeling this is why he's been kept in prison all this time – the charm, the chutzpah, the ability over the decades to stick two fingers up at authority. Now, he is in Norwich jail, on the medical wing, at a cost of well over £2,000 a day. He will never talk or feed himself again. He is wheelchair-bound most of the time. Next year, he is 80. His son Michael insists that keeping him jailed defeats the purpose: if he were released tomorrow, the papers would make a fuss for a couple of days and then forget he existed. Meanwhile, keeping him in prison keeps him in the news. As for the notion of prison being about rehabilitation, Michael Biggs says this is a farce. "I hope when he is released, he will be able to come out and show there is a clear disparity in what the government believes is punishment and rehabilitation. Keeping my father in prison is pure punishment."