Luke Walmsley liked a laugh so much that when he staggered, bleeding and dying, down a school corridor with a flick-knife wound through his heart, his best friends thought he must be kidding.Within hours they were giving police graphic evidence which yesterday convicted a fellow pupil of murdering the boy in a fit of resentment. A jury of six men and six women took four hours and 35 minutes to dismiss an implausible defence concocted by the 16-year-old, who was detained by teachers within minutes of the murder. He admitted stabbing Luke at Birkbeck secondary school in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire, on November 4, but claimed his victim had "walked into the knife". One juror held out against a murder conviction but after consultation with the judge, Mr Justice Goldring, a majority verdict was brought in, convicting the boy by 11-1. He will be sentenced at Nottingham crown court today when the judge will decide whether to lift a ban on naming him. The boy sat expressionless in the dock as the verdict was read out, but Luke's parents, Paul and Jayne Walmsley, broke down in tears in the public gallery. They had followed proceedings throughout the two-week trial, including watching chilling school security film of their son - who had just come out of a science lesson - clutching his chest before collapsing in a corridor. The court saw 21 other crucial clips of film - raw eyewitness accounts by 14 and 15-year-old pupils given by video link. One girl described a "crack" as the knife was thrust into Luke's body. Another witness, a boy, hunted for a metaphor to describe the killer's reaction to the first appalled teacher to arrive on the scene. "He just looked as though he'd been told off for chewing gum," he said. Other pupils told how the killer had previously threatened to stab Luke and had shown off his knife, risking boxing himself into a corner by being called "all talk and no action". The descriptions were backed by overwhelming medical evidence, including the views of a pathologist called by the defence. These dismissed the notion of Luke walking into the knife as completely untenable and made it clear that the two and a half inch blade had been rammed in up to the hilt. Witnesses also unravelled the killer's attempt to suggest he had only wanted to frighten Luke, 14, first by making drunken threats about stabbing him and then by bringing the knife into school "just to show him". Instead, Yvonne Cohen QC, prosecuting, explained something much darker had gone on, something which which unsettled not only Luke but his parents and stepfather Mark Rowbotham. The murdered boy was living with his mother, stepfather and younger sister, Lauren, in Cleethorpes, though he often stayed with his father, who remained friendly with his ex-wife. He had inherited a cheerful character from them both. Luke was immediately popular at Birkbeck, where he had been for just over a year, not only as a sportsman - judo, climbing, sailing and a star role in the school's under-15 football team - but also with the girls. He liked them back, writing in an English essay on What Makes Life Living: "Things that make life worth living are girls, especially fit ones. There are also other things, like having fun, enjoying yourself and being happy." But his success grated on a minority of pupils who were less obviously blessed. For some, matters worsened when Luke was described by staff as a positive role model. A classroom feud began to develop, to an extent which broke the customary teenage reluctance to talk about such things. His mother and stepfather became seriously worried at the start of the autumn term about possible bullying. Two days before half-term last October, they were asked into school because Luke had been caught fighting. That was sorted out superficially, with Luke making things up with the other boy in the fight and Birkbeck's headteacher, Gary Loveridge, giving the school a talk about anger management. But things were far from well. Only the day before the stabbing, Luke's mother contacted Birkbeck to say that her son - big and well able to fend for himself - did not want to go to after-hours rugby practice, in case he was jumped by a gang while leaving in the dark. Some of the vicious jealousies remain unclear, but the killer himself admitted the main one in court. Giving evidence in his customary hunched, softly spoken manner, he said that Luke had targeted his girlfriend, sending her a note, and had also spread rumours about his mother. If so, the hurt ran deep. The 16-year-old not only lacked Luke's talent and charm but lost his mother when young and has great difficulty in expressing himself. His release was violence, and not just against Luke. He was officially warned by police last August for punching another Birkbeck pupil in the face, splitting the boy's lip and loosening a tooth. His lack of control was also shown by another warning two months earlier for attacking a police officer. His defence QC, Sasha Wass, added in court that following Luke's death a doctor had asked him what he would do with three wishes. His first was to have his mother back, his second to roll back time to before November 4 last year. He could not come up with a third. Ms Wass asked for his anonymity to be preserved to give him a chance - otherwise he would suffer "further, unnecessary damage because of the inevitable vilification". After the verdict, the Department for Education and Skills said that its working group on school security was examining how to keep knives out of school, although the flick-knife which killed Luke was already an illegal weapon. Speaking outside the school after the verdict, Cheryle Berry, Lincolnshire's director of education and cultural services, said a statutory independent review of Luke's death would start in September.