You can hear a great deal about false memory syndrome in court. Though it's usually a condition ascribed to a witness rather than the brief. But this week the roles have been reversed and it's Michael Mansfield, the UK's best-known defence barrister, who finds himself in the dock. Or on the couch.In the hardback edition of his autobiography, Memoirs of a Radical Lawyer, Mansfield wrote that John Bowden, a man he had defended in 1983, had been involved in a series of gruesome killings – known as the Camberwell murders – in which "homosexuals and winos" were carved up alive and their body parts frozen.This was news to Bowden, who had only ever been accused and convicted of murdering one person, and Mansfield has now had to issue an apology and delete the offending passage from the paperback edition – much to the delight of his detractors, who revelled in the top QC's public moment of hubris.And it does seems a curious error for a barrister to make. Agreed, it was a long time ago and Mansfield has had many other more high-profile cases – Princess Diana and Jean Charles de Menezes, to name just two – since then, but lawyers stand or fall on forensic detail and accuracy and for no one to have spotted the error at any of the draft or proof stages is hard to understand.It doesn't even exactly require intensive research. Type "Camberwell murders" into Google and absolutely nothing comes up in relation to either Bowden or cutting people up alive and eating them. That should have been enough to sound a few warning bells. By the description of the crime it sounds as if Mansfield confused Bowden with Dennis Nielsen. Though his killing were in Cricklewood, not Camberwell …Mansfield says he wrote his memoirs from "recollection". Now this is the way a lot of people write their memoirs: it's a great deal more fun and a lot less effort than trawling through a load of dusty old files. But there's rather more at stake when a QC is writing about past criminal cases than when a B-list celeb is relating a list of possible sexual encounters to a ghost.It's a mistake that's damaging to Bowden and embarrassing for Mansfield. But it's a genuine mistake, nonetheless. And that makes it something of a rarity in a biography. Because most errors aren't errors at all: they are events that have been deliberately remembered in a certain way, invariably to make the writer look clever, sexier or funnier than he or she really is.So while many people will rightly have a go at Mansfield for being a bit slapdash – something most of us have been guilty of from time to time – I'm much more inclined to forgive a genuine error, than a lie or omission that has been deliberately written into a book to redraft the truth. Take Tony Blair's autobiography that's coming out in just over a week's time. I doubt you'll find any errors like Mansfield's. But I'm willing to bet you'll find a great many more lies. And I can guarantee that – unlike Mansfield – Blair won't be apologising for anything.