A former US marine who had sex with a 12-year-old British girl after "grooming" her on the internet was today jailed for four-and-a-half years.Studabaker, 33, from Michigan, pleaded guilty to child abduction and to inciting a child to commit gross indecency at Manchester crown court in February.Today Mr Justice Leveson sentenced him to four-and-a-half years in jail for each offence to run concurrently. The court was told the pair had "met" a year earlier on the internet.Studabaker flew to Paris with the girl after an arranged meeting at Manchester airport last July. Prosecutor Beverley Lunt said at an earlier hearing that Studabaker groomed his victim so she would not object to sexual activity when they met up. After drinking vodka at a hotel in Paris, they had sexual intercourse at a hotel, the court heard.The girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was reported missing at 11pm on July 12, around 15 hours after telling her parents she was going into town with friends. An international manhunt was launched as the pair went from Paris to Strasbourg and then on to Stuttgart, in Germany. In Stuttgart, on July 15, the girl rang her parents and told them she was safe. She flew back to the UK alone the following day. Studabaker went to Frankfurt and was arrested outside the American embassy on July 16, before being extradited to the UK. He confessed to German police he had met the youngster on a website.Following his arrest, Greater Manchester police and the FBI seized four computers to which Studabaker had access and two computers used by his victim. They found numerous emails penned by the former marine. In some he coerced the youngster into taking part in "cybersex". Prosecutor Ms Lunt said that while the 12-year-old's messages were romantic and innocent, his described acts of sexual foreplay and sexual intercourse in graphic detail. Studabaker, a former Bible scholar who was decorated for his military service in Afghanistan, has previously faced child sex allegations from family members, though no charges were brought.