Tear-jerkers" or "weepies" are usually sentimental, manipulative films but Lilya 4-Ever has whole audiences in tears of shock. Yet this heart-breaking story of a young Russian girl trafficked to Sweden and sold into sex slavery is not particularly graphic or "explicit". Nor is it even very violent: the police I talked to from the Met's clubs and vice unit said it pulls its punches compared with the beaten-up women they see. Lukas Moodysson's film may not be anyone's idea of a fun night out, but it is a rare and brilliant movie that will change the way people see prostitution.The UN estimates about 2 million women are trafficked globally. No one knows how many are trafficked into Britain's brothels and massage parlours - but then virtually no one is looking or counting: it's a low police priority. The Met reckons some 75% of London's prostitutes are foreign. Are they trafficked? A few may be kidnapped, most are illegals who may or may not have known what for trade they were destined: many were promised jobs as nannies or waitresses, others knew it was prostitution but with a rose-tinted offer of life as an up-market escort. Once here, many are slaves kept by violence, debt-bondage and threats against themselves or their families back home, forced into sex 20 or more times a day. (The same goes for many British prostitutes too: the line between voluntary "sex-workers" and abused, intimidated or drug-addicted slaves is a vanishingly thin.) Traffickers frighten victims off going to the police by warning them the police are in their pay: they'll just be serially raped in a police station and sent back to their pimps. Worse still awaits them, they are told, if they fall into the hands of immigration. A tiny, tentative Home Office pilot project opened a few weeks ago in London to try to help trafficked women escape. Will it work? The prognosis is not good. Eaves Housing, a charity that takes in all kinds of vulnerable women, has been given funding to take in trafficked women brought to them by the police or other agencies, as a safe haven. But the conditions are so tight hardly any women qualify. The women must be working in prostitution now - no use if they escaped a few weeks ago. Women must cooperate with the police - but many are terrified of giving evidence as their traffickers know where their families live back home and will take revenge. Police say this requirement to give evidence will sink the project: once a trafficker knows someone is at Eaves, he will know she is a grass. That will deter women who fear reprisals back home. Yet worse, to qualify for Eaves, women must not claim asylum - when many have every reason to dread returning home to the same traffickers who sent them here. Denise Marshall at Eaves has had 11 trafficked women sent to her in the few weeks since the pilot began: only two qualify according to this strict criteria. That has left her hard-pressed charity taking them all in, at great expense, though the Home Office will only pay for two. One of those not to qualify is an Albanian who dare not give evidence against the Albanians who trafficked her as they have threatened her family. One Romanian escaped earlier and before arriving at Eaves was badly advised to make a spurious asylum claim for religious persecution, so she doesn't qualify either, despite horrendous internal injuries. Not all women want to stay - some want to go straight home, but they need time to decide. If caught by immigration, many are told by traffickers to say they want to go home - straight into the arms of those who will ship them off again to another country. Are these women victims to be protected - or illegals to be hounded out? The trouble is that they are both - but their need for rescue should always come first. The Home Office fears that offering them protection that includes the right to stay would be a "pull factor" encouraging floods of false claims. Campaigners say that if traffickers find their victims all escape easily, the trade will become unprofitable. What would save these women? The very thing the Home Office fears - a big campaign in all languages, telling women there is a safe place where they will not be deported. Freeing prostitutes needs to become a police priority: this crime is horrible, unending torture. The tiny Met squad of 14 struggles to follow up the worst cases involving juveniles: they say another 200 officers might begin to make a dent on this slavery. Even then, convictions are hard to get. The new sexual offences bill will make trafficking a crime worth up to 14 years in prison - but they worry judges don't take pimping seriously. The sex trade has boomed in the last few years. Once it was a few sleazy city red-light areas - now every local paper has pages of ads for suburban brothels, saunas and massage parlours. The trade has got worse, according to Clubs and Vice police: "The women have to do things now they didn't a few years ago. Before no one would do anal, now they all have to. No one would do unprotected, now most do and men demand it, God knows why. Women all have to take pain now - caning, whipping - but that used to be just specialist." Why the growth? More money, say the police, more criminal gangs into sex where rewards are high and risks almost zero. But above all, more social accept ability. It all starts with City brokers and celebs making it cool, hip and post-modern to buy up-market lapdancers in Stringfellows or Spearmint Rhino - whose owners promise another 100 venues, (though the club has been investigated for allegations of prostitution on its premises). But expensive West End clubs act as a social veneer for the abusive trade beneath, where most women are exploited victims of one kind or another. Dr Liz Kelly, director of the child and women's abuse study unit at London Metropolitan University, will have no truck with the idea that these "sex-workers" are doing their own thing, liberated women. Even if some protest they choose the way of life, most prostitutes, she says, talk of the terrible damage it did them, once they get out of it. But the Pretty Woman, Cynthia Payne cheery hearts-of-gold image is more comfortable. Odd how much fiction is obsessed with glorifying and mystifying this sordid business. It's not prudishness but decent feminism to say prostitution is a filthy trade that exploits the poor, the disturbed, the addicts and other helpless women. The many men who pay to near-rape women must often deliberately turn a blind eye to blatant cruelty and violence in the transaction. In Sweden three years ago buying (but not selling) sex was made illegal. Prostitution has gone underground and diminished sharply: it has become the dirty illegal trade it should be - not something to be advertised in respectable newspapers. Britain could at least ban advertising, as a small first step to express public disapproval of trading in women.p.toynbee@theguardian.com 