Lord ImbertFormer Metropolitan police commissioner (1987-93)The first thing I would say is, get out and about as much as you can. Visit as many different police stations and units as you can. You must be seen to be out and about. You've got to raise morale.Before I started the job, I read [former Met commissioner] Robert Mark's book In the Office of Constable. He wrote of his arrival at Scotland Yard that he "felt rather like the representative of a leper colony attending the annual garden party of a colonial governor". I think the mistake he made was that he didn't talk to the lads and girls on the ground - he said he felt people spurned him. Talk to those on the ground, perhaps go out on patrol with them, go into a station at midnight or 2am.Right away also, of course, you have to see your police authority, see the representatives of the Superintendents' Association and the Police Federation. And it's no bad thing to talk to the media early on. I had a once-a-month unattributable briefing for the media at which they could bring up anything they wanted to ask about. It's useful for the media to understand what you're doing. I also had a monthly meeting with local politicians and the bishops.We thought we had it tough with the IRA, but it's nothing to what you will have to deal with now. It's a tough old job for the first couple of months!Len Duvall Former chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority (2004-08), and Labour London assembly memberDespite unprecedented levels of investment, record numbers of police and falling crime, the Metropolitan Police Service still faces many challenges. Violent crime is a reality for some and a genuine worry for many. The Met has a duty to explain what it does and, in so doing, reassure and strengthen all the communities it serves. It cannot operate effectively in isolation, and is only as successful as the relationships it builds. In particular, the Met must continue to retain, and in some cases regain, the trust and confidence of all communities - especially black and ethnic minority communities. The Met must acknowledge where mistakes have been made.So, Sir Paul, tackle all crime, from graffiti to terrorism; champion the Met's longstanding values; listen and respond to politicians and those they serve, but do not be bullied or dissuaded from carrying out your duty to Londoners. The capital will look to you as a stabilising and independent voice in tackling the evolving face of crime in the city.People do worry about adolescent, violent and gang-related crime, but always remember that the vast majority of young people are law-abiding and look to you for protection and security. In seeking to tackle the few who cause harm, you must be sure not to alienate the many. Like all Londoners, they deserve a first-class service from the Met, and their commissioner. Professor Liz KellyDirector of the Child and Women abuse Studies Unit at London Metropolitan UniversityReporting of domestic violence was up 48% and rape 21% in London last year, which shows that women in London are putting their faith in the police to do something to protect them and deliver justice. It is the responsibilty of Sir Paul Stephenson to ensure that happens. There have been improvements in the way the police handle domestic violence cases and this needs to continue, but Sir Paul also needs to carry some of that learning over to dealing with sex offences so that the investigation of those crimes improves.I would also like to see joined-up thinking. So, for instance, where there has been a priority on tackling gangs and gun and knife crime, to understand that sexual violence against women is also associated with gangs and the more there are guns and knives, the more they are being used in violence against women. Women in London have a much higher fear of violent crime [than in other cities]. Improving the response to violence against women will go some way to improving that.Richard TaylorFather of Damilola Taylor, who was stabbed to death aged 10 by a street gang in 2000I am dedicated to working within the local communities of Britain's inner cities to help make them better places for young people to grow up in. I was heartened to hear Sir Paul state that tackling youth violence and the epidemic of knife crime in particular, would be an immediate core policy of his. My advice? Listen to what the people are saying. Speak with our young people and listen to their concerns. We have many more good children on our streets than bad and protecting them has to be the priority for us all.Camila BatmanghelidjhFounder of Kids Company, a charity working with vulnerable inner-city childrenThe challenges ahead requires a more sophisticated understanding of what drives children to become criminals. Some children emerge from very disturbed environments - I call these the "initiators" of violence at street level. Then there are other children, who have had more settled home lives, who come into contact with these "initiators" and they have to be violent to survive. This is how it spreads like a virus. We are going to need a more visionary approach to deal with it, such as training the police to be more vigilant about child abuse and neglect. I think the police are in a unique position - they could do an audit of the children they regularly come into contact with, and hold meetings with social care agencies and say, "What are we going to do about this child?" If nothing gets done, the police could step in and find out why. Holding social care agencies accountable on behalf of children is one of the bravest things the police could do. It is time for imaginative policing, and I think Sir Paul Stephenson can do it. Professor Paul WilkinsonChairman of the advisory board at the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at St Andrews UniversityThe new commissioner has extensive experience of the threat of terrorism and is very familiar with the resources and expertise the Met has. I approve of the effort to improve prevention by engaging with communities. It would be foolish at this stage to write a premature obituary of the al-Qaida movement. We are never going to eliminate the problem in an open society - we wouldn't want to sacrifice our freedoms and we have to try to maintain civil liberties - but this long-term work in prevention, and combating extremist ideology, is extremely important and the Met has been working on that. The other thing is to improve preparation and the emergency response [in the event of a terror attack] and it is important that the Metropolitan police have the resources to do that. In the wake of the fatal shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Met has had to learn some lessons to avoid something so disastrous again. I'm sure the new commissioner will emphasise that.