One of Britain's most prolific burglars was jailed for seven years yesterday after having committed nearly 600 offences in an 18-month crime spree.Martin Maloney, 22, targeted the elderly and vulnerable, often conning his way into their homes by posing as a plain-clothes policeman. He offered to take valuables for safe keeping, and even warned victims - several of whom were blind and deaf - to beware of crooks. He sometimes returned to loot their homes a second time. He was so active that, after his arrest, his kind of "distraction burglaries" dropped by 40% in London. He also travelled around the country, sometimes working with accomplices. He offended 160 times in the south-east, south-west, the Midlands and Derbyshire. Judge Robert Sich, sitting at Harrow crown court in north London, described Maloney as a "total menace". Victims' families and Ann Widdecombe, the former shadow home secretary, attacked the sentence as "inadequate", pointing out that Maloney will be eligible for parole in three and a half years, and will be released three-quarters of the way through his sentence. The maximum sentence for burglary is 14 years. "It doesn't seem a lot, especially when you think about how much money he got away with," said Rita Streader, whose 87-year-old mother-in-law, Helen, was conned by Maloney. Helen Streader, who was about to go to the bank to deposit her savings when Maloney stole them, said that she was angry he had ripped her off, and hoped he suffered for it. Ms Widdecombe added: "He had absolutely no remorse, no shame, and no care for anyone at all." Police recovered only £1,040 of the £266,930 that was stolen. His largest haul was £12,730, but often he contented himself with weekly pensions. Maloney, of Kentish Town, north London, was first arrested in July 2001 and pleaded guilty to what turned out to be just one of many offences. After being sent to a psychiatric hospital, he escaped and returned to crime. The police search was hampered by his close connections in the Irish traveller community, which allowed him to move quickly between traveller sites around the country, and he was only arrested in Somerset a year later. "He targeted the most vulnerable people in society, but I don't think there is any remorse," said Detective Inspector Keith Surtees of Scotland Yard. "He saw this as an occupation - as he saw it, he was getting out of bed and going to work." Maloney pleaded guilty to two charges of burglary, asking for a further 587 offences to be taken into consideration. A further charge, which he denied, was not proceeded with. Last September, an accomplice, Clifford Whittaker, 21, was jailed after admitting 43 offences.