Any law dating back to Roman times and embraced by English common law since the 12th century should not be lightly overturned. Hence the understandable concern among leading lawyers and civil rights groups over this week's proposal to amend the double jeopardy rule, which protects defendants who have been acquitted in one trial from facing a second.Law students are inducted in the overwhelming power of the state, the anxiety and insecurity which trials engender, and the risk that innocent suspects may be found guilty if forced to face a second trial. There are wider concerns. This was the very reform which William Hague called for last year, when he was desperately turning to populist measures to shore up his falling poll ratings. So is the government's readiness to go ahead with the change another example of ministerial cringe to populist clamour for law 'n' order? No. On this particular charge, it is not guilty. The initiator of the change was the Macpherson report into the murder of the young black teenager Stephen Lawrence by a gang of white racist thugs. Three youths were formally acquitted of the crime when a private prosecution for murder failed. Macpherson called for a review of the double jeopardy rule which precluded a second trial, despite the emergence of new evidence.This was one proposal about which we expressed reservations, suggesting that the law commission, to which the review was referred, should protect the old concept. In its detailed final report on the issue this week, the commission has called for change. It suggests that in murder cases only, the appeal court could, where there is "compelling" new evidence, set aside an acquittal and require a second trial. Reluctantly, we agree. Three arguments - two of them weighty - are being advanced by critics. First, that second trials would be unfair because juries would be bound to convict if they knew the retrial was based on evidence which the appeal court had found "compelling". That is worrying; but the jury would hear the evidence themselves and would be instructed to form their own opinion. Moreover, the aim would be to keep from the jury the fact that it was a retrial. There are many retrials already - following hung juries or deaths of jurors - where they are unaware that this is the case. Reporting restrictions will apply to appeal court hearings about a rerun. A second objection is that if the police are allowed a second bite, they may be less thorough the first time. That too is a genuine risk, but sloppiness can be stopped by the appeal court ruling out retrials where the relevant evidence should have been collected for a first trial. A new symmetry will be established, with both defence and prosecution allowed to apply for retrials on the emergence of new evidence. A third objection - about breaches to the European convention on human rights - does not hold water. Several European states allow retrials. A new protocol to the convention specifically endorses retrials where new evidence emerges. Nor does applying the new principle retrospectively amount to a breach. A new criminal law would be, but this is a new procedure applied to an old criminal law. The new rule may be too narrowly drawn - why logically should it not be extended to manslaughter and rape? - but it will reinforce public support for the criminal justice system. That is important. There have been too many cases where people cleared of murder have subsequently bragged about their guilt. Civilised societies should seek to stop murderers getting off scot free.