Police chiefs have been forced to back down and disclose some more information about one of their most criticised undercover tactics.For nearly two years, the Metropolitan Police had been resisting a request from Liberal Democrat MP Duncan Hames for the ages of the dead children whose identities had been stolen by undercover officers.The Met had been preparing to go to court to fight to keep secret the ages, but has now caved in.Hames, who has been representing a constituent worried that his dead daughter’s identity had been stolen, criticised the police for being “as obstructive as possible”. For many years, undercover officers in Scotland Yard’s Special Demonstration Squad (SDS) stole the identities of dead children to develop fake personas to spy on political groups (see here and here for more details). The practice has been criticised as being “ghoulish and heartless”. Police have been forced to make a general apology but have insisted that they cannot tell any individual families that the undercover officers had used the identities of their offspring who had died.The police argued that their need to protect the identities of their undercover officers trumped the wishes of the families who want to know. Since February 2013, Hames has been seeking what is quite a narrow piece of information - solely the ages and nothing else. He says that he framed his request under the freedom of information act as reasonably as possible. But the police refused the request. Last August, the watchdog, the Information Commissioner, ordered the police to disclose the ages.The Met had been seeking to overturn the order at a freedom of information tribunal that was due to start next month, but has now decided not to contest it. The Met has disclosed that the undercover officers in the SDS stole the following ages of dead children - 0, 1, 4 to 14 inclusive, 16, and 17. Through this disclosure, the police have also confirmed that the identities of children aged 2,3 and 15 were not stolen.As this previous blog highlighted, the Information Commissioner ordered the disclosure of the ages, after finding the MP’s arguments compelling. Hames had argued that there could be many parents who have lost children and fear that their identities had been used by undercover police. Disclosing the ages, he argued, may help these parents through a process of elimination - by confirming that the identities of their children had not been stolen by undercover officers. As it happens, his constituent’s daughter was 15 when she died, and so her identity was not stolen. Hames said the disclosure has helped to reassure his constituent, demonstrating the public interest in having this information made public. However the disclosure may be of little relief to other parents. They are left still wondering if the police stole the identities of their children, but the police will not give them any answers.Hames said: “The reason I started pursuing this matter was a constituent who had lost his daughter when she was 15. When he first heard about this practice he was galled at the thought that someone could be using her stolen identity, leading the life that she should have led, and he is not alone.” “Unfortunately this practice was sufficiently widespread but now a small proportion of families will be able to use this information to be reassured that their child’s identity was not stolen, which does raise the question whether there is any other way that the police could help reassure more families.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Undercover whistleblower Peter Francis Photograph: Graham TurnerHames raised the issue with Home Secretary Theresa May in Parliament on Monday (see the exchange here) when he criticised the police for dragging their feet.Peter Francis, the former undercover officer who has blown the whistle on many aspects of the SDS, has described how he felt as if he was “stomping on the grave” of the boy whose identity he stole. He said he was surprised that other SDS officers were allowed by their managers to use the identities of children who had died before their second birthday. He said that when he was deployed undercover in the 1990s, his managers recommended that he should base his alter ego on a dead boy aged four and upwards. In the days when the birth and death records had not yet been computerised, it was assumed that it would take longer to search through the records to find the death certificates of older children and therefore anyone carrying out the search would be more likely to give up. 