Eleven teenagers were arrested in connection with the fatal stabbing of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor in a series of dawn raids on addresses across Peckham conducted by 200 police officers yesterday. By late last night, one had been released, and another six let out on bail.The original 11 were questioned at various police stations across London and a Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "Six youths have been bailed to return to various London police stations on a date in January 2001 pending further inquiries,"The four remainning boys - three 15-year-olds and one 13-year-old - remained in custody. Of the four teenagers, two are of Mediterranean appearance and two are black.None of the boys attended Damilola's school, Oliver Goldsmith primary in Peckham. The original group included two boys who were previously detained along with a 39-year-old woman, who was not re-arrested, but it is not yet known if these are among those still held.Among those originally arrested were a 12-year-old, two 13-year-olds, two 14-year-olds, two 15-year-olds, and one 16-year-old. All the arrests were videotaped by police and the boys' homes were searched. Police confirmed that some of the boys were suspects, while others were potentially important witnesses. An extra six police constables and one sergeant had been drafted in full time to police the Peckham area and deal with issues such as youth crime, a police spokesman said. Dozens of children have been interviewed as witnesses by detectives during the investigation, along with a number of adults. Police hope the arrests will lead further witnesses to come forward. The development comes almost three weeks after Damilola bled to death in a stairwell on the North Peckham estate. He was stabbed in the leg as he walked home from an after-school computer class at Peckham library on November 27. He dragged himself 100 yards along Blakes Road before collapsing and bleeding to death. Police said earlier this week that two groups of witnesses had not come forward, and that they wanted to speak to two groups of youths seen during Damilola's final journey. On Tuesday, police said a new witness had reported seeing a group of youths standing by telephone boxes at 4.30pm in Blakes Road, near where Damilola died. One of the group, the smallest, stood apart from the others and was wearing a jacket similar to the one Damilola was wearing when he was attacked. Rio Ferdinand, the Leeds United and former West Ham footballer, who was brought up in Peckham, yesterday joined the appeal for more information about the murder. Related special reportPolicing crime Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out thereUseful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate