You think you know everything there is to know about the murder of Stephen Lawrence. And then you meet his mother, Doreen, and realise that you know nothing. Nothing of the disbelief and anguish she felt when, on 22 April 1993, a nurse at Brook Hospital, south-east London, told her that Stephen was dead. Nothing of her contempt for the five youths who so far have evaded justice for her son's murder. And nothing of the anger and bitterness she still feels towards the police.  'Yes, I am still angry,' she says. 'I'm angry that even now we're still being kept in the dark and have to read the newspapers to find out what is going on.  'And I'm angry that Stephen is six feet under but the boys who stabbed him can laugh and drink. Their families can still have an interaction with them, but I'm never going to have that again with Stephen.' It is the first time Doreen has agreed to speak about her feelings in nearly two years.  The last time was after the inquest into Stephen's death in 1997 ¯ an inquest where one after one the five youths refused 'on the advice of my lawyer' to answer questions posed by the Lawrences' barrister, Michael Mansfield.  A small, compact woman, Doreen's reticence is not so much a political statement about the way she has been treated as her way of coping.  'The strain has been enough to deal with without constantly talking about it. I only do things when there's something I need to address, or I feel that things aren't going how I want to.' In theory, the subject she wishes to address is this Thursday's two-hour docudrama on ITV about her and her husband Neville's five-year struggle for justice.  But in practice she cannot help but vent her feelings about the Lawrence Inquiry report, which arrives on Home Secretary Jack Straw's desk this week, as well as the feverish press speculation about what new lines of inquiry Scotland Yard's Race and Violent Crimes Task Force is pursuing into Stephen's murder.  In particular, she is angered by suggestions that the inquiry inspector, Sir William MacPherson, may criticise Mansfield and her solicitor, Imran Khan, for their decision to bring a private prosecution in 1996 against the five youths when the Crown Prosecution Service had rejected the evidence as insufficient.  As a result, three of the five #175 Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson #175 were acquitted of murder and cannot be retried for Stephen's killing. But Doreen insists it was her and Neville's decision to prosecute and the criticism is unfair.  'Had we not brought the private prosecution there would never have been an inquiry. Besides we will never know if we had enough evidence or not because the jury were never given the opportunity to make that judgement. It was taken out of their hands when the judge directed them to return a verdict of not guilty.'After the decision, Doreen collapsed in court. It was the one time that she showed any weakness in public. The scene does not feature in Granada's film, The Murder of Stephen Lawrence. Instead the programme-makers concentrate on her struggle to get answers from the police, the effect the battle has on her marriage, and her unflinching determination to see justice done.  Detectives repeatedly told the Lawrences that their failure to make arrests was due to a 'wall of silence' about the murder. But at the inquiry this summer it was revealed that, within hours of Stephen's death, informants had given the police the names of the five prime suspects, all members of a well-known local racist gang.  'I naively assumed that they would do everything they could to catch Stephen's killers, but the reality was they weren't doing anything. They were so patronising. People were ringing us at the house with information every day and we passed it on.  'But when we asked police what they were doing with it, they wouldn't tell us. They kept on saying, "You don't understand, this is the way we operate."'  'They implied that we couldn't be asking such intelligent questions for ourselves. We must have been prompted by someone else.' The most powerful moment in Granada's drama comes at the inquest in 1997 when Marianne Jean-Baptiste, who plays Doreen, addresses the coroner's jury.  'When my son was murdered, the police saw him as a criminal belonging to a gang . . . they set about investigating him and us. My son's crime was that he was walking along the road looking for a bus that would take him home. Our crime was living in a country that supports racist murderers against innocent people.' Does she believe that 'institutional racism' in the Metropolitan Police force was to blame? When the charge was put at the inquiry it was rejected by Metropolitan Commissioner Sir Paul Condon, but Doreen argues the question was too direct.  'When you ask an officer "Are they racist?", there's no way they are going to say yes. Racism is so embedded in the police in Eltham that it's a way of life for them.' But Doreen argues that racism was only part of what lay behind the apparent 'bungling' of the police investigation.  'There was a lot more to it than racism. We know now that there were connections between the police and David Norris's father, Clifford Norris. But who knows what else was going on. I still don't think we've got to the bottom of it. There are still a lot of unanswered questions.' After the collapse of the private prosecution, Neville and Doreen broke up. The film suggests that they were simply pulled in opposite directions ¯ Neville wanting to return to Jamaica, Doreen determined to stay in Britain until justice was done. Is that the way it was?  Doreen refuses to comment; her marriage, she says, is a 'private matter'. However, it is no secret that she and Neville are still apart, and when pressed Doreen admits that, as Stephen's mother, it may have been harder for her to relinquish the fight.  'I gave birth to him, I nurtured him, I was there when he cried. Nobody has the right to take his life and not to do something about it. Part of me is angry that I've been forced into this position. I do want to get on with my life, but events keep on throwing up new information. In the end, that's what you react to.' But in between campaigning, Doreen has been getting on with her life. Three years ago she returned to college to pursue an MSc in therapeutic counselling. 'I want to use my experience to help other people,' she says.  The rest of her time is devoted to her other children. Stephen's younger brother Stuart, 21, is studying graphic communications, while Georgina, 16, has just finished GSCEs in art and design.  Their experience has made them more aware of the prevalence of racism ¯ something that Doreen herself rarely thought about, while growing up in south London in the 1950s.  'I notice it more and more now. Sometimes it's not so much in what people say as the body language. It's quite frightening. You start to question your own safety.' But she insists that her experience has not made her prejudiced.  'I would never tell my children, don't speak to that person because they are white. Black people see people as people. It is only when they say or do something negative that you say, that person must be racist.' Despite the police's failure she is hopeful that the five youths will still be prosecuted. For instance, Jamie Acourt and David Norris, who were dropped from the private prosecution at the committal level, could still be charged with murder if the police find new evidence.  And last week Task Force detectives were said to be exploring the possibility of prosecuting the five, and other racist associates of the Eltham gang, with previous crimes in the area.  However, Doreen is angered by press reports that detectives now believe that Gary Dobson and Luke Knight may not have been involved in the stabbing of her son after all.  'How do they know,' she asks, her anger showing. 'Were they there when Stephen was stabbed? How do they know?' However, her foremost concern is the inquiry. Although she refuses to pre-empt Sir William MacPherson's report, it is clear she has little time for Condon's apologies.  'He didn't really listen to us when we said that something was wrong. He accepted the word of his officers. A lot of the time he simply evaded our questions.' She also has nothing but scorn for recent letters sent to the media by the parents of the five, pleading their innocence.  'It's just laughable. If they're innocent, why didn't they issue those letters six years ago and why did they go to such lengths to avoid answering questions at the inquiry?' Doreen's anger is palpable. She says the Granada film captures the five 'to a tee'.  'I will never forget their smiling arrogance at the inquest. They came off as if they were untouchable.' At last you are beginning to understand what moves this slight but formidable woman.  'I do feel tired sometimes, but my only drive is that somebody should pay for Stephen's murder. How long can I go on? How long is a piece of string?  'If it had been the other way round, and Stephen had been the perpetrator, he would be behind bars by now, That's what keeps me going on.'