A 46-year-old Network Rail employee has been arrested on suspicion of manslaughter over the Cumbria train crash earlier this year in which a pensioner died, transport police said today.The man, the first to be arrested in the investigation, is from the Preston area. He was taken in for questioning on Wednesday and had been released on bail until October 31, police said.The Virgin west coast express from London to Glasgow derailed after crossing faulty points on February 23 this year. Several carriages rolled down the embankment, killing 84-year-old Margaret Masson and injuring dozens.Network Rail admitted in the days after the crash that maintenance failures were to blame.The train's driver, Iain Black, was hailed as a hero for staying at the controls during the accident. Mr Black, from Dumbarton, said the train reared like a "violent bucking bronco" as the carriages flew off the track.He was trapped in the cab for two hours and spent weeks in hospital with serious head, neck and back injuries. An interim investigation by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch said one of three stretcher bars, which keep the rails apart at a points intersection, was missing and two others were fractured.It found that bolts used to secure the lock bar and another stretcher bar were not in place. Some of the nuts and washers were found nearby.At the time, John Armitt, the chief executive of Network Rail, which took over responsibility for track maintenance in 2002, admitted he had considered resigning over the failure but decided against it. "Network Rail is devastated to conclude that the condition of the set of points at Grayrigg caused this terrible accident," he said. "We accept the RAIB report in all respects. "We would like to apologise to all the people affected by the failure of the infrastructure. We now need to understand how the points came to be in this condition and we will leave no stone unturned in our search for the facts behind this derailment."There were 111 passengers and four staff on the nine-carriage train. The arrested man's union, the TSSA, said it would be "providing him with full legal representation".