The moors murderer Myra Hindley could win the right to seek her freedom sooner than expected, after Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, intervened to expedite a key House of Lords appeal.The appeal, brought by two convicted killers, Anthony Anderson and John Taylor, is challenging the home secretary's power to fix tariffs, or minimum periods of detention, for murderers. The law lords were expected to hear the appeal in the autumn, but Lord Bingham has brought it forward to July 11. The lords could even deliver judgment by the end of the legal year on July 31. If the appeal succeeds it could clear the way for the early release of Hindley, who has spent 37 years in prison for her part as Ian Brady's accomplice to the sadistic killings of five children. Lord Lane, a former lord chief justice, recommended that she serve a minimum term of 25 years. Anderson and Taylor have not yet been given the formal permission they need to bring their appeal, but they are expected to receive it this week. Lawyers say the challenge is certain to succeed after a ruling last month from the European court of human rights in Strasbourg which stripped the home secretary of his right to keep murderers in jail once the parole board has recommended their release. After a series of rulings in Strasbourg, the only power he retains over life sentences is the right to set the tariff - the minimum term a prisoner must serve before seeking release - for those serving mandatory life sentences for murder. When judges pass a life sentence on a murderer, they write to the home secretary recommending a minimum term for the purposes of "punishment and deterrence". In one in 16 cases the home secretary disagrees and sets a longer tariff. In Anderson's case, the 15 years recommended by the judge was increased to 20. Taylor got a 30-year tariff when the judge had recommended 16. The pair argue that it is incompatible with the European convention on human rights for a politician to decide their sentence. When they took their case to the high court and court of appeal, the judges ruled against them but made it clear they were doing so reluctantly. The stumbling block was an earlier Strasbourg ruling, which was overturned by last month's judgment from the Strasbourg grand chamber. A win by Anderson and Taylor will open the way for the 22 murderers, including Hindley, given "whole life" tariffs by successive home secretaries to have new minimum terms fixed by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf. In a practice direction this month, Lord Woolf said judges should not recommend "whole life" tariffs, though they could specify no minimum term. Many, if not most, of the 22 whole lifers are so dangerous they will probably never be released. But Hindley was classified as low risk by the parole board several years ago, and recommended for transfer to an open prison. Anderson and Taylor's appeal will be heard together with a challenge by two other murderers to the mandatory life sentence itself. Daniella Lichniak and Glyn Pyrah argue that the law requiring judges to impose a life sentence for murder whatever the circumstances of the crime breaches the human rights convention. Lichniak, 41, stabbed a man to death in a pub fight in 1990. The trial judge told the home secretary she was in a state of chronic anxiety stress, induced by the demands of four children and a stormy relationship with the children's father. She had no previous convictions and he did not believe she was a public danger. Pyrah, 47, had been drinking heavily when he saw a man assaulting a woman in the street and pushing her to the ground. He punched her assailant, knocking him down and then gave him one kick, which proved fatal. The trial judge wrote: "In my view he does not present any danger to the community." A House of Lords committee chaired by Lord Lane argued in 1993 that since murder ranges from mercy killing to brutal psychopathic serial killings, it should not carry an inflexible life sentence. The committee said it was a "fallacy" that murder was such a uniquely heinous crime that offenders should forfeit the right to be set free for the rest of their life. While some murders were truly heinous, the majority were not, said the committee. It was "logically and constitutionally wrong" for a politician to decide the distinction between the various categories of murder, as the home secretary does by fixing the tariff.