The pope wants a worldwide ban on the death penalty and it is not hard to think of countries where the range of offences that attract it is frighteningly large. The frequency of its application is just as worrying but to state that it can never be justified is wrong.I have never defended the use or availability of capital punishment on the grounds of retribution and would echo his holiness’s own phraseology in saying that no matter how serious the crime, it is wrong if its purpose is merely an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. Using it as a deterrent is, however, a very different matter for it saves innocent lives.Pope Francis appeals for global end to capital punishment Pope Francis claims that the death penalty is “an offence against the inviolability of life and the dignity of the person” but what about the life and dignity of a victim who would not be a victim if the death penalty were in force? For if capital punishment deters – and I will shortly be looking at the evidence for the assertion that it does – then effectively there is a choice of lives to be made: those of the guilty or those of the innocent. We cannot pretend that choice is not there.The state’s duty in these circumstances is an extension of the individual’s right to self-defence. If we believe our lives or those of others are at genuine risk then we can use whatever force is necessary to mount a credible defence including, in extremis, killing.Thus, if the state has reason to believe that its citizens’ lives are threatened it must defend them. To ignore the deterrent effect is to condemn innocent people to death and a state that does that is morally responsible for those deaths. Is that really what the pope is advocating?Therefore the crux of the argument is: is it really a deterrent? In the five years immediately following the abolition of the death penalty in Britain the government still collected statistics based on the distinction between capital and non-capital murder precisely in order to assess the effect of abolition and the effect was startling. As Duncan Sandys, a senior Conservative MP, told parliament in December 1969, the capital murder rate had risen almost 125%. It is worth pausing just to absorb that. There was also a substantial rise in the number of times firearms were taken on robberies.Fifty years on, the debate over what replaces the death penalty continues On the strength of those figures it is possible to make a compelling moral case for the availability of a death penalty. Capital punishment can be rarely used and still be a deterrent as long as it is available and used occasionally. This argument, however, applies to Britain where the categories of murder attracting the death penalty were latterly narrowly defined and intended to reflect premeditation. No penalty can deter spontaneous anger or jealousy or judgment impaired by drink or drugs. Whether or not the penalty is actually a deterrent will vary from country to country.Pope Francis contends there are no circumstances that ever justify the death penalty. They clearly sometimes do.Of course there are other arguments against the death penalty, not least that of the fallibility of human justice and the irreversibility of the penalty where justice has failed, but his holiness was not making a practical case against judicial execution: he was relying on principle and asserting the principle to be unchallengeable. It is not.