Probation programmes are so ineffective that it would be better to use the resources on more serious offenders and impose income-related fines on the rest, an internal government review is expected to say next month.A leaked "emerging findings" from the review team of Downing Street, Home Office, and Treasury officials, chaired by the government "troubleshooter" Patrick Carter, says that 90% of those on probation see their probation officer "at best an hour a week", or is given five hours community service. It says that rehabilitation programmes only work when they are well designed, well run and - more importantly - well targeted. The document says national and international evidence suggests that they work for only about 10-15% of offenders - the more serious ones - and reduce reoffending by those on the programmes by 5-10%. When it reports next month the Carter review intends to press ministers to ensure that the money is better spent by focusing intensive rehabilitation programmes on the more serious offenders, while the low risk offenders are fined instead. The review was set up to ensure that an expected expansion in funding was affordable and an effective alternative to the burgeoning growth in prison numbers. The leaked findings say that there has been a collapse in the use of fines by the courts because of the poor level of collection and the belief that many offenders cannot afford to pay. The court fine "needs to be rebuilt as a credible punishment" as part of a package that enables community penalties to be seen as tough and effective. The review team also wants to push for greater use of conditional cautions and reparative work with victims, to divert the low risk offenders from ending up in court. The chief inspector of probation has been pressing for the reintroduction of income-related fines - abandoned more than 10 years ago - as a way of "ratcheting back down" the sentencing menu for the courts in the face of the record prison population. The review is also considering pushing for more extensive use of electronic tagging and tracking to restrict the liberty of persistent offenders who are involved in minor crime. The team agrees with the government policy that prison should be reserved for serious and dangerous offenders. However," it says, "further increases in the use of custody or sentence length are unlikely to have an impact on crime or the fear of crime. Policies in the criminal justice bill will further increase the use of custody." The Home Office denied that this clashed with David Blunkett's policy, even though it argued that short custodial sentences did not work as they did not allow time to reduce offending. The Carter review also hints at a greater shake-up of the prison and probation services. It says a structure is needed that will "deliver high quality services, with better value for money and create the right incentives to innovate".