One man who was picked up by the Connors and taken to the site at Leighton Buzzard told the Guardian about conditions there.He was in a desperate position when he first came into contact with the Connors in September 2009. With no money and no job, he was about to become homeless when a member of the family approached him in the queue for a soup kitchen, he said. "He pulled up in a nice car with his wife and child and offered me £40 a day and a roof over my head for manual labour. At the time it seemed like manna from heaven and I saw no reason to distrust him."At the site he soon became aware of around 15 to 20 other "workers" living in terrible conditions. "There were 12 to 15 men in a horse box, working 16- to 17-hour days. They were kept working constantly, either paving or doing errands, there was no time to rest," he said. Beatings, physical abuse and neglect were a daily occurrence. "I've seen people hit with shovels, broom handles, threatened with pick-axes – they saw the workers as playthings."The men were vulnerable, frightened to stand up for themselves, he said. "Every single one of them was a drug addict, homeless or an alcoholic. For some of these men it was comforting to feel someone was looking after them, feeding them – they became conditioned to the place."It was a place of fear and intimidation, he added."The atmosphere was incredibly tense, you were waiting for the next time they would hit you, shove you, yell at you … and you were just so knackered, you put up with it."While he says he was given enough food, the other men would only eat poorly, often only once a day. "Their pay was a carrier bag with a few chocolate biscuits and a packet of digestives at the end of the week. Some of them had been doing it for so long, they hated it – but they were resigned to their fate."Despite the fact that the workers were not physically restrained, they had little chance of leaving, he added." I wanted to get out, but I didn't have an option. I was 150 miles from home, with no money. I didn't think the police would believe me – it's hard to believe.I was depressed and out of options."