A young woman spoke from beyond the grave yesterday to accuse her father and uncle of attempting to murder her in a mobile phone video which was played to an Old Bailey jury.Banaz Mahmod, 20, was strangled with a bootlace and her body buried in a suitcase in a back garden last January because her Iraqi Kurdish family believed that she had "besmirched their honour" by having a boyfriend they disapproved of, the court heard. In a video taken by her boyfriend, Miss Mahmod claimed her father forced her to drink brandy to make her sleepy. "It was in a black plastic bag like in Kurdistan," she said. "He said, 'open it up and drink it bit by bit.'"She became frightened after her father came back into the room wearing gloves. The curtains were drawn and cartoons were playing on the TV."I was really scared and got up to leave the room. He said, 'sit down, sit down.'"When her father left again she escaped by a back door and tried to raise the alarm by smashing windows. Then, the prosecution says, she jumped over a fence and ran barefoot to a local cafe, where she burst into tears and said: "They are trying to kill me."When she was taken to hospital, she was afraid to leave the ambulance. "She kept saying her father and her uncle were trying to kill her," the prosecution said.The video was filmed on a hospital trolley, at St George's in Tooting, on New Year's Eve 2005, and was played in court on video screens. Miss Mahmod was murdered three weeks later, the prosecution says. Victor Temple, prosecuting, said: "This bears all the hallmarks of an earlier attempt to kill her." Her father, Mahmod Mahmod, 52, and uncle, Ari Agha, 50, of Mitcham, south London, deny murder. Mr Agha and Darbaz Rasull, 24, of Hounslow, west London, also deny conspiracy to pervert the course of justice.The jury was told that Mohamad Hama, 30, of West Norwood, south London, an associate of Mr Agha, had pleaded guilty to the murder. He killed Miss Mahmod at the instigation of her family, Mr Temple said.Miss Mahmod's family came to Britain as asylum seekers when she was 10. She got married at 17 with her family's encouragement. But her husband beat her and the marriage failed, so she returned to live at home.When her father heard that she had a boyfriend, an Iranian Kurd named Rahmat Suleimani, he told the young man he would never be allowed to marry his daughter, the jury was told. On January 22, two days before Miss Mahmod disappeared, Mr Suleimani was threatened by Hama. The trial continues.