Liberty and security were slugging it out in both houses of parliament last night. While their lordships addressed 42 day pre-charge detention in a distinctly sceptical manner, MPs squared up to each other over the criminal evidence (witness anonymity) bill.This is the emergency measure that Jack Straw rushed to get drafted last month after the law lords ruled that Iain Davis, a young man convicted of a double gun murder at an East End New Year party, had suffered an inherent injustice by way of anonymous evidence. Some 580 cases in the pipeline were immediately put at risk. Parliament must decide what to do next, the judges declared. Change the law retrospectively to protect the public from what Straw called "nasty, greedy and ruthless" criminals, ministers decided. Few voters will complain.Politicians are not always the most self-aware citizens. But most MPs know vaguely the unhappy history of rushed legislation, especially when the frontbenches broadly agree. The German scare of 1911 led to the Official Secrets Act which took a day to pass and 78 years to correct. The 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act, triggered by a tabloid panic over attacks by "pit bull terriers" (not actually a breed), is a byword for hasty overreaction. IRA scares have routinely produced similar effects since the Fenian bomb outrage of 1867. Scepticism is in order.No one disputes that there is a problem in 2008, largely focused on gang violence, knives, guns, drugs, terrorism too; all cases most prone to lead to the intimidation of witnesses, especially in poorer communities where the police's grip is often tenuous or worse. MPs are scared. In his book on Italy's Other Mafia - the Naples branch - Roberto Salviano describes how most crime witnesses make sure they never see anything: they do not wish to die. But similar impulses to self-preservation are creeping in here. That leads to the core problem that the all-party awkward squad of civil liberty MPs (about 30 of them) kept thrusting under Straw's nose last night.If most witnesses are themselves criminals or otherwise tainted, how can a defendant or his lawyer effectively challenge their accusers' score-settling motives or detailed testimony without knowing who they are - or being able to confront them in court?The right to "confrontation" has been central to English common law since 1720. The sixth amendment to the US constitution entrenches that English right. The highly-efficient court of star chamber was abolished for similar reasons in 1641, Tory spokesman Nick Herbert reminded Straw.Yet even he was unable to answer ("he has lost me") a challenge from the A Squad's Douglas Hogg QC. If the now-rejected common law witness protection order is basically unjust, then the justice secretary's statutory version will also be struck down by the courts, local or European.Opposition safeguards, including a "sunset clause" to make the bill temporary, have been accepted. Law Society and Bar Council pleas to allow such orders only in the most serious cases and exceptional circumstances were being pressed hard. They will probably prevail by the time the Queen signs the measure by its urgent July 22 deadline.