A couple shot dead in their seaside bungalow had fled their previous home after gunshots were fired through the windows, it emerged yesterday.Joan and John Stirland, who were in hiding in the Lincolnshire seaside resort of Trusthorpe, called police on Sunday minutes before they were murdered to say a strange man had been lurking outside. Police - who were aware of the earlier attack - arrived to investigate seven hours later, when they found the couple dead. Mrs Stirland, 53, and her 55-year-old husband had fled their home in Carlton, Nottingham, on September 14 last year. They had been living in fear since their son, Michael O'Brien, shot dead an innocent man outside a pub in the city. Police believe it is possible the couple's murder was a revenge attack. Assistant Chief Constable Peter Davies, of Lincolnshire police, told a news conference yesterday: "It is legitimate to question whether our response was quick enough. "I can say categorically if we had had a call from either of the couple seeking immediate assistance it would have been there, without question." A number of threats were made against Mrs Stirland's family after her son's arrest and she had contacted Nottinghamshire police several times to tell them of her fears, including just after he was convicted of murder last month. Officers did not hear from her again until last Sunday, when she reported that a neighbour had seen a prowler near their rented bungalow the previous night. At around 2pm, an officer returned her call and she emphasised that she did not want police to reveal her identity and asked that they respond to a normal prowler situation. Within half an hour she and her husband had been killed, apparently by two men in boilersuits who pulled up in a car outside their home. A burning Volkswagen car was found at about 2.30pm less than two miles from the murder scene. Mr Davies said an officer from Nottingham had contacted the force at about 2.10pm and reiterated Mrs Stirland's request for a normal response to her concerns. It was not until mid-evening that an officer arrived at the estate and found the bodies. "Our log shows the call of the officer at 9.24pm. "Since that discovery there has been strong cooperation between us and Nottinghamshire police and that cooperation will continue until those who committed this terrible crime have been brought to justice," said Mr Davies. He said the couple had settled in Trusthorpe last Christmas. They were not in a witness protection scheme and had not sought a lot of protection from police. Detective Superintendent Graham White confirmed that the police were following up links between the double murder and the shooting by Mrs Stirland's son outside the Sporting Chance pub in Top Valley, Nottingham. He defended the time it took police to find the bodies: "The one thing that Mrs Stirland was anxious about was that police officers should not reveal her identity. "They should not disclose why she was there and the background to what happened. Clearly, there was a level of concern - she would not have bothered telling us about it in the first place otherwise - but her concern when the officer phoned her back was that she did not want officers coming down and shopping her to the community. "If we had turned up the moment she had telephoned Nottinghamshire police with three armed-response vehicles that would have been precisely what she didn't want."