The draft Queen's speech legislative programme for the next parliamentary session in November covers 18 bills:NHS reformHospitals' income will depend on how well they succeed in treating patients, under plans to incentivise the health service in England. Under the current system hospitals get a fixed sum for each medical procedure, with no attempt to reward those offering higher quality. The Department of Health is working on plans to identify superior clinical performance by asking patients how they feel before and after treatment. The bill will also make the NHS adhere to its first written constitution, setting out the rights and responsibilities of patients and staff. It is expected to provide individual health budgets to patients with long-term medical conditions such as diabetes and asthma, allowing more choice over where and when they access care.Education and skills Ministers will get new powers to order local authorities to act when a school is failing to improve. There are also plans to overhaul pupil referral units, which cater for the poorest behaved pupils who have been excluded from schools. The so-called "sin bins" have been criticised for failing to improve the chances of children they work with: only 1% of pupils in the units get five good GCSEs. Reforms are also promised to strengthen the accountability of schools, giving parents a bigger say on how to raise standards and whether new schools are needed in an area. A consultation will be launched this summer to explore how this might work. EqualityParents of older children will have more opportunity to work flexible hours. Under current legislation 3.6 million parents of children under six and those with disabled children have the right to request flexible working. John Hutton, the business secretary, will set out today how this will be extended in April to 4.5 million parents of children aged 6-16. Every employee will also gain the right to request time to train. There will be legislation to impose a "single equality duty" on all public bodies, outlawing discrimination on grounds of race, gender, disability, age, sexual orientation, religion or belief. This will replace a hotchpotch of existing laws.Policing and crimeThe home secretary, Jacqui Smith, will publish a police green paper later this month designed to reduce police bureaucracy, to allow directly elected representatives to sit on police authorities and to develop neighbourhood policing by giving local people a greater say over local priorities. The bill will also include faster powers to remove licences from shops selling alcohol to under-18s. The maximum fine for failing to obey an instruction not to drink in a public place will be increased to £2,500 and police will be given further powers to disperse antisocial drinkers in public places. New procedures for settling police pay will also be proposed. Banking reformIt is intended to make it easier for the authorities - the Treasury, Bank of England and Financial Services Authority - to intervene when a bank gets into difficulty and also make the financial system safer for consumers by strengthening the current financial services compensation scheme. A special regime would allow the FSA to seize a bank's assets and secure depositors' savings, to prevent a Northern Rock-style run on a bank.Housing and regenerationSocial housing tenants will be given more influence over the management of their homes. A new social housing regulator will reduce unnecessary regulation for good landlords and take into account the views and experiences of tenants. The bill would give people more power to influence local spending decisions and the agenda of their local councils. Individuals may be given a right of response from local authorities to petitions.Immigration and bordersExisting immigration legislation will be replaced by a simplified legal framework to control Britain's borders, including a new and tougher test to gain British citizenship, known as "earned citizenship". Newcomers must learn English, play by the rules and show they are making an economic contribution to the UK, and only full citizens will get full access to benefits or social housing.Transport securityAirport security will be enhanced through this bill, which will require the majority of UK airports to agree a local airport security plan, and charge policing costs to the airport operator. The bill will also introduce powers to combat terrorism at sea.Victims and witnessesThe bill is expected to set up a sentencing commission and framework designed to ease prison overcrowding by tailoring sentences to the resources available. The bill will extend measures for witnesses to give evidence through video link, and include provisions reforming the law on homicide in line with recommendations made by the Law Commission. These include changes to the partial defences of provocation and diminished responsibility which reduce a murder charge to manslaughter. Constitutional renewal This bill gives parliament the final say in ratifying treaties before they are signed. It reduces the power of the attorney general to direct prosecutors, but still leaving a loophole enabling him to prevent prosecutions such as the recent BAE corruption investigation. It puts the Civil Service on a statutory basis for the first time, and regulates appointment of special advisers. It reduces the power of the lord chancellor to appoint judges and bans the prime minister from appointing judges to the new supreme court. It also restores the right to protest outside parliament. Welfare reformA fresh, tough round of welfare legislation begins with a green paper looking at how 2.7 million incapacity benefit claimants can be separated between those deemed incapable of working and those who could work. One option, albeit expensive, is to require the unemployed to go into training in return for receiving jobseeker's allowance. A new employment and support allowance, largely replacing incapacity benefit, will focus on supporting people into work and will not automatically assume that because a person has a significant health condition or disability they are incapable of work.MarineThis will beef up existing laws to protect the sea, creating a Marine Management Organisation to provide a one-stop licensing shop for everyone with an interest in the sea, from wind farm developers to fishermen. The bill also promises to streamline the planning process, and will cover all territorial waters except the coastlines of Northern Ireland and Scotland. A series of protected marine zones will be established, covering up to 20% of UK waters by 2012. Types of fishing will be controlled within them. The bill also includes measures to give the public the freedom to walk all round the English coast for the first time. OthersCoroners and death certification Creates national coroners service, with new investigative powers, and reforms law to strengthen rights of the bereaved.Communications data Strengthens powers to monitor people's use of the internet and to seize data to combat terrorism and crime.Geneva conventions and UN personnel Extends protection of people working for the UN on humanitarian, political and economic assistance abroad.Heritage protectionReforms the listing system for historic buildings and ancient monuments.Savings gatewaySets up new savings scheme from 2010 for the 8 million lower paid, where the government will add to people's savings.Business rates supplementsGives big metropolitan and county councils the right to levy up to 2p extra business rates for long-term infrastructure projects such as Crossrail and tram systems.