A BBC reporter who floored a teenager with a wooden pole and then repeatedly lied about the attack to police was told by a judge today that he almost certainly faces a jail sentence.Ashley Blake, 40, a familiar face on the Midlands Today news programme who also works on the Inside Out current affairs series, was convicted of unlawful wounding by a jury after less than four hours' deliberation.Birmingham crown court heard that 17-year-old Greg Jones, who was trying to calm down a pub argument, would be scarred for life by the blow from the pole. The BBC's Midlands region said it was considering the court's findings before deciding disciplinary action, but Blake said after the verdict: "It's all over, isn't it? My job – everything."He was acquitted of the more serious charge of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, but was found guilty of intending to pervert the course of justice by hiding evidence.The court heard that the assault ended an unusual double life followed by Blake, who combined his TV work with running the pub where the attack happened.He had allowed a birthday party to be held at the premises, The Place 2 B in Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands, in January but drinking and revelry got out of hand.The jury was told that Blake ran from behind the bar to fetch the pole, part of a patio umbrella used to secure the doors at night, after a customer, Steven Sproule, punched 17-year-old Adam Finn in the face, knocking him unconscious. Finn's friends threatened to retaliate but Jones intervened to try to calm things down.He asked Blake to call an ambulance but instead was hit in the face by the pole after Blake swung it round his head. Naomi Gilchrist, prosecuting, said that police arrived and arrested the reporter after witnesses told them that he was responsible.The court heard Blake threw the pole into a neighbouring garden centre and denied using it at all in his first police interviews. But when his own CCTV showed him fetching it, he changed his story and claimed that he had taken it in self-defence to "bat away" ashtrays, bottles and bits of broken furniture being thrown at him by a 30-strong crowd.He told the jury that he had lied because he was "tired, scared and in a state of shock" after the incident.Adjourning the case for reports before sentencing, Judge Peter Carr told Blake: "You have been convicted of a serious offence which involved wounding a young man. The almost inevitable outcome for a case such as this is a prison sentence and I warn you that that is the most likely outcome."Blake said as he left the court on bail: "I can't believe it. There are no words to describe how I'm feeling right now – just gutted, absolutely gutted – and all because I did a favour for someone to host their party there."Jones's father, Steven, said: "I'm just pleased Ashley Blake got what he deserves. He lied to the police, he lied on several occasions."My son is walking around with a scar for the rest of his life. The judge has done his job. I just hope the sentence reflects the crime."Sproule, 38, of Great Barr, Birmingham, had previously pleaded guilty to assault occasioning actual bodily harm. He and Blake will be sentenced on 2 September.Caroline Boots, head of communications at the BBC in Birmingham, said outside court: "Ashley has been found guilty of a serious offence and we will need to carefully consider the findings of today's court proceedings before taking action."