The home secretary, David Blunkett, has high hopes for the drugs bill. It would, he said at its publication last week, reduce crime, save lives and help prevent youngsters becoming addicts. Most of the main drugs charities, however, are not so sure. They are virtually unanimous in their belief that the proposals lack real vision and commitment. The bill, says social care charity Turning Point, is "more posturing than policy". Although the most contentious proposal - to criminalise people for having drugs in the bloodstream - was dropped, the bill does give the police new powers to test for drugs on arrest. Drug service managers fear that this could lead to overstretched services being flooded with recreational drug users. "We're not here to deal with lots of people who use drugs at the weekend and lead normal lives," says Ricardo Woods, who manages Turning Point's drugs treatment programmes in north London. The main criticism of the bill, however, relates to proposals to increase the number of offenders entering treatment from 1,500 a month to around 1,000 a week by 2008. Detractors say current treatment programmes have proved largely ineffective in helping the estimated 280,000 problem drug users in England and Wales. According to the Audit Commission, of the offenders who received a drug testing and treatment order (DTTO) in 2003, requiring them to undergo treatment instead of custody, only 28% completed the programme. "Treatment programmes have to be radically revamped, including linking them to housing, education and employment schemes, which will have a long-term impact on drug users," says Turning Point's chief executive, Lord Victor Adebowale. Addaction, which runs 73 drugs programmes across England and Wales, including drug referral schemes and drug intervention programmes - which provide routes by which offenders can access drugs treatment - says that a lack of housing is the reason its efforts to get people off drugs are often scuppered. "It's all very well getting a methadone script or counselling but if you're living in a hostel where everyone else is taking drugs it's difficult to sustain treatment," says a spokeswoman. The government argues that its drug intervention programme (DIP), which from April will be expanded to a further 23 areas, is proving a way out of crime for thousands of drug-using offenders each month. Announcing the measures, Blunkett said: "Crime in these 66 [DIP] areas is going down faster than in the rest of the country. For example, in Bradford crime has fallen 33% and in City and Holbeck, in Leeds, crime has fallen 32%." The Home Office also claims that the number of people entering treatment through the programme - more than 8,000 between April 2003 and September 2004 - has surpassed targets. Although it does not know how many entrants have stayed the course. The first 14 clients Woods saw under the DIP initially dropped out. This chimes with some drug workers' views that people cannot be coerced into treatment. However, he says, they all now regularly turn up. "When they returned to court, the judge made it clear that unless they attended the treatment they would be sent to prison," he explains. "The real threat of a prison sentence has made the difference." In a DIP area, drug users can opt to enter treatment before they get to court through an arrest referral or as part of their bail conditions; or via the court through a DTTO; or as soon as they come out of prison. Staff are on hand to help with housing, benefits, education and employment and mental health needs alongside intensive drug treatment. When the treatment finishes, other support continues. Middlesbrough's DIP has five dedicated staff, plus two arrest referral workers and a court worker. "They meet people coming out of prison, pick people up for appointments and support family and training needs long after someone has finished a DTTO," says the local DIP manager Mary Edwards. This explains, she says, why 80% of the 170 clients who have entered treatment since April 2003, are still there. In addition to expanding DIPs, the government is piloting drug treatment in five areas as part of a community sentence for young offenders. Many in the field question whether there are enough drugs workers to run the new services. Although the number employed has risen from 6,790 to 9,670, services find it hard to fill vacant posts and are having to rely on agency staff. "It is difficult to recruit staff with sufficient experience and qualifications," says John Royal, manager at Manchester's Alcohol and Drug Service. "If screening is not done by properly qualified people, there is a danger of overwhelming wider treatment services with inappropriate referrals." The other concern is the amount of money being spent on drug treatment for offenders. Despite the recent announcement of an extra £200m for community drugs teams, the government is this year spending £314m on drug treatment accessed through the criminal justice system, compared with £299m for drug addicts who do not commit crimes to feed their habit. As a result, in some parts of the UK it now appears easier to access treatment through the police station than a GP surgery. "Depending on where you live, it can take two months to get proper help from your community drug team, whereas if you are arrested for a crime you can get help more or less straight away," said one senior manager, who asked not to be named. "A policy tied to the criminal justice system demoralises service providers, who are forced to work with a hardcore of users who don't want to change their behaviour, but do want to avoid going to jail - often precisely so they can carry on using. These issues are discussed within the service, but people are reluctant to speak out because they don't want funding to dry up." Woods says the the real issue is that many drug workers are unhappy about being part of the criminal justice system. "We are health professionals," he acknowledges. "But, in my view, enforced treatment does work. These people wouldn't walk into a service, and it's a loss of a good opportunity if we don't work with them."  Ian Guy GP, Fulcrum Medical Practice, Middlesbrough  We take only people who are drug addicts on to our list. We have about 900, and for 120 of them we are contracted to provide treatment under what used to be the Criminal Justice Intervention Programme (now Drugs Intervention Programme, or DIP). We received funding for two extra specialist nurses to work with this group, who are referred through probation, prison, or court workers.The vast majority are heroin users who need a script. This stabilises them because they're not having to go out looking for heroin four times a day, so they can focus on practical problems such as looking for housing and education, with the support of DIP workers based in the centre. Even if people are encouraged into treatment through the criminal justice system, we have evidence here that it does work. I wish we could provide a similar service to our other patients who don't get the full support package.  Stephen Toye Manager, Calderdale youth offending team  From today, we are one of five pilot areas that can test young offenders for cannabis use and require them to attend drug treatment as part of a community sentence. Since April, we have been testing for class A drugs as part of a pilot arrest referral scheme for young offenders. Of the 12 tests we did, none were positive. However, we do expect a significant proportion to test positive for cannabis and to enter into treatment, and we've received an extra £90,000 funding for two workers who will actively engage these young people in education and training and try to sort out their housing. Often young people have problems at home, so it's important to have drugs treatment as part of an integrated care plan. Tackling alcohol usage is absolutely fundamental for young offenders, and no one's doing that. It's not seen as a drug, is it?  Amber Marks Criminal lawyer, London  Evidence of a crime having been committed is required before charge, but the government is proposing drug tests on arrest - before any requirement for evidence arises. There is a right to bail, but recent legislation has removed that from anyone with a class A drug in their system. This includes ecstasy and a host of other drugs with no link to crime. What is proposed is a charter to hunt down and coerce drug users into potentially inappropriate and unnecessary urine tests and treatment with the threat of imprisonment. The distinction between problematic and unproblematic drug use is ignored. As for the existence of causal links between crack and heroin and acquisitive crime (theft, burglary, shoplifting), it is the politics of prohibition that insists it is drug-related, rather than financial. Research suggests that if an addict is given drugs, rather than being forced to score on the street, they tend to stop taking drugs of their own accord.  Julie Bezer Former drug user, Manchester   It's great if someone arrested is given the option of treatment rather than jail, but what's important is how you're treated when you've finished your detox. A lot of people get released back and they've got nowhere to live. It's the same old story: if you don't get the right support after you get off drugs, you're bound to end up using again. I started using heroin when I was depressed. A local lad said: "Try some of this, it'll make you feel better." I had no idea what it was and didn't care, so long as it made me feel good. I wanted to stay off drugs, but needed more support than just medication. I wanted to get into some form of education because in the past I'd slipped back into drug using through boredom. I got on a six-month Bridging the Gap course, run by the Alcohol and Drugs Service for drug and alcohol sufferers, training them to help others. It really helped me at my most vulnerable time. It gives you confidence.  Dave Halton Drug user, Manchester   I was one of the first people ever to be put on a DTTO, but I didn't take it seriously. I had two kids, so I had to commit crimes to put food on the table and feed my habit. I just wasn't ready and I couldn't cope. I started using heroin and crack at 18 and I've been in and out of jail ever since. I was living in a crack house and couldn't get out of the situation I was in, but by committing my offence I got into a bail hostel, which is how I cut my ties with the people I was using with. The DTTO has been a massive help, but you've got to put the effort in. As well as getting my maintenance prescription, I'm on a computer course, and I'm doing basic skills English and maths, as well as a three-year counselling course, which the probation put me onto. It's all about keeping busy. It's a big thing to live a normal life when you've been in and out of jail all your life. I didn't know what sort of person I was when I was doing drugs 24/7.  Mike Linnell Communications manager, Lifeline charity   We're nearing an election, so politicians are outdoing each other to be hard on addicts. For instance, the Tories claim a figure of 1,000,000 hard-drug users. This is a made-up figure and clearly ludicrous. They say they want to put all these people into residential treatment, but how? The figures are all distorted. For example, only a tiny fraction of crimes are committed by addicts, and the detection rate is only 20%, so how do we even know who's committing all the other crimes? I've had it reported to me and other drug workers that people are now committing crimes to get into treatment. The vast majority of people committing these crimes are the poorest people in society and have many problems. We can't have a system that is so strict it excludes all these factors. We are moving away from treating the poorest people in society who are in pain - and don't forget that heroin is a pain killer - to treating them as criminal scum. · Additional reporting by Ed Jones.