Riding pillion on their Aprilla scooters, their faces covered with silver and black crash helmets, the two teenagers screech to a halt outside an electronics shop. It is 1.34am. Within two minutes, they have grabbed a sledgehammer from the back of their bike, smashed their way into the store and made off with £200,000 of electrical equipment.In the 19th century, their namesake sent out his ragamuffin kids to pick the pockets of London gentlemen. Today a gang of 50 teenagers, known as Fagin's Kitchen crew, are selecting richer pickings, from the jewellery shops of Bond Street to the hi-fi shops along Tottenham Court Road and the designer stores in the square mile of the City of London.Detectives fear they are growing bolder and that their next move will be to arm themselves as rival criminal gangs move in to earn a slice of the millions they are making from their smash and grab raids.Video circulatedMembers of the group appear so confident that they are circulating a video celebrating their activities around the two estates in north London where many of them live. The film shows them racing in the streets, performing wheelies on their scooters and lighting aerosol cans as one of their leaders chants a rap in the background.Police sources believe the gang are led by an older man, and behind the highly organised raids lurks the hand of organised crime. In the last year, the teenagers, who operate in groups of four to six using Italian scooters with the number plates obscured, have stolen millions of pounds worth of jewellery and computer equipment. The raids began a year ago in Marylebone, but they have recently spread to the West End. A fortnight ago four teenagers on two scooters smashed their way into Selfridges on Oxford Street and stole thousands of pounds worth of stock. They were spotted by a patrol car from the diplomatic squad, but escaped on their scooters. The last attack was a week ago on Berry's electronic store, which supplies audio visual equipment to the Old Bailey."They come into the City from north London at night down the backways and alleys to avoid CCTV cameras, they operate between 12 and 2am and ride pillion," said Detective Chief Inspector Richard Jack, of the City of London police. "They are ruthless, they smash their way into a store and within two minutes they are gone. Sometimes they have back-up in 4x4 vehicles. There is a huge network of them, and they change crews around all the time, which makes it more difficult to catch them. They know what they are stealing, they go for watches worth £400,000 and light goods like laptops. They are getting rid of the stuff straight away and that does not involve them selling it down the pub."Five members of the gang were recently jailed, but an undercover operation after a raid at Tiffany's, off Sloane Street, resulted in the death of 21-year-old Misha Neering, from Enfield, who smashed his scooter as he sped from police.Police chasesThe scooter crime wave and the death of Neering has led the Met to issue new guidelines to its officers on the pursuit of suspects on mopeds. Officers must weigh up the increased risks of chasing a suspect on a scooter and are advised that it might be better to let them flee and follow up the offence later. In an attempt to catch members of the gang, police in the City of London are hiring scooters to pursue them.In a recent pursuit, one of the gang threw a clubhammer at an officer giving chase and wrote off his hired Italian scooter. As police across London deal with the gang's activities on a borough by borough basis, storeholders are asking whether the crimes are being treated as a high enough priority.Berry's, in Holborn, has been hit by the gang three times, most recently a week ago. "We have lost hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of stock," said Howard Calvert, the company chairman.CCTV footage from one of the raids shows the brutal efficiency of the teenage boys as they sledgehammer the windows and use boltcutters to breach the shutters. At one point an off-duty policeman, drinking in a nearby bar, is seen rushing at the teenagers with a bar stool, forcing them to drop thousands of pounds worth of equipment."We sometimes feel that there is nothing being done," said Steve Guerrini, a sales manager. "There are shops all around here who have been done by this gang. All along Tottenham Court Road stores have been hit as well. We think the police are trying to keep the scale of it under their hat."Modus operandiHappy slapping Started in south London when teenage gangs began attacking members of the public, filming the event on their mobile phones and sharing the footage with friendsCash in transit robberies Last month's £53m robbery from the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, highlighted the increase in these raids, the modern equivalent of 1960s bank robbery. In the last three years robberies from the depots where banks hold their money have increased each year because the criminal underworld knows banks no longer hold large amounts of cashRolex robberies Started in the late 1990s in affluent areas of west London. Gangs targeted wealthy women sitting in their BMW or Mercedes cars in traffic jams, forcing open the car doors and ripping the watches from their wristsSteaming So called because gangs of teenagers wearing hooded tops board a train and "steam" through the carriages snatching cash, mobile phones and iPods from passengers