A young father who had been the victim of a campaign of violence and harassment was shot dead shortly after he confronted a group of youths near his home in east London, an Old Bailey jury was told yesterday.Two teenagers have pleaded not guilty to the murder - the "final chapter" in a long catalogue of bullying.Peter Woodhams, 22, of Custom House, east London, was shot four times at close range on the doorstep of his home in August last year, the court heard, and died in front of his fiancee and young son.Bradley Tucker, 18, of Canning Town, and a 17-year-old, who cannot be named because of his age, both deny murder and firearms offences.Brian Altman, prosecuting, said that in January last year Woodhams had been stabbed in the neck during a confrontation with a group of youths.No one had been arrested for that attack. Before the shooting, he had been "subject to bullying by a group of local youths who had made Woodhams' life and those of his family a complete misery," Mr Altman told the court."Shooting him dead was the final chapter in this campaign of violence and bullying that had permeated Mr Woodhams' life over that period of time."Earlier, Woodhams had confronted a group after one kicked a football into the path of his car, forcing him to swerve. He drove after the youths and chased them.One witness had heard Tucker "ranting and raving. He was shouting something like 'fucking tosser, if he wants it he can have it, if he comes back round here he'll get it, I'll have him.'""Clearly Mr Woodhams had had enough. It appeared very much as if he had set out to confront the group of youths who he considered had been responsible for plaguing him," said Mr Altman.The court was told that there were no immediate arrests after the murder but that Bradley Tucker had later handed himself into the police.The other youth, who was 16 at the time of the shooting, was arrested at his home a day later, the jury heard. He has denied knowing Woodhams. When interviewed by the police, he also denied taking part in or assisting in the murder.Mr Altman said that the two teenagers had been seen close to the murder scene. There was also CCTV footage which showed them arriving and running away into a block of flats after the shooting."Shots were fired and Mr Woodhams moved as if to trying to dodge the bullets before collapsing to the ground," said Mr Altman, describing the shooting.Woodhams was struck in the chest by a shot that pierced his left lung and then his heart. He suffered massive blood loss and the shot proved fatal. He had also been struck in the hand as he tried to protect himself and another shot had grazed his chin. He collapsed and died in front of his fiancee, Jane Bowden, and their son.A neighbour had found what he believed was a home-made bullet after the shooting. However, the officer who was given it "thought the object could be a screw or some other building-type material" and it has since been lost, the jury heard.The trial continues.