A gang of drunken youths punched and kicked a man to death after he remonstrated with them outside his home for damaging his wife's car, a court heard yesterday.Garry Newlove, 47, who had three daughters, never regained consciousness after the unprovoked attack outside his home in Warrington, Cheshire, in August, and died two days later. Five youths, aged from 15 to 19, including two brothers, who had been drinking heavily, are charged with murder. They deny the charges.Adam Swellings, 19, from Crewe, denies murder but admitted manslaughter at Chester crown court yesterday. However, his plea was rejected by the prosecution.The court heard Newlove's head was kicked "like a football" by the group of laughing youths.Michael Chambers, prosecuting, said: "For some time Garry Newlove's residential street in Warrington had been plagued by gangs of youths, indulging in antisocial behaviour fuelled by cheap alcohol, causing a disturbance and vandalising parked cars, particularly on weekend nights."He said on August 10, Newlove went out to remonstrate with a gang of youths which included the five defendants. "They closed round him, knocked him to the ground and punched and kicked him, causing fatal head injuries," Chambers said. "The defendants carried on up the street, leaving the deceased lying on the ground unconscious and being tended to by his young daughters and wife."He had had the courage to go out and face them, but they were in no mood to be challenged. He was no match for their combined assault. One of them kicked him so hard that his training shoe came off and was found lodged under Mr Newlove's body."The court heard that Newlove, who was barefoot, had curled up in a ball with his hands raised up. His daughter Zoe, 18, ran outside and saw "one of the lads kick or knee her father in the back and he fell to the floor."She then saw all the lads, about six of them, kicking her father while he was on the floor," Chambers said. "They were kicking her father as hard as they could, all over his body... especially in his head; she will say, and I quote, 'It was like they were kicking a football'."The prosecution said that on the night of the attack, Newlove's daughter Amy, 12, had been upstairs reading when she heard bangs and people laughing. She heard another bang and something smashing. She looked out and saw a youth kick her mother's car. Her father ran outside.Newlove took one of the boy's arms and said: "Was it you?" The boy swung his arm and punched him in the side of his face.Swellings later admitted punching Newlove and striking him softly on his face with a clenched fist. He claimed others in the group had all shouted: "Hit him, hit him."The trial continues.