The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009 We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies.A Brazilian cleaner accused of blackmailing a female judge and stealing two sex videos from a male judge walked free from court today, after prosecutors announced they were dropping the case."Justice has been done. I am very happy and very proud of God," Roselane Driza said as she left the Old Bailey.In October, 37-year-old Ms Driza was jailed for 33 months for stealing the explicit videos from her then lover, judge Mohammed Ilyas Khan, and for blackmailing another full time immigration judge, a woman, for £20,000. The court heard the videos showed Mr Khan having sex with two women, one of them alleged to be the female judge, identified only as Judge J.Ms Driza was cleared of blackmailing 61-year-old Mr Khan, with whom she was living with until her arrest. In February, the appeal court quashed the conviction and ordered a retrial on the grounds of fresh evidence, details of which were not allowed to be reported.This morning, however, prosecutor John Black QC, told the court that no evidence was being offered against Ms Driza, 37, because the two judges were now ill and there was no prospect of them giving evidence. Judge Martin Stephens entered formal not guilty verdicts and told Ms Driza she was free to go.She refused to discuss the case afterwards, saying only she wanted to "celebrate" and now hoped to finish a final year of a philosophy degree.The former cleaner, from South Norwood, south London, who said today she had been unemployed for two years, had pleaded not guilty to making "an unwarranted demand for £20,000 on the female person, with menaces" and stealing two videotapes. At today's hearing, her counsel, Frances Oldham QC, objected to the fact the name of the female judge could not be used."Miss Driza has been vilified by the Crown as a blackmailer," she said. "She has never accepted that she is anything other than innocent of these matters." However, the judge said the order had been made to protect an alleged victim of blackmail and should remain in place.During the initial trial, Ms Driza made serious allegations about the drug- and sex-fuelled private lives of the two judges, which prompted the lord chancellor and the lord chief justice to launch a formal investigation into their conduct. Ms Driza claimed Judge J and Mr Khan had known she was in Britain illegally when they employed her as a cleaner. The judges deny this.