Gun culture in Britain has taken a disturbing new twist, with teenagers now shooting each other for 'trivial motives' such as name calling, senior police officers warned last night.Detective Chief Superintendent Kevin Davis, head of Scotland Yard's Operation Trident, told The Observer that the justification for shootings among young people meant it was only a matter of time before innocent bystanders were caught up in a cross-fire provoked by the most mundane of issues.His comments follow the shootings of two 17-year-olds in a packed McDonald's restaurant in Brixton, south London. Both were shot at close range with a semi-automatic handgun, one in the chest and one in the arm. Officers last night said both were recovering; one remains in an undisclosed hospital amid fears of a follow-up attack.Davis said: 'We are concerned with the age profile of offenders and that shootings are occurring after almost nothing more than name-calling.'The McDonald's shooting is extremely worrying, in that it took place in a public environment with young children and families around, and has increased fears of innocent victims.'Officers were last night hunting a 6ft black male. Initial intelligence suggested the incident was not gang-related, leading detectives officers to infer it was little more than an altercation between armed youngsters. It is a view corroborated by local people.Steve Martins, owner of the nearby Blacker Dread Muzik Store, said: 'The word on the street is that the McDonald's was a "disrespect" situation. It could be saying the wrong thing or standing on someone's toe. They don't like to be "disrespected".'The shootings follow a spate of incidents in the capital. Last weekend, three men were shot in separate incidents at London clubs, including two who were wounded at the Fridge club, which is close to the Brixton McDonald's outlet.Last Monday, Scotland Yard unveiled its campaign to crack down on 11- to 16-year-olds who carry guns. Police forces across the country are worried about a surge in teenage shootings.Manchester, where more than two firearms offences are committed by 15- to 20-year-olds each day, is still mourning the fatal shooting of 15-year-old Jessie James in Moss Side. Vital witnesses have failed to come forward, as a result of 'misguided loyalties or fear', say detectives. Manchester police did, though, make a breakthough in another fatal shooting, arresting two people over the death of 25-year-old Mark Daniels who was killed on 22 August.Nottingham had hoped that its notoriety as 'assassination city' had been eradicated, with officers recently announcing that the city was on course to go 12 months without a fatal shooting - for the first time in years.However, last Tuesday Nathan Williams, 17, was shot dead in at a shopping precinct in the Meadows district. Detectives have pointed to similarities with the McDonald's shooting, in that its perpetrators also paid scant regard to nearby families and that both shootings followed a brief argument.Yet it is in the capital that the acquisition of firearms appears most straightforward. Last week, teachers sent more than 2,000 pupils home early from schools in Peckham and East Dulwich on the advice of police amid fears of gang violence. The decision followed a turf war between the Peckham Boys gang, whose former members include the youngsters who killed Damilola Taylor, and the Ghetto Boys.The feud is increasingly characterised by teenagers exchanging gunshots in the air. A recent police raid in a Peckham home found a Walther PPK pistol and a MAC-10 machinegun. Police are increasingly worried about the flood of weapons in Britain and about some south Londoners being trigger-happy in the face of 'disrespect'.Roy James, 38, a youth worker who has lived in Brixon all his life, said yesterday that his 17-year-old son had recently been threatened. 'A guy asked him, "Are you from the manor?" If I hadn't been there to cool it down, it could have got bad. My son said, "That's the way it is, dad." People can come up to you and say, "What you lookin' at?" It's ridiculous.'The "respect" factor comes in when it's a turf war. Kids glance at each other and if one of them doesn't like the way he's looked at it can become a shooting.'Every estate has its gang. They might wear red, purple, blue or green. If someone else is wearing the wrong colour, it kicks off. It's like Los Angeles in the Eighties. They carry guns like mobile phones now.'In the past couple of weeks it's been ridiculous. You drive around in south London and see the number of yellow boards put up by the police: nine times out of 10, it's about gun crime. It's an ongoing thing and the police can't curb it. It's kids, teenagers, people between 16 and 30.'Anna Davies, 53, a housewife Brixton, said: 'Everybody is worried about gun crime, especially if they've got kids. Children as young as 15 are carrying guns and God knows where they're getting them from'.A source at Brixton's Fridge club, said: 'The press write stories about drugs and gang warfare, but in the end it all comes down to being an idiot.'