Britain's top policeman has pledged to put more officers on the streets in more visible patrols in the most radical shake-up of the country's largest force since it was created nearly 200 years ago.Speaking exclusively to The Observer, Sir Ian Blair, commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, disclosed that he would be unveiling this 'step-change' in the fight against crime at a special meeting of his board of top officers and civilian staff on Wednesday. 'No other reform programme has been so fundamental,' one of his senior colleagues said. 'Everything - our management, leadership and values - is being re-examined.' The result, Blair said, would be a police service that delivered what politicians, the media and London's citizens have been demanding for years - many more patrols on the streets, organised in small community units. In the wake of last week's industrial tribunal ruling, which awarded £90,000 to three white officers who admitted making allegedly racist remarks but were said to have been 'hung out to dry' by Blair, he insisted the focus of his reforms was not political correctness but making the Met better at solving and reducing crime. The mission of the police was simple: 'Protect the weak, support the fearful and vulnerable, thank the helpful and lock up the bad guys.' On the day he took over from Sir John Stevens last February, Blair set in motion two internal reviews, one looking at structure, the other culture, and gave them the job of producing a blueprint for 21st-century policing. Wednesday's meeting is the first step in a rapid timetable for reform. In September, fuller proposals will be put out for consultation with officers, the government and the police authority. D-day for implementation is next April. The aim of the first review, led by Assistant Commissioner Alan Brown, is simple and radical: to save 10 per cent of the Met's budget and plough it back into frontline policing. 'We want to see if we can reshape the organisation to provide more bangs for the buck,' Blair said. 'This is a £3 billion organisation and I'm looking to redistribute £300 million.' The scope of the changes are the equivalent to those being pursued by the BBC. But there are big differences, notably the Met, now up 6,000 officers from its low of 25,000 five years ago, is still expanding. In return for paying more, Blair said, Londoners deserved a better service, and especially more police on the streets. In the past, the police had 'failed to understand the significance of the reassurance provided by patrol'. The review, Blair said, 'is about pumping more money into the frontline units. The first goal is to pay for more work in the neighbourhoods; the second is to tackle serious crime; and the third is investing in our people.' The Met has alreadyimproved its clear-up rate. Now it must cut recorded crime by 15 per cent in three years, and see more than half of recorded offences lead to some official sanction. The reforms, Blair said, would make these goals a reality. Above all, Blair is determined to cover the whole of London with 650 'Safer Neighbourhood' teams consisting of a sergeant, two constables and three community support officers. There are 250 teams already, their mission to provide high-profile patrols. These, Blair said, would both deter criminals and, by forging relationships with residents, produce better intelligence and help solve more crime. He said a survey of 10,000 people in the first 100 wards covered had produced impressive results: 'People feel there's less crime, less anti-social behaviour, the right level of policing; they feel safer. And they're right - there is less crime.' Blair believes the £300m can be found through reducing inefficiency. No exercise of this kind has been attempted before: instead, the Met has grown for 176 years in a chaotic fashion, creating much duplication. 'The way we've evolved means that every one of these dozens of different command units has its own human resources department, its own finance team. Clearly there is a question as to whether that can be done in a different way.' One area struggling with waste is the gathering of intelligence. Blair added that there are so many different intelligence units, no one is sure of the total. 'Intelligence is the lifeblood of the service. But how good are these units at talking to each other?' Blair said that vast savings could be achieved by merging some London-wide crime groups. 'We've got units that look specifically at dangerous offenders; that look specifically at rape, domestic violence or child abuse. Well, all of these in different ways are vulnerable people. Why not have just one unit? Some of this needs specialist skills, and the last thing I need to do after Victoria Climbié is to demolish child protection. But a lot of these skills are transferable.' Like the structural reforms, Blair's plans to change the Met's culture are also, he said, rooted in the drive for operational effectiveness, not political correctness. This review is being led by Deputy Assistant Commissioner Bill Griffiths, the former head of its serious and organised crime departments. A previous attempt to impose values of respect and non-discrimination - the Plus programme of the Eighties - was drawn up by management consultants and communicated at didactic seminars. Griffiths, however, has started by listening to officers' own understanding of their job and ethics, allowing them to communicate anonymously, via computer, without fear of retaliation. Anti-racism and diversity would, Blair agreed, be an important part of the process. But where he took issue with his critics - in police canteens or on right-wing newspapers - was in their belief that diversity was 'an add-on', rather than a basic operational requirement. '[In] a city where nearly 30 per cent are from minorities, diversity is a fundamental requirement for being able to police,' Blair said. 'To me, the greatest example of community policing is Operation Trident. Fifteen years ago, the Met discovered Jamaican Yardies. I can remember talking to one of the detectives then who said they weren't getting within one in 20 of the crimes. We now are getting a 65 per cent clear-up rate for Trident murders. Understanding the communities of London is an absolute requirement, because if we don't have that understanding we can't solve the crimes.' Blair would go on giving what he termed 'moral leadership' over these issues, he insisted, even if it attracted critics. He said the Met's lawyers were studying the judgement at last week's tribunal for a possible appeal.