A man wielding a machete carried out a terrifying attack which left one man dead and another seriously injured in a butcher's shop in Rotherham.South Yorkshire police arrested a 27-year-old man shortly after the attack on Tuesday afternoon. A murder investigation has been opened.Officers were called to the city centre after receiving reports of a man brandishing a machete in the Eastwood area of Rotherham and the town centre.The victims were stabbed in the freezer room at the back of a halal butcher's shop in Eastwood, according to local councillor Jahangir Akhtar, who said he had spoken to witnesses.He said the Bismillah Food Store was busy with shoppers stocking up for the Muslim festival of Eid al-Adha. A man with a blood-covered machete was seen running out of the shop and smashing car windows, said Akhtar, before heading towards a Tesco store in the town centre where he was eventually cornered by police.He said the arrested man used to work at the shop on Grosvenor Road, which is owned by the family of the dead man, who has not been formally named.Akhtar said: "I've known the family for decades. They are one of the longest retailers of halal food in the area. [The dead man's] father opened the shop on Grosvenor Road at least 30 years ago. [The victim] was a much loved, integral part of the community – a lovely lad. It's a sad and tragic loss."The man who was seriously injured also worked at Bismillah, Akhtar added.Omar Mehrban, a local Conservative spokesman who works in banking, said the dead man was in his 40s, and was married with children.Mehrban said: "He was a family friend. This is such a shock and I feel really deeply for his family."He should be celebrating Eid with his wife and kids – instead they are faced with this. He was such a wonderful person, always courteous and kind. All the times I went in his shop, I can never recall him not smiling. It's absolutely devastating."Others wrote on Twitter of seeing a man running away through Rotherham covered in blood.Richard Cattley wrote: "A man has just ran past me in Rotherham town centre wielding a machete covered in blood shouting move!! Police everywhere!"He added: "All I saw him run past me with knife in hand shouting move adjacent to where the buildings are being knocked down opp market."Ben Shepherd tweeted: "Lunatic running through Tesco, Rotherham, brandishing a huge knife, frightened the life out of our secretary. Taken out by 10 police."A police spokeswoman said: "Emergency services were called to the Grosvenor Road area of the town, shortly after 2pm today [Tuesday 15 October]."On arrival at the scene, one man was found dead and a second man seriously injured. The second man has been taken to hospital where he remains undergoing treatment."The incident was believed to have happened near a Tesco store in the town.A Tesco spokesperson said: "This is a matter for the police and we are supporting them with their investigation."