Police have opened a murder investigation after an 83-year-old woman was found with her legs bound with tape in her bedroom in north-east London on New Year's Day. Neighbours reported that Eveline Kelmenson had complained recently about being pursued for money. There were no obvious signs of injury.Detectives are looking for evidence of forced entry to the three-storey terraced house in Stamford Hill, home to the capital's largest Hasidic Jewish community. They are also reviewing an incident last year when the pensioner was targeted by thieves posing as gardeners. Neighbours said the dead woman, who was Jewish, had lived in the street for as long as locals could remember. One resident, who did not wish to be named, said she spoke to the pensioner several weeks ago. "She told me that there was somebody after her money but I didn't ask any more about it," the resident recalled. "I just assumed she was old and confused." The alarm was initially raised by the dead woman's niece. Local officers accompanied by paramedics forced their way into the house shortly before 5pm on New Year's Day.Murder squad detectives were later called in. Mrs Kelmenson once lived at the property with her four brothers and sisters, none of whom ever married, neighbours said. Her next-door neighbour,Rebecca Goldberger, who has lived in the area for more than 16 years, said the elderly woman had been targeted by criminals before. She said Mrs Kelmenson was robbed last year by conmen posing as gardeners who tricked their way into the house and stole money. "The police say the house has been very cold so I think that is confusing things about when she might have died. Nobody knows how long she's been there."This is quite a busy street and there are always people coming and going." One neighbour said Mrs Kelmenson cared for her siblings until their deaths and then asked to be left alone. The neighbour said that the woman had nursed each brother and sister at home despite her increasing age. "She was a really nice old lady," she said.Neighbours described the dead woman as very independent and able bodied despite her age. Many said that they thought she was in her seventies because she was still so active. Leah Klein, who moved into the area two years ago, said: "She was very active and I always used to wonder how old she was. After her sister died she didn't seem to want any company."I would see her in the mornings when she went out to run her errands and I would see her in the evenings when she called her cat in. "I haven't seen her for nearly two weeks now, but I just thought that I'd missed her, I never thought anything of it." Police cordoned off the dead woman's home and the next door property. Forensics officers could be seen going in and out of the house and small crowds of onlookers had gathered as people in the largely orthodox Jewish area prepared for the Sabbath. A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said the death of the woman, who lived alone, was being treated as suspicious. The spokeswoman added: "We believe we know the identity of the deceased but await formal identification and for all next of kin to be informed. "A postmortem will be arranged in due course."