Probation officers are warning that the public will be at greater risk if the government presses ahead with plans to privatise the supervision of offenders.In a move denounced by the government as "scaremongering", Napo, the probation officers' trade union, said that outsourcing the supervision of low and medium-risk offenders to private security companies such as G4S, the company criticised for failing to provide enough security staff for the Olympics, would lead to "chaos".In a briefing for MPs, the union gave more than 50 examples of "medium-risk" offenders who had been found guilty of sexual offences, domestic violence, robbery and violence against the person, but whose supervision would be outsourced. The union claims that those supervised by private companies would include 2,300 sex offenders, 3,200 gang members and 29,800 people convicted of violence against the person – and that 80% of further serious offences are committed by low or medium-risk offenders."The government's plans are both chaotic and dangerous," said Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of Napo. "Risk is not static; it constantly changes. Offenders are generally not a compliant, problem-free group of people. They disproportionately suffer from mental illness, are four times more likely than the general population to misuse drugs and are 10 times more likely to have been in care. They need to be supervised by experienced staff who can motivate them and properly assess risk."The concerns were echoed by Neil Lambert, the spokesman for the Probation Association, which represents the UK's probation trusts. He said that identifying changes in an offender's behaviour was a skill "drilled" into officers over many years. "If they don't identify this, and plans are not put in place to deal with that, then that is when someone can go out and commit a serious offence and become a risk to the public," Lambert said.Napo's claims were rejected by the Ministry of Justice. "This is scaremongering," said the justice minister, Jeremy Wright. "Reoffending rates have barely changed in a decade, and almost half of all prisoners are reconvicted within a year of their release. We cannot go on just doing more of the same."However, Richard Monkhouse, the deputy chairman of the Magistrates' Association, said that its members were also concerned. He said: "Our concerns are whether future orders will be based on what works or what's profitable."There are also fears that innovative schemes to reduce offending could suffer if private firms replace the public sector. "All the schemes are at risk," said Andrew Hillas, the assistant chief officer of the London Probation Trust. "If probation is reduced radically in size there is no guarantee that these will continue. There is a huge danger of fragmentation and significant scope for confusion and chaos."Wright insisted that the reforms would not compromise public safety or lead to schemes being abandoned. "We will harness the best of the public, voluntary and private sectors and I'm absolutely confident that all three can work together to manage risk and protect the public," he said.