A woman has been arrested in connection with the murder of a university graduate whose body was found in a burning car.Catherine Wells-Burr, 23, was discovered in her red Ford Focus, which was abandoned in a field by the side of a road near Ilminster, Somerset.A 32-year-old woman was arrested on Thursday night on suspicion of murder and currently remains in police custody. Two men who were also arrested have been eliminated from the inquiry, Avon and Somerset police said.Detective Chief Inspector Simon Crisp said: "A postmortem will begin on Friday to try and identify how Catherine died. We still need information from members of the public and those people who knew Catherine or knew of her."It is imperative we get a full picture of her life and you may have information that could help."Firefighters were alerted to the burning five-door vehicle shortly before 6.30am on Wednesday off the A358 in Ashill.Fire crews extinguished the flames and discovered the body of the Bath Spa University graduate inside the wreckage. Avon and Somerset detectives have earlier confirmed they are treating her "tragic and brutal" death as suspicious.On 25 August, Wells-Burr changed her Facebook cover photo to one of a woman covering her face with a book. Accompanying the picture was the message: "You can't start the next chapter of your life if you keep re-reading the last one."Crisp, who is leading the investigation, said on Thursday: "This is a tragic and brutal incident in which a young woman has needlessly lost her life. We are working to establish what happened in the early hours of Thursday morning that led to this car being set ablaze."I am making a double appeal today. Firstly for those people that may have witnessed Catherine and her red Ford Focus arriving at the scene, which is alongside the A358 near Ilminster."Did anybody see that car arrive? Did anybody see suspicious people arrive or leave the scene at about 6am to 6.30am on a busy road? We need you to call us.He said police were also investigating her private and social life. "Did she know her killer is the question that we're asking ourselves. Did she arrange to meet somebody at the location where she met her death?"He said that until the postmortem was complete it would not be possible to confirm whether she died in the fire or beforehand."I believe we are still searching for the offenders," Crisp added. "At this moment there is not a specific person we are looking for."There are many lines of inquiry that we are examining; one of those is that this may not have been a random attack and that Catherine knew her killers or killer. I can assure you, we will find those responsible and bring them to justice."