A "retired" high-profile criminal has lost a high court battle over how much he has to pay back from his days of crime.Terry Adams, who became notorious as the head of a north London gang, argued he was too poor to meet a £650,000-plus debt.He told Mrs Justice Nicola Davies, sitting in London, that he was living off his actress wife, Ruth, and denied having hidden assets that were funding a luxury lifestyle. Mrs Adams recently appeared in Fings Ain't Wot They Used T'Be at the Theatre Royal, Stratford East.Adams applied to the judge for a certificate of inadequacy to show that he lacked funds to meet his crime-linked debts – a preliminary step to getting them reduced or written off.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) opposed his application and said there was a strong case that Adams possessed substantial undisclosed assets that continued to fund a luxury lifestyle.Dismissing his application, the judge said she was "not satisfied that Terry Adams has provided full and frank disclosure to the court" of the assets "which fund his life and that of his wife".Davies refused Adams permission to appeal against her decision.Adams owes the balance of a confiscation order of £750,000 imposed after his conviction at Blackfriars crown court in 2007 for conspiring to conceal the proceeds of criminal conduct over a six-year period.The trial judge said he had accumulated a "considerable fortune" from his life as "a highly successful career criminal" over a significant period of time.Described in the courts as once heading one of the most feared organised criminal gangs in the UK, Adams was also ordered to pay prosecution costs of £50,000 and the £4.6m bill for his publicly funded defence.On Monday the high court rejected his claim that he was too poor to pay up on the confiscation order. The judge said that at the time she heard his application at a three-day hearing in July, the amount outstanding on the order was £651,611, and interest was accruing at the rate of £83 a day.She said: "I believe that there are financial matters known peculiarly to Terence Adams which are not before the court. Upon the evidence presented to the court on behalf of the applicant, I am not satisfied that the current assets of Terence Adams are worth less than the outstanding balance of the confiscation order. Accordingly, this application is refused."The CPS told the court that the Adams's average identifiable spending in the three years from September 2010-13 was £97,000 per annum – "nearly four times the national average". It said the type of spending was inconsistent with Mrs Adams's claim of having no assets and of being reliant on friends and family loans for living expenses.The CPS gave as examples Mrs Adams spending £12,044 on dental treatment and £2,500 on a dietary programme during three months in 2013. In June 2010 she bought a spa membership at a north London country club for £3,850.The couple spent nearly £15,000 on flights, hotels, restaurants and entertainment from August 2009 to September 2013. Another £5,351 went on parking charges, fines and the congestion charge.Barrister Ivan Krolick, for Adams, said his client could not meet the confiscation order. "He has committed crime and paid his price to society," he said.Krolick said Adams became bitter after MI5 bugged his former London home for almost two years, recording the most intimate moments of his private life, including the sounds of him making love with his wife.Krolick told the judge: "You may have felt that Mr Adams is a somewhat bitter man. Rightly or wrongly, to put up with or learn that everything you said to your family and friends has been pored over by the authorities must make a person bitter. This is a man who has been living in a goldfish bowl. There is no element of his life that has not been exposed to the authorities."He rejected accusations that Mrs Adams had been involved in the staging of sham loans. He suggested the CPS case was guesswork and said Adams's claim of poverty was genuine.