She finds it hard to believe now, but when Ellen was punched in the throat by her new boyfriend, she wondered whether the attack might have been her fault. "He leapt up and hit me with the ball of his hand and began yelling at me," she says, "and I remember standing there gasping for breath and asking myself whether it was me – did I do something wrong?"The thought of anyone attacking Ellen is unnerving. She is a petite 41-year-old artist; we've met at her studio in Manchester. "I was terrified," she remembers. "All I had done was put a blanket over him when he fell asleep on my couch and there he was, threatening me and shouting."I kept asking him to leave," she continues, "before he could hurt me again, and eventually I got him out, but I was left wondering whether it was just a bad reaction to being woken up. I thought there was something wrong with him, but you can't help asking whether it's you – was it your fault?"Although she sometimes looks a little fragile, Ellen has a ready smile and an appealing line in self-deprecation; in her studio her vibrant paintings betray nothing of a troubled past."I had been in a violent relationship years before, and that just contributed to my uncertainty," she explains. "You lose confidence in yourself – in your choices and your ability to recognise people who could be bad for you."Until six months ago, women in Ellen's position have had to rely on their own judgement. But last September, a one-year Home Office experiment called the Domestic Violence Disclosure Scheme was rolled out in Greater Manchester, Wiltshire, Nottingham and Gwent that enables victims such as Ellen to ask the police if the person in their life has a history of domestic violence."A friend told me about the scheme and so I plucked up the courage to walk into a police station and ask the question," she says. "I had to know the truth about this man and whether I should give him another chance." What she found was potentially life-changing: the boyfriend had a long history of abuse, harassment and violence against women."He was a serial abuser, and I probably would have been the next person he abused," says Ellen. "I can't tell you what this has meant to me." Knowing his past, Ellen walked away from the relationship. "It could have saved me from more violence, more pain, more heartache. It could have saved my life."The Domestic Violence Disclosure Scheme was created after the murder of 36-year-old Clare Wood, killed by her ex-boyfriend, George Appleton, in February 2009. Like "Sarah's Law", which allows parents controlled access to the Sex Offenders Register following the murder of eight-year-old Sarah Payne in 2000 by a known paedophile, "Clare's Law" is the result of a campaign by the victim's family, in Clare's case Michael Brown, who discovered that his daughter had been lied to by Appleton about his past."I never liked Appleton," Brown tells me. A wiry 69-year-old Scot, he used to be a caterer at Armley Prison in Leeds; he had spent eight years in close contact with convicted criminals. "For no apparent reason, the first time I met him I just said to myself: 'I do not like this man', and I told Clare so. He had told Clare that he had been to prison, but only for driving offences, and she took his word. She had no reason to be worried. After all, they were only driving offences."Clare had been off her father's radar for several weeks at the start of the year, but that wasn't unusual. "She had a habit of not topping up her mobile phone, so I wasn't too worried," says Brown. "Then as I was leaving the prison one night one of the officers said there was a call for me." It was a detective from Greater Manchester Police; she told him they had found his daughter's body. "I couldn't take it in at first. I was numb." Clare, who had an eight- year-old daughter of her own, had been strangled by Appleton near her home in Salford."It turned out she had been subjected to months of harassment and assaults by Appleton," says Brown. "But she hadn't said anything to me." He shakes his head. "I was the same when I was young. If I found myself in difficulties, I didn't like to burden my parents either."In the weeks that followed, it emerged that Appleton had an appalling record of violence against women, including repeated instances of harassment, threats, stalking and aggravated burglary. He had kidnapped one former girlfriend at knifepoint. An Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation later found "individual and systemic" failures in Greater Manchester Police's handling of the case: on one occasion they had taken 24 hours to respond to an emergency call for help when Appleton was banging on Clare's door, threatening to kill her. Six days after he carried out that threat, he hanged himself."When I heard about his history of violence, I couldn't help think that if Clare had known about it, she could have made an informed decision not to spend her future with him," says Brown. "At the time I knew nothing about domestic violence. I did some research and was shocked. It's rife."The latest statistics indicate that one in four women and one in six men will suffer some kind of domestic abuse during their lifetime. In 2011/2012, domestic violence accounted for 15% of all violent incidents in England and Wales (though only a fraction of cases are ever reported); according to the Crime Survey of England and Wales 1.2 million women and 800,000 men reported being victims of domestic abuse last year."Each time I met politicians or police officers, I would ask them why women – and men – shouldn't have the right to know about their partner's past if they had begun to experience violence from them," says Brown. "I got lots of apologies, but no straight answers, so I just kept on asking." Brown could not know, but the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) had been asking similar questions. During the inquest into Clare's death, Detective Superintendent Phil Owen of Greater Manchester Police, who gave evidence on behalf of the force, passed a briefing paper to the coroner, Jennifer Leeming, outlining ACPO proposals for allowing greater disclosure in cases where victims could be said to be in imminent danger from a partner. Clare's Law was born."It's only a pilot scheme and it's only half-way through, but I'm hearing positive things about it," says Brown. "It has resulted in a huge change in attitudes among the police. In the past they used to ignore 'domestics', but now they're taking them seriously. I know that my daughter's last moments were spent kicking and screaming. I also know that she would have got out a lot sooner if she had known what a violent man Appleton was. If Clare's Law allows even one woman to get out of such a relationship, then her death won't have been in vain."Anyone can use Clare's Law, either someone who has become concerned about a partner's abusive behaviour or a third party – a mother, father, friend – concerned for someone in a potentially dangerous relationship. But the information isn't handed out lightly – requests go before the police and agencies ranging from social services to the Probation Service and the NSPCC – and information is only disclosed if there is believed to be an imminent risk of harm. The person receiving the information may not divulge it to anyone else – if they do, they can be prosecuted under the Data Protection Act.James Baker made a request on behalf of his 25-year-old daughter Sandy last December after a new boyfriend had begun to frighten her. "She met him in a work situation and very quickly he let his intentions be known," says Baker. An accountant who lives near his daughter in Urmston, Manchester, Baker is typical of many parents; concerned but not pushy. He says he thought long and hard before making the request – he knew that interfering could have been counterproductive."At first Sandy was flattered by all the attention, but then it became obsessive," he says. "There were constant phone calls and sometimes more than 50 texts a day. Then when the boyfriend didn't get his own way, his behaviour got worse – he would try to stop her going out with her friends and when he failed he would damage things belonging to her. It was a nightmare. She broke it off several times, but he would keep demanding that she take him back. She was very frightened."Baker finally made a Clare's Law request after being told by a friend that the boyfriend had allegedly attacked a former girlfriend. The police made the disclosure to father and daughter together. "It turned out he had been convicted twice before for harassment," says Baker. "The police only gave us the information they said we needed, and nothing going back more than three years, but it was enough for my daughter to decide never to see him again."The night Sandy was given the disclosure, some of her friends took her out. When they returned to her home, one went upstairs and found the boyfriend prowling in one of her rooms. He escaped through a window but during a subsequent police search, officers found evidence he had been hiding in her attic. He has since been convicted of harassment and is awaiting sentence. '"As a family we've been taking it in turns to stay with Sandy – she absolutely refuses to leave her home," says Baker. "At least Clare's Law got Sandy away from him before something terrible happened."Sandy is part of a close-knit family, but often women can be at their most vulnerable when they leave a relationship with a known abuser. The scheme offers police help – from changing locks to installing panic alarms – but there are concerns that Clare's Law could fail if support services are not adequately funded.Karen Ingala Smith is chief executive of NIA, a London charity that has supported victims of domestic abuse for more than 40 years. She tells me she is "generally supportive" of Clare's Law, "but there's no point informing someone they're in a potentially abusive relationship without giving them the help they need to get out of it."Ingala Smith points out that over the past few years, budgets and grants for domestic violence services in local authorities and to independent agencies have been slashed. "What if a woman finds out that she is with a man with a history of violence, but funding cuts mean she can't access help to leave him? She then has to stay in the relationship knowing that she is with a person who has the capacity to harm her."The Home Office boasts that it is "providing £28m of funding for specialist domestic and sexual violence services over the next four years"; research conducted by Lancaster University for the Department of Trade and Industry in 2009 estimated that the cost to the nation of domestic violence in the previous year amounted to £15.7bn.Some women's groups oppose the scheme. Sandra Horley, chief executive of Refuge, the domestic abuse charity, says: "Clare's Law sounds good on paper, but in reality it will do little to protect the majority of abused women. Simply knowing that your partner is violent isn't going to keep a woman safe. What keeps women safe is strong protection from the police. In general, police practice around domestic violence is lamentable." But there is evidence that attitudes to domestic violence are changing, and few privacy groups have raised objections to the scheme.Soon the government will be considering whether Clare's Law ought to be rolled out nationally. "I have no doubts about it at all," says Ellen Lyndley. "I honestly believe this will protect people from violence, death even. At the very least, it saved me."Some details have been changed