The serial killer Levi Bellfield has admitted abducting, raping and killing Milly Dowler for the first time, police have said.Bellfield was convicted of the schoolgirl’s brutal murder in 2011 but refused to give evidence at his trial and always denied any involvement in the 13-year-old’s death. His confession, 14 years after her death, was revealed by police on Wednesday and came during an investigation into whether Bellfield, now 47, had an accomplice. Surrey police said their inquiries into Dowler’s murder had continued – and they had arrested a 40-year-old man. The man was held in relation to allegations of rape and assisting an offender after new information emerged that someone else had been involved in Milly’s abduction and rape but not her murder. The man has been released without charge after police said there was no evidence to support the allegations. Milly Dowler family say Bellfield trial was 'mental torture' Detectives said during the investigation into the suspected accomplice they spoke to Bellfield, who is serving a whole-life sentence, in prison. “He has admitted responsibility for the abduction, rape and murder of Milly Dowler,” Surrey police said on Wednesday. “Despite his conviction, this is the first time Bellfield has made such admissions to police.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Video released by police of a 2005 interview with Levi Bellfield during their investigation into Milly Dowler’s murder shows Bellfield refusing to answer any questions.Milly disappeared “in the blink of an eye” as she walked home from school in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, in 2002. Bellfield was living just 50 yards away from where she was last seen alive on 21 March. Her badly decomposed and unclothed body was found six months later by mushroom pickers at Yateley Heath Woods, near Fleet, Hampshire.Bellfield was already serving life for the murders of two other women, Amelie Delagrange, 22, and Marsha McDonnell, 19, as well as the attempted murder of Kate Sheedy, 18, when he faced trial for killing Milly.Reacting to Bellfield’s admission, Milly’s family said in a statement: “The effect of this information has been devastating for a family which has already had to endure so much.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Milly’s parents, Bob and Sally Dowler, and her sister Gemma outside court in 2011. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau/PAThe confession comes after Bellfield’s repeated refusal to spare Milly’s family anguish. He yawned as he was led from court following his conviction. He refused to return to be sentenced, and trial judge Mr Justice Wilkie said Bellfield was “a cruel and pitiless killer” who had “not had the courage” to come to court.The judge said he had subjected the young girl’s family to the “appalling anguish” of many months of not knowing what had happened to her. And “most cruel of all”, during his defence Bellfield’s lawyers had suggested that Milly was a troubled teenager who had run away from home.“In an attempt to divert responsibility from himself, he instructed his lawyers in this trial to expose to the world her most private, adolescent thoughts, secrets and worries, and sought to hint that she was a dark, unhappy and troubled person,” Wilkie said.Levi Bellfield loses bid to challenge Milly Dowler conviction The police investigation into Milly’s disappearance and murder was mired in controversy. Initially Surrey police considered Dowler’s father a suspect, though they later apologised for the missed opportunities this may have caused.Bellfield, who now calls himself Yusuf Rahim, did not become a suspect until he was arrested by police in London for his other crimes in 2004. Police had knocked 10 times at the door of Bellfield’s rented flat – so close to where Milly was last seen alive – during their investigation. They got no response but did not follow up and check the identity of the tenant with the landlord. Bellfield moved out of the flat the day after Milly disappeared. He only came to police attention as a suspect for her murder after being arrested for the murder of Delagrange, a French student living in London. She was hit by a blunt instrument as she walked home at night across Twickenham Green after missing her bus in August 2004.McDonnell, a gap year student, was attacked with a blunt instrument near her home in Hampton, south-west London, in February 2003. Sheedy was seriously injured when Bellfield ran her over with his van as she walked home in Isleworth, south-west London.Dowler’s murder was thrust into the centre of the phone-hacking scandal after it emerged that the News of the World had hired a private detective who intercepted her voicemails after she went missing.