His cell was a windowless shed with a corrugated plastic roof, bolted from the outside, his bed the cold linoleum floor. He had no water, no toilet, no bedding.It was here, metres from other homes in an ordinary cul-de-sac, that Kevin Davies spent his last, painful months being abused and tortured. His tormentors, a couple he thought were his friends, starved him, beat him, branded an X on to one of his buttocks with a hot knife, and used a chemical to burn his torso, thighs and groin.Not long before his death, fearing that they might be found out, they made Mr Davies take part in a "hostage" video. Gaunt and terrified, he mumbled that he was being cared for, but shortly afterwards he collapsed and died, aged 29.As his chief abusers, Amanda Baggus and David Lehane, began 10-year jail sentences this week for false imprisonment and assault, three questions lingered. Why had nobody missed Mr Davies, a well-liked and gentle man, when he in effect vanished for three months last summer? Why did neighbours not notice something was amiss? And why had Baggus and Lehane, seen as an unremarkable couple, imprisoned and tortured Mr Davies?The son of factory workers Keith and Elizabeth, Kevin Davies lived and died in the Forest of Dean in Gloucestershire. He was a popular pupil at Severnbanks primary and Whitecross school in Lydney. Heartache came when his parents split. His father began to drink heavily.Mr Davies left his mother's home aged 18 and initially did well as a welder. But he developed epilepsy. Drugs kept the condition under control but he started to drink and would forget to take his medication. He lost his job and father and son began spending a lot of time together. Mr Davies had a housing association flat. His father lived in dank, disused railway carriages in sidings at Lydney Junction. Mr Davies would also stay in the carriages sometimes.In 2005 after his father contracted pneumonia and died aged 55, Mr Davies started to rely on Baggus and Lehane, sometimes staying at their house in Badgers Way, a cul-de-sac in Bream. Disaster struck in the spring of 2006 when he opened the door of Baggus's Robin Reliant as it was moving. It flipped and £350 of damage was caused. Baggus demanded that Mr Davies work for her to pay for the repairs. He did chores and handed over his benefit cheques.In around June 2006, Mr Davies began to live in Badgers Way. Not in the house, in the shed. He was fed scraps such as potato peelings - he was to lose three or four stone - and beaten. When a friend of the couple, Scott Andrews, stayed with them, he joined in the abuse. He was jailed for nine years.Baggus kept a diary in which she recorded the ill-treatment. July 21: "Wanted to make sure that Kevin had a good night by getting Dave to beat him up."August 5: "He was playing up last nite, banging in the shed. Scott and Dave hit Prick until quite late, cause Prick made a load of shouting."One neighbour now recalls hearing cries: "I feel so guilty that we didn't do anything. We thought it was a domestic."Mr Davies was occasionally taken out, always with Baggus or Lehane. His mother saw him in a pub in August. She thought he looked thin and ill but did not step in. Her sister, Sarah, said: "He was with his friends. We had no reason to suspect anything was wrong."Baggus and Lehane made Mr Davies take part in the video, a botched attempt to shift the blame. In the film, Mr Davies mumbles: "I'm in ... the shed for my own safety ... thank you very much ... Being fed rather perfectly, actually."On September 26, Mr Davies collapsed and Baggus called an ambulance. When the crew peeled back his clothes they found that his weedy frame was dotted with cuts, bruises and burns.Police remain baffled over what caused Baggus and Lehane to act as they did. "It's a bizarre crime committed by a couple who seem very ordinary. It came out of a clear blue sky," said Detective Chief Inspector Geoff Brookes.Mr Davies's family and residents of Badgers Close are furious that the three may be free within five years. But relatives and friends are also asking themselves if they could have done more to save Kevin Davies from his three months of hell in a shed.