Siôn Jenkins will be told on Friday whether he has won his second appeal against his conviction for murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo.Three appeal judges, who today finished hearing the case after nine days of detailed evidence and legal argument, have three options: dismiss the appeal, allow the appeal and free Jenkins from his life jail sentence, or quash his conviction and order a retrial. The crown has argued that the court of appeal should uphold the conviction or, failing that, direct that Jenkins should face a new judge and jury. Jenkins' defence team insisted that a fair retrial would be impossible after so many years in a case which depended largely on disputed detailed and complex scientific evidence from expert witnesses on both sides. Jenkins, 46, was convicted at Lewes crown court in 1998 of battering his 13-year-old foster daughter to death with an 18-inch metal tent spike as she was painting a patio door at their home in Hastings, East Sussex. It was alleged that, during a three-minute visit to the house on February 15 1997, Jenkins had an argument with Billie-Jo, lost his temper, hit her over the head up to 10 times and then drove off on a "spurious" shopping trip to a DIY store with two of his four natural daughters, Lottie and Annie. The case against Jenkins depended largely on evidence of more than 150 microscopic spots of Billie-Jo's blood found on his clothing. According to the prosecution, they were "impact spatter" caused as Jenkins beat the girl to death. Jenkins claims the invisible droplets were expirated blood forced out of Billie-Jo's lungs as he leant over her in an attempt to help her. Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Curtis and Mr Justice Wakerley have heard a mass of new evidence which, defence lawyers claim, supports that possibility. Crown counsel Richard Camden Pratt was asked by Lord Justice Rose today: "If we take the view that, in the light of the fresh scientific evidence, the conviction is not safe, would you invite us to order a retrial?" Mr Camden Pratt said he would seek a retrial. The appeal, he said, was not, as the defence claimed, on a parallel with the case of Angela Cannings, the mother cleared of killing her children after appeal judges said that juries should not be expected to decide cases based mainly on conflicts between the expert evidence of forensic scientists. But Clare Montgomery QC, for Jenkins, argued that it would be impossible for a new jury to make a decision on the "exhalation" theory. A retrial would involve detailed analysis of factors - such as precisely where Jenkins was standing and environmental conditions at the crime scene - which were now beyond recall. She said statements made by Jenkins would be subjected to "minute examination" and "every nuance and syllable would be jumped on" by the prosecution. "It is quite impossible for a man, seven years on, to defend himself against that sort of attack," said Ms Montgomery. Earlier today, Mr Camden Pratt had contested a defence claim that Jenkins was denied a fair trial because two vital witnesses - his daughters Lottie and Annie - had been turned against him by their mother and the police. Jenkins claims that defence lawyers at his trial were deterred from calling the two girls to give evidence because of indications that they were hostile towards him. But Mr Camden Pratt said it was clear from recorded interviews the girls gave to a psychiatrist that that was not true. Lottie, then aged 10, had said she wanted to give evidence and tell the truth, but said she would feel guilty if something said in court caused her father to be found guilty. Annie, 12, said she did not want to go to court, but would go and tell the truth if she had to. She would not want to help the prosecution against her father, but would not want to lie to help him. "This is hardly indicative of a child who has become hostile to her father," said Mr Camden Pratt. "She just wanted to tell the truth." It was the prospect of their telling the truth about what happened on the day of Billie-Jo's death that really worried the defence, he said. Jenkins himself had said he would be "more comfortable not involving the children".