Another former patient of Harold Shipman's was unlawfully killed, a coroner ruled yesterday, after hearing how the killer informed her family of the death in a scribbled note left near her body.The inquest heard how the body of Alice Christine Kitchen, 70, of Hyde in Greater Manchester, was discovered in the family home by her son Michael on the afternoon of June 17 1994. While waiting for an ambulance, Mr Kitchen found a note from Shipman on the mantelpiece. He could not read the handwriting, but paramedics told him it said she had died of a stroke. Mr Kitchen then telephoned Shipman, who advised him it was not necessary to contact the police. He said the doctor told him his mother's death was "kind of a blessing". But the south Manchester coroner, John Pollard, told the inquest at Ashton-under-Lyne that it would be "an affront to common sense" to disregard the 14 points of similarity he found between Mrs Kitchen's death and the murder of 15 women patients for which Shipman was convicted in January. He said the pathologist, Alan Banks, had found no evidence to support the cause of death given by Shipman. The inquest was the second of 23 scheduled to take place in connection with the deaths of Shipman's former patients. Earlier this month, Mr Pollard ruled that Sarah Ashworth, 74, also of Hyde, had been unlawfully killed. Mrs Kitchen's daughter, Philomena Bardsley, wept as she told the inquest how she had visited Shipman at his surgery the next day to challenge him about his failure to call an ambulance. "He said, 'I think she knew her time had come,'" she recalled. Mrs Kitchen's relatives declined to comment as they left the inquest. But their legal representative, US trial lawyer Daniel Simons, thanked the coroner and others involved in the day's proceedings. A video link to Frankland prison in County Durham was again installed in the court to allow Shipman to exercise his right to participate, but the screen remained blank. A Prison Service spokesman said Shipman was not expected to take part in any of the inquests.