Ordinary people will get the right to spark a range of court orders to curb graffiti, vandalism and street gangs.Petitions, public meetings or even highly localised referendums could be used to impose anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos), curfews and dispersal orders where communities have been terrorised. These would then be rubber-stamped by the police and local authorities, at present the only bodies with the authority to apply for the orders. Ministers also want to set up a network of street wardens, with responsibility for two or more roads, who would be expected to order the removal of abandoned cars or graffiti and clear threatening youths out of public places. They would also have the power to start court proceedings against anti-social neighbours. The wardens are based on a similar initiative in Chicago and the Home Office has been impressed by pilot schemes in Britain such as the 'street leader' wardens in the London borough of Lambeth and the 'community guardians' in Manchester. In an interview with The Observer, Home Office minister Hazel Blears said that the government wanted to beef up Neighbourhood Watch schemes to become Neighbourhood Action teams to take an active role within the community to crack down on anti-social crime. Blears said: 'We have to balance individual rights against the rights of the community. But if there is a way communities can come together, we have to develop it.' She said it was yet to be decided which mechanism would be used to trigger the 'people power orders'. 'It is about being on the side of decent, law-abiding people, but saying the government can only do so much, you have to do something yourselves.' Blears will use a forum on anti-social behaviour in Sunderland this week to outline the plans. The Home Office is organising a series of these events in cities around Britain to persuade communities that the measures can really reduce low-level crime. Adam Sampson, director of homelessness charity Shelter, said the government had to tackle the root causes of anti-social behaviour. 'This is about good politics rather than good policy,' he said. 'What we are seeing is the policing by the state of behaviour which is none of the state's business.' He added that his organisation had seen examples of people given Asbos for an untidy garden. The charity is seriously concerned about anti-social behaviour measures introduced last week to allow councils and housing associations to 'demote' the tenancy of people judged a nuisance to their neighbours. The move was designed to close a loophole which allowed tenants to apply to buy their council homes when threatened with eviction. However, homelessness groups believe the powers could be used by unscrupulous landlords to victimise tenants. Tony Blair has taken a personal interest in the issue of anti-social behaviour and threw his weight behind initiatives to extend the crackdown after an 'anti-social behaviour' audit six weeks ago, The Observer has learnt. Manchester, where nearly 400 Asbos have been issued, is seen as a model, but ministers are also known to have been impressed by an initiative in Leeds where 66 Asbos were issued in a single week to tackle drug dealers. The plans are being prepared in time for the next Labour manifesto, after internal polling and feedback from the local elections showed that 'anti-social behaviour' was voters' number one priority. Initially, senior ministers were concerned that, by highlighting the issue, the government would invite criticism for failing to tackle it. But they now believe the public can be persuaded not only that the government intends to solve the problem but that individual citizens should get involved.