The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, yesterday insisted that his controversial guidelines on community sentences for burglary were not a "charter for burglars" but would protect the public by reducing reoffending.England's top judge issued an unprecedented second clarification of his guidelines after nearly a month of controversy, which he said "unjustifiably" risked damaging public confidence in the criminal justice system. His intervention came after the home secretary, David Blunkett, criticised Lord Woolf's original presentation of the guidance. Mr Blunkett welcomed yesterday's statement, which he said had sent "the right signal". The lord chief justice provoked a storm of criticism after an appeal court judgment on December 19 in which he called on judges to consider sentencing first or second time burglars, where there were no aggravating features, to community penalties rather than jailing them for up to 18 months. A few days later, he issued a letter to judges claiming he had been misreported, and clarifying the guidance for sentencers. Yesterday he was adamant that his latest statement did not "modify, alter or retract" any part of his original guidance. The 1,700-word statement, delivered in open court, blamed "inaccurate comments" for leading the public to misinterpret the guidelines. Correction was vital, he said, because otherwise the public would be left with a "totally wrong impression". Lord Woolf said it had been wrongly suggested that the courts were "more concerned with the offenders than their victims". He insisted that the guidelines were intended to provide better protection for the public and at the same time "result in some reduction in the use of custody". They were "not a charter to offenders to commit burglary", as had been suggested. Lord Woolf said it had been suggested that he had urged that all first or second time burglars, who might otherwise be sentenced to up to 18 months, should be given community sentences. In fact, he had recommended a community sentence as a starting point to judges in working out the correct sentence. Judges were told to impose a community sentence only if that would be an effective punishment and if the probation service would be able to tackle the offender's criminal behaviour and underlying problems, such as drug addiction. He had made it clear that for repeat offenders and aggravated offences, long sentences would still be necessary, and that even for some first time burglaries, for instance where there was violence, a sentence of three years or more might be appropriate. Lord Woolf said offenders sentenced to 12 months' jail would be likely to serve only three months and a further three months on home curfew. The prison service could do nothing in this short time to tackle a prisoner's offending behaviour. A community sentence could keep the offender off the streets for three years with a combination of tagging and curfew orders. That would allow drug addiction, the cause of many burglaries, to be tackled. Community sentences for less serious burglaries would help the prison service to protect the public by dealing more effectively with more serious offenders. Prison overcrowding was undermining the service's efforts to do this. Lord Woolf stressed he was not suggesting community sentences for professional burglars. The starting point for a second time domestic burglar who used or threatened force should be three years in jail. Norman Brennan, of the Victims of Crime Trust, said: "This is just a political chess move to defend himself."The prime minister's official spokesman said: "We have made clear that community sanctions are applicable for first-time burglars if there are no aggravating circumstances, but that was ... taken forward and interpreted as though any repeat offender who turned to burglary should not be jailed. "What this is about is ensuring we break the cycle of offending, and if it is appropriate for people to have a community sentence because that is more likely to break the cycle of offending, then that is desirable." Sentencing guidelines· Judges must have regard to circumstances of the offence, its effect on the victim and the offender's record · Sentencing guidelines must promote confidence in the criminal justice system, but also consider cost of different sentences and relative effectiveness in preventing reoffending · Courts have to take into account that prison crowding has resulted in extensive release on home curfew for sentences of four years or less · While drug or alcohol addiction is no mitigation, sentencing must recognise importance of breaking the problem to prevent reoffending · Where courts would otherwise look at up to 18 months in jail, a community sentence should be imposed subject to conditions that ensure it is an effective punishment, offers action to tackle criminal behaviour, and when appropriate tackles problems such as addiction · Aggravating factors such as use or threat of force, injury or trauma, vandalism, racial aggravation or picking on a vulnerable victim, will attract a prison sentence · Prison should be used only if the offender's behaviour has shown punishment in the community is impracticable, possibly due to offence's effect on victim · If an offender does not comply with the requirements of community punishment ,he should be re-sentenced · Where prison is necessary, the sentence should be as short as possible. Repeat and aggravated offences still need long sentences