The mother of a British backpacker who was murdered on a beach in Thailand was speaking to her daughter when she was attacked, it emerged last night. The body of Katherine Horton, 21, a student from Cardiff, was found floating off the Thai resort of Koh Samui on Monday morning.Police investigating Ms Horton's murder said yesterday she was hit on the head and dragged along the beach and into the sea where she was left to drown. She was last seen walking along the beach shortly before midnight on January 1 after receiving a phone call from her mother.Ms Horton's travelling companion, Ruth Adams, a fellow student at Reading University, told police that her friend's mother had since told her that she had heard her daughter scream before the line went dead. The two students had been staying at the New Hut Bungalow resort on the island when the phone call came and Ms Horton wandered off. As she was feeling tired, Ms Adams did not wait up for her friend but went to bed. She did not realise Ms Horton was missing until the following morning. Her body was found shortly afterwards.The first details of the murder began to emerge yesterday after the postmortem examination, which was carried out in Bangkok. Pattana Kitkailart, who performed the autopsy, said: "There were wounds on her head from being hit with a blunt object, and on her body and arms there were signs that she was dragged."Local television pictures also showed bruising on her left shoulder.Another police officer involved in the tests told the Guardian Ms Horton was still alive when she was dragged along the beach. "There was sand in her lungs," the officer said. The wounds on the third-year psychology student's feet suggest she was held by her arms while being dragged.The officer said further tests would be required to determine whether she was raped. A police spokesman, Tanongsak Aksornsom, told the Associated Press that Ms Horton had been dead for less than 12 hours when her body was found on Monday. Her mobile phone was later discovered on the beach near where she had been walking.A statement from the Horton family read: "Katherine was much loved by all her family and friends. We will miss her warmth, her vivacity and her passion for life. She brought us so much happiness and words cannot express the emptiness we feel at our loss."Her former headteacher, Robert Smyth, of Llanishen high school, said: "Katherine was an outstanding student in every respect, popular with her peers, and extremely well remembered by all staff who came across her."A spokesman for Reading University said: "Everyone at the university would like to offer their sincere condolences to Katherine's family and friends at this very difficult time."Detective Superintendent Simon Clarke, who is leading the South Wales police response, said: "The family are deeply shocked by this tragic incident and we will be there to give them all the support we can. Naturally, they are very distressed at the loss of their much-loved daughter and ask that the media respect their wish for privacy during this time of great upset."The death comes nearly five and a half years after the murder of Kirsty Jones, 23, in August 2000. She was strangled while at a guesthouse in Chiang Mai, north Thailand. No one has yet been charged with her murder, despite liaison between the Thai and UK authorities.