A man has been shot dead by armed police after a five-hour stand-off in west London.Police and the gunman exchanged fire on three occasions during the shoot-out in the Chelsea area of west London. The siege occurred after shots were earlier fired just off the nearby King's Road.Scotland Yard said the incident had been reported to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. The IPCC confirmed their investigators were on their way to the scene.Officers were called at 4.50pm after reports of gunshots. They were shot at and returned fire.One eyewitness said there was an argument between a man and a woman before the shooting started.Sky News reported a distressed woman was heard claiming the gunman was her ex-boyfriend who was licensed to own four different types of guns.Another said her house had been shot by a man in his late 20s with dark hair who was brandishing a shotgun.He fired into one of her second floor bedrooms, sending shot spraying over pictures in the room and breaking the window, she said.The woman, who was not named, added: "It's just very strange. I think it's going to hit me tomorrow, I don't know why someone was shooting at my house."I have no idea who he is, I've never seen him in my life."Tyrone Bennet, 19, who works at French Connection in King's Road said he heard about five gunshots.He and colleague Michael Henry, 25, described seeing police armed with guns lying at the entrance to Markham Square peering through the bushes.They suggested that the gunman may have tried to escape down this road before discovering it was a dead end.A string of shops in the surrounding area were forced to close, with staff and customers trapped inside as the drama unfolded.A resident living in Markham Square, who did not want to be named, said: "I looked out of the window and saw police running around with seriously big guns and I realised something serious was going on. I started hearing gunshots and I realised it wasn't safe."The gunman fired more shots from the house just after 9pm, police said. Officers returned fire.At 9.32pm loud bangs were heard coming from the area were the siege is taking place.One onlooker said: "There were a series of very loud bangs. It sounded like gunfire. Maybe four or five shots. It was loud enough to hear over the helicopter flying above us."Commander Ali Dizaei, who is in overall command of the operation, confirmed that further gunfire was exchanged just after 9pm.He said: "Further shots were fired, they were returned by police."Dizaei said the gunman had made no demands. A police spokeswoman said there were not thought to have been any hostages involved. She added that the gunman was thought to have been in the house all through the incident.After the third exchange of fire, paramedics were seen pushing a stretcher towards Markham Square. A witness reported seeing three doctors in orange suits going into the square along with three paramedics.