Three disgraced bankers, the so-called "NatWest Three", who were convicted in the US of conspiring with former Enron executives to dupe the bank out of $20m, are to be released from a British jail in October after serving just half of their sentence and failing to meet a pledge to repay the money they stole.Gary Mulgrew, Giles Darby and David Bermingham, former bankers at the investment banking unit NatWest Greenwich, which is now part of taxpayer-controlled Royal Bank of Scotland, are to be released on tag from Ford open prison on the Sussex coast this autumn.The men were handed a 37-month sentence in February 2008 by US district judge Ewing Werlein. Had they not been transferred to the UK last January, it is likely they would have been forced to serve at least 85% of their sentence behind bars. If they had been convicted in a British court and failed to meet a subsequent confiscation order, they would have had their jail terms extended. The bankers waged an unsuccessful campaign against extradition to the US under the deeply unpopular Extradition Act 2003. The four-year battle won support from business leaders including the British Airways chairman Martin Broughton, GlaxoSmithKline chairman Sir Chris Gent, Icap chief executive Michael Spencer, retail tycoon Sir Philip Green and London Stock Exchange chairman Chris Gibson-Smith.Mulgrew, Darby and Bermingham at first protested their innocence but after transferring to Texas they changed tack, each entering guilty pleas. Outside court, friends and family insisted they had done so under duress. Handing down the sentence, judge Werlein said the three must repay "every dollar" of the $7.3m they gained from defrauding NatWest. Bermingham and Darby each surrendered $500,000, with Mulgrew handing over a further $250,000. However, almost $6.1m remains owing to RBS.The bank has contacted the convicted fraudsters, who told it they have little or no assets after years waging a battle against extradition. A spokesperson said: "We are continuing to engage with both the individuals and their legal representatives to bring this matter to a close."