Probation officers today expressed fears that the UK's prison population could be sent soaring under proposals for radical sentencing reform set out by the home secretary, David Blunkett.Earlier, Mr Blunkett told the national probation service conference in London that the current system is not working, and he promised longer and tougher sentences for hardened offenders, along with rehabilitation programmes for certain types of offender to help them steer away from crime. He based his proposals on the long awaited Halliday review of sentencing, published today. The review prompted Harry Fletcher, of the national association of probation officers, to warn that if the government followed the most severe model proposed, over several years the prison population could rise from the current 66,000 to about 74,000. Mr Blunkett's speech - his first major policy announcement since taking up his new post - focused more on rehabilitation than many had predicted. He admitted that prisons are colleges of crime and said his aim was not to increase the prison population.It was a balancing act designed to appease liberals who fear Labour is putting too much emphasis on prison and simultaneously counter Tory critics who claim that Labour is "soft on crime", especially after last year's 8% rise in violent offences. One of the most significant changes would see the courts take an offender's previous convictions into account, a change of direction from recent policy which tells courts to punish for the crime itself and not on the basis of the criminal's history. The move is meant to result in sterner punishments for Britain's estimated 100,000 persistent offenders.The plans could need up to 9,500 extra prison places and put a huge 80,000 more offenders under probation supervision, says the report by John Halliday, a former home office director of criminal justice. He estimated the proposals would cost between £300m and £650m a year and could save up to £800m a year by reducing the cost of crime.Mr Blunkett said today: "About 56% of offenders who have served a community or a custodial sentence go on to offend again within two years. "That is why today I would like us to consider more rigorous sentences for repeat offenders and we need to use the time served by offenders - whether in prison or on community sentences - to intervene more constructively to break this cycle," he added.He said there would be wide ranging consultation on the proposals and rival political parties had been invited to contribute. Tim Colbourne, of the Howard league for penal reform, said Mr Halliday's community service elements could be "a step in the right direction", but added the organisation was alarmed by the tough stance on prisons. "We are worried by the suggestion that persistent offenders can be deterred with the threat of prison. There is no evidence for this. In fact, cracking down on offenders means that more of the people who have little control on their lives, such as the drug or alcohol dependant, homeless and mentally ill, end up in jail," he said.Under Mr Blunkett's proposals: • Violent and dangerous offenders would serve their full jail sentences instead of being freed two-thirds of the way through. They would be on supervision for up to 10 years after leaving prison. • The early release scheme would be abolished, to be replaced with a "custody plus" plan in which 40,000 lower level offenders, sentenced to 12 months or less, serve half their time inside and the rest on probation - a measure designed to stop "revolving door" repeat offending. • A new community sentence would replace the bureaucracy of 12 different community orders, including the risk of prison if the offender breaches the terms.• Offenders sentenced to 12 months or more would serve half their time and be under strict supervision for the rest, instead of being let off at the three-quarters point. Related special reportsPrisonsRelated articles 01.07.2001: Offenders to 'pay' for their crimes 28.06.2001: Blunkett aims for biggest ever police force 07.05.2001, leader: Penal populismUseful links Home office sentencing archive Home office crime reduction site National probation service conference National association of probation officers Howard league for penal reform