A man who raped and murdered a 17-year-old girl as she walked home after school was given three life sentences yesterday and told he would never be released.Victor Dembovskis, 43, killed A-level student Jeshma Raithatha near her west London home last May, three days before her 18th birthday. But yesterday, after he was convicted at the Old Bailey, his victim's parents demanded to know why he was allowed into Britain despite being a convicted sex attacker in his native Latvia.The Russian-speaking carwash worker, who had raped two women at knifepoint in Latvia, jumped on Ms Raithatha on May 16 last year. She fought desperately to escape but he raped her twice before stabbing her through the heart and hiding her body in undergrowth, where it was discovered eight days later.After the murder, Dembovskis fled to his home town, Livani, 90 miles south-east of the Latvian capital, Riga. But he had dropped the keys to his bedsit, just streets from Ms Raithatha's home in Greenford, beside her body. In his room, detectives found her bloodstained jewellery in his jacket, and established that four days after the murder he had bought a one-way coach ticket to Latvia, where they found him with the help of local police on June 2 2005.They discovered he had served two jail sentences for rapes in Latvia. In 1990 he stalked a kindergarten teacher and dragged her along a riverbank at knifepoint before attacking her, and in 1997 he raped another woman.He was extradited to Britain to stand trial, and yesterday the jury, who were told of his violent history at the start of the two-week case, convicted him unanimously after two hours' deliberation.The recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, said: "From the first to the last you have not displayed one jot of remorse for the appalling crimes you committed that day against that girl, or for the consequences to her family, who have had to live with the loss of their child for the rest of their lives."They have had, thanks to you, the added trauma of having to endure a two-week trial in which you have twisted, lied and cast about for any excuse you could think of to avoid responsibility."In a statement released outside the court, Jeshma's parents, Suresh and Manjula Raithatha, demanded to know how Dembovskis had been allowed into Britain."The man who took Jeshma's life in this senseless manner has a violent past. He spent time in prison in his own country for the rape of two women. Yet he was easily allowed in this country."We have to ask how and why this came about. What checks were made about his background before he was allowed to set foot on British soil? Although the family is relieved that justice has been done, our loss is for ever, this man's actions cannot be undone."