The last inmates have departed and a skeleton staff is left guarding Britain's only prison ship - in case anyone is minded to break in rather than out.After eight years in which it has gone from being an object of political controversy to something of a tourist attraction, the prison ship Weare closes for business today.Prison campaigners were pleased, arguing that the Weare never provided suitable facilities, and people who live and work near its berth in Portland Port, Dorset, were relieved that they would not have to deal with prisoners as they left the ship.But some business leaders and local politicians, including those who originally spoke out against Weare, regretted the loss of jobs and multimillion pound income it brought to the area.Les Ames, a local councillor and the mayor of Weymouth and Portland, said: "I had reservations when it first came. But, in truth, now the Weare is a tourist attraction. When people come to Portland, the first thing they say to me is: 'Where is the prison ship?' I'll be sad to see it go in some ways."The future of the floating grey metal box, which the Home Office closed because it would cost millions to refurbish, is unclear. There has been talk of it being towed to London to be used by the Metropolitan police to hold prisoners, or being moved east to Southampton and mothballed in case it is needed by the prison service.But the government said yesterday that no decision had been made on the Weare, whose seaworthiness certificate runs out next May.The ship was bought by the prison service from the US in 1997 to ease overcrowding in British jails. Two hundred and fifty jobs were instantly created in the Portland area which had suffered unemployment after the navy moved most of its operations out. It is estimated that the Weare boosted the economy by £9m a year.But the prison ship, which held up to 400 male inmates nearing the end of their sentences, attracting unfavourable comparisons with Victorian prison hulks.Prisoners and staff complained it was claustrophobic. Don Wood, of the Prison Officers Association for the Weare, said: "It did feel cramped - a bit like the cabin decks of a cross-channel ferry. The cells with sea views were okay, but others had no natural light so conditions were pretty miserable. The ventilation system was very old and starting to wear and it was noisy."The lack of training facilities troubled the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, who last year called it "merely an expensive container" and recommended it be closed unless more money was invested.Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said yesterday: "The Weare suffered from a shortage of fresh air, light, exercise space, and any constructive work for prisoners to do."But Portland Port, the Home Office's landlord, yesterday expressed disappointment at the "political decision" to close the prison and move inmates to other jails. Spokesman Rupert Best said: "It had a beneficial economic impact at a time when the area desperately needed it."Robert Smail, owner of the Royal Breakwater, one of a row of pubs a few metres from the Weare's berth, had mixed feelings. "I'll lose a little bit of business because some of the officers used to come in and contractors would sometimes stay here. But I'm quite relieved that we won't have any more prisoners coming in here after they've been released and getting wasted."