A taxi driver who battered his wife and three children to death with a £1.99 "Funsport" rounders bat and left their bodies to rot while he flew off on holiday to Thailand was jailed for life yesterday. Four members of the jury at Manchester crown court wept as Judge David Clarke told Rahan Arshad, 36, that life meant life and that he would never be freed on licence.Arshad closed his eyes as the jury of eight women and four men delivered their unanimous verdicts after deliberating for just over two hours. Rahat Ali, brother of Arshad's wife, Uzma, shouted "Yes!" as the first guilty verdict was returned.Arshad had denied four charges of murder but admitted the manslaughter of his wife, claiming he killed her after she had murdered their daughter and two sons at the family home in Cheadle Hulme, Greater Manchester, last July.Arshad returned voluntarily to the UK from the far east and, when arrested at Heathrow, told police: "My beautiful kids. I don't regret killing that fucking bitch, but my kids, killing my kids ..."In an impact statement read to the court, Mr Ali, who was in court with his mother, Safia Hassnain, and brother, Mustajab Ali Haider, said he had not slept between the discovery of the bodies and Arshad's return to Britain and told of his grief at seeing the four bodies on the mortuary slab. He said his sister had been his "best mate" and the pain of losing her and her children was at times unbearable. "None of us could understand how a father could do such a thing to his children and his wife also ... What must they have been thinking when it was happening to them, especially the children?"The judge told Arshad: "The jury have convicted you on overwhelming evidence ... You killed your entire family in circumstances of great brutality. You beat your wife to death in her bedroom and then coldly and deliberately you brought your sleepy children downstairs to meet their deaths. You left the scene and fled the country. It was over three weeks before the bodies were discovered. There is no suggestion of mental illness on your part."Arshad insisted throughout the trial that he had not killed his children. He said that when he found the bodies lying in a downstairs room, he went upstairs to confront his wife, who he claimed had said: "Are you satisfied?" He had then "blanked out". "I found myself in the shower, in the bath," he told the court. "I mean in the bath. I found myself in the bath with the bat." He said he did not know exactly what had happened to Uzma, who suffered 23 blows to her head and body from the bat he had bought the previous day and later hid in his garden shed.The court heard that Uzma, whom Arshad married in 1992 and described as "an absolute beauty", had been again living with her husband after an affair. Arshad attacked her in a bedroom and covered her body with a towel. He then carried each of his sleeping children downstairs, battering first Abbas, eight, then Henna, six, and finally Adam, 11. He covered their bodies after each attack.After the murders, late on July 28 or July 29 2006, he drove to Heathrow in his BMW, caught a plane to Bangkok and travelled on to the resort of Phuket. The decomposing bodies were found more than three weeks later after a neighbour smelled rotting flesh.The court heard he had told his wife and children that they were about to go on holiday to Dubai, where Uzma wanted to buy gold. He told the children they were not going to Dubai when he took them to Blackpool shortly before he killed them.Mr Ali said outside the court: "My family and I finally feel we can relax. For months we have been in terrible shock. No one can heal the grief we have suffered. My mother can't understand how [Arshad] could destroy [my sister]. The judge made a brilliant decision. A person like this shouldn't ever be freed.""Rahan Arshad's defence has been nothing short of ridiculous," said Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, who led the investigation. "The only time he has ever shown any remorse was when he first got off the plane from Thailand."