Figures showing that violent crime has "fallen steadily", as the Home Office puts it, provide little comfort in the midst of a spate of stabbings of teenagers.Last week, Sir Igor Judge, sitting at the court of appeal, said there was an "epidemic" of knife-carrying on Britain's streets.The parents of the Harry Potter actor Robert Knox appealed for people to think about the consequences of carrying a knife after the 18-year-old was stabbed to death in south-east London during the early hours of Sunday morning. He was the 14th teenager to be killed in the capital this year. Two weeks earlier, the "gentle giant" Jimmy Mizen, a 16-year-old schoolboy who played for the same rugby club as Knox, died after being slashed in the throat.On the day Knox died, 17-year-old Amar Aslam was beaten to death in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire.The British Crime Survey revealed that there were 169,000 violent incidents involving knives in 2005-06, around half the 340,000 in 1995, although the number has been increasing since 2003–04.But under-16s are not included in the survey, and the government is reviewing that potentially significant anomaly.Commenting on the killing of Amar, the Dewsbury Labour MP, Shahid Malik, said violent crime had fallen significantly – 41% since 1995, according to the survey - but youth-on-youth crime levels had remained "stubborn".That was borne out by a study by the centre for crime and justice studies, at King's College, London. The report, released last week, found that "all the expenditure and activity to reduce youth crime has had no measurable impact".Although Amar was not stabbed, Malik called for tougher implementation of the government's sentencing guidelines, which provide for a maximum sentence of four years for possession of a knife.However, last month the Sentencing Guidelines Council said many of those caught with knives should receive a community order. While Malik pointed the finger at judges, the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, today urged parents to use "tough love" to help in the fight against knife crime."Parents have a duty now to be asking their teenagers: 'Are you involved in this knife-carrying?'" he said. The Department for Children, Schools and Families has called on teachers to help tackle gang violence, while others blame the government for failing to be tough enough, despite Gordon Brown's professed policy of "zero tolerance" on knife crime.But David Wilson, a criminologist from Birmingham City University, believes all these theories are wide of the mark.He thinks there are two reasons for youths carrying knives. One is that it makes them "feel grown up [and] manly" but the other is that they are "scared".Wilson says young people have reacted to a world in which adults demonise young people outside their own families – "they are all chavs and hoodies" – and no longer trust adults to protect them.He is dismissive of the idea of knife amnesties, sentencing crackdowns and metal detectors at schools. "The solutions are to think much longer term - how do we deal with a generation that no longer trust adults?" he says.But in a climate in which headlines about violent deaths are cropping up with alarming regularity, he acknowledges that time is not on the politicians' side."Politicians can never afford to think longer term," he says. "They want to be seen taking action, and taking action quickly."