Ian Huntley repeatedly denied yesterday that he had lured Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman into his home and sexually assaulted them.Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, suggested Mr Huntley might have attacked the girls in the bedroom and questioned him about why he had cut the girls' underwear off them after dumping their bodies. The lawyer suggested to Mr Huntley that he had succumbed to "temptation". "It was just too tempting, wasn't it?" he said. Mr Huntley asked: "What was just too tempting?" Mr Latham: "Two 10-year-old girls." Mr Huntley: "If you mean what I think you mean, no." He denied "luring" the girls into the sitting room by telling them Maxine Carr was there. The prosecutor then suggested that Mr Huntley had made up an account of Holly sitting on his bed while Jessica used the toilet because he feared forensic evidence would link Holly with the bedroom. Mr Huntley denied this. Mr Latham said: "You were worried that they were going to find DNA traces in that bedroom, weren't you? Mr Huntley: "No." Mr Latham: "Because that's where it all happened, didn't it?" Mr Huntley: "No." The defendant said he had not sat down with Holly but the QC said that in a "slip" in his evidence on Monday he had said the two of them had got up from the bed. Mr Huntley: "There's a lot of pressure when you're stood up here." Mr Latham: "You went into that bedroom with that girl because that's where you wanted her, wasn't it?" Mr Huntley: "No, it was not. What you are implying is not true. It's not what happened." The barrister asked Mr Huntley to describe what it felt like to cut the girls' clothes off their bodies. "I don't know what to describe, I just cut the clothing off," Mr Huntley said. Mr Latham put it to the witness that he had cut down the front of the girls' trousers and their Manchester United tops. Mr Huntley replied: "Yes." "Then you have got a pretty much naked body, haven't you?" Mr Latham suggested. Mr Huntley again agreed. But Mr Latham then asked why he had cut the girls' pants off. "I just removed all the clothing... I just thought I had to get rid of the clothing," Mr Huntley said. But Mr Latham said it would not have been necessary to remove the girls' pants if they had not come in contact with the carpet at his house. Mr Huntley had claimed he removed the clothing so that carpet fibres from his home could not be linked to the girls. "Or was it that the pants may have been near the carpet?" Mr Latham said. Mr Huntley replied: "No." He denied that he "did not care" about the two girls by the time he disposed of their bodies. "They were no use to you any more, were they?" Mr Latham asked. "They were never any use to me in the first place, in the terms you mean," the caretaker said.