A mother whose husband is accused of murdering their terminally ill son denied in court today she was part of a plan to kill him.Mary Wragg told Lewes crown court that she had returned home to find their son Jacob, 10, dead after her husband, Andrew Wragg, a former SAS man, had phoned her to say he had killed him. Later he toasted his son's death with a glass of wine, she said. Wragg, 37, denies murdering Jacob, who suffered from the degenerative disease hunter syndrome, but admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. Today, on her second day of giving evidence, Mrs Wragg, 41, described how she found Jacob dead and Wragg kneeling over him at the family home in Worthing, west Sussex, on July 24 last year. Mrs Wragg told the court her husband had phoned earlier in the day while out drinking with a friend to say he was going to take Jacob's life because of his illness. However, she said, she did not take the threat seriously because he had said similar things in the past.The defendant then told Mrs Wragg over the phone to say goodnight to Jacob and leave him at home while she took their younger son George, now seven, to her mother's house. She said she agreed because, although they were estranged and she wanted Wragg to move out, she still loved him and "wanted to spend time with him".Michael Sayers QC, defending, asked Mrs Wragg if she believed her husband was going to harm Jacob on the night in question. She said she did not and would have called the police if she had.The defence put it to her: "You knew what he was going to do. He told you and you left the house so he could do it." Mrs Wragg: "No I didn't." Mr Sayers suggested Mrs Wragg had changed her attitude to the defendant between the night of the killing and now. He asked if she had tried to make things worse for her husband.Mrs Wragg said: "I have never wanted to make life worse for Andy but, at the end of the day, I have had to tell the truth and he has to accept the consequences." The defendant told police the death was a "mercy killing". However, Philip Katz QC, prosecuting, alleges the defendant had acted out of selfishness because he could not cope with caring for Jacob.It was after she had bought some wine at a local garage on the way to her mother's house, in Worthing, that she received another call from the defendant. Mrs Wragg told the court: "He said something like, 'I have just killed Jacob.' He said he was going to call the police. I did not believe it. I did not want to alarm George so I tried not to say anything. Andy hung up the phone but called back seconds later. He was just crying." Mrs Wragg, clutching two baby's dummies and wearing a lock of Jacob's hair on her suit lapel, cried continuously as she gave evidence. She said she drove to her mother's house and dropped off George and told her she thought Wragg had killed Jacob. After arriving back home she said Wragg had shouted "we are in here" from Jacob's room. Mrs Wragg said: "I walked back to Jacob's room, which was dark. Andy was just kneeling over Jacob. He was on his bed. I just said, 'Oh my God, what have you done?'" Mrs Wragg said: "I just knew he was dead. I touched him and he was lying, just awkward. Andy stood up and walked out. He said he was going to call the police and I just said, 'No, wait.' "I just kissed Jacob. I felt his hair and I held his hand. I could see some pink froth coming out of his nose on to his pyjamas. I wiped it away." Mrs Wragg said she had told her husband that Jacob's tongue was cold. She said: "Andy got cross and said, 'Of course it's cold, he's dead.'"The court heard how the couple then went into the kitchen and poured themselves a glass of wine. The defendant allegedly toasted Jacob's death, saying he was now with a baby boy, to have been called Henry, whom Mrs Wragg had aborted because the unborn child had also been diagnosed with hunter syndrome. Mrs Wragg said: "I poured some wine for myself to steady myself. He poured another glass for him and said, 'Here's to Jacob, he's with Henry now.'"I went back [to] Jacob. It was unbelievable. I said to Andy, 'Did you hurt him?' and he said, 'No, of course I did not hurt him. He was asleep.'" Later Wragg called 999 and told the operator he had killed Jacob. Mrs Wragg said she was in Jacob's bedroom when the police arrived and tried to resuscitate him.The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.