A Rye grin: Harriet Harman joins police officers on the beat in her Peckham constituency. Photo: South London PressNo one should venture out in modern Peckham unprotected by the following essentials: an Anya Hindmarch I'm Not a Plastic Bag, or for men, a top-quality manbag; a rolled-up copy of the Guardian (or the Independent, if you must) to bag one's seat in a Bellenden Road cafe; and, especially if venturing across the border into East Dulwich, preferably at least one small child called Jocasta. A stab-proof vest is less commonly worn, but may prove useful for potential slips of the cheese knife at the farmers' market or worse, an avocado de-stoning disaster.There are, of course, two sides to Peckham, as Harriet Harman and Jacqui Smith, both of whom have been singled out in recent months equally unfairly, know well. They have lived or worked in this part of inner-city south-east London for years, well before the latest influx of us middle-class nouveaux Peckhamites, who can indeed live the good life cheaper here via the obnoxious new Foxtons nearby, while steering well clear of the estates that surround them - unlike the politicians who try to address the problems.As Harman explained to the spluttering John Humphrys on the Today programme, it was a picture she had posted on her own website. It was just about "wearing the kit" while visiting police, a concept he refused to accept. Perhaps he once believed that Margaret Thatcher actually needed to drive this tank to kill foreigners in person?The absurdity of berating the longstanding constituency MP is compounded by the fact that Peckham is, rightly or wrongly, constantly used as a shorthand for a troubled, crime-ridden ghetto, in features such as this one in the Mirror yesterday, or in describing the life story of local lad and England captain, Rio Ferdinand. There is plenty to back that view of the area. Several of the spate of teenage shootings that made headlines last year occurred here; yesterday, another man was stabbed to death. And it was the location of one of the saddest stories of recent years, the death of Damilola Taylor. The estate where he died has, notably, since been regenerated, with revamped streets of low-rise housing.Harman, like Smith, can't win - or at least get a fair hearing, even from the BBC. Violent crime rates may be falling, but polls show people believe otherwise. So trying to tackle crime is now portrayed by critics as an acknowledgement of failure. When Harman goes walkabout with police who've been given more modern gear, the media pounces. When Smith echoed the thoughts of most women (and many men), that one might feel a little nervous walking the streets alone at night in parts of London, or in any British town or city for that matter, critics jumped.Perhaps we should start to cut a bit of slack to the politicians who have actually lived and worked in some problem areas. Better we scrutinise the off-the-hoof policies of those such as Henley MP and mayoral wannabe, Boris Johnson, who moots such policies as security guards on London buses. Round here, buses are the main mode of transport, work better than ever, and are used well into the night without too much trouble. Rio Ferdinand used to catch the No 63 from here - to go to the London School of Ballet. He's so Peckham.