The death of 14-year-old David Idowu brings the number of teenagers killed in London this year to 19. He died at the Royal London hospital in Whitechapel almost three weeks after being stabbed on Great Dover Street, SE1.January 1 Henry Bolombi, 17, died from a single stab wound to the chest. He was attacked as he walked home in Edmonton, north London, after celebrating the new year. January 5 Faridon Alizada, 18, of Bexley, south-east London, died from three stab wounds to the chest after being attacked in Verona House, a tower block in Erith. January 21 Boduka Mudianga, 18, known by his middle name Louis, died after being stabbed in a street brawl in Silver Street, Edmonton, north London.January 26 Fuad Buraleh, 19, of Hayes, West London, died from a head injury. He was beaten minutes after getting off a bus in Dean Gardens, Uxbridge Road, Ealing.February 19 Sunday Essiet, 15, died from a stab wound after being attacked following a row between groups of youths in Invermore Place, Woolwich.February 23 Tung Le, 17, of Deptford, south-east London, was attacked during a row outside a nightclub in Cockspur Street. He died from a stab wound.February 29 Ofiyke Nmezu, 16, known as Iyke, of Edmonton, suffered a head injury in an attack with a brick on February 15. Two weeks later, he attended hospital, where he died from a skull fracture. March 13 Michael Jones, 18, died from severe head injuries and a stab wound to the chest after being attacked by an intruder at his home in Stanley Road, Edmonton.March 14 Nicholas Clarke, 19, died from a gunshot wound to the head after a shooting at the Myatts Field Estate, Brixton.March 27 Devoe Roach, 17, died after apparently being stabbed in the chest in Stamford Hill, north London.March 27 Amro Elbadawi, 14, of West Kilburn, died from a stab wound after being knifed in Queen's Park, west London.May 3 Lyle Tulloch, 15, from Peckham, south London, was fatally stabbed in a stairway of a block of flats.May 10 Jimmy Mizen, 16, was killed with a shard of glass in a bakery in Lee, south-east London.May 24 Rob Knox, 18, was stabbed to death in a fight outside the Metro Bar in Station Road, Sidcup.May 28 Sharmaarke Hassan, 17, died in hospital after being shot in the head in Camden, north London on May 24.June 2 Arsema Dawit, 15, was stabbed to death in a block of flats near Waterloo station. June 29 Ben Kinsella, 16, died after he was stabbed in York Way, Islington. July 3 Shakilus Townsend, 16, was stabbed in Beulah Crescent, Thornton Heath, south London, and died overnight in hospital.July 7 Southwark schoolboy David Idowu, 14, died almost three weeks after being stabbed in an attack.