A verdict of unlawful killing was today recorded on Sarah Ashworth, 74, who died while being treated by convicted murderer Harold Shipman.The South Manchester coroner, John Pollard, recorded the verdict after hearing that traces of morphine were found in Ashworth's body. But the pathologist, John Rutherford, said there was insufficient evidence to prove how the 74-year-old widow died.Ashworth, of Hyde, Greater Manchester, died in April 1993. She was one of 12 patients of the GP to be exhumed during the investigation into his crimes. Shipman, 54, now serving life for 15 murders, had certified her death as being caused by heart failure. At Tameside magistrates court in Ashton-under-Lyne, Dr Rutherford told the coroner that he could not exclude natural causes, but said that morphine poisoning remained a "reasonable alternative explanation". Because of the state of the exhumed body it was impossible to carry out sufficient analysis. But he said Ashworth's history of respiratory problems would cause a doctor to use "extreme caution" before giving such a drug, which would further slow down breathing. The inquest heard that Shipman had called on Ashworth she allegedly telephoned his surgery complaining of breathing difficulties. Shipman withdrew 30mg of diamorphine in Ashworth's name from a pharmacy on the day of her death - more than six times the recommended maximum dose. Asked if, as a doctor, he would take diamorphine on such a visit, Dr Rutherford said: "There would be no reason for me to take diamorphine with me, either then or in today's practices." Dr Rutherford said it was "very surprising" and "unlikely" that Ashworth died of the type of heart failure that Shipman had recorded on her death certificate. Had Shipman administered the 30mg of morphine he had collected from the pharmacy on the day of Ashworth's death, it would very probably have been fatal. But Dr Rutherford said he could not say with certainty that morphine toxicity had killed Ashworth. Forensic scientist Julie Evans, who examined three samples taken from Ashworth, found possible traces of morphine in initial tests, but further tests proved inconclusive. She said she was breaking new ground in examining a body which was so decomposed. "It was possible that there were large quantities of the drug in Mrs Ashworth's body when she died, but it may have broken down during the five years between death and postmortem examination," she said. She added: "Morphine or the breakdown of morphine was present. There is insufficient research to say beyond doubt that this was morphine."