Melanie Hall, the hospital worker whose remains were found last week 13 years after she went missing, had suffered a fractured skull, cheekbone and jaw, police said today.A pathologist has been unable to give a definite cause of death, but police revealed they were carrying out tests on a length of blue rope that had been used to tie bin bags around her body.Detective Superintendent Mike Courtiour, who is leading the investigation, said: "The forensic examination of Melanie's remains is continuing. Melanie's body was covered and partially wrapped in black bin bags. These bin bags were tied up by a long length of thin blue rope which was wrapped repeatedly around her body and tied up."It is believed to be 4mm-diameter polypropylene rope. The rope recovered from the scene is being forensically examined, which will take some time."Speaking close to the spot where Hall's body was found beside a motorway sliproad, Courtiour said police had received more than 100 calls from the public in the last week."I would again like to ask for the public's help in providing information to help identify who may have killed and then dumped Melanie's body here," he said. "Who inflicted the serious head injuries upon Melanie Hall? Who had access to similar blue rope 13 years ago? Was this rope in the car, house or garage of someone who you suspect may have been involved?"I am sure that someone out there knows who was responsible for Melanie's murder and who then tied this type of rope around her body prior to it being dumped here. I urge you to come forward and provide us with the information we need to identify her killer and bring them to justice."A workman found a bag containing bones as he was clearing vegetation on the M5 slip road at junction 14, north of Bristol, on Monday last week. The following day, police showed Hall's parents, Steve and Patricia, a ring they had found with the bones that strongly suggested the remains were their daughter's.Hall's identity was confirmed on Wednesday through dental records. At a press conference, the Halls expressed disgust that their daughter was dumped "like a sack of garbage" at the side of a busy road. Police said they were continuing to carry out checks on other "objects" found at the scene.Melanie Hall, who worked as a clerical officer in the orthopaedic department at Bath's Royal United hospital, was last seen alive in Cadillacs nightclub in Bath, on 9 June 1996. The psychology graduate, who was 25, had been on a night out with friends and her boyfriend of three weeks, Dr Philip Karlbaum, who left the club without her, apparently upset after seeing her dancing with another man.