Daily Mail Editorial, June 23"Sir Michael Bichard's 'deeply shocking' report on the background to the murders of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman exposes a scale of police incompetence that is difficult to exaggerate. And his findings reach beyond the bungling in Humberside or 'serious errors' in Cambridgeshire. At every level, the tragedy of Soham reveals appalling weaknesses in our system of law and order ... "Nowadays, chief constables don't have to be good coppers - in the sense of being able to catch criminals - so long as they can tick the right, politically correct, boxes and make liberal noises on such issues as 'institutionalised racism' ... Is it any wonder ... that the public is increasingly disenchanted with a force that seems remote and unresponsive? The long-term lessons of Soham go far beyond a litany of tragic bungles." Sun Editorial, June 23 "How dare the Humberside chief constable, David Westwood, refuse to resign over the Soham inquiry? He presided over a shambolic force whose incompetence allowed Ian Huntley to slip through the net - and go on to murder Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman ... Has he no shame? And has he no regard for the feelings of the Wells and Chapman families, who must long to see a resolution to the inquiries into the girls' murders? ... "The terrible impression left by yesterday's report is that some of the people running our police forces are complacent jobsworths whose incompetence is matched only by their arrogance. For Holly and Jessica's sake, our children deserve better." Evening Standard Editorial, London, June 23 "Confronted by the devastating criticism by Sir Michael of the failures of the Humberside police force in respect of the Soham murders, Mr Westwood should have resigned. Instead, he announces that he intends to remain in his job for the sake of the families of Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells. Since the man seems to have no sense of shame or individual responsibility, the Humberside police authority should sack him."Daily Express Editorial, June 23 "The deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman might have been prevented. That is the stark subtext of Sir Michael's report on the police flaws which allowed child-killer Ian Huntley to slip through the net and end up as a caretaker at Soham college ... "The home secretary, David Blunkett, was right to order the immediate suspension of the Humberside chief constable but he seems to have forgotten that his department, too, carries blame. No serious attempts had been made by government for nearly a decade to get to grips with delays entering intelligence into the police national computer ... One of the best outcomes of the inquiry is a new passport system for workers who have been positively vetted to work with children. Parents must feel that, when they wave their children goodbye, they will be going to places of safety." Michael Brown Independent, June 23 "Mr Westwood can certainly be blamed insofar as the failures of intelligence were discovered on his watch, but it is an outrage that he should bear the sole personal responsibility for Humberside's institutional failures, which go back at least a decade. The Bichard inquiry found that there was a scandalous neglect of record-keeping long before Mr Westwood took up his post ... "But while the immediate blame game will centre on one individual police chief, it is actually an institutional failure in the way all our police forces are constituted that begs a wider question. Why do we not have a national police force? ... The current structure of police authorities reinforces the fiefdom approach to catching criminals, and line management stops abruptly at the door of the chief constables. Only a national police force answerable to the home secretary, rather than to police authorities, can be the logical consequence of Sir Michael's report." Times Editorial, June 23 "To pinpoint one individual for the blame over systemic failures which led to Huntley's employment as a school caretaker, and the subsequent tragedy that befell Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, is invidious. To pretend that a system could be put in place which would absolutely prevent a man of Huntley's character from assaulting underage girls is delusional. But to do nothing, in the face of this preventable tragedy - the murder of two 10-year-old girls at the hands of man whom they trusted would, however, be wilfully irresponsible ... "Sir Michael has recommended the creation of a new national police intelligence system. It is an indictment of the Home Office as well as of the police that such a system is long overdue." Daily Mirror Editorial, June 23 "If Huntley had not worked at the college, he would not have killed Holly and Jessica but he would almost certainly have murdered others. The national intelligence system recommended by Sir Michael should be used for all alleged sexualoffences. Girls and women do sometimes invent charges. But when similar allegations are made over and over again against the same man, action must be taken."