Barlinnie prison looms over the east end of Glasgow. The last remaining of the city's nine 19th century prisons, it is as famous a building among Glaswegians as anything designed by Charles Rennie Mackintosh. But this jail, like almost every other in Scotland, is full. And though the chronic overcrowding has been roundly condemned by prison inspectors, the number of people being sent to Barlinnie is rising.As the Victorian institution bulges with inmates, cells are filling not just with those on long sentences but, increasingly, with people who are in and out in days or weeks. For the first time, the number in Scottish jails has topped 7,000; the system was designed to cope with about 6,000. When the Scottish Executive took over the running of prisons from the Scottish Office five years ago, there were about 5,000 inmates. The executive's main solution, so far, is to build more jails. Construction is about to begin on two 700-inmate prisons. But, with each jail costing £500m in its first 25 years, there is a growing realisation among ministers that they need to cut the numbers of inmates, and the best way to do this, they believe, is to reduce reoffending. In the light of this, the executive is considering responses to its consultation on reoffending. One of the most radical submissions has come from the Scottish Prison Service, which wants to reduce the 20,000 prisoners it processes each year by scrapping all custodial sentences of less than a year. "What it comes down to is whether prison is really the most appropriate place for people on short sentences or on remand who are not a danger to the public," said a spokeswoman for the service. About 60% of prisoners reoffend within two years of leaving prison. The highest rate of reoffending comes with prisoners on short sentences of between three and six months; the lowest is among those on long sentences of 10 years and above. Under Scottish law, those sentenced to less than four years are entitled to 50% remission. So the proposal by the prison service means, in effect, that anyone who would currently spend six months or less in jail would get a community sentence instead. This would affect a huge number of offenders. In 2002, the latest figure available, 72% of custodial sentences were less than six months. "It is something we would be very much in favour of," said Susan Matheson, the chief executive of Sacro, a community safety charity which works with offenders. "There should be far greater use of community sentences. Short sentences achieve nothing, but programmes in the community can make a real difference." The Sacro alcohol education programme had reduced reoffending among participants from 86% to 47%, indicating the success that could be achieved by community programmes, she said. In its submission, the prison service says that it is "limited" in what it can do to help prisoners on short sentences. So for chronic reoffenders on continual short sentences, "imprisonment has become a way of life". But even penal reformers admit the service's proposal will not be easy to sell. "People think community sentences are a soft option and that is going to be a very difficult perception to break," said Robin MacEwen, director of the Howard League Scotland. "Schemes for restitution and mediation can be very effective and are generally better perceived, but their availability is very patchy." Not everyone, though, is happy with the idea of scrapping short custodial sentences. Annabel Goldie, the Scots' Tory justice spokeswoman, accuses supporters of "muddled" thinking. "Those who point to the high reoffending rate amongst prisoners once released from jail ignore the deterrent effect of stiff prison sentences on others, which reduces the overall crime rate. There is, however, a need to reappraise whether the system of addressing a prisoner's offending behaviour is being properly applied and whether more could be done to rehabilitate criminals," she said. Clive Fairweather, the former chief inspector of prisons, said that, while punishment should not be removed from a short sentence, such sentences were "futile". He added: "Anything up to three months or so seems to be a waste of time. If you send someone to jail for nine weeks they can simply lie back. But if you send someone on a tough community course it pushes the responsibility on to them and you have a chance to address their behaviour. "Jails are there to punish, let's never forget that, but they should also be about cutting reoffending and addressing problems like drugs. For people on short sentences that simply doesn't happen."