Pope Benedict XVI yesterday reached across the void into which Madeleine McCann was snatched 28 days ago, and offered her a present. At the end of his weekly general audience, held in St Peter's square, the pontiff walked over to a section reserved for special guests, where he met the child's parents, Kate and Gerry McCann, who are devout Catholics."You and your family are in my thoughts and prayers," he told them before holding their hands in silence.After a few seconds Madeleine's mother handed the Pope one of two photographs of her elder daughter. He placed his hands on it for an instant and then made the sign of the cross on the four-year-old's face and handed it back. "I am praying for the safe return of your daughter. I am praying for you," he told her as she stood with the green and yellow ribbons she has worn in her hair since Madeleine vanished.According to a source close to the family, he passed the couple five rosaries. The unspoken message could not have plainer: one each for them, for their twins, Sean and Amelie, and one for Madeleine.The couple did not mention the rosaries at a packed and emotionally charged press conference in the residence of Britain's ambassador to the Holy See.But Mr McCann said their encounter with the Pope had been more personal than he "could ever possibly have imagined". He said Benedict's "touch, thoughts and words were more tender than we could have hoped". It would help to sustain them "in this most difficult time". His wife could only say that it was a "very emotional but also very positive experience".For much of the press conference, as on the vast consecrated expanse in front of the basilica, Mrs McCann looked as if she were no more than half a step from the "dark places" to which she had alluded as she struggled to put her experience into words for the media. "The first 72 hours were the worst time for both of us," she said. "It was very hard at that point to get away from all the dark places."During most of the audience, she kept her eyes tight shut. And when the 35,000 pilgrims gathered in front of St Peter's were told the Pope's blessing was passing "to your children and your loved ones", she and her husband appeared to weep silently with their heads bowed.Mr McCann confessed afterwards that the visit to Rome had produced a tangle of emotions. "In other circumstances, of course, it would be the highlight [for] any Catholic to meet the Pope," he said. But yesterday's encounter, he said, was "tainted with the very marked realisation that our daughter is still missing".The McCanns' religious beliefs are central to their struggle to cope with the abduction of Madeleine, who vanished from their holiday apartment at the Mark Warner Ocean Club resort in the Algarve town of Praia da Luz. Last week they visited Portugal's holiest shrine, at Fatima.Mr McCann was asked if what had happened since the evening of May 3 had had an impact on his religious faith. "One evil act seems to be generating so much good," he replied. "It has certainly restored my faith in humanity."He made a renewed appeal for help, asking holidaymakers going abroad to take with them a picture of his daughter, and highlighting a link (Madeleine.ceopupload.com) from the website set up to help find Madeleine, which enables those who were in or near Praia da Luz at the time of her disappearance to upload their holiday photographs to help in the hunt for her.Photographs with people in the background whom "you don't recognise" would be of particular interest, he said. The investigation was still "very active", and the British and Portuguese police had "a huge amount of information". He said: "We know that there could be a breakthrough at any minute. There could be a call to say Madeleine has been found."