As well as Derrick Bird's twin brother David, believed to be his first victim, a professional rugby league player, a taxi driver and a retired man out cycling were among the people killed in yesterday's shooting spree.Cumbria police – who believe they know the identities of all the victims but have yet to confirm any names – said the rampage began at David Bird's home in Lamplugh, a village on the western edge of the Lake District.The family's solicitor, Kevin Commons, is believed to be the second person Bird killed. Last night his home in Frizington had been cordoned off by police.Another victim was named by friends and colleagues as Garry Purdham, a rugby league player and farmer, who was reportedly shot as he trimmed hedgerows on a farm near the village of Gosforth. Residents said he had been working with his uncle when Bird wound down the window of his taxi and shot him.David Bowden, the chairman of Workington Town rugby league club, where Purdham played, said: "Everyone at the club is shocked and devastated to hear this unbelievable and tragic news. Garry Purdham was quite simply a gentleman and a real pleasure to know. As a player, he was as honest and industrious on the pitch as indeed he was off it."Purdham's 30-year-old brother, Rob, captains Harlequins rugby league team and has been capped five times for England.Bowden said Garry often did a shift on the farm before turning up to play rugby. "He had a wonderful, calm and mature temperament coupled with a dry sense of humour and was one of those players team-mates looked up to."He had the respect of the whole rugby community in west Cumbria. Our thoughts are very much with all Garry's family."Purdham played for Whitehaven and Egremont as well as Workington. He was reportedly shot while working at Low Boonwood farm near Gosforth. Last night a woman who answered the phone at the farm said: "There is shock and horror here at the moment. No one would be able to put two sentences together."Details also began to emerge of another victim. Friends named him as Darren Rewcastle and said he was a fellow taxi driver who had been a friend of Bird's. David Nicholson, 56, who lived next door to Rewcastle, said: "He was a quiet lad, never caused anybody any trouble. He used to love playing on slot machines."Nicholson said: "I am absolutely shocked and devastated that somebody I used to see all the time has died. I never expected this to happen. I was born on this street and I've never known anything like it."Another victim was named by his family as Michael Pike, a retired worker at the Sellafield nuclear plant who was killed while cycling through his home town of Seascale. His son, Jason Pike, told the Guardian: "We haven't been told too much by the police but we don't think he knew this man and there's no reason why he would be targeted." Pike, 64, originally from Liverpool, had begun as a fitter at the Sellafield plant but later became an expert in nuclear decontamination, his son said."He'd been a keen fell walker and he started cycling because he got an injury. We was out riding today to keep fit and because he loved the outdoors. We still can't believe he's not coming back. As far as we know he was shot very close to his home."Also reportedly killed in Seascale was Jane Robinson, 66. A friend, who did not want to be named, said that the pensioner had been shot in Drigg Road, yards from the home she shared with her twin sister Barrie. Speaking at the house yesterday the friend said: "I can confirm that very sadly Jane was killed. Her sister Barrie is too upset to talk at the moment."Locals in Egremont said another of those killed was Kenneth Fishburn, a retired Sellafield security worker. Flowers were left at a bridge in the village and a card saying, "RIP Ken – tragically taken but not forgotten". Reports said another victim in Egremont was a woman in her 60s who had been carrying shopping bags when she was shot.Sean King, landlord of the Boot Inn, said that fellow publican Harry Berger, who runs the Woolpack Inn a mile away, had been hit in the arm in Seascale and was recovering in hospital.Another woman was apparently shot through the rear windscreen of her car near Boot and was taken to hospital for treatment. Her condition is not known.Medics across the region implemented emergency procedures and some of the injured were taken to hospitals in southern Scotland and south Lancashire.The shootings come soon after a school bus crash in which three people were killed and many injured. North Cumbria University Hospitals trust deputy chief executive Kevin Clarkson said: "This is our second major incident within 10 days and our staff are doing a fantastic job under very difficult circumstances."