Sentencing 11-year-olds Robert Thompson and Jon Venables to detention without limit for the murder of two-year-old James Bulger 20 years ago on Tuesday, Judge Morland surrendered to public pressure to name children and condemned them as guilty of "unparalleled evil and barbarity".Outside Preston crown court, a mob threw stones and bayed for their blood. A Daily Mirror headline said the boys were "Freaks of Nature"; the Daily Star asked: "How Do You Feel Now, You Little Bastards?". The Sun's front page stated that the "Devil Himself Couldn't Have Made A Better Job of Two Fiends". Politicians, meanwhile, damned the boys as "Nasty little juveniles", "Hooligans", "Worthless" and "Evil".According to Blake Morrison, who studied the case in his book, As If, the murder and the subsequent events "shamed Britain in the eyes of the world – not because the murder itself was so shocking (though it was) but because of the media circus, the court process, the inability of the boys to instruct their lawyers and the public's opposition to the possibility of them being rehabilitated."Understandably, the Bulger case began a nationwide wave of shock and moral panic. But people had no sooner started to ask what kind of world is it where children could kill children, when Michael Howard, the then Home Secretary, exercised his power – now abolished – to extend the children's minimum tariff from the original eight to 15 years: a move that was reversed by the European Court of Human Rights in 1999.The soul-searching continued. As the lynch-mob mentality calmed, some of those at the heart of the case began to question the degree to which they had become caught up in the wave of panic.A juror, Vincent Moss, said as the case progressed in Europe: "We should have gone back into court and said yes, we do have a verdict: our verdict is that these boys are in urgent need of social and psychiatric help."How much has changed in the 20 years? Laurence Lee, the lawyer who represented Venables, is bleak. "Despite all the questioning about how society failed Venables and Thompson, as well as James Bulger, and how the mob, media, courts and politicians behaved during and after the trial, nothing has really changed," he said."Sentencing of children is more sympathetic," he concedes, "but society is still as venomous as it was back in 1993. Mob law was on the point of winning back then. If we look at more recent cases involving children, we can see nothing has really changed."Helen McNutt, an author, has studied the newspaper coverage of cases from the Bulger trial to contemporary cases to trace the development in the way we view young people today, and she agrees with Lee that "society has learnt nothing". McNutt points to the 2009 case in Edlington, South Yorkshire, where two brothers, aged 10 and 11, brutally burnt, stabbed and sexually assaulted two boys, aged nine and 11."The Edlington children who, like the Bulger murderers, were among the most damaged and vulnerable members of our society, were damned as the 'devil brothers', 'hell boys', 'Savages' and 'Torture bruvs'," she said.This matters, said McNutt, because "as long as the media and politicians continue to talk about children in this way, the public take their lead from them and think it's OK to do likewise. The result is we've created a culture of fear around children and young people. We've created a fractured, scared and defensive society."England and Wales now spend 11 times more on locking children up than on preventing youth crime, according to the Home Office. It costs about £215,000 a year to keep a child in one of the UK's 10 secure units. Yet about 75% of young people leaving custody will reoffend, and 27% of adult prisoners have been in care. Reoffending by these former children in care costs about £3bn a year.Professor Barry Goldson, Charles Booth chair of Social Science at the University of Liverpool, agreed that "the significance of the Bulger case – in influencing the mood and trajectory of subsequent youth justice policy in England and Wales – can hardly be overstated."Goldson believes the case was "cynically and shamelessly hijacked by politicians and the media". He said: "By exploiting – if not manufacturing – public anxieties and emphasising 'evil' and corrosive moral malaise, politicians promised to introduce ever-more repressive youth justice policies and offer confident assurances that they would re-install discipline, decency, standards and order."The result is a contemporary youth justice policy in England and Wales "in which the rights of children and the imperatives of justice – both social and criminal – are seriously compromised". The criminal justice system for juveniles in England and Wales is now the most punitive in Europe, if not the western world, based on sentences and age of legal responsibility – aged 10 compared with the average in Europe of 14. It is repeatedly criticised by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child."While it's too much to say reactions to the Bulger case are the cause of this hardening," said Goldson, "the case was a watershed moment that certainly served to concretise a percolating harshness in the governance of youth crime that, despite a change of government in 1997, has endured."Venables and Thompson were detained for eight years and released with new identities in 2001; Venables was recalled to prison in 2010 after being caught with child pornography on his computer. This week, James Bulger's mother, Denise Fergus, who two years ago set up the James Bulger Memorial Trust charity to help children victims of crime and bullying, said Venables should not be released. "I'm not saying he should never be released, I don't believe that. But now is not the right time because he is a danger," she said.