Diana Fulbrook, chief officer, Wiltshire probation area and public protection lead, Probation Chiefs AssociationI think London is a special case simply because of the size and scale of the area. We manage some very difficult and dangerous people, so at any point in time something can go wrong – occasionally because we didn't do our job properly, but more often because, despite what we do, offenders choose to act in that way. You cannot eliminate risk but you can contribute to managing and controlling it in many cases.Resources are a key issue. The challenge for chief officers is to make the right decisions to manage those resources to best effect. There are severe financial pressures on the service, which means we are unable to recruit as many people as we would like. Retention is not so much of a problem in my area but it is in others. Morale can be pretty low among staff because of uncertainty and negative public opinion, and a case like this doesn't help.The death of Baby P has exacerbated the recruitment and retention issues for social workers, and there's a danger that cases such as the Sonnex case could make this a real issue for the probation service too.Unlike prisons, we can't close the doors to cases. We have to take whatever the courts give us, and managing demands is a real challenge.We are very successful at managing high-risk offences. The majority of serious reoffending comes from those who are medium risk, so it is absolutely essential we get better at assessing and managing this.Resources follow risk, so everything depends on getting that first assessment right. Our resources dictate that we therefore concentrate more on the most risky group of people. That means there will be some in the medium group of offenders who have got the potential to commit very serious offences. It comes down to being able to spot this early enough to move them into a higher risk category and manage them accordingly. Sometimes this is easy to spot but at other times it is not.If you want to have fewer people in prison, you do need to grow the capacity of the probation service longer term to manage people effectively in the community, and you need the public to have confidence in our ability to do this.Our fear as chief officers is that cases like this one undermine that confidence, and that without longer-term committed funding and growth, the probation service will be increasingly unable to deliver the level of public protection required.Dino Peros, national vice-chair of Napo (the trade union and professional association for family court and probation staff), Devon and Cornwall probation areaPeople employed in the public sector feel really angry, extremely betrayed and let down by the Labour government, and what will likely be seen as failing criminal justice policy.We are looking at 25% overall budget cuts in the south-west. Our projected cuts are £1m this financial year, £1.5m next and a further £1m by April 2011. These cuts will potentially create more cases like Sonnex. It is an unacceptable risk to take.Caseloads in Devon and Cornwall are managed through a workload weighting system. If an officer has too much work, their line manager will sign off on what work can be left or taken away from the practitioner.Cases are often very complex and officers need proper time to deal with the unique circumstances of each one. No two people are the same and all have different assessed needs. What is obvious is that if you decrease resources, and that means staffing, then inevitably it will increase the workload.By doing that, you compound the problems and increase the risk. The public won't take long to work out that stretched staff, lack of resources and an over-burdened, target-driven culture is not tough on crime.There is nothing consoling in the words we hear too often these days that we will draw from lessons learned. What will it really take for politicians to stop playing roulette with people's lives? The system failed.Steve Collett, vice-chair, Probation Chiefs Association, and chief officer, Cheshire probation areaThe difference between London Probation and the other 41 areas in England and Wales is the scale. It is 10 times the size of my area in Cheshire. London's budget is £150m, Cheshire's £15m, yet Cheshire is a medium-sized area. London has about 20% of the total workload of the National Probation Service, ie 40,000 cases out of the 200,000 we supervise.London Probation is facing a number of similar issues to other public sector agencies in the capital that set it apart from most other areas:1) An increasingly diverse population.2) A more transient population: an offender without a fixed address who commits a further offence, for example, is much more difficult to track down.3) Recruiting staff is much more difficult.4) It is subject to far greater scrutiny because it commands the greatest proportion of resources and is much closer to the seat of power, Westminster, and the Ministry of Justice.Caseloads are only one part of the job. Probation officers also write court reports and conduct prison visits. In Cheshire, probation officers typically have 40-60 cases comprising higher-risk offenders among their total caseload. It's relatively easy in Cheshire to take contingency action to make sure workloads are not excessive.The problem for probation is that we have no control over the inflow of work. This is largely determined by the courts and the sentences handed down. For example, community payback is a very popular sentence with magistrates and judges in low-level offences, where before they might have historically handed out fines. This means we have to divert resources, which could have been spent on medium-risk offenders.We have been very successful at reducing reoffending. Some 59% of those sent to prison for less than a year will be reconvicted within 12 months of their release as compared with a reconviction rate of 38% for those given community orders.When things have gone wrong, this is usually due to poor risk assessment and risk management decisions, but in circumstances and an environment that may not be entirely supportive. Typically, it will be the result of a combination of factors that may include a lack of support and good line management, inefficient resources or IT systems.Geoff Dobson, a former chief probation officer and deputy director of the Prison Reform TrustThe National Offender Management Service was established in 2004 to provide "the end-to-end management of offenders" and to "break down the current silos of prison and probation". This case suggests that much remains to be done.Many questions have been raised in the media about pressures on probation staff, and the performance of police and probation in dealing with recalls to prison. At a time when we are locking up more and more children and young people, this examination of the time Dano Sonnex spent in custody from the age of 17 raises a number of concerns about the effectiveness of the young offender estate such as: why was a highly disturbed young man transferred frequently within the young offender estate, preventing continuity of care and attention; what was the impact of repeated periods of separation; and how did he manage to access drugs so readily throughout the early years of his custodial sentence?As we seek to learn lessons from this horrendous and, thankfully, unusual case, it is important that we do not overlook the years that Dano Sonnex had already spent in our custodial system.