The grandmother of a five-year-old girl killed by a pit bull terrier on New Year's Day had drunk alcohol, taken anti-depressants and smoked cannabis before the attack, a court heard yesterday.Ellie Lawrenson was in the care of Jacqueline Simpson at her home in St Helens, Merseyside, early on January 1 when the dog attacked her, causing 72 injuries, primarily to her head and neck. Ms Simpson, 45, denies manslaughter by allegedly failing to take proper care of Ellie by allowing the dog, which was illegally owned, in the house when she knew it was dangerous.The dog, called Reuben, was owned by Ellie's uncle, Kiel Simpson. Neil Flewitt, prosecuting, said a police expert had described it as "possibly one of the finest examples of a pit bull terrier type that I have ever examined."Mr Flewitt told Liverpool crown court the expert had said: "It was an exceptionally powerful dog with immeasurable strength to bite and shake." Reuben was twice the weight of Ellie, who weighed just 17kg (37.5lb) and was 1.067m (3ft 6in) tall. She was knocked off her feet at the start of the attack and "didn't get up again," the court heard.It was a family rule that the dog was never allowed in the house, the jury was told, but in transcripts of a police interview Ms Simpson described how she let it in when she found it whimpering at the door. "It just looked scared - not like it normally looked. It was just quivering and moaning at the door, so I let him in," she said. She told Ellie they were going to bed. Then there was a bang and the dog started barking and running around, and "then it got Ellie there on the chair".She said: "As I turned round, it was on top of her on this chair and I couldn't get it off. I was screaming ... Its body was on top of her and her little legs was moving and it was shaking her on the chair and it just wouldn't leave go and it was on the sofa and it was all round the floor. It wouldn't leave go."She shouted my name once. She shouted Nanny." She said she thought it had hold of Ellie by the throat. "It had hold of her, it just kept shaking her around."I was fighting with it, I was trying to get it off her. It put her down, it just started running round barking and just barking, barking."She said of Ellie: "I knew she wasn't with us any more. She was covered in blood, all her hair and everything."Police arrived at 4.27am and found Ellie's body lying on the floor and the lounge covered in blood. "They saw the defendant sitting on the floor of the kitchen with her back to the lounge," Mr Flewitt said. "The defendant was covered in blood and she had injuries to her right arm which the officers correctly assumed were dog bites." Ms Simpson was taken to hospital by ambulance. The court heard that a month before the fatal attack on Ellie, Reuben had suddenly attacked Kiel Simpson's 19-year-old sister, Kelsey, in an unprovoked incident when he jumped up and moved to block her path.Kelsey described Reuben's eyes as "bulging, red and horrible," as he sank his teeth into her right leg and tried to shake her. Her mother managed to drag him off by the tail, but Kelsey was bitten three times and needed hospital treatment. Mr Flewitt told the jury: "The defendant also told police that at the time of the incident, she was taking anti-depressant medication prescribed by her doctor. You will have to consider whether the combination of prescribed medication, cannabis and alcohol had any effect upon the defendant's actions that night."In particular, you will have to decide whether her judgment was affected to the extent that she broke a clear family rule and let Reuben into the house at the same time as Ellie."The court heard that Kiel Simpson bought Reuben at the end of 2005 when he was four to five weeks old. He was small and playful but grew quickly and was so strong that "only Kiel could take him for walks," Mr Flewitt said. "He would play in the garden by carrying around a large piece of wood or by bouncing on the trampoline."In May 2006, Reuben had attacked a Jack Russell Terrier called Milo as he was taken for a walk by his owner. At one stage, Reuben had the whole of Milo's body in his mouth. The dog warden at St Helens council had written to the owner/occupier of the house in Knowles House Avenue, but Jacqueline Simpson denied receiving the letter.In April, Kiel Simpson pleaded guilty at Liverpool magistrates court to having in his possession a pit bull terrier contrary to section one of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991. He was jailed for eight weeks.The case continues.