One of the Metropolitan police force's longest serving black officers told a tribunal yesterday he had lost confidence in the force after it disregarded his complaints about his superior.Leslie Bowie, aged 45, who continues to work as a PC for the force he joined in 1973, has brought a claim of racial discrimination against the Met and Detective Inspector Alan Garrod of Heathrow CID.Mr Bowie told an industrial tribunal in Croydon he had been constantly ill-treated by Mr Garrod. When he complained, he was pressed by senior officers to drop the accusations. "I am ashamed to say I broke down and cried. I didn't feel supported at all. Somehow the police service didn't want to help me." Mr Bowie, now serving in Spelthorne, Middlesex, said: "I felt and still feel I don't have any confidence in the Metropolitan police service."Philip Astor, for the Metropolitan Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, and Mr Garrod, asked him: "Why do you still serve in it if you don't have any confidence in it?"Mr Bowie replied: "I have a family to feed."In written evidence Mr Bowie produced a catalogue of examples of alleged racism in the force. On his first day as a probationer at Wimbledon police station in March 1973, he had been driven around in a police vehicle with a golliwog tied to the blue light on its roof. Mr Bowie said that on his accepting a crime squad posting at Heathrow in October 1995 the working environment had initially seemed "strained". It was explained to him later that he was at first regarded as a favourite of Mr Garrod.But, he added: "After about two months, I began to notice that I was constantly being called into the detective inspector's office, to be reprimanded for some trivial matter or other . . . I was somewhat rattled by the extraordinary behaviour towards me but because the issues were so petty and were resolved so easily, I ignored it. In fact I began to accept that I would be due a carpeting at least once a week."Mr Bowie said that he and Mr Garrod clashed when Mr Garrod stopped him taking part in any operation outside the Heathrow police station area for six months, and again in May 1996 when he visited an informant. On that occasion Mr Garrod "ranted" at Mr Bowie even though another officer had pointed out he had done everything right. On another occasion Mr Garrod had called Mr Bowie a "scaley," a derogative term for officers who are not yet fully qualified. In May 1997 what he called Mr Garrod's "petty scrutiny" became too much and he realised that it had started to affect his family life. Mr Bowie decided to make a complaint. But Mr Garrod himself made a complaint against Mr Bowie for being absent without permission.Mr Bowie said it took him some time to decide that Mr Garrod's motivation must be racist. "Having examined every aspect of my personal life and my professional life I can come to no other conclusion than that this was a racially motivated attack by Mr Garrod."Mr Bowie said he felt let down by the Police Federation, the body that represents officers. He said that at one meeting his representative left the room, during which time Chief Superintendent Ian Hutcheson suggested he should drop the charge against Mr Garrod. The tribunal heard that Mr Bowie had been praised for his work during the Brixton riots and had received commendations in other police stations. But the racism he had suffered at Heathrow had been worse than any in his career.In written evidence, Mr Bowie said that when he joined the force "words like nigger, coon, wogs, spick . . . were constantly bandied about in general conversation, no matter where officers were or who was present."