Humberside police today apologised for "weaknesses in the system" and "individual failings" in the way intelligence on Ian Huntley was handled.Chief constable David Westwood admitted his force failed to pick up on a string of alleged sex offences when Cambridgeshire police asked for a background check in relation to Huntley's application for a job as caretaker at Soham college.In fact, Humberside officers had investigated Huntley for eight alleged sexual offences but the details were erased from the database used to vet applicants for jobs involving children. Huntley investigated eight timesAfter detailing the contacts the force had had with Ian Huntley between 1995 and 1999, Mr Westwood said that each one of them had been properly investigated. However, the information had not been held on the force computer due to their "weeding policies" under the Data Protection Act. "We had been informed by the information commissioner that the Data Protection Act does not allow retention of information purely for employment vetting," he said. He said there were differing interpretations of what was required by different agencies. Mr Westwood said: "We face here the contradictory nature of two public policies. First is the Data Protection Act, which requires the removal of information relating to individuals. Second is the retaining of information to protect vulnerable people. There is no national guidance on this. It is urgently needed." Mr Westwood also said it would have been "extremely helpful" if his force had been able to link the two names - Huntley and Nixon - known to have been used by the Soham caretaker.He said: "There was an occasion in 1999 when Huntley was interviewed by us and did indicate that he was using both names. We did not make a note of his alias on our records. This was a simple human error. Intelligence managers have been briefed on this issue to prevent this from happening again." Mr Westwood expressed his sorrow for the parents, relatives and friends of Jessica and Holly. He said: "We feel their loss terrifically." Mr Westwood said he had met the girls' parents and discussed with them all the issues surrounding the case. He said: "I have expressed to them the deep sorrow myself and all of my colleagues feel for those who loved Jessica and Holly." The chief constable said that the force's investigations into their dealings with Huntley had identified "some system failings and elements of human error". He said: "Certainly I am sorry that the force has weaknesses in the system. I am sorry there were individual failings. However, the fact remains that there was nothing on the system, nothing within the system, due to honest and forthright attempts to comply with the Data Protection Act." The chief constable said he had spoken at length to his counterpart in the Cambridgeshire force but refused to confirm whether the relationship between them had become strained. He said: "We are colleagues and we remain colleagues ... There is absolutely nothing between us."