A Guinness world record holder turned hitman is likely to spend the rest of his life behind bars after being found guilty of strangling a disabled woman in her home.Paul Cryne, 62, turned to jurors who had convicted him and said: "Innocent man," before being led away to begin his life sentence.The court at the Old Bailey heard how Cryne, who had fallen on hard times in Thailand, flew back to Britain in 2007 to kill 52-year-old Sharon Birchwood at her bungalow in Ashtead, Surrey. Birchwood, who suffered from ME, was strangled and left "cruelly trussed-up" with parcel tape and electrical cord.Cryne, originally from Manchester, was hired to carry out the murder for £30,000 by Sharon Birchwood's ex-husband, Graham "George" Birchwood, 54 – who stood to gain £475,000 on her death. Cryne and Birchwood, who planned to share the insurance payout, had met in Thailand through the expatriate community.Judge Jeremy Roberts QC jailed Cryne for life but reduced his minimum term from 32 years to 28 and a half years because he had already spent time in a Thai prison.He said: "The victim, Sharon Birchwood, was a vulnerable lady who was devoted to George and hero-worshipped him despite his callous behaviour. George repaid that trust by paying for her to be murdered by you."Sharon was murdered in a particularly unpleasant and personal way in what should have been the safety and security of her own home. You had either crept into her home or lain in wait for her in the house. One can only imagine the mental and physical suffering she must have undergone in the last few moments of her life."Electrical cord had been wound around her head and the small handle of a magnifying glass had been used to tighten it like a garrotte.Birchwood was jailed for life last year with a minimum term of 32 years following a trial at Croydon crown court.Cryne, who still holds the Guinness world record for swimming the longest distance underwater in 24 hours, lived the high life in Thailand in the 1990s thanks to a £500,000 insurance payout following an accident involving a boat in the Maldives.He turned hitman after squandering the money, running up debts of £11,000 by 2007. He was on bail, suspected of carrying out another contract killing in 2003, when he flew to the UK to kill Sharon Birchwood in December 2007.Graham Birchwood, who was in the red by £150,000, met Sharon when they were teenagers and they eloped to Gretna Green three years later. Sharon doted on her ex-husband and thought of him as her "hero". Her sister Lauren said: "She was convinced George was her soulmate. She loved him unconditionally for ever. She would not have heard a bad word about him no matter what."The couple divorced in secret 20 years ago after Birchwood persuaded his wife to separate for financial reasons.He then married his Malaysian secretary, Katherine Kang. The couple had two children even though he had told his first wife he did not want to have children because of his diabetes.Sharon Birchwood allowed her ex-husband to stay overnight regularly and in 2001 made him the sole beneficiary to her will. She suffered from ME and bouts of depression and was often housebound.Cryne was caught out because of a crime he had committed more than 30 years earlier. His DNA from the earlier crime scene matched that found on a cup at the house of Birchwood's mother, on which there was also a set of fingerprints. The prints were linked to Cryne's 1972 conviction for holding his girlfriend hostage, for which he was jailed for seven years.Detectives tracked him to the island of Koh Chang in Thailand and he was extradited.