Kerry Weston is poring over her A-Z to work out where she can legally sell sex tonight. She is the first prostitute in London to be served with a court order banning her from working in certain parts of the capital. Three more are due to be served the new anti-social behaviour order (Asbo) this week. Introduced in 1999 as part of the Crime and Disorder Act, these orders were designed to help police and local authorities tackle hooligans running riot on estates and neighbours from hell. But last year the use of Asbos against sex workers was piloted in the Midlands and now they are being extended to London.Police forces and councils in these areas argue that prostitution falls within the definition of anti-social behaviour which causes "harassment, alarm or distress" to the community. Weston insists she causes nothing of the sort. "There were general statements read out in court by the prosecution about sex workers dropping condoms and used needles, about kerb crawlers and about pimps but those statements weren't about me." The 32 year old is, she says, a model sex worker. She doesn't use drugs. She ensures that used condoms are wrapped in a tissue and placed in the nearest bin, and she berates the women on her south Tottenham beat who don't do the same. The druggie stereotype attached to prostitutes particularly angers her. "While many women do sell sex to fund a drug habit it is by no means all of them. I get cars stopping when I'm working with people asking me where they can buy some rocks. I tell them to try Blackpool. "As for the local residents I get on fine with them. When they're out walking their dogs I say 'good evening' to them and some of them use my services." She usually takes punters behind two strategically parked vans at a local garage. "The staff have told us they put the vans there so we can have some privacy". Because Asbos are served under civil law there doesn't need to be any proof that Weston has been doing any of the things residents make generic complaints about. According to the magistrate who served the order it is enough that she is a prostitute. She has been chosen as the London test case because she has 217 convictions for loitering. The fact that Weston now risks a lengthy jail sentence - the maximum penalty is five years - not for the kind of anti-social behaviour residents complained about and the magistrate conceded she was not guilty of, but for loitering, a non-imprisonable offence, is all part of the Alice in Wonderland world of this country's sex laws. Prostitution is not a criminal offence but loitering or soliciting is. Asbos are served under civil law but breaching them is a criminal offence. The government views them as a way of being morally tough on sex workers . Yet the conservative Magistrates Association, weary of seeing women such as Weston getting fined for the minor offence of soliciting and then going straight back on to the streets to work off their fines, has called for prostitution to be legalised. Cari Mitchell of the English Collective of Prostitutes wants to see a little less hypocrisy and a little more realism introduced into the debate. "It's only sex and consenting sex at that. It's just one of the things women do for men that keeps them going." Carole Lennox is manager of the Safe project which offers support to sex workers in Birmingham. She says that the 15 Asbos issued to women in the city haven't eradicated prostitution but have led to women taking greater risks. "The orders have driven women underground. It's harder for project workers to reach them and so they're less likely to practice safe sex. Before, there was a system of 'ugly mugs' where women would warn each other about dangerous clients, but now that they have scattered all over the place they are isolated and aren't picking up that sort of information." Weston is not prepared to meekly accept the exclusion zone which has been thrown around her and plans to launch a test case invoking the human rights act if necessary. "My body, my choice," she says firmly. "This is a supply and demand job and if there was no demand we wouldn't be supplying sex for money." The decision to go public and be photographed in the Guardian has been a painful one. Weston has three children aged six, 12 and 16 and started selling sex to provide for them. Until now she has concealed the nature of her work from them but her court appearance in a high-profile case and her decision to challenge the order means that she has had to come clean. "I've been selling sex since I was in my late teens. I was a single parent with a small baby living on around £26 a week. I would buy his week's nappies and a meal a day for him and that was all my money gone." She lives with her partner who covers child care while she works between 11pm and 4am. If she worked in a sauna she would have to pay a cut of her wages to the owner. Anyway, she couldn't manage the 12-hour shifts. She has applied for lots of jobs outside prostitution but many would-be employers are put off by her loitering convictions. She was overjoyed when she got a job as a bus driver but failed the medical because she had an epileptic fit seven years ago. Some police officers accept that the Asbos will simply be a musical chairs exercise. "You've got to feel sorry for the women because they're not exactly going home and booking up their summer holidays," says one. "But as long as they leave our area and move on somewhere else residents are happy." Chief inspector Adam Barton of Tottenham police is more upbeat. He believes that Weston's Asbo is an important breakthrough in "improving the quality of life of residents". But as women like Weston find legal ways round the geographical bans out of sheer economic necessity the police celebrations could be a little premature. Weston snaps shut her A-Z having decided the best place to work tonight. "I will keep trying to exit prostitution, but slapping an Asbo on me isn't the way to do it. I have to find a way to earn money to support my kids and it has to be flexible enough to accommodate my child care needs. I've only got 80p left in the electricity meter and if I don't get some punters tonight we'll all be sitting in the dark."