The woman shot dead with her husband in a Lincolnshire village had called police only minutes before to say a strange man had been lurking outside, it was revealed yesterday.Joan Stirland, 53, phoned Nottinghamshire police on Sunday afternoon to report a prowler near her bungalow in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire, the previous evening. Less than 30 minutes later, at 2pm, she and John Stirland were murdered by two gunmen wearing dark blue boilersuits. Lincolnshire police said that the couple called Nottingham because they were unwilling to inform the local force that they were afraid for their lives. They had fled Nottingham, their home city, to go to the Lincolnshire coast when they were threatened after Mrs Stirland's son, Michael O'Brien, 23, murdered a man outside a pub in Nottingham in August 2003. Although not under any formal witness protection scheme, the couple kept in regular contact with Nottinghamshire police, who had warned Lincolnshire police that they were at risk. Since the murders, Mrs Stirland's two daughters have been under police protection, it was revealed last night, as the first pictures of the dead couple were released. While O'Brien remains in the high-security Whitemoor prison in Cambridgeshire after receiving a life sentence last month, there are growing fears of further revenge attacks. A source close to the investigation said that one daughter had been taken away from Nottingham for her safety, and that the other, who did not live in the city, was also being looked after by police. A spokesman for Lincolnshire police added: "We are offering them support. We are looking after them at the present time." Appealing for witnesses, police said the couple must have been killed between 2pm and 2.30pm, when a dark-coloured VW Passat used by the gunmen was found burning two miles from their home. Just earlier, the car had been seen parked near the couple's home with its hazard lights flashing. Detectives are investigating what could have led the killers to the couple's home. One of Mrs Stirland's daughters and three grandchildren made regular visits, while several weeks ago old friends of the couple bumped into them on the Lincolnshire coast. Word also spread of their new life when they returned to Nottingham two weeks ago for the wedding of one of Mr Stirland's two children by a previous marriage. The couple were murdered less than a week after the best friend of O'Brien's victim was found dead. According to his mother, Jamie Gunn, 19, never recovered from the shock of seeing Marvyn Bradshaw shot dead by O'Brien and died of pneumonia on August 2. One theory that detectives are exploring is whether associates of Mr Gunn were involved in the murder of Mr and Mrs Stirland. Emotions run high ahead of Mr Gunn's funeral on Friday in the Nottingham suburb of Bulwell. While he was thought to have had an altercation with O'Brien before Mr Bradshaw was shot, Mr Gunn's mother, Julie, said he did not see the face of his best friend's killer until O'Brien appeared in court. "He was glad that justice had been done," she said. "But he went back to thinking about Marvyn again. He had the vision of that night in his head. "Jamie held Marvyn in his arms after he had been shot. I think he may as well have died then, too," she told the Nottingham Evening Post. "He went downhill after that. He could not cope." Police are also still hunting for Gary Salmon, 32, whom O'Brien accused in court of shooting Mr Bradshaw. Lincolnshire police confirmed that they were closely liaising with officers from Nottinghamshire police who were leading the search. There is a £10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of Mr Salmon, who was known to have a string of assumed names and associates across the country.