Police have released without charge a man they questioned overnight about the brutal murders of two French biochemistry students in a south London bedsit, as the parents of one of the victims made a plea for the killer to come forward.  Computer sketch of a man London police are seeking over the murder of two French students. Photograph: Metropolitan police Officers arrested a 21-year-old man at 3.40am on Saturday in a street close to the New Cross flat where Gabriel Ferez and Laurent Bonomo, both 23, were found gagged, bound, stabbed and burned. The suspect was released this afternoon after questioning at a police station in south-east London.Scotland Yard has not ruled out further arrests and is still examining the theory that the double murder may be linked to the theft of two games consoles and a laptop computer from the flat six days before the students were murdered.Ferez's parents, Françoise and Olivier, have released a statement pleading for the person or persons responsible to turn themselves in. "You will not be able to live in hiding forever. You may be scared and feel like a coward, but you must recognise this terrible mistake you made."Officers have been trying to track down the thief in the earlier burglary. They would not say whether the man released today was thought to be the burglar. Another line of inquiry involves the possibility that Bonomo and Ferez were tortured for their pin numbers, though the viciousness of their injuries has baffled and shocked detectives.Bonomo, from Velaux, near Marseille, who was studying the proteins involved in infectious diseases, had been stabbed 196 times. More than half the wounds were inflicted after he died. Ferez, from Prouzel, near Amiens, who planned to become an expert in eco-friendly fuels, had 47 wounds. Both had been doing research at Imperial College and had arrived in London at the end of May for a placement due to last three or four months.Ferez had travelled to spend the evening at his friend's flat on the night they were murdered. It is believed they were dead before the fire started.Tomorrow, a silent march in their memory is to be held at the Polytech Clermont-Ferrand, the university they attended in France.