Max Clifford has told a court that allegations he has a sexual interest in children are "utterly revolting, utterly untrue, disgusting lies".During his first day of evidence at Southwark crown court in central London, the publicist told the jury that the "promiscuous swinging 60s, 70s was a different age" and said he had affairs with four women, including a French model and a television dancer. But he said he had never had sex with anyone without their consent.Clifford denies 11 counts of indecent assault relating to seven alleged victims, aged from 14 to 20. The alleged incidents are said to have happened between 1966 and 1984.Horwell told the court that Clifford would try to recall the events of 30 years ago as best he could and would be calling on family members, former work colleagues and figures from the world of show business to give evidence."We don't intend to turn this trial into a celebrity extravaganza," said Horwell. "But it is important you should know such big witnesses have not abandoned Mr Clifford."The court heard he never had sexual intercourse in his office but admitted there had been "slap and tickle, kissing and cuddling".He added that if women offered him sex during this time he expected they had "probably offered the same to everybody else". He said: "One, I didn't need it. Secondly, it's not attractive … Also so many music acts, pop stars had sexually transmitted diseases around that time."The defence counsel Richard Horwell QC told the jury there had been "contradictory" evidence about the size of Clifford's penis – ranging from claims it was "freakishly small" to others stating it was "enormous" – that had caught out prosecution witnesses."His doctor has recently measured his penis," Horwell told the court. "When flaccid, it is five and a quarter inches long – certainly not freakishly small, certainly not enormous."Asked about this in evidence Clifford said that from spending time in sports changing rooms and the women he had had relationships with, he believed his penis was average size. "I haven't really compared it, but average I would think. The women I've actually had relationships with, no one ever said to me that I've got a small penis or a large penis. Based on everything I've seen in changing rooms, you're with men, I would have thought the same, average."Clifford said he had remained friends with most of the women he had had relationships with and always told them he was married. "I always said: 'I love my wife,'" he added.Clifford said an allegation that he abused a 12-year-old girl on holiday in Spain in the early 1980s was "repulsive and totally untrue" and he strenuously denied any sexual interest in children. "No, no. It is utterly revolting, utterly, utterly disgusting lies," he said.He also said it was "utterly absurd, utterly ridiculous" to suggest he had told women they needed to sleep with powerful men to get roles in major films. He said that if he had wanted to impress young women he would have simply introduced them to pop stars such as the Beatles or the Rolling Stones."If I really wanted to impress young girls, it would have been easy," he told the court.The jury of six men and five women heard that Clifford had been involved in charity work since the 1960s, including for groups dealing with various forms of cancer.He said: "Since the 1960s it is something that has played an important part in my life and in my time."