A Blairite think-tank has attacked New Labour's crime policy, arguing that the Tories are taking a 'reasoned, more thoughtful approach'.Under pressure to be seen as 'tough on crime', the Government has 'lacked confidence' to promote less punitive measures, which are more effective in cutting offending, says the report of the Institute for Public Policy Research's crime forum, to be published tomorrow. Its message is underlined by an article in today's Observer by Sarah Spencer, the co-author and director of the IPPR's citizenship and governance programme. 'New Labour started out being constrained by the policies of the previous Tory Government,' she says. 'Now, however, the Conservative Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin's more thoughtful approach to tackling the causes of crime has opened up a political space in which Labour should rethink some of the fundamental premises of its own approach.'The IPPR's position as the leading centre for New Labour intellectuals meant its criticisms were being seen as all the more wounding. Former IPPR staffers include Patricia Hewitt, the Trade and Industry Secretary. Its director is Matthew Taylor, a Labour candidate at the last general election. Its trustees include the former party leader, Neil Kinnock, the Labour peer Lord Hollick and Anthony Giddens, the political theorist who originated the concept of the 'third way'. Some policies the forum is attacking most fiercely have been personally supervised by the Prime Minister. It denounces Labour's preoccupation with performance targets and its 'overriding objective' of increasing rates of conviction. In her article, Spencer adds vehement criticism of Home Secretary David Blunkett's White Paper on criminal justice setting out measures to increase conviction rates: 'It is shot through with contradictions, and confused as to its ultimate strategic goals. It leaves some of the system's least desirable aspects unmodified, and if enacted into law in the next parliamentary session its overall impact may well be to make a bad situation worse.' Letwin said: 'I welcome this report, which is clearly a thoughtful contribution to the issue of crime prevention and the criminal justice system. What we need is a discussion about what works to prevent crime and how to make that happen rather than bandying around slogans. This report will help precipitate such a discussion.' But a government official said: 'We are doing a huge amount to tackle the areas the report is talking about. Our initiatives on crime show that we take all the issues connected with this subject very seriously, whatever the IPPR says. The public doesn't seem to believe the Tories have a better set of policies. We don't even know what they are.' The report, the work of a group of academics, senior police and prison officers and other criminal justice practitioners, calls for radical reforms to the youth justice system based on more welfare and education; for reclassifying up to 1.5 million minor offences so that they cease to be dealt with as crimes at all; and for massive cuts in the prison population from its current 72,000 high to the European per capita average of 49,000. 'These are radical approaches in today's climate,' the report says. 'The Government is under immense pressure to be seen to be tough on crime and has lacked confidence in promoting alternative, effective measures. 'But the reasoned, more thoughtful approach now being pursued by the Conservative Opposition provides greater political space than in the past to have a considered debate on new approaches. Successive governments have often appeared to endorse populist sentiments and proposed measures to appease them ... But the rhetoric of punishment, of victory and defeat in the "war against crime" does not help to win public support for the constructive work that is actually being undertaken on crime prevention and the rehabilitation of offenders.' The Government must have 'the confidence to lead public opinion', the report says, instead of 'engaging in a spiral of ever tougher policy announcements'. The Government should address the many public misconceptions - such as that crime has been rising inexorably, and that judges are 'soft' on offenders.