One of the most senior police officers in Greater Manchester has been involved in a road rage incident with one of his own officers, it emerged yesterday.Alan Green, the assistant chief constable, became annoyed when a police van swerved in front of his unmarked car. He followed the vehicle, driven by a woman police constable, from Salford to Park Lane station, where they were involved in an angry exchange of words. Officers inside the station overheard the shouting and came to her assistance, but discovered that their colleague was with the assistant chief constable. A complaint was made about his behaviour and was considered informally by the force's internal investigations department, but the officer decided not to make a formal complaint. Mr Green later telephoned the officer, who now works for Salford CID, to apologise to her. One of the officers who witnessed the outburst said: "It was unbelievable. We heard raised voices from inside and ran out. He was shouting very loudly about her driving. "It is very surprising that someone so high up in the force could lose their temper like this. One of the most important things about enforcing discipline is not to lose your temper." Once the situation had calmed, Mr Green drove off. A Greater Manchester police spokeswoman said: "A senior officer witnessed an example of what he felt to be inappropriate driving by a police constable and, as is the duty of a senior officer, made it clear to the constable that GMP expects the highest standards of police driving on the roads. "No formal complaints have been received in relation to the matter and, as far as we are concerned, it has been resolved between the two parties." Mr Green was promoted to assistant chief constable two years ago and he used to be in charge of the force's community and internal affairs department. He also played a key role in developing chief constable David Wilmot's policy of defeating institutionalised racism within the force. · Earlier this week, Mr Green criticised violent criminals after two people were killed and five were injured in Manchester over the weekend. He said the public should be reassured that the police will not tolerate such criminal behaviour.