Grieving relatives of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler marked the third anniversary of her disappearance today with a fresh public appeal for help in tracking down their daughter's killer."The anniversary of Milly's disappearance is always an extremely poignant time. This year her friends have embarked upon their A-levels, and watching them grow up and start to think about their futures is a constant reminder of what Milly might have been doing now," the Dowler family said in a statement."Three years on, we would urge anyone to come forward with any information that may help Surrey police with their investigation. We need to know the name and see the face of the person who murdered our beautiful daughter. It feels like a very painful waiting game but one day we feel confident that the diligence and hard work of the police will pay off." Milly was last seen by a friend who saw her walking home from school along Station Avenue in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey on March 21 2002. Her body was discovered six months later by a couple picking mushrooms in Yateley Heath woods, near Fleet in Hampshire. A senior Surrey police officer also reiterated today an appeal made by his force last week when it released CCTV footage of a red Daewoo Nexia car that investigators believe could hold the key to catching the killer. In the footage, the car is seen emerging from Copenhagen Way, a residential street that joins Station Avenue. Police had received more than 170 calls from the public since releasing the footage, throwing up a number of new lines of inquiry, Detective Inspector Kevin McEntee said. One caller reported a sighting of a red vehicle near the scene where Milly's body was found, although police had yet to verify whether it was the model they were looking for. Police today drove a vehicle of the same colour, age and model close to the spot where Milly was last seen alive, Mr McEntee said: "The public response has been very good indeed ... but we are reinforcing the appeal because we have not traced any legitimate user of a Daewoo Nexia from Copenhagen Way." "I'm still very keen to hear from anyone who may have owned a red Nexia and used Copenhagen Way in Walton-on-Thames and, perhaps more importantly, I would really like to hear from people who work in the car-breaking business, the scrap dealing business. "The longer this vehicle isn't eliminated, the more my suspicions are that this vehicle was disposed of very shortly after Milly's abduction. If this vehicle was used, I would be very keen to hear from someone who perhaps works in a breaker's yard and who scrapped a vehicle of this kind of description and a vehicle that was indeed usable and serviceable." It also emerged last week that Surrey police were examining links between Milly's murder and the hunt for the killer of 22-year-old French student Amélie Delagrange, who was found bludgeoned to death on Twickenham Green, in south-west London last August. Four other attacks on women in south-west London have also been connected to Scotland Yard's inquiry, known as Operation Yeaddiss. "We are sharing intelligence and we are considering the possibility that the Milly Dowler inquiry could be linked to what is called operation Yeaddiss, but I must stress that we are only exploring that as a possibility and they have not been formally linked," Mr McEntee said today.Police insist there are still other active lines of inquiry in the hunt for Milly's killer, which is codenamed Operation Ruby. The Surrey force said it was investigating a registered sex offender who lived in south-west London and that the person concerned was the subject of "ongoing forensic inquiries". The Operation Ruby team has also been investigating the movements of Lance Corporal David Atkinson, 31, the soldier who murdered student Sally Geeson and then jumped to his death from a hotel window. The hunt for Milly's killer is the largest operation of its kind in the history of Surrey police. The force has followed up more than 11,500 lines of inquiry, taken more than 4,200 statements and received more than 6,000 telephone messages during the course of the inquiry. A team of 47 officers and police staff continue to work on the case. Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 0845 125 2222. There is a £50,000 reward for information which leads police to Milly's killer.