He is halfway up the lamppost, shaking it violently. The metal is bending back and forth under his weight and the light is shuddering, pitching the street below into darkness. At the base of another light, the casing has been removed, and wires cut and pulled out.The boy, about 14 and carrying a monkey wrench, said he was a doing a good thing. "The lampposts are dangerous in high winds, with all these electrical wires."But there are no high winds: just drizzle and smoke caused by dozens of Guy Fawkes night bonfires. The sound is of aerosol cans popping in the flames, and bangs of fireworks being set off all over the estate. This is Wood End, an estate built in the 1950s on the north-east outskirts of Coventry. Many houses on this street lie empty, void because they are hard to let. Around, the detritus of life lies dumped in gardens and on byways. Mattresses, fridges, shopping trolleys, tyres, and, up on the roofs, bicycle wheels. Then there are the roofs themselves. Most have gaping holes because they have been stripped of lead and other roofing material. Wood End is one of the country's most obvious victims of antisocial behaviour. The prime minister, Tony Blair, has said that this week's Queen's Speech would focus on such behaviour, and how it affected the community. He has highlighted what he termed "low level nuisance problems" and intimated that fines would be imposed. "These issues to do with antisocial behaviour are as important to the people that elected us as any other," he said. "Low level aggression, vandalism, fights in town centres on Friday and Saturday nights, antisocial neighbours, fly-tipping, abandoned cars, graffiti, truancy. "These crimes don't hit the headlines every day, but they do hit the daily quality of life of many in our communities, often the elderly and most vulnerable ... I tell you, these issues to do with fly-tipping, vandalism, graffiti, this type of thing, is absolutely central to the concerns of people in communities up and down this country." While crime figures are falling nationally, there has been no dive in the fear of crime. In Wood End - one of 39 of England's most deprived communities, iden tified as a crime hot spot - many feel trapped by that fear. Only one resident we interviewed on the estate wished to be identified, for that reason. A woman said: "It's so bad that your own family can't visit you, because they are frightened of having their cars broken into and the verbal abuse you get on the street. We don't go on holiday, because you don't know what you are going to come back to. They just don't have respect for anyone else's property. We're so scared we don't report half of what goes on. "At the end of the day, it's your house, and they know where you live." An elderly man who owns a home that sits in the middle of a row of boarded-up houses said: "One of our neighbours moved out a few weeks ago. Within minutes his windows had been put in. Three little kids had broken in, and had turned on the water and were flooding the place. I chased them, and they gave us a lot of verbal abuse and threatened to smash our windows - the oldest one was about 12. "Our quality of life is terrible. We are two elderly pensioners, and we feel vulnerable. We feel trapped here. We're in a state of flux. We don't know what's going to happen to us because a lot of the estate is down for demolition. It was idyllic when we moved here. It was green all around, and the neighbours were great people. It should never have got like this. There are cracking houses here, and they should have people in them." Demolition is indeed on the cards, under the government's New Deal for Communities. A document issued by the office of the deputy prime minister states: "Despite investment of £34m over the last 15 years, Wood End has not lost its stigma, and retains high unemployment and low educational attainment. Crime and antisocial behaviour have contributed to a recent dramatic rise in voids and turnover which improvements in the early 1990s had reduced."Wood End is trying to deal with its problems, but they are manifold. Every night there are helmetless kids on motorbikes riding up and down the estate. Cars are regularly burned out in the middle of fields, walls are covered in graffiti - on one boarded-up house, a window is sprayed with the words: "Luxury penthouse to let, apply within." Nan Hitchen runs Wood End's rapid response street cleansing project. It is her job to deal with all of this. "Because of the nature of the area, because of the reputation it's got, people will come from outside this area and fly-tip here. From April to June this year, we had 118 instances of fly-tipping. But it has been going down since we started." Mrs Hitchen and her team try to catch the fly-tippers, sifting through dumped rubbish bags, but it is difficult. It is hard to see how fines would help. Ken Bullock is supervisor of Wood End's youth investment programme, aimed at reducing offending and antisocial behaviour in youths aged 13 to 19. He believed a lot of what was defined as antisocial behaviour was open to interpretation. "They are kids growing up. They want to mess around and have fun, making a bit of noise. It's not something new, I think it's boredom, they do it for excitement. "I understand that the neighbours don't find it nice. It's something that has come about through years of neglect amenity-wise. Hopefully, with this New Deal for Communities, this might change." Jenny Calderbanks, of Whitefriars housing group, is responsible for Wood End's tenants, aside from the owner occupiers under council right-to-buy scheme. She admitted antisocial behaviour was difficult to deal with because tenants were frightened to report it. The association is starting a neighbourhood warden scheme next April, and has other projects. Such schemes have been successful on Castle Vale estate in nearby Birmingham, run as a housing action trust. Heralded as a success story for neighbourhood regeneration, it has a waiting list for its houses.  Taking a stance  Antisocial behaviour is still a problem on the estate, but not large scale. In December 2000, the trust served 20 notices on families warning of antisocial behaviour. Some reformed their ways; five were taken to court and eventually evicted after the trust was granted antisocial behaviour orders. "We have made a noise about antisocial behaviour, and the community has taken a stance against it. Before, people would not give evidence against neighbours, but individual witnesses came forward and spoke out," said Sharon Gilligan, Castle Vale's housing manager. The trust funds two additional police officers and employs neighbourhood wardens to patrol the estate. Some tenants have walkie-talkies and can radio in any antisocial behaviour that they see, in what is called the Catch scheme. Soon, 29 CCTV cameras will be installed. "There are still pockets of problems, and issues we still have to address," said Mrs Gilligan. "But residents have taken it into their own hands, and it is working." Back in Wood End, an eight-year-old boy is pointing at a bonfire in a field where five cars lie torched. "That one's only there because of bonfire night; but those burnt out cars, they are appalling," he said. "They drive a car a night right down into the middle of this field. We want a park here and a playing field." A sage beyond his years, he pointed to the row of empty houses behind, and said children stripped the wood from the roof for a bonfire. Some timber must have been left behind: a few hours later, past midnight, the row had been burned to the ground.