A teenage swindler was yesterday told that he faces a jail sentence for conning eBay users, only months after he was sentenced for a similar scam that netted thousands of pounds.Phillip Shortman, 18, of Cwmbran, south Wales, appeared at Newport crown court after pleading guilty at Abergavenny magistrates court in October to four counts of obtaining by deception property worth more than £8,000. In May, he was sent to a detention centre for a year after admitting 21 counts of fraud and asking for 64 others to be taken into consideration. He had tricked more than 100 eBay shoppers into paying him £45,000 over a 13-month period.In a recent interview on ITV's Tonight with Trevor McDonald, Shortman, married with one child, claimed he had ended his criminal career and said he intended to offer his services to eBay as an adviser on security. But Abergavenny magistrates heard that his addiction to eBay crime was not over. When still 17, he operated from his bedroom at his parents' home and on March 25 this year contacted Nicholas Price after seeing his internet appeal for tickets for this year's Wales v Ireland grand slam rugby game.He sold Mr Price a long-term debenture seat and tickets for £7,000 by pretending to be the nephew of ex-Welsh rugby international prop Graham Price in an attempt to give himself credibility. Prosecutor David Wooler said: "When nothing arrived in the post, Mr Price contacted the Welsh Rugby Union, who said that no debenture existed and could therefore not be sold." Another victim, Timothy Robertson, was sold tickets for the Wales v Ireland game, rugby jerseys and a match programme for a total of £600. After becoming concerned by how long it was taking for the goods to arrive, Mr Robertson arranged to meet Shortman in a hotel at Heathrow to collect his purchases. But Shortman did not show up. Two other victims lost more than £500 in total.Lawrence Jones, defending, said Shortman had been making "obvious efforts" to rehabilitate himself during the 12-month detention and training order imposed in May. Recorder David Aubrey QC, who adjourned sentencing for a week for a report, granted Shortman bail on the condition that he did not use the internet."These were serious and deliberate offences of fraud which you have committed before on the secure site of eBay and you should expect a custodial sentence," he said.In May, Shortman admitted tricking more than 100 eBay shoppers into paying him £45,000. He spent the money on computer equipment, hi-fis, flat-screen televisions, clothes and stretch limousines hired for himself and his friends. He took two friends on a trip to New York, staying in a five-star hotel and taking a helicopter ride over Manhattan.When people complained they had not received their goods, he taunted them, saying that it was his business "to make fools out of people".