More than 200 police officers today joined the search for a nine-year-old girl who went missing after a school swimming trip yesterday.Shannon Matthews, from Dewsbury, West Yorkshire, was reported missing by her family when she did not come home from West Moor junior school last night.She is believed to have stayed behind at the school for extra activities after a swimming trip, and was reportedly last seen on adjacent playing fields at about 7.30pm."Officers are concerned for her welfare after she failed to return home from school," a police spokesman said. "Shannon has never been missing before."Dozens of local people joined police to search the surrounding area into the early hours of this morning. Detectives made door-to-door enquiries and checked with friends and family."We are extremely worried," Shannon's uncle, 36-year-old Neil Hyett, told reporters. "We've been out looking everywhere throughout the night, but there's no sign of her. "It was absolutely freezing - minus six, they said. All the adults were so cold, so how cold would she be? We just need to find her, and find her quickly."His wife, Amanda, said she was "scared that someone has taken her". "She's never done anything like this before," she added. "She's scared of the dark and she would never stay away from home."Chief Superintendent Barry South said Shannon's mother was being looked after by officers. "It's a very traumatic ordeal for any parent," he said. "My priority is locating Shannon safe and well."  Shannon Matthews. Photograph: West Yorkshire police/PA Shannon, who lives with her mother, two brothers and a baby sister, is white, around 4ft 1in tall and of slim build, with shoulder-length brown hair that may have been tied in a ponytail. She has blue eyes and freckles.She was wearing a black school jumper, a white cotton T-shirt, black trousers, a black coat with fur around the hood and pink and grey furry boots.Anyone with information is asked to contact West Yorkshire police on 01274 373 737, text 07786 200 806 or to call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.