Police were today examining the former home of a convicted child rapist after an anonymous letter was sent to its most recent occupants claiming the bodies of two children were buried there.In the next few days, officers will begin excavating the back garden of 107 Walton Green, a semi-detached council house in the sprawling New Addington estate in Croydon, Surrey.Leslie Ford-Thrussell, 72, lived at the house before he was jailed in 2004 for 12 years for assaulting children aged between six and 13.The letter alleging that human remains were buried at the two-storey house said they belonged to two young children who were murdered around 35 years ago.Police said neither Ford-Thrussell nor anybody else had been interviewed about the claims under caution.Detective chief inspector Mark Stockford, who is leading the inquiry, told reporters this afternoon that Ford-Thrussell did not live at the house around 35 years ago. He lived there for 17 years up to his imprisonment in 2004.DCI Stockford said the letter was sent to the most recent occupants of the house, a family who were renting the property, around 12 months ago, and they then took it to a local police station. He said there was "additional evidence" that might support the claims made in the letter, but he would not say what this was.The detective chief inspector said the family had been rehoused nearby and were not linked to the investigation. Neighbours said the family had not settled at the house, had moved out around three months ago and the property was now vacant.Asked about the length of time between the current operation at the house, which started yesterday, and the emergence of the letter, DCI Stockford said officers were taking "proportionate action". The decision to dig up the garden came after weeks of police work, he said, and there had been an unwillingness to move the family unnecessarily.Detectives have traced the author of the letter, who is being treated as a potential witness, and are taking its claims seriously. Part of the delay in conducting a search was linked to the time it took to find the letter's author, DCI Stockford said.He said: "We are not certain that an offence has been committed. We are taking a proportionate response to information that indicates that an offence may have been committed."The anonymous letter is understood to have mentioned no names of possible victims or of possible attackers. No definite link with any particular case was mentioned.DCI Stockford said files of missing children from 30 to 35 years ago had been searched but no individuals had emerged who might be relevant.Forensic specialists had examined the garden visually. Today, a helicopter was recording footage of the garden for Sky News but a forensics tent was to be erected.Archaeological forensics officers will make an initial survey of the garden and a fingertip search will be made before the excavation of parts of the property. It is expected that the excavation will be completed by the end of the week.Local CID officers are working on the investigation with officers from the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate.Ford-Thrussell was convicted of seven counts of rape and 23 counts of indecent assault over a period of 17 years. He targeted some of his victims as they went to school, offering them sweets, and videotaped some of the abuse, Croydon crown court heard. Eight hours of footage of abuse was found at his house.Neighbours on the New Addington estate today spoke of their shock. Nicola Nunn, who lives next door to the Walton Green house being searched and who knew Ford-Thrussell before he was sent to prison, said she was "just stunned" at the developments.She said she and her partner, who have two children, four years old and eight months old, became friendly with him in the year between them moving in and his imprisonment."We actually thought he was a very friendly, nice old man. He helped us with our garden," she said. "He was becoming really friendly. He spent a lot of time outside. He absolutely loved his garden and was always asking us over to have a look at it."Ms Nunn said she believed the daughter of the family who had moved into the house had been particularly unhappy there. She said she thought the little girl had been receiving counselling after complaining of "seeing things" in the house.107 Walton Green has a tidy walled garden, partly paved with a lawn. A small planted bed runs along one edge and the back wall is partly covered with bushes and vines.Police officers were deployed to the area around the house today to deliver leaflets to local residents, informing them of the operation, offering reassurance and asking them to contact police if they had any concerns. Two police cars were parked outside the property and a number of officers were manning a cordon outside.