Martin Narey, the head of the prison service, last night named six jails as "hellholes" and warned he would quit his job unless conditions throughout prisons in England and Wales improved. The director general of the prison service made his scathing criticism of the slow pace of change as the chief inspector of prisons was preparing to publish yet another devastating report, this time into Winson Green, Birmingham, which he is expected to label the worst in Britain. Mr Narey's threat to quit follows last week's clash between the lord chief justice and the home secretary over the corrosive effects of the ever-rising prison population, and the resignation of Jack Straw's trusted head of the prison service would be a blow to Labour's anti-crime credentials. Mr Narey told the prison service's annual conference in Nottingham yesterday that he was not prepared to keep on apologising "for failing prison after failing prison". He said he had enough of trying to "explain the very immorality of our treatment of some prisoners and the degradation of some establishments". He took the unprecedented step of naming Wormwood Scrubs, Leeds, Wandsworth, Portland and Brixton as "hellholes" which had too often been regarded as terrible places which could not be changed. "When pushed to justify intolerable conditions we have found it easier to explain the difficulties than commit to change. We have hidden, eagerly, behind the excuses of overcrowding and behind the pressures of limited resources to defend the indefensible," said Mr Narey. "Year after year, governor after governor, inspection after inspection, prisons like these have been exposed. Year after year exposure has led to a flurry of hand-wringing, sometimes a change of governor, a dash of capital investment, but no real or sustained improvement." He added Winson Green's name to his list of the worst prisons and questioned whether things had changed much there since 1982 when "Barry Prosser was kicked to death by staff, none of whom was convicted for his unlawful killing". Mr Narey said that when he last visited the Birmingham prison in September he found unacceptably dirty conditions in the healthcare centre and did not believe the duty nurse who told him it had been cleaned that morning. The staff were resigned, uncaring or both. "I recorded that: 'the stench from one cell in which a patient was held pervaded the corridor. As I visited, at 3.45, the evening meal was being served...The board of visitors was adamant that there was no physical abuse at Birmingham. I do not share that confidence'." He said a report shortly to be published by Sir David Ramsbotham, the chief inspector of prisons, also reported filthy conditions and appalling hygiene. "He will speak of a mentally ill prisoner denied a change of clothes for several weeks. Yet again Sir David will despair at conditions generally worse than those previously and frankly highlighted in 1995 and 1998." Mr Narey, who is a career Home Office civil servant and has been in the top job for three years, said he had no wish to be a director general of a service which was going to duck these issues. "I don't know yet whether I will be offered an extension to my contract when it expires in 11 months. But I tell you now: unless... I believe I have the support, encouragement and determination of all of you in this audience, I'll find an easier way of earning a living." He said conditions at nearly all the "bastions of all that is inadequate about our service" were changing but the job was not remotely finished. If improvements could be made at the Scrubs, at Leeds and at Wandsworth, why not at Chelmsford, Bedford and Dartmoor, he asked. Mr Narey's comments follow criticism of his leadership style from prison governors in England and Wales. A letter sent to Mr Narey after a meeting of 67 governors at Sudbury, Middlesex, last month complained that insufficient notice was being taken of their concerns and they were being treated with less respect than before. Mr Narey held "olive branch" talks with the governors last night but defended his practice of moving them from jobs in which they were "struggling", and announced that some governors would receive "executive coaching".