The home secretary, David Blunkett, may cut the amount of money offered to victims of crime under proposals to reduce the £160m cost of victim compensation.The Home Office says it has studied proposals to reduce cash payments the Criminal Injuries Compensation Appeals Panel (Cicap) makes to certain crime victims. The Home Office refused to comment on the amounts involved, but an article in today's Daily Mirror suggests children who are sexually assaulted for more than three years would see their payments cut by £1,700, from £8,200 down to £6,500; payments to children or adults who suffer serious mental illness as a result of rape would be cut from £22,000 to £20,000; and victims left with permanent and serious brain damage would see payments reduced from £44,000 to £40,000. People with broken arms, collapsed lungs, partial loss of vision and fractured skulls would be among the many types of victim whose payments would be cut, according to the paper. The Home Office hopes to shave £25m off the annual compensation budget but stresses that the payment reductions are only a proposal at this stage. "This is a proposal the home secretary has seen, but he has made no decision and will not do so for some time," a spokesman said. "Some specific proposals have already been rejected by the home secretary but he believes it will be necessary to make more sense of a scheme that costs £160m a year."The government is spending almost three times as much on victim support now as it did seven years ago and has invested £650m in 2003/04 on cross-government services and projects to support and protect victims and witnesses."Victims' groups expressed concern that the issue had not surfaced in a consultation last year. A spokesman for the charity Victim Support said: "Some people need the money as they find themselves in difficult financial circumstances, but compensation is also important as a recognition from society. To reduce that money means that it becomes a fairly hollow gesture." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, also criticised the proposed cuts: "Tony Blair's government promised to be on the side of the victim, not the criminal, but these plans show that was just more talk," he said.This is not Mr Blunkett's first attempt to cut the government's contribution to victim compensation: a proposal to charge drivers for motoring offences and put the money into a compensation fund for victims of unrelated crimes first surfaced in January. Motoring groups slammed the idea but it was included in the domestic violence, crime and victims bill, which received the royal assent yesterday. The bill also gives the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority the right to recover from criminals the compensation payments awarded to their victims.The Home Office said that since Mr Blunkett announced the victims' fund in April £4m from the proceeds of crime had been recovered to help support victims of rape and sexual assault. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat spokesman on home affairs, said the proposals were completely at odds with the recent legislation on victims' rights. "David Blunkett must reassure the public that he has no plans to penny-pinch when it comes to compensating victims," he said.