A man jailed for killing two nine-year-old girls almost half a century ago also murdered a teenager the year before in the same village, a court has been told.David Burgess, 64, twice told prison guards while serving a sentence for the murders of the children that he also killed 17-year-old Yolande Waddington, but when police interviewed him he refused to confess, it was claimed.However, modern scientific tests have shown that blood found at the scene of Yolande's murder was almost certainly Burgess's, Reading crown court has heard.John Price, prosecuting, said Yolande was last seen alive at the Six Bells pub in the Berkshire village of Beenham at around 10pm on Friday 28 October 1966. She bought some cigarettes but did not stay for a drink. Burgess was also in the pub, the jury heard.Yolande's naked body was discovered two days later in a ditch next to an isolated barn known in the area to be used by "courting couples", Price said.In the barn, police found a bloodstained beige sweater they believed belonged to Yolande. The stains were consistent with two stab wounds on her chest and back. The sweater was also marked with bloodstains from another person.Police took blood samples from every male villager aged between 15 and 50 in one of the earliest examples of scientific screening in a criminal investigation, Price said. Burgess, then 19, was among those screened.His blood matched that found at the scene in three out of the four aspects tested. But it was not a complete match. The investigation began to wind down in early 1967 but was never closed.In May 1967, Burgess was arrested for the murder of two nine-year-old girls in the village and was convicted by a jury of both killings. Price said: "All of this you will be surprised to hear, led to David Burgess coming to be regarded by the police as a prime suspect in the killing of Yolande Waddington."While in Durham prison he allegedly confessed to Yolande's murder to prison officers, though he gave a different account of the circumstances.Price said Burgess was interviewed by police in December 1969. A detective said: "You killed Yolande Waddington didn't you?" Price continued: "[Burgess] denied it, though only in what may come to be regarded as characteristically ambivalent terms – replying, and smiling as he did so: 'You will have to prove it.'"Last year, bloodstains from items still available from the murder scene were reinvestigated using modern techniques. Scientists found stains on an empty fertiliser sack discovered in the barn and on a hairband. They took DNA samples from these items and from a comb found at the scene.Price told the court the scientist who analysed the samples had concluded: "If the DNA from the bloodstained area on the polythene sack did not come from David Burgess then it must have come from another person who, by chance, has the same components within their profile."I estimate that the probability of obtaining this result if it is due to DNA from an unknown person who is unrelated to David Burgess is smaller than one in a billion, a thousand million."Price said the initial tests on the bloodstained sweater may have been flawed. He alleged Burgess acted alone, stabbing Yolande with a penknife after a consensual sexual encounter went wrong. The prosecution case is that Burgess cut his own finger on the penknife that was found at the scene and that led to his blood being found at the scene.Burgess was arrested in November last year over Yolande's murder and charged the following day. He denies murder.The trial continues.