Detectives were today granted more time to question a couple arrested on suspicion of murdering five elderly residents at a care home.Rachel Baker, 45, a registered nurse, and her husband, Leigh, 48, a chef, have been held since Monday over the alleged murders at Parkfields residential home in Butleigh, Somerset. Avon and Somerset police successfully applied this morning for a further 31 hours to question Mr Baker, and a further 12 to interrogate Mrs Baker. They will be unable to seek any further extensions.Force spokesman Dan Mountain said: "This morning detectives have applied for a further warrant of detention on a 45-year-old woman and 48-year-old man. This has been granted by South Somerset magistrates court in Yeovil. "As a result, both the man and the woman continue to be questioned at Yeovil police station on suspicion of the murder of four women and one man, theft, unlawful possession of controlled prescribed drugs and attempting to pervert the course of justice."The decision to arrest the couple followed exhumations at several cemeteries during the summer.The remains of Nellie Pickford, 89, were removed from Glastonbury cemetery on June 5. The body of Marion Alder, 79, a grandmother of four, was exhumed from the graveyard of St Leonard's church, Butleigh, a week later.The remains of Fred Green, 81, were removed from a graveyard in the village of Kingweston, near Somerton, on July 11. The grandfather died on January 6 last year, while he was a resident at Parkfields. Three other residents, whose deaths were being treated as suspicious by officers, had been cremated.The couple were initially questioned after the death of Lucy Cox, 97, at Parkfields, on New Year's Day.Rachel Baker was first arrested on suspicion of administering a noxious substance on January 5, four days after the death of Cox. Her husband was arrested two days later in connection with the same alleged offence.The pair were arrested again on Monday as they arrived separately to answer bail at Yeovil police station.The home was owned by Mr Baker's parents, June and Malcolm, but it has been managed by Rachel Baker since 1988. The couple live in Glastonbury and have a five-year-old daughter. They were originally bailed until September.The Commission for Social Care Inspection, which monitors care homes in England, obtained a court order to immediately close Parkfields on March 16 after six weeks of checks revealed "serious concerns" about its standards.