A ski company worker has appeared in court charged with the murder of a businesswoman. Sarah Williams, 34, is accused of killing 60-year-old Sadie Hartley. Williams, of Blacon, Chester, arrived at Blackburn magistrates court with a white cardigan covering her face and head. During the three-minute hearing, she spoke only to confirm her name, address and date of birth.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sadie Hartley was found stabbed to death at her home in Sunny Bank Road, Helmshore, Lancashire, on Friday evening. Photograph: Lancashire constabulary/PAWilliams, who works for travel firm Crystal Ski Holidays, will appear again at Preston crown court on Friday.Hartley was found stabbed to death at her home in Sunny Bank Road, Helmshore, Lancashire, on Friday evening. Police said she was attacked on Thursday evening. Postmortem results revealed she suffered a series of knife wounds to her arms and hands before being repeatedly stabbed in the body. Hartley, a mother-of-two, ran her own medical communications business, Hartley Taylor, based in Knutsford, Cheshire. She was last seen alive on Thursday at a conference in Manchester with a colleague.She was in contact with a friend and work colleague at about 7.30pm last Thursday, but then stopped answering emails, which was unusual.Hartley’s partner, Ian Johnston, has issued a tribute to her, describing her as a wonderful mother, sister, partner and friend.“We are all utterly distraught following her senseless, brutal murder. She was a respectable, hard-working person who had run a successful business that supported medical services.“It is an utter tragedy that she has been taken so unnecessarily from us and will be sadly missed by all those who knew her. The family now respectfully wish and hope that they may be left in peace to enable them to cope with this terrible event.”Detectives are continuing to appeal for help tracing several people seen near her home on Thursday evening, including the driver of a passing car.A police spokesman said officers wanted to identify a person seen passing a man as he walked out of Sunny Bank Road on Thursday evening and an unknown person who walked into the cul-de-sac before leaving a few minutes later.They want to trace the driver of an “old-style” Renault Clio, which was seen arriving in Sunny Bank Road just before 8pm on the same night and drove off moments later.The investigating team is also keen to hear from anyone with information about people asking for the location of Sunny Bank Road in the days or weeks leading up to the murder.They said a man and a jogger seen on Sunny Bank Road had been identified as local residents.Detectives continued to question a 55-year-old woman from Chester. 