Kieren Fallon is not the taciturn type. Often garrulous, he shares racing tips with friends, acquaintances and even, it emerged, the England striker Michael Owen. The champion jockey is also renowned for talking to his horses.Any attempt by the prosecution to portray the Irishman as a calculating conman prepared to throw a race for a private betting syndicate was undermined by evidence of his indiscriminate generosity with information from the stables and gallops. When interviewed by police, he said he was often in contact with a friend, Phil Sherkle. "I thought that by texting Phil he was having his own couple of quid on it. I do that with a lot of people. Michael Owen every day texts me."Born into a large family in Co Clare, in the west of Ireland, he was not brought up with any experience of life in the saddle, but joined a stables in the Curragh, Co Kildare, aged 17. Within two years he had won his first race.Fallon is fabled for his ability to coax extra effort out of his rides. Charlie Swan, the National Hunt champion jockey, believes his relationship with them is unusual. "You see him constantly talking to the horse he's riding," he has said. "He can calm them down in seconds: it's something special to watch." Fallon won his first British race in 1988 at Thirsk, earning a reputation for determination and flair for reading the pace of a race. In the mid-1990s, however, he was banned for six months for pulling another jockey from his horse at Beverley. By 1997 Fallon had become stable jockey with the wealthy English trainer Henry Cecil. That year he won his first title as champion jockey with 202 winners in the flat season, and has now won a total of six championships. He parted company with Cecil two years later amid tabloid-fuelled rumours about a relationship with the trainer's wife, Nathalie. He always denied any impropriety.He sustained a serious shoulder injury in a fall at Royal Ascot. He was soon back at the top of his form but the strain began to tell. In 2003 he checked himself into a rehabilitation clinic after admitting he had an alcohol problem. Allegations that he deliberately lost races, always denied, have haunted his career. In 1998, he collected £70,000 in damages for a claim that he had thrown a race at Newmarket. Three years ago Fallon and another jockey featured in a News Of The World article claiming that they had fixed races. Both were cleared by a Jockey Club investigation.The claims did not damage his career. In 2005, Fallon was named as stable jockey at Aidan O'Brien's Ballydoyle stable in Co Tipperary, one of the most prestigious posts in the profession.But the racing authorities, aided by the City of London police, pressed on with their investigations. In July last year Fallon was charged with committing fraud. He was suspended from riding in Britain by the British Horseracing Authority, a severe blow to his personal finances, with a complex private life and heavy maintenance payments to his former wife.