An Asian teenager was killed in a Yorkshire park in front of a large number of people, police said yesterday as they appealed for witnesses. Officers were investigating whether Amar Aslam, 17, was set upon in the park in Dewsbury by a gang.Last night police arrested two 15-year-olds and one 20-year-old in connection with the killing.It was originally thought the attack could have been racially motivated, but last night the Labour MP for Dewsbury, Shahid Malik, who lives just a few minutes' walk from where Aslam died, said the three men in custody were Asian. "This means that the race motive so far, perhaps, is not one that might be the cause of the death," he told the BBC.Aslam's body was found by two people within a walled garden in Crow Nest Park on Sunday at about 7.30pm. He had been the victim of a "sustained and brutal" attack, police said. A postmortem examination showed that he died of head injuries. Officers believe there could be a link between his death and reports of running battles between two gangs in the area. A source close to Aslam's family said yesterday that the bank holiday had been marred by warring gangs. The man, who did not want to be named, said: "Stuff went on in the park between different gangs of youths during the day. It's possible that what happened to this boy was a continuation of that violence."Another man, Kanuroy Patel, owner of Roy's Minimarket, in Heckmondwike Road, near the park, said: "There are often gangs of young people hanging around the park, sometimes up to 15 people, both boys and girls. It is really intimidating."A West Yorkshire police spokesman said: "We are still looking at a possible motive, so we cannot link the boy's death to anything else at this moment. But ... we are looking at what happened in the park during the day." Detective Superintendent Chris Thompson, who is leading the inquiry, said he was "very confident" that there were a large number of witnesses to the assault. "As it was a sunny day it was very busy and there was a large number of young people in the park. It is very important they come forward."The death comes six months after another Asian man died violently in Dewsbury. Two teenagers are to be tried at Leeds crown court next month, charged with the murder of Ahmed Hassan, 17, from Batley, West Yorkshire, who died after an incident at Dewsbury train station on December 15 last year.Malik appealed for calm following the death at the weekend, saying: "It is crucial that people put their faith in the police and not jump to any conclusions. I am very confident that the police will apprehend and successfully prosecute the killer or killers, but again it's crucial that everyone stays cool and calm and that people come forward with information, even if they think it might not be very important."There are few communities in the country that could have dealt with so much tragedy in such a short space of time and this speaks volumes for the resilience and fortitude of the community of Dewsbury. It is a wonderful park and I'm shocked such a terrible incident could happen on my doorstep."Town's troublesThe Yorkshire mill town of Dewsbury, just west of Wakefield, has been at the centre of far more news stories in the past few years than one might expect for a town with a population of just under 55,000. Just before he blew himself up on a tube train at Edgware Road in July 7 2005, Mohammad Sidique Khan had been living there. In June the same year, a girl of 12 was charged with causing grievous bodily harm following what was reported as the attempted hanging of a boy aged five at a housing estate to the east of the town. In February, Dewsbury again made headlines when nine-year-old Shannon Matthews disappeared after going for a swimming lesson in the town centre. Twenty-four days later she was found alive, hidden underneath a bed in a nearby flat. Her mother was charged with perverting the course of justice and child neglect. As well has having six Muslim councillors and Muslim MP Shahid Malik, Dewsbury has had a BNP councillor since 2006. This month, the councillor, Colin Auty, started campaigning to replace Nick Griffin as BNP leader.