One of three arsonists who killed three generations of a family while they slept faces multiple life sentences for the mass murder attack.Five young girls including a six-month-old were among eight victims of the revenge attack by a gang who targeted the family on the back of what turned out to be inaccurate gossip. Firebombs hurled into a terraced house previously soaked in petrol also killed the children's mother, grandmother and uncle. Survivors were left with burns and fractures after leaping from upstairs windows. The last of the accused Shakiel Shazad, 23, was found guilty of manslaughter yesterday by a jury at Leeds crown court, two days after the gang's ringleader, Shaied Iqbal, 26, was convicted of murder and Nazar Hussain, 24, of manslaughter. Police across the world are hunting another alleged gang member, Shahid Mohammed, who jumped bail earlier this year in Huddersfield where the tragedy took place in May 2002. The five-week trial heard that the attack's roots lay in the elopement of Mr Mohammed's teenage sister, Shahida, with a college friend from Huddersfield where all three were students in December 2001. A gang nicknamed the Gogo brothers, led by Mr Mohammed and Iqbal and armed with a pistol and a baseball bat, tracked the couple to Newcastle and forced Shahida into a car back to Yorkshire. They were convinced that one of the arson victims, Mohammed ateeq-ur-Rehman, 18, had helped the couple and then betrayed an affair between Iqbal and a local woman, kept secret because their families disapproved. Detectives said that the belief was wrong, but it turned into venomous hatred. The victims' family called for "life to mean exactly that" at a press conference last night. They called the killers and family members who stood by them "a total disgrace to our religion and our community". Huddersfield has been aghast at the three men's joking in court which continued yesterday. The family's spokesman, Jalil Karim, said: "What sick and truly terrible individuals they are. We have nothing but contempt for each and every one of them." The girls' father, Rab Nawaz Khan, wept as he held up photographs of his wife and children at Broadgate House police station in Leeds. Mr Karim praised West Yorkshire police, singling out the head of the inquiry, Detective Superintendent Bob Bridgestock. Mr Bridgestock said the priority was now to track down Mr Mohammed for his alleged part in the "vile and senseless but premeditated" killings. The grandfather of the five girls, Abdul Aziz Chishti, a retired teacher, was also at the press conference, maintaining a calm which he had instilled into the family as they sat throughout the trial, a short distance from the killers. After yesterday's verdict the judge, Justice Andrew Smith, described their "dignity and restraint" as "moving and humbling". Mr Chishti said that the family were innocents without enemies who had been targeted on the basis of inaccurate gossip. He said: "If a person gives a false rumour, first you have to investigate, you don't accept it blindly. "This was a misunderstanding. Everyone in our neighbourhood, my college and playground where Ateeq used to play, everybody knew what type of person he was. "We can forgive, but according to the holy Koran people who commit such crimes will go to hell." Judge Smith told the court that he would not pass sentence immediately but Iqbal would receive life sentences for each of the eight murders. The victims were Tayyaba Batool, 13, Rabiah Batool, 10, Ateeqa Nawaz, six, Aneesa Nawaz, two, Najeeba Nawaz, six months, their mother Nafeesa Aziz, 35, their grandmother, Zaib-un-Nisa, 54, and their uncle, Mohammed ateeq-ur-Rehman.