Can the government still deny that Nice People Take Drugs?The news that the son of the former health minister and current Labour MP, Patricia Hewitt, has been arrested for possession of cocaine is hardly surprising. A 21-year-old middle class professional such as Nicholas Hewitt-Birtles taking coke with friends on a Saturday night is pretty run-of-the-mill. The fact that this young man has a particularly high-profile mother as well as a judge for a father means that he has the misfortune of having his dalliance with the law splashed across the news. Unfortunate indeed, or is he?One suspects that Hewitt-Birtles will soon be "apologising" for his actions, "regretting" the shame he has brought on his parents and "promising" to seek help for his drug use. In return, and owing much – ironically – to who his parents are, Hewitt-Birtles's future prospects are not likely to be hampered, nor would Release want them to be. Sadly, some young men are not quite so fortunate.The criminalisation of young people for minor drug offences has real and serious consequences for many already disadvantaged individuals. With the recording of approximately 55,000 drug offences every quarter, the majority of which are for cannabis possession, it is young people that are most affected. More than 3,000 10- to 16-year olds are convicted of drugs offences every year, a figure that has significantly increased since Labour came to power 12 years ago.The unequal application of the law is clear too. Not only are visible social groups, such as young people, more likely to be encountered by the police, but varying treatment is common throughout the justice process too. Research by Dr Alex Stevens of Kent University has found that black people are six times more likely to be arrested and 11 times more likely to be imprisoned for drug offences than their white counterparts.A drug conviction can prevent an individual from being able to consider certain types of career or from entering countries like the US. The link between poverty, marginalisation and drugs is well known and the social consequences of a criminal record for drugs possession are totally counter-productive for society. Nor is this approach the best way to educate about the risks of drug use, or to reduce the harm that they can cause.Hewitt-Birtles is one individual among the 33% of the adult population of England and Wales who have used drugs. The purpose of Release's Nice People Take Drugs campaign, a slogan which although controversial can hardly be disputed, is to persuade the public and politicians that a better solution can be found.Let us hope that like any other mother, Hewitt does all she can to minimise the fallout for her son, and perhaps has a quiet word in the prime minister's ear about doing something to help everyone else who find themselves in a similar position.