A man who set up a school in Afghanistan for the children of the "world's most wanted men" yesterday began an appeal against his detention without trial, claiming he is not a terrorist.The home secretary alleges that Palestinian asylum seeker Mahmoud Abu Rideh, who has lived in Britain since 1995, is an extremist and a "former mojahed" who fought in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. David Blunkett claims that Mr Abu Rideh is "closely involved with senior extremists and associates of Osama bin Laden both in the UK and overseas". A hearing of the special immigration appeals commission - which is hearing the cases of 10 men who have been detained without trial since December 2001 - was told that Mr Abu Rideh "actively raised and distributed funds for international terrorist groups, helped facilitate movement of jihad volunteers to jihad camps in Afghanistan and procured false documents". He denies the charges, saying that he was involved in charitable work for Islamic agencies, setting up mosques, schools and providing wells in Afghanistan. Mr Abu Rideh, 32, has been held for 18 months without charge and was moved to Broadmoor high security mental hospital last August on the orders of a judge, because he was seriously mentally ill. He was arrested on December 19 2001 under the Anti-Terrorism Crime and Security Act, which was brought into force two months after the September 11 attacks.He has been on numerous hunger strikes in protest at his detention and has been self-harming. Yesterday, Wyn Williams QC, acting for the home secretary, said that Mr Abu Rideh was a contact of senior extremists including Abu Hamza, the controversial cleric who preached at Finsbury Park mosque and is considered by the govern ment to be a threat to national security. He said the secretary of state did not accept Mr Abu Rideh's "supposedly innocent explanations" for his activities. "He asserts that he was engaged in relief work, providing food and wells to people in Afghanistan. He was also raising money for a mosque in Kabul. When he went there to deliver money he found there was a great need for a school so he set up a school," said Mr Williams. "He admits that the parents of the school were stated to be the world's most wanted men. He denies knowledge [of their terrorist activity]. He denies any interest in Osama bin Laden or al-Qaida... The secretary of state does not accept these supposedly innocent explanations." Witness B, a member of the security services who spoke from behind a blue curtain, said that Mr Abu Rideh had been fundraising and money laundering for terrorist purposes. He refused to give further details in the interest of national security but will be cross-examined in a closed session by a panel of judges. He admitted, however, that the police believed that they did not have a strong enough case to prosecute Mr Abu Rideh in an ordinary court of law. Ben Emmerson QC said that Mr Blunkett's case was a "wholesale misunderstand ing" of the affiliations and motivations of the men who had been detained. The home secretary had made tenuous links between various events and individuals to weave them together into a single organisation. He had used a "highly selective accumulation of intelligence data". He said: "Abu Rideh, for all his eccentricities, is not a member of any proscribed organisation. His charitable work has drawn him into contact with associates of Osama bin Laden but he has nothing to do with terrorism." Mr Abu Rideh's wife and five children protested at his detention yesterday, waving placards outside the London court saying: "Free Mahmoud Abu Rideh."