A teenage student who was attacked by his teacher with a metal dumbbell was a leading troublemaker and had disrupted lessons at the school on at least nine occasions that year, a court heard today.The boy's science teacher, Peter Harvey, 50, is on trial at Nottingham crown court on charges of attempted murder and causing grievous bodily harm with intent following the incident, in which the pupil suffered a fractured skull and severe cuts last July.Defence barrister Rex Tedd QC put it to the 15-year-old, who cannot be named for legal reasons, that he had been disruptive. "On nine occasions in the last year you deliberately disrupted the teaching of your class. Can you remember anything about that?" asked the barrister."No," replied the boy."My suggestion is that you were a leading light in the trouble in that took place in that class.""No," repeated the teenager."You're saying you cannot remember any of the trouble that took place in that classroom?""No," the boy said.Tedd also asked one of the schoolchildren who had earlier told how he tried to drag Harvey off the boy whether pupils would secretly film teachers as the pupils tried to wind them up. The footage would then be shown around the school to humiliate the teachers, the barrister said.The same was then asked by Judge Michael Stokes QC, the Recorder of Nottingham: "Can you explain to the jury what's funny about winding up a teacher who has been off ill?"The boy replied: "There was nothing funny about him. What was funny was we were just having a good time with our friends."Other pupils described how Harvey behaved as if he was "possessed" or having a mental breakdown. The boy was hit on the head with the 3kg (6.6lb) weight, leaving him unconscious and with head injuries. Harvey denies attempted murder and causing grievous bodily harm with intent, but has admitted grievous bodily harm in a trial that began on Monday.One 15-year-old girl, who was in the class when the attack happened, claimed she confronted Harvey about his behaviour moments before the attack.In a police interview, she said: "I said to him 'Sir, I think you are having a mental breakdown' because people were scared of him. He started murmuring something about killing me."A 15-year-old boy said Harvey had acted as if "possessed" and the victim had been manhandled out of the door. Recalling the attack with the dumbbell, the witness added: "He was just striking him with it and was just saying 'die, die, die.' [He] was on his heels leaning back. Blood was pouring out of his face. I thought he was dead. His eyes were open and I thought he was dead."In a police interview the victim of the attack recalled the class being noisy and rowdy. "They were all messing about and there was a girl messing with the blinds. He stamped at her and told her off."She swore at him … and then some other girls left the class because they felt scared. He said something to me and I swore at him. He said, 'I'll teach you' and swore at me."On Monday, the jury was told Harvey attacked the boy after his class descended into uproar after a girl was removed from the classroom in tears and students called him a "psycho".Moments before the teacher launched his attack, the boy was playing volleyball with screwed-up bits of paper before sword-fighting with metre rulers.One pupil secretly filmed Harvey, deemed a soft-touch by students, with a camcorder to humiliate him as he tried to regain control of his lesson. The prosecution says there was simply no excuse for what happened.Following the outburst, Harvey was taken into custody, where he told police that during the attack he had felt like he was watching himself on television. He said he was not feeling any emotion and "couldn't think at all".He had been off work with mental health problems, but returned in April last year when a counsellor told him he was too passive and needed to let his anger out.The trial continues.