Geoffrey Robertson is right to attack the government's proposals to permit anonymous prosecution witnesses in criminal trials as "the most serious single assault on liberty in memory" (There can be no fair trials with this perjurer's charter, July 8). However, as a former president of the special court for Sierra Leone, he should know that the abusive use of anonymous witnesses has become the norm in those international criminal tribunals he otherwise supports. At the international criminal tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, for instance, some 40% of the prosecution's witnesses are anonymous, ie they appear in court with their identity hidden from the public and the defence. This is in addition to the fact that much of their testimony is also given in secret - the transcripts are simply censored so that the public can never know what has been said in court. Numerous are the defendants who have been sent to prison on the basis of such evidence, or who have been subject to a pre-conviction sentence by being forced to stand trial for many years while such testimony is presented.Robertson rightly condemns these proposals for Britain because they violate the right of every defendant to challenge his accusers. But international criminal justice is based on the same tacit presumption of the defendant's guilt which has inspired them. As a result, the procedures in international tribunals have been a gross travesty of due process for years.John Laughland,Bath Having spent three decades defending rape survivors, we are aghast at the witness anonymity bill now before parliament. Rape survivors are anonymous in the media, not in the witness box. This bill proposes that the accused should not know who is accusing them, and therefore should not be able to challenge or appeal the evidence against them. The excuse is that some witnesses are afraid to come forward. But for every such case there are many where witnesses do come forward but they are not interviewed and/or their evidence is lost or dismissed or they are not called to give evidence in court. We have seen case after case destroyed by police and CPS bias and inefficiency. This is not only true of reported rape, with its shocking 6% conviction rate. Racist assaults, for example, have a 7% conviction rate. We are now helping a rape survivor facing a workplace disciplinary procedure based on anonymous accusations. She believes the man who raped her is behind them, but cannot defend herself since her accuser cannot be challenged. To extend such grotesque injustice to the criminal courts would destroy any hope of justice.Some of the rape victims we fight for are asylum seekers who have fled dictatorships where the word of the police is enough to get people locked up for any crime, guilty or innocent. The same will be true in Britain if anonymity prevails.Cristel Amiss, Black Women's Rape Action Project Ruth Hall, Women Against Rape