Two years ago Joyti De-Laurey signed a confession detailing how she had used her trusted position as a secretary at the investment bank Goldman Sachs to plunder the private bank accounts of three bosses, helping herself to almost £4.5m. Six months later, after stress treatment at the Priory private clinic, she sacked her legal team and tore up the confession. It was a decision that sparked a scandal-packed three-month trial during which De-Laurey attempted to drag the reputations of her former bosses through the mud, with claims ranging from cheque forgery to extramarital affairs. Yesterday a jury at Southwark crown court brushed aside De-Laurey's central claim that transfers to her account had been legitimate payments for helping three Goldman bosses run their private lives. She was found guilty on 20 counts of theft and forging cheques and other transfer instructions. De-Laurey will be sentenced on June 14 along with her husband, Anthony, a chauffeur, and her mother, Devi Schahhou, a GP, who were yesterday convicted of money laundering offences. The main victim of the elaborate scam, Scott Mead, said yesterday: "Joyti De-Laurey has mounted a vindictive and implausible defence in which she and her team of lawyers attempted to put the victims on trial ... It was a ludicrous and malicious fantasy from start to finish." De-Laurey, described in court by Mr Mead as the "Picasso of conmen", used the stolen money to fund an extravagant lifestyle, buying a fleet of luxury cars, properties in Britain and Cyprus, and Cartier jewellery worth £300,000. She also paid off debts from a failed sandwich bar business and her mother's mortgage. Mr Mead was one of the most revered figures in the City before his retirement last year. As chief adviser to Vodafone, he led a string of takeover deals that transformed the Newbury-based firm into the world's biggest telecoms company.De-Laurey siphoned £3.3m out of his private investment account in New York, forging his signature or adding transfer instructions to papers he had signed. She stole up to £2m at a time from the account in less than five months. Mr Mead stumbled on the scam two years ago while making a donation to his former college. It emerged that his secretary, who was preparing to quit her job and retire to Cyprus, had been stealing hundreds of thousands of pounds from Goldman bosses for about 18 months - some time before she came to work for Mr Mead. Presented with the evidence, De-Laurey asked for a private meeting with Mr Mead at which, according to the banker, she said: "I would hate for this to get dirty." The suggestion of a blackmail attempt has hovered over proceedings ever since, as it became clear that the former secretary intended to reveal intimate details of Mr Mead's private and professional life.  Web of lies De-Laurey was appointed by Mr Mead on the recommendation of her former boss, Jennifer Moses, who assured him she was trustworthy. In fact she had been stealing from Ms Moses and her husband Ron Beller, both of whom worked at Goldman Sachs. De-Laurey held a chequebook for the couple's joint bank account and repeatedly forged Mr Beller's signature, helping herself to £1.1m. She constructed a web of lies to gain trust and conceal her thefts, including claims that she suffered from cancer and had been beaten by her husband. On one occasion she took a luxury break at a hotel in Beverly Hills, telling her bosses she was undergoing a hysterectomy. Later she bumped into Mr Mead at Wimbledon, where she said her expensive tickets had been a prize in a competition. Tickets worth £55,000 for a four-person trip to see Lennox Lewis fight Mike Tyson in Las Vegas were also found by police after De-Laurey's arrest. When her scam was discovered, De-Laurey told Mr Beller in a phone call that she was "in deep shit" and was "going down". Several letters addressed to God were found in her desk. "Please protect me," said one. "I need one more helping of what's mine ... and then I must cut down and cease in time all the plundering." Yet she fought the charges against her, telling the court she had been authorised to forge cheques and to take the money as payment for work outside her regular duties as a Goldman secretary. In a series of embarrassing revelations for her former bosses, De-Laurey and her lawyers claimed the money had been "a reward for being me", and that the money taken had been "little more than pocket money" to such high earners. Among the extracurricular duties she claimed to have carried out were organising children's parties and settling household bills. Further embarrassment was caused with suggestions of a sanctioned "culture of organised forgery" among Goldman secretaries. To Mr Mead's fury, De-Laurey also claimed the stolen cash had been a pay ment for her allegedly helping to cover up an extramarital affair when his wife called the office. "I would often say, knowing where he was, that he was in a meeting on the 10th floor or in the middle of a conference call," De-Laurey told the jury. "My worth was huge to him and my loyalty and discretion were priceless." Giving evidence, Mr Mead conceded he had had an affair with an unnamed lawyer at a City firm called Freshfields - a revelation that caused raised eyebrows in the square mile as Freshfields had acted for German telecoms group Mannesmann during its fight against Vodafone's £100bn hostile takeover in 2000. Mr Mead insisted the two had only been friends at that time and that the woman had not worked in Freshfields' merger and acquisitions department. He told the jury the affair had been "a mistake". Mr Mead, who harbours hopes of a political appointment in the US, has won an injunction banning publication of further details of his private life. About £1m is thought to have been recovered after De-Laurey's spending sprees, but much of the rest is thought to have been lost or hidden. Scepticism remains over De-Laurey's claims to have given large sums to charities.  Where it went For herself · Cartier jewellery worth £300,000 · Downpayment on an Aston Martin V12 Vanquish · Saab convertible · Bathroom makeover, £16,000 · Chanel, Gucci and other designer clothes, handbags, shoes, £150,000 · Paying off creditors to failed sandwich bar business, £24,000 · Housing development investments, £400,000  For husband Anthony · Helicopter flying lessons · Harley Davidson motorbike · Downpayment for powerboat · Private number plate "T1ONY"  For mother, Devi Schahhou · Chrysler Grand Voyager · Cyprus property, Range Rover included · Mortgage paid off on Hampstead home  For others · Paid off stepson's mortgage · Flight, hotel and ringside tickets for four to see Tyson-Lewis fight in Las Vegas