The parents of Stephen Lawrence are prepared to sue the Metropolitan police unless the force pays them compensation, it emerged yesterday. Imran Khan, the family's solicitor, said he would ask the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, to compensate the family following the scathing criticism of the Met in the report of Sir William Macpherson's inquiry into the aftermath of the teenager's racist murder.  The family would face difficulties in suing the police, but in the light of the report's findings that the force was guilty of gross negligence in investigating the black teenager's death, Sir Paul might decide to offer a settlement or an ex-gratia payment.  'I will be writing to the commissioner asking him to give compensation to the family for the way they have been treated during this incompetent and grossly negligent murder investigation,' Mr Khan told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. 'If they do not respond satisfactorily I am prepared to give them seven days and after that we will then take the matter to court. It has got nothing to do with money, but the family are entitled to do that. It's a option that is available and I strongly advise them to do it. 'We had always considered that, and awaited the outcome of this report to see how far this report went.' A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: 'As with any compensation claim, once a claim is received it will be very carefully considered.' Before a judgment from the European Court of Human Rights in October, the police had total immunity in English courts from negligence actions. Claims were struck out by the courts on public policy grounds, before their merits could even be argued. The House of Lords has played a key role in curbing negligence claims against the police and other official bodies. In 1989, a claim by the mother of the Yorkshire Ripper's last victim, Jacqueline Hill, that she should be allowed to argue that police incompetence in investigating the serial killings led to her daughter's death was thrown out by the law lords. Lord Keith said: 'The general sense of public duty which motivates police forces is unlikely to be appreciably reinforced by the imposition of such liability so far as concerns their function in the investigation and suppression of crime. From time to time they make mistakes in the exercise of that function, but it is not to be doubted that they apply their best endeavours to the performance of it.' The Lawrence inquiry findings expose that conclusion as highly questionable.  Last October the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled that the blanket immunity for the police was an unjustifiable restriction, opening the way for claims to go ahead. The court held that a mother and son, Mulkiye and Ahmet Osman, should have been able to sue the Met for negligently failing to apprehend a teacher who harassed the family after forming a 'disturbing attachment' to Ahmet, and later shot and wounded him and killed his father. The Osman case decided that a claim should be examined on its merits, not simply thrown out because the court thinks negligence claims would make it more difficult for the police to do their duty. However, one lawyer said yesterday that the Lawrences could delay bringing their claim until the Human Rights Act 1998 came into force - expected to be October 2000 - and argue that the Met's failure to investigate amounted to a breach of article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the right to life. The argument would be based on the state's positive obligation to investigate killings and bring murderers to justice. Whatever the legal merits, the police may feel it would not be a good public relations move to try to escape the consequences of their undoubted negligence. They may concede that justice at least, if not the law, is on the Lawrences' side, and a cheque would be the most tangible apology.