Maxine Breakspear looks nothing like her mug shot. The photograph used by the tabloids as proof of her evil shows a hard face devoid of expression. She walks into the prison waiting room to meet me, dressed like a typical teenager in hipster jeans, trainers and lots of bling. Her red-gold, shoulder-length hair is gleaming and brushed. Six months into a 13-year sentence for murder, she appears fit and healthy, with no sign of the regulation prison pallor. "I'm healthy because I'm not drinking or taking drugs," she says. "There wasn't a day I was sober from 13 years old to when I was arrested."Breakspear, along with co-defendant Rochelle Etherington, was convicted last December of the murder of neighbour James Dalrymple. Described by the investigating officer as a "ferocious attack, the likes of which I have never seen before", it appears to be a motiveless and senseless murder. However, no one has asked what led an 18-year-old girl, with no previous convictions or reputation for violence, to commit such a brutal act.It was a cold, miserable night in January 2004. Breakspear was bored, broke, and dying for a drink. Hanging around the grim Selwin Green council estate in Walton-on-Thames where both girls had grown up, she was persuaded to go with Etherington to Dalrymple's nearby flat. "He was always giving away fags and booze to young people," she explains, "so we thought we might as well drop in and get pissed."Dalrymple was well known in the area. After splitting from his wife and losing custody of his son, he sank into depression and began to drink heavily, but managed to hold down a painting and decorating job. He often held "open house", and was generous with his money. Dalrymple, who was born in Co Antrim, Northern Ireland, was described by those who knew him as "gentle" and "fun loving". But he ended up dying on his living-room floor with bootprints on his face, cigarette burns on his body, and more than 50 separate injuries. He died of brain damage some hours after the attack.Breakspear tells me about the night her life changed and Dalrymple's ended. At about 6pm, Breakspear, Etherington and three other youths from the estate went to Dalrymple's flat where he gave them £20 to go to buy cigarettes and alcohol. On their return, Dalrymple, who had been drinking heavily all day, made a pass at Breakspear which, she says, "made me feel horrible, and scared".Later, when the party was in full swing, Breakspear called in on Dalrymple's downstairs neighbour, "for a chat, and to get away from James for a bit". She returned to the party when she heard shouting and banging, and found Dalrymple attacking an older woman and trying to throw her out. At the same time, Karen (not her real name), a 15-year-old friend of Breakspear, told her that James had tried to have sex with her. "This really upset me because I have known her since she was seven years old. I knew what she would be feeling after James did that."The fight between James and the older woman got worse, and Breakspear and Etherington leapt in to defend her. Things got out of control, and the two continued to beat him, even when he fell to the floor and curled in a foetal position.The attack was vicious. Dalrymple's head was split open by a DVD player, he was stabbed with a screwdriver and kicked repeatedly. Dalrymple's multiple injuries included a broken neck. Before leaving the flat, the two stole his money and mobile phone. It did not end there. Etherington became angry again when Karen became upset about Dalrymple's behaviour towards her, and Etherington returned to the flat where she cut Dalrymple's face with a screwdriver and stubbed a cigarette out on his cheek.They were arrested the next day after his body was discovered by Breakspear's brother. When police came to arrest them, Breakspear and Etherington were watching a Biker Boyz DVD, having washed their clothes and spent Dalrymple's money on drink and cigarettes.Described as "sweet", "harmless" and "considerate" by neighbours I spoke to in Selwin Green, Breakspear told me she spent most of her childhood trying to block her fears and anxiety. She claims that she was abused, both physically and sexually, by different men from the age of eight.By the time of the incident Breakspear was addicted to ketamine, as well as regularly taking pure ecstasy, crack cocaine and heroin. "When I was stoned, I didn't feel like I was on this earth, which was what I wanted."At weekends she would treat herself to vodka and orange for breakfast, drinking until she fell asleep. "There was nothing to do on the estate," she says, "and I just fell in with Rochelle and the others because I felt I had no choice."Both defendants blamed each other in court for inflicting the fatal injuries on the victim, but, although it was acknowledged that Etherington was the violent one, both were convicted of murder."I am not a murderer," insists Breakspear. "What I did was wrong, but he was alive when I left that flat, I swear it." However, whoever dealt the fatal blow, it remains a mystery why no one recognised the danger signs in Breakspear before it became too late.A probation report ordered by the judge before sentencing described Breakspear as "a fairly disturbed teenage girl". The judge said: "I want to find out why this happened." Had proper attention been paid to the fact that Breakspear was a "multiple addict" by her early teens, she may have been given the help she obviously needed to deal with the anger that she was using drugs and alcohol to block.Months before the murder, Breakspear agreed to go into drug and alcohol rehabilitation. However, there was a long queue. A date for admission dropped through the letterbox on the day she was arrested. Ironically, it turned out to be prison that helped Breakspear overcome her addictions. "If I had carried on the way I was going, I would have ended up seriously ill," she admits.Much of the press reporting during the trial focused on the "rising phenomenon" of violent girl gangs on housing estates. There is no evidence, however, that such gangs are on the increase, or that girls and young women are any more violent than they were 20 years ago. Jill Radford, a feminist criminologist at the University of Teesside, is sceptical about claims that in recent years more girls have been committing acts of violence within gangs, or for pleasure. "Young women who commit acts of violence are very often highly disturbed, as opposed to doing it for kicks. You just have to look at the histories of most female prisoners to see that."The history of abuse experienced by Breakspear did not figure centrally in her defence, and yet she constantly refers to it as a reason for her "losing control". Kevin Dunne, the police officer who interviewed Breakspear, says that "she seemed very hard and emotionless, until she started talking about the abuse. Then she became visibly upset and obviously reluctant to talk about it in any detail".Dalrymple, Breakspear admits, did not deserve to die, but "got it" for all the other men who had abused her. "When the fight first started I was angry, after he had made a pass at me and then Karen, but then I got frightened when he kept trying to get up, so kept hitting him. I thought, 'I've never been able to fight back before when men have done things to me, but this time I can.'"Surprisingly, for a case involving extreme, unexplained violence by a teenager with no history of such behaviour, neither the crown nor defence psychiatrists concluded that there was any mental instability or illness that might have contributed to Breakspear's actions.Because Breakspear had not been diagnosed with any illness when she was arrested, police were not obliged to allow an appropriate adult to be present when she was interviewed. Had she been in contact with the mental health or drug and alcohol services before the incident, she might have been assessed on that basis, and her defence in court might have taken a different route. The jury, after several hours' deliberation, reached a majority verdict of guilty. "Some of the jury were visibly upset when the verdict was announced and had obviously found it a difficult decision," says defence solicitor Roger Mullender. "The trial was a daunting experience for a vulnerable young girl from a very difficult background, but we thought she was honest."Breakspear talks about the few pleasures she had before prison in the past tense. "I wanted to learn banger racing. I used to love fast and furious [car chase] films." Does she feel her life is ruined? "My old life is over, and I am glad about that. But I don't know when I will be allowed to start afresh, if ever. I will come out of prison in my 30s, labelled a murderer."The crime writer Carol Anne Davis, who has studied teenage violence, hopes that society learns from previous mistakes, where the young people have committed dreadful acts of violence without anyone asking why."By the time we intervene, these damaged children have committed evil acts - and this causes the ignorant to suggest that they were always evil," she says. "But quality intervention at an early stage can turn such traumatised lives around."While she is paying society back for her part in Dalrymple's murder, Breakspear's youth will pass her by. She will be 32 at the time of her earliest release date. I ask again why she did it. "I went along with something that felt out of control. I took all my anger out on him, I suppose. I should have got myself sorted out before it got to that, but I had no idea how to help myself."