 6.09pm BST "Acts of kindness"Some more detail of what Detective Superintendent Ian John said earlier. He said he had been "completely overwhelmed" by the continuing support of the community today, saying volunteers had been delivering food and drink for officers out searching for April.Praising the "many acts of kindness" by members of the local and national community, he singled out "two ladies from Newport" who arrived laden with food and drink bought with money collected in their own community.John added: Finally, despite the developments of our investigation, our focus remains on finding April, and the search continues. 5.59pm BST Search continuingEmergency services now involved in the search for April alongside those 60 specialist offices include:the Coastguardthe RNLIthe RAF mountain rescue service150 mountain rescuers from across the UK 5.53pm BST Community in shockDaily Post Wales (@dailypostwales)Machynlleth's rugby match at Abergele tomorrow has been called off #apriljonesOctober 5, 2012 5.42pm BST Police press conferenceMargaret Davis (@MargaretDavisPA)Supt John said "a great deal of thought" had gone into making the hunt a murder inquiry and that it was "the right thing to do"October 5, 2012 5.42pm BST Police press conferenceNo significant development from this press update."No stone is being left unturned in this investigation", said Detective Superintendent Ian John in comments to Sky News afterwards.Police now have eight teams of 60 different specialist police officers searching for April, he said, and still appeal to the public for any witnesses who may have information. 4.44pm BST Parents' eveningMark Bridger was at a parents' evening between 5.30pm and 6pm, the local council has confirmed to Sky News.And it was the same parents' evening that April Jones's family were at. But, the council has said, Coral and Paul Jones are believed to have left at 3.30pm, meaning it is unlikely they and April overlapped with Bridger. 4.19pm BST Special service for AprilThe Bishop of Bangor will lead a special service of prayers and readings for the community in Machynlleth on Sunday.A statement released by the Church in Wales says:Churches and chapels in the town will join together for the service at St Peter’s Church in Penrallt St at 11am. All are welcome.The Bishop, Andy John, hopes it will give the community a chance to come together to pray for the missing child, April Jones, and her family, to support each other and to share their concern.Jones is quoted as saying: This has been a very long and exhausting week for everyone in Machynlleth. It is at times like this that people need their faith most and want to turn to God for help. The church has held a vigil service every night and we hope the service on Sunday will bring people together to pray and reflect. We hope they will feel the love of God and draw some comfort and hope from it.There will also be a vigil service held again tonight at 6pm at St Peter’s Church.  4.14pm BST ExtensionThis has been confirmed to Welsh journalists.Paul Rowland (@paulrowland1)Court have granted a further 24 hours to question Mark Bridger over murder of April Jones, Dyfed-Powys Police confirmOctober 5, 2012 4.12pm BST Extension grantedPolice have been granted a further 24 hour extension to Mark Bridger's detention, Sky News are reporting. This gives them until 5pm tomorrow to either charge him or let him go.  4.09pm BST Next police briefing 5.30pmDyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)Next #apriljones press briefing to be held at Machynlleth Leisure Centre at 5.30pmOctober 5, 2012 3.17pm BST Mark Bridger arrives at courtTV footage has shown a security van arriving at Aberystwyth magistrates' court, which Sky News said carried Mark Bridger. The presumption is that police will be applying to a magistrate to extend the time they can hold Bridger before having to charge or release him for another 24 hours, until 5pm on Saturday. 3.09pm BST More photos of April  April Jones Photograph: Dyfed-Powys policePolice have issued more family photos of April.Updated at 3.14pm BST 3.08pm BST   April Jones Photograph: Dyfed-Powys policeUpdated at 3.14pm BST 2.47pm BST Photograph of search  Welsh Fire Service Search and Rescue teams use a boat to search the River Dyfi for missing five-year-old girl April Jones near Machynlleth, in Wales, on 5 October 2012. Photograph: Paul Ellis/AFP/Getty Images 2.30pm BST Some volunteers still searchingThe Guardian's Steven Morris, in Machynlleth, writes that some volunteers are refusing to give up the search for April, despite the police request that they leave it to the professionals. There is hardly a person in Machynlleth – residents, visitors, media, police, searchers – who is not wearing a pink ribbon.Kirsty Jones, 16, a friend of April's sister, Jasmine, was walking down the main street carrying a basket filled with ribbons. She was handing them out and collecting donations for April's family. “People still have hope,” she said.At Wheeler Fabrics, they ran out of pink ribbon on Thursday after April's family appealed for people to wear a splash of pink as a symbol of hope. They had more in on Friday and three staff members were turning them into bows and giving them to the constant stream of people coming into the shop for them.Over at the Losin Lush sweet shop, Alyson Jones and two friends were busy putting sweets into bags to be handed out to schoolmates of April's. Earlier in the week she had been busy liaising with independent sweetshops across the country, asking them to be on the look-out for anyone with a young child acting suspiciously ... Although police asked volunteers not to carry on searching, some of them defied the request and went out.Carl Jones, from Machynlleth, one of the organisers of the search run by local people that has run parallel with the police effort, said: “The police have spoken with us and told us the search is for a body. We're trying to work out what to do next. I do know that groups have gone out searching since the police announcement. We continue to hope.” 2.15pm BST April's headteacher: 'We refuse to give up hope'Gwenfair Glyn, headteacher of April's school, Ysgol Gynradd Machynlleth, just gave a brief statement in which she said: As more time goes on we are becoming increasingly concerned about her safety but we refuse to give up hope for April ...This week has been the hardest in the school's history.She said the events had been "an emotional rollercoaster for us". Glyn also said the school's thoughts were with April's family. 1.52pm BST Photographs from MachynllethMy colleague Steven Morris has tweeted some poignant images from Machynlleth.steven morris(@stevenmorris20)Pink ribbons for April Jones at the fabric shop in Machynlleth.#apriljones twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 5, 2012steven morris(@stevenmorris20)The entrance to the leisure centre in Machynlleth #apriljones twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 5, 2012steven morris(@stevenmorris20)The window display at the sweet shop in Machynlleth.#apriljones twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 5, 2012 1.48pm BST Video of press conferenceHere is video of the press conference at which police announced that Mark Bridger has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of April Jones.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Updated at 1.49pm BST 12.49pm BST Reverend says 'We still have hope'Reverend Kathleen Rogers, of St Peter's Church in Machynlleth, spoke to the volunteers who have been helping to search for April after police announced that they now believe she has been murdered. Rogers told the BBC afterwards: They were all in tears, I'm afraid. Wouldn't you be if that child was from your community? But this child has not been found, we still have hope ...until somebody tells us otherwise.  11.45am BST 'We want to find her for her parents'Mark Moran, from Mountain Rescue, told the BBC that Bridger's arrest had not changed the role of the search team. He said: We are still searching the same areas ...Regardless of whether, regrettably, she [April] now has passed away or not, we want to find her for her parents and bring her back.He said that 166 people from mountain rescue were involved in the search yesterday (he did not know the exact number today) as well as 20 dogs. 11.28am BST Areas of focus for police  Map showing areas of focus for police investigation Photograph: guardian.co.ukThe map above shows the areas of focus in the police search for April. It is a screenshot from a guardian interactive map, which can be explored in more detail here. 11.05am BST Deadline to question Bridger remainsMy colleague Steven Morris writes that the 5pm deadline for holding Mark Bridger is still in effect at present. The arrest of Bridger on suspicion of murder does not affect the time he can be held. Police still have until 5pm today to release, charge him or go back before a court for extra time. They could be granted an extra 24 hours to quiz him, taking them to Saturday afternoon.News crews are now heading for the magistrates court in Aberystwyth in case he appears there. Reporters would not be allowed in as it would be a closed hearing. It was poignant that both police officers in the press conference wore the pink ribbons that April's family have asked people to wear as a sign of hope. 10.51am BST Full statements from press conferenceHere are the full quotes from the press conference, at which police revealed the grim news that they now believe April has been murdered. Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan: Mark Bridger has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of April Jones. He remains in custody at Aberystwyth Police Station where he continues to be questioned. The arrest does not detract from our efforts to find April and we remain committed to finding her. Her family has been informed of this development and as you would expect they continue to be supported by a family liaison officer. "While this is a significant development in the investigation, I once again appeal to the public for information which may help us find April. We are looking to trace the movements of Mark Bridger between 6.30pm on Monday and 3.30pm on Tuesday and any sightings of him between these times. We also need information regarding the movements of the blue Land Rover Discovery registration L503 MEP between these times.Superintendent Ian John: You have heard about a significant development in this investigation which has an impact on our search for April.We want to acknowledge and are extremely grateful for the efforts of the community volunteers who have supported the professional searchers in trying to locate her.They have been a vital part of our team throughout this search operation. Quite frankly, their commitment has been an inspiration to us all.The dynamics of the search have now changed and due to the passage of time and the developments within the investigation it is no longer appropriate for us to expect untrained members of the public to continue the search.So now we only require professional searchers to be involved in the ongoing search which continues in and around Machynlleth. 10.42am BST 'Dynamics of search have changed'Dyfed Powys police has tweeted some more details of the press conference. Police said that April's family have been informed that Bridger has been arrested on suspicion of her murder.They also said that given the development, volunteers should leave the professionals to continue with the search for April. Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)The family of #apriljones has been informed of these developments and are being supported by specialist officersOctober 5, 2012Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)Continue to appeal for information to trace the movements of Mark Bridger and the blue Landrover #apriljonesOctober 5, 2012Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)Supt Ian John praises volunteers and says they have have been an "inspiration to us all" #apriljonesOctober 5, 2012Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)The dynamics of the search for #apriljones have now changed and it is time to leave the professionals to carry on with the searchesOctober 5, 2012Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)Untrained members of the public cannot be expected to carry on to search for #apriljones following these developmentsOctober 5, 2012 10.33am BST Mark Bridger arrested on suspicion of murderMark Bridger has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of April Jones (he was previously arrested on suspicion of abduction), Superintendent Reg Bevan has just said at a brief press conference.He said Bridger continues to be questioned and that his questioning does not detract from the search to find April. I once again appeal to the public for information that may help to find April.Updated at 10.42am BST 10.14am BST Mountain rescue volunteers helping searchNorth East Wales Search and Rescue says it is sending team members to Machynlleth to help with the search. NEWSAR(@newsar)We are sending team members down to #Machynlleth to today to provide comms support to Cave Rescue. #apriljonesOctober 5, 2012NEWSAR(@newsar)"@dailypostwales: 200 #mountainrescueuk #volunteers are expected to aid the search for missing April Jones today."October 5, 2012 9.31am BST Press conference at 10.30amPolice have announced that they will be holding a press conference on the case at 10.30am. We will be covering the press conference on this blog.Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)Next #apriljones press conference set for 10.30am in Welsh Government building in AberystwythOctober 5, 2012 9.28am BST Police reiterate appealDyfed Powys police have reiterated their appeal for anyone with information to contact them.Dyfed Powys Police (@DyfedPowys)Day 5 of the search for #apriljones is underway-anyone with information please call 0300 2000 333October 5, 2012 8.12am BST Appeal posterThis is Wales has tweeted a picture of the latest poster appealing for information. this is Wales (@thisiswales)Missing #AprilJones Campaign:Download LATEST Appeal Posterpost.ly/9VMlc#findApril #thisiswales Pls RTtwitter.com/thisiswales/st…October 4, 2012 7.40am BST Search enters fifth daySearch teams continued work throughout the night in an effort to find April.Police have until 5pm today to question Mark Bridger, who was arrested on suspicion of abducting her. At that point they must either release him, charge him or seek further extension to the time allowed for detaining him.One of the world's leading forensic psychologists who advised British and Portuguese police in the search for Madeleine McCann is reportedly helping detectives. Joe Sullivan has been drafted into the Dyfed Powys police investigation team to give advice on interviewing Bridger, the Times reports.Meanwhile, all 43 forces in England and Wales are helping process the information from 2,500 calls from members of the public relating to April's disappearance. You can read the Guardian's main news story here. 