Duwayne Ashley Philpott, 13Died in Birmingham children's hospital two days after the fire. Duwayne was described during the order of service at the children's funeral as a "charming and caring ladies' man", on the verge of turning into a young man. As the eldest sibling, Duwayne took it upon himself to be protector of his younger siblings, becoming more independent and understanding of them. He loved to spend time with the family pet, Crackle, an African grey parrot.In his spare time he enjoyed music and had a talent for the violin. He enjoyed sport, especially football, and held a season ticket for his local club Derby County, where he loved to cheer on the mighty Rams. Dr Christopher Reynolds, headteacher at St Benedict's Catholic school, where Duwayne was a pupil, described the young boy as "modest, hard-working and always looking to improve his skills".Jade Louise Philpott, 10She was also well-regarded at school, described during the order of service as a "very intelligent" individual who was not only a "beautiful princess" but also a "mother hen" to her younger brothers. Patricia Hurn, headteacher of St George's Roman Catholic primary school, mentioned that Jade was part of the chaplaincy team at school and had a real "talent for boosting class morale", adding that "Jade was everybody's friend and her manners were impeccable".John Simon David Philpott, nineJohn was described during the funeral as a "cheeky chappy, lively and ready to pick a fight with all the boys", always avoiding any of the responsibility for the trouble he caused at school. Teachers at St George's primary remember him as "cheerful, smiley and polite". John was also a keen Derby County supporter like his older brother Duwayne, and his daredevil personality saw him compete with his brothers when playing together. John was said to have wanted to pursue a career as a soldier in the army when he was older.Jack Elvis Aaron Philpott, eightDescribed in a tribute as a typical "blue-eyed boy", "bashful and shy", much like his older brother Duwayne. As the quietest of the children, he was said to be a delight to be around. The tribute, read out by Canon Alan Burbridge, also mentioned Jack's love of gaming, in contrast to his siblings, stating "he loved to spend most of his time on his Nintendo DS, whilst his brothers and sister would enjoy the garden". He was "a real computer geek". Hurn, the headteacher, also remembered Jack as a pupil who was eager to learn.Jesse James Philpott, sixJesse was described by his teachers at St George's primary as a cheerful pupil. He was a loud character within the family and said to be very mischievous, usually storming off to his room like a teenager when in trouble. Jesse's softer side was also mentioned in a tribute to him, which described his caring and loving nature towards his younger brother Jayden.Jayden Callum Philpott, fiveJayden was described as a whirlwind. Nicknamed "the miracle baby" by his parents because of his premature birth, he looked up to his elder siblings. He was remembered as a bouncy and hyperactive boy, who loved playing outside and was always messy, constantly getting into play fights with his siblings. Jayden made friends easily at school and his greatest pleasure was his food – often eating several packets of crisps in one go.