Thousands of new civilian wardens are to be put in uniform, given powers including the use of reasonable force, and employed to patrol the streets of England and Wales, under sweeping reforms of the police unveiled by David Blunkett, the home secretary, last night. The presence on the streets of this new breed of police-employed "community support officers" will be supplemented by accredited private security guards and also local authority wardens. These guards and wardens will not be able to use force or make a formal arrest, but they will be able to detain members of the public and issue fixed penalty fines for minor offences. The changes will mean the introduction of multi-tier policing into Britain. Mr Blunkett also plans to introduce a national non-emergency contact number for the police to reduce the load on the 999 system which has experienced a 33% increase in calls in the past four years - most of which do not require an immediate response. The likely number for Police Direct is a 333 service. The wholesale changes in policing, which parliament will be asked to approve in the new year, are designed to tackle an area that ministers regard as one of the last great unreformed parts of the UK's public services. There will be powers for the home secretary to act over "failing" police forces and to dismiss incompetent police officers. The reforms also include a national standards unit to tackle unacceptable variations in clear-up and detection rates, as well as a specialist cadre of detectives and an overhaul of police pay and conditions. In return, Mr Blunkett has promised to provide the funding to ensure there are 130,000 police officers in England and Wales by the spring of 2003. Senior police officers, including chief constables and superintendents, broadly welcomed yesterday's white paper proposals, including those for a better trained and more professional police service. The Police Federation, which represents constables, voiced strong objections to plans to extend some police powers to civilian patrols, including security guards. "The ability to intervene in sensitive and sometimes potentially hostile situations should only be carried out by those holding the office of constable with all the responsibilities this carries," said Fred Broughton, the Police Federation chairman. John Denham, a Home Office minister, last night defended the plan, insisting those involved would have proper training and would be accountable, in particular to the independent police complaints authority. He said the civilians would not be used in public order situations. The new breed of "community support officers" will be drawn from the ranks of the 55,000 civilian support staff already employed by the police with their numbers boosted by the lifting of a ban on the recruitment of foreign nationals. They would be employed directly by the police and would be used to provide a "visible presence" on the streets and be ready to tackle anti-social behaviour, check on truants, or deal with abandoned cars - as well as enforce court-ordered curfews and conduct house to house inquiries. They would be paid less than fully trained police constables. The second new tier of "accredited community safety organisations" will include the private security guards and others not directly employed by the police. The white paper says those working in this tier will wear a badge or kitemark to show that they are approved by the police, and they may have a variety of roles, including that of street warden. Their powers will fall short of those given to the police community support officers since they will not be able to use reasonable force, though they will be able to detain people before the arrival of a police officer. In a pilot scheme in west Lancashire, street wardens carry cameras so they can make a record of those people they stop. Mr Blunkett told MPs yesterday: "Police officers are highly trained. They need to be used for their key role - catching criminals and providing reassurance. I am determined to make their job more rewarding by stripping away unnecessary red tape. Many of these duties can be performed by trained civilian support staff." The white paper confirms plans to introduce a national standards unit, tackle excess levels of sickness, and sweep away other "Spanish practices" within the police. It does however include even stronger reserve powers, allowing the home secretary to act against chief constables and forces persistently underperforming.  Security measures· New community support officers to patrol streets in uniform and have power to use force. · Private security guards to have power to detain in street but not use force. · Police Direct national call line to reduce load on 999 calls. · New specialist cadre of detectives, including use of outside experts. · National standards unit to tackle unacceptable variations in police performance. · Reserve powers of home secretary to sack failing chief constables. · New national structure for police pay, including extra pay for demanding jobs. · Measures to reduce high levels of sickness and early retirement. 'If residents smile as you walk by, you know that they want you. Most do'Many of the houses are boarded up with their roof torn off. Rubbish and graffiti litter the Middleton council estate. On a wet and chilly December yesterday, the streets were deserted except for a few barking dogs - and Neil Collins, one of the neighbourhood wardens employed by Leeds city council. "I'm not a nosy person; I don't go round snooping in gardens," he said. "But if people approach me with information, I pass it on to the agencies. "I walk the streets and talk to people. They recognise me now." He spent much of his time on mundane tasks, he said; checking if a street light worked, or if rubbish needed clearing. Residents told him of noisy neighbours or defective smoke alarms. Neil patrols on foot 37 hours a week. Most of the work is during the day, but he works at night to sort out problems. "There is a lot of crime and drugs; I find a lot of syringes," he said. "Most people I meet walking around are glad to see me. Around 75% of the community want wardens." A colleague, Christine Cape, a former casino bouncer, agreed. "You can tell whether people want you to be there or not. If they do, they will look at you and smile. If not, they will look away. "It is not just old people who want us here. Young people smile at us as well. "I love talking to people, I like to help, and I care about what goes on in the community. We don't replace the police, as we are trying to prevent situations escalating." She had been working with two families in the city to sort out a dispute between groups of teenagers before it got out of hand. The city has 16 wardens, and another eight will be recruited in the new year. Neil Bowden, who manages the warden service, said rank and file police officers were suspicious when it began six months ago, but these fears had been allayed. There had also been misleading local paper headlines portraying the wardens as crimebusters. He acknowledged there had been a few incidents. "One warden was locked in a house by a man who has a history of mental health problems - but she managed to talk her way out of it, and is still working."