The home secretary, David Blunkett, vowed to press ahead with his police reform agenda yesterday in spite of the overwhelming rejection of a pay and conditions package by rank and file officers.Blunkett said the 91% "no" vote by 84,000 members of the Police Federation of England and Wales showed "once again" that the organisation was determined to block change that had been necessary for decades.Although the defeat had been expected by the Home Office, the scale of it took most officials and senior officers by surprise. The federation chairman, Fred Broughton, said the message from the ballot, which had a 73% turnout, was that there is deep unease within the service. It represented a "stinging rebuke" to Mr Blunkett, he added. The pay and conditions package will now go to conciliation and arbitration, with a first meeting scheduled for Monday. If that process fails, the home secretary could impose a deal, though this would provoke the Police Federation, which Mr Blunkett said yesterday "the vast majority of officers" would be better off under his plans. He believes the federation, which agreed the deal before Christmas, made no effort to explain the details to its members. "The Police Federation has been at the forefront of resisting change... I know that rank and file police officers, who so often do a superb job against the odds, were either unaware or misled about the true nature of the rewards for reform which are on the table." The Home Office believes the ballot, which took place on February 6, was a ploy to give the federation more leverage at arbitration; it now intends to appeal to officers directly, over the heads of federation officials. However, the anger of rank and file members over the issue will not be dampened easily. Mr Broughton said confusion about the proposed changes, particularly over the issue of discretionary payments, and the lack of trust in the Home Office, were the chief reasons for the overwhelming rejection. There was a 98% "no" vote in the Metropolitan police; Warwickshire, Nottinghamshire and Cambridgeshire were the most supportive of the package, but only 28% of officers accepted the deal. Mr Broughton said this showed police officers were demoralised and fed up with the home secretary's criticisms of the service. "It is clear our members were determined not to accept measures that were divisive, would value some officers more than others and leave thousands of frontline colleagues worse off," he said. Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, said Mr Blunkett must take the blame for failing to spell out the details of his package, and warned him not to "browbeat or hector" the police. Norman Baker, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said the home secretary had "failed to deal with reform in a way which inspires the confidence of officers". But the president of the Police Superintendents' Association, Kevin Morris, said the government should forge ahead with its modernisation programme.