A teenager who was shot dead on a London housing estate was trying to escape a gunman, according to a neighbour.The 17-year-old died in a stairwell in a block of flats in Peckham, south-east London, yesterday afternoon.A witness said the teenager was banging desperately on the door of an eighth-floor flat before the fatal shot was fired.Two other teenagers, aged 17 and 18, were stabbed as a group of young men ran amok on the estate.Detectives were investigating whether the murder and stabbings took place during a clash between rival gangs.Three men were arrested at the scene and are being questioned at south London police stations. Police said two were 17 and the third was 18. No weapons have been found.The victim was found dying in a stairwell at Heron House after reports of an attack at about 4.30pm yesterday. He was pronounced dead at the scene.Police then found a 17-year-old boy with a stab wound who had run to a flat in nearby Gannet House. He was taken to hospital where his condition is stable.The two blocks are a short distance apart, close to a football pitch and basketball court.Hospital staff called police to report a third victim, an 18-year-old man, who arrived with minor stab injuries. He has been discharged.The victim was the 19th teenager to be killed in London this year. Fifteen were murdered last year and 29 in 2008.Samba Koroma, 40, a cleaning manager who lives nearby, said he saw the victim banging on the door of a flat shortly before his death. "He ran into the building. He was knocking on the door for somebody to open up but nobody opened the door. I don't know whether the boy knew the couple [who live there]. He ran down the stairs and I think that's when he got shot," he said.Police sealed off several areas on the estate as officers in forensic suits searched bushes and open ground.Residents described Heron House as a magnet for trouble. One, who wished to remain anonymous, said: "They are out of control at Heron House. It's not a nice place to pass."Residents said violence linked to gangs had surged on Pelican estate.A mother-of-two who lives on the estate said gang crime had returned after appearing to end a few years ago. "I keep my son indoors and he is 18," she said. "There's too much going on on the streets. It's not safe here at all. The police should be patrolling round here more often. An innocent life has been taken away. How will his parents feel?"The MP for Camberwell and Peckham, Harriet Harman, visited the scene of the shooting to speak to police and residents. "My deepest sympathies are with the parents and the family of the young man who has been killed," she said. "It is vital that those who committed this brutal crime should not get away with it."The overwhelming majority of young people in this area are decent, hardworking people who want to make the most of their lives and people are dismayed that once again a tragedy has cast a shadow over Peckham."Speaking at the scene, Detective Chief Inspector Gordon Allison, who is leading the inquiry, urged anyone with information to call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.He said it was "far too early" to say if the murder was gang-related. "But obviously that is a line of inquiry that my team will be pursuing."The victim had lived at several addresses in Peckham over the past few years.