Sheffield police have appealed for witnesses after a 25-year-old man was stabbed to death as he made his final pizza delivery before starting a career as an IT consultant.Thavisha Lakindu Peiris was found by colleagues slumped behind the wheel of his car in Southey at 10.30pm on Sunday after failing to return from a delivery.Peiris, described by police as a "very hard-working, caring and generally nice lad", had asked to go home from work early on his final shift as he was feeling unwell but agreed to do one last job.He had moved to Britain from Sri Lanka in 2011 to study IT at Sheffield Hallam University, and to help fund his studies he was working at a branch of Domino's Pizza about five minutes from where he was stabbed. He was due to finish work there on Sunday after landing an IT job.Detective Superintendent Lisa Ray, who is leading the 50-strong team investigating Peiris's murder, said: "I can only imagine the pain his family in Sri Lanka are feeling hearing this news."He was very close to his family, he spoke to his mother every single day that he was in the UK. I'm appealing now to the mothers that are out there. Was it your son that came home a little bit dishevelled, perhaps [wearing] blood-stained clothing? I'm asking for anybody out there to think of that family and the end of that young life, aged 25."She said police remained in the dark as to the motive for the attack, but given that the murder was in an out-of-the-way street it was likely the killer or killers came from the local area.She appealed for witnesses who saw Peiris or anyone in the area acting suspiciously on Sunday night to come forward. Three people arrested by police have all been released without charge and eliminated from the inquiry.Officers have established that the order to which Peiris was responding was a genuine one. He left Domino's Pizza at 9.50pm and arrived close to the delivery address 10 minutes later, but never made it to the door. No money appears to have been stolen. Peiris was driving a silver Toyota Yaris that had no markings to identify his job, but he was wearing a Domino's Pizza T-shirt.Ray said police were trawling CCTV footage from the area and forensic tests were being carried out on the car but were taking longer than usual because it had been raining on Sunday night.Peiris suffered stab wounds to his chest and it was not entirely clear where he was when he was attacked. He was found sitting in the driver's seat with both doors closed. But, the detective said, he could have been attacked as he was standing in the doorway of the vehicle.His manager at Domino's Ravi Marripudi said he had received a call from the customer saying the order had not been delivered and there were voices outside. Marripudi said he sent another driver to look for Peiris and he found his colleague unconscious in his Toyota Yaris, in a residents' parking bay near the delivery address."It is so shocking," Marripudi said. "He was such a kind person. "If someone had wanted money, he would not have fought. He would have handed it over. He was just a really nice person."Marripudi said the incident had worried delivery drivers and four have decided to quit since the murder.In a sign of the prominence South Yorkshire police are giving to the search for Peiris's killer, the force changed the photo on its Twitter account to that of the 25-year-old, and posted a series of tweets including one that said: "This is Thavisha Lakindu Peiris, a bright, hard-working & caring man. He was stabbed to death on Sunday. Do you know anything?"Peiris had begun doing coursework for his degree while still in Sri Lanka and graduated from Sheffield Hallam last year. "His family funded him to come to England to further his education and make a good life for himself and that ended tragically on Sunday night," said Ray.Ray said Peiris had no family in the UK apart from a cousin in London and that they hoped to now come to Britain. He is understood to have lived with other Sri Lankan people in an area of Sheffield near the Northern General Hospital, about a mile from where he died.