The circumstances facing Jack Straw when he took over the Home Office were in their way almost as benign as Gordon Brown's at the Treasury. Prior to 1997, crime had been falling across the developed world - in the UK for four years in a row. It kept on falling, since crime mirrors unemployment.So why did the prison population soar by 6,000 above the total bequeathed by Michael Howard, to more than 66,000? No extra criminals were caught; instead the courts started giving longer sentences. Magistrates and judges listen to home secretaries. There is evidence that the prison population mirrors political rhetoric. It fell sharply when Douglas Hurd repeatedly pleaded with courts not to imprison petty offenders, then shot up after Michael Howard's first speech claiming "prison works", and rose again under Mr Straw.So why did he take the hard line? Labour made a compact with what it imagined to be middle England, encapsulated in Tony Blair's famous slogan: "Tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime." If Labour were to be generous to the poor, tackling the causes of crime by spending on a multitude of poverty programmes, then the quid pro quo was belabouring criminals, asylum seekers and anyone else fingered by the Daily Mail.Ritual abuse of Hampstead liberals and soft liberal policies was a signal to Mondeo man that Jack Straw was custodian of toughness. He was the attack dog which would keep the law-and-order tabloids off Labour's back. He drew inspiration too from the Blackburn estates where his child curfews, parenting and anti-social behaviour orders and curbs on nightmare neighbours all chimed with the respectable Labour heartlands. A leaked memorandum showed Mr Blair calling for some law 'n' order to spice up a dull speech. This was delivered in Germany and the spice was a threat to march drunken louts to cashpoint machines. The chief constables thought it ridiculous. Mr Blair proclaimed 4,000 vacancies in the jails for offending yobs - yet over-crowded prisons offering inmates no education, training or treatment were being damned time and again, not just by the chief inspector but by the civil servant who headed the prison service too. Last year the prison service failed to reach its - very modest - target of ensuring every prisoner had at least 24 hours a week of work, education or training out of their cells. It was shameless cynicism that had nothing to do with what works and destroyed trust. Yet behind the scenes, better policies for crime were pursued and some might even work. A national youth justice board was set up to oversee 155 local youth offending teams. For every young offender, action plans are being arranged for training, drug treatment or education - both for offenders in custody and outside again in the community. Since teenagers commit 40% of burglaries and 28% of violent offences, identifying them first time round and giving them a coherent programme may reduce the rate at which people reoffend. In future Rat Boy - a conspicuous multiple offender - would not keep on getting cautioned but would be delivered immediately to his local youth offending team. But this constructive approach also saw the arrival of new detention and training orders to lock more young offenders away. The number of young offenders imprisoned shot up by 10%, many crammed in over-crowded institutions with no chance of effective treatment, often hundreds of miles from home. Youth crime, however, will be one area of Labour failure. The only one of the five famous pre-election pledges that will not be met by May this year is the promise to halve the time between arrest and sentencing for juveniles. It has been cut from 142 to under 90 days. What really worked on the crime front, quickly and measurably, were dull measures with no front-page potential. Better locks on cars cut car crime by 30%. There was a 5% reduction in burglaries in high-crime areas after £400m was spent on "target-hardening" locks, bars and entry-phones for the worst estates. There was no public boasting about another success - letting non-violent offenders out of prison early, on electronic tags. Some 2,000 are now on tags - far cheaper than prison though it is too early to tell whether a regulated life in the community with compulsory training will lead to less reoffending. Asylum swelled into a major issue throughout Europe. Labour's polls showed it topped the list of popular concerns: Mori found 80% of voters thought the UK a soft touch. The Tories left behind a backlog of 60,000 cases to be assessed, which rapidly rose to more than 100,000 and has now dropped back to some 66,000. Draconian new rules to appease the British public, but purportedly to deter all comers, led to vouchers instead of cash benefits, sub-poverty level payments and compulsory dispersal around the country into sink estates. Despite screw-tightening, numbers seeking asylum continued to rise and it proved impossible to send back most of those refused refugee status. Calling them "bogus" and "abusive" only stirred up fear and hatred. 