Victims of all serious crime will be given the right to know when their attackers are being released from jail, under plans announced yesterday by the government aimed at neutralising Tory claims that it has been soft on crime.Probation officers are expected to administer the scheme and were last week told that victims would also be entitled to know conditions of release, such as where offenders might stay. Last night this sparked fears of possible vigilante action, with the Tories and probation officers urging Jack Straw, the home secretary, to ensure the plans do not become a green light for retaliation. Mr Straw chose to make the announcement in a Sunday tabloid and wrote: "In the new year I will be announcing proposals so that the victims of all prisoners serving a sentence of 12 months or more are notified of their release date. "And that will not be just for violent crime but for burglaries and thefts too. That will give victims better protection and also ensure their peace of mind." A bill going through parliament gives victims of sex offences the right to know when their attackers will be released. Probation officers have been told that the widening of victims' rights will be in place by April 2001, in time for the general election. Mr Straw's plans follow the former Beatle George Harrison's demand to know the release date of Michael Abram, who attacked him with a knife at his home. Explaining his thinking behind the move, Mr Straw wrote in the People: "When I read and hear of the experiences of those like George and Olivia Harrison it intensifies my determination. "Victims are understandably concerned that even if their attackers have been sent to prison, there is no way of knowing when they will be released. "Few things could be more distressing than suddenly facing your attacker at the local shop or pub when you thought they were behind bars. "And I intend to end the horror of a rape victim suddenly coming face to face with her attacker in the street because she did not know he had been freed." Last year 28,700 people serving sentences of 12 months or more were released from jail. Harry Fletcher, of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: "If the offender has to live at a hostel, and that information is given to the victim, that could lead to retaliation. We'll be looking to clarify that with the Home Office. "We accept that times are changing. The probation service in the past was solely about the rehabilitation of offenders and didn't take victims into account. "It's important to understand how the victims feel as part of the rehabilitation process." It is expected that most victims will be informed by letter, though probation officers may visit those who have suffered more serious crimes. The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, said: "We will not oppose any sensible measures brought forward by the government which are to the genuine benefit of victims of crimes. "It is quite clear that victims should not be expected to live with the threat that they will wake up one morning with their perpetrator living next door. "At the same time any such proposal should not be a licence for a vigilante society."