The woman charged with stamping out racism in Britain's biggest police force has quit after claiming she too was a victim of racial discrimination.Julia Smith, 48, who headed the race and diversity unit at the Metropolitan Police Authority for four years, has won a six-figure settlement as she prepared to take the MPA to an employment tribunal. The MPA, which oversees London's police force, faces two further charges of racism from black employees. The disclosures are a bitter setback to the capital's police force which has been beset by accusations of racism. The authority tried to gag Smith from talking to the media after the settlement, but last week she told The Observer how she felt 'completely disillusioned' by her experience. Smith joined the Authority two years after the Macpherson report into the Stephen Lawrence murder that branded the police 'institutionally racist'. But she believes all moves to tackle the problem of racism in the Met were done without any 'heartfelt conviction' and were 'tokenistic'. Smith said: 'They do the absolute minimum... If the authority cannot get its own house in order when it comes to race issues, how on earth can it hope to change the way the police force tackles racism?' Smith's own case against the MPA involves her application for two executive jobs that she did not get. First she applied to become deputy chief of the authority. Then her job was split into two and a white male in her team was promoted over her despite only having worked in England for a year. Smith, who has advised the Home Office and the Greater London Authority, believes that she was discriminated against because she did try to put race issues up the agenda. Smith was one of the prime movers behind the authority's decision to scrutinise the police's stop and search policy. This has long been one of the most contentious areas of policing and drew accusation of racism because black and Asian men get stopped more frequently. The report published by the authority in May claims the practice is 'influenced by racial bias'. It said black people were four times more likely to be stopped than white people and urged work with communities for a more 'intelligence-led approach'. According to the report, the stop-and-search rates of black people in London increased by 30 per cent between 2001 and 2002. For Asian people it rose by 41 per cent but for white people by only 8 per cent. Smith was also involved in trying to increase police recruiting from minorities. 'We were trying to set a new tone, to engender trust and confidence in the police from communities. It wasn't just about black community but all groups: women, Asians, refugees. I ended up very disillusioned.' Another case being taken to the employment tribunal involves the authority's head of security who alleges he faces open discrimination because he is black. Despite being head of security for three years his access is restricted on the second floor of the four-storey headquarters next to Scotland Yard in central London. The third racial discrimination case taken against the MPA involves a junior member of staff who had worked for the authority for several years. He learnt a manager had contacted the Home Office to inquire about his immigration status without telling him.