One of the world's most inept blackmail scams, aimed at 1970s Soho porn king Paul Raymond and the American publisher of Penthouse, Bob Guccione, is disclosed in colourful detail in court papers released by the Metropolitan police in the National Archives at Kew today. Two Irish decorators tried to scare Raymond, then Guccione – who died last week – into handing over money in 1971 and 1972 by pretending they were terrorists, only to be caught red-handed by police who were lying in wait as Raymond paid. An earlier, much more potentially dangerous, attack on a car belonging to Raymond's estranged wife Joan at her home in Wimbledon some months earlier could not be pinned on the culprits, but may have given them the idea as it had been publicised in the press.The papers contain transcripts of Raymond's telephone conversations with the supposedly IRA blackmailers, though the fact that they left a warning: "This is your executioner," at his Revue Bar with the request "anyone taking this message, give it personally to Mr Raymond" may have given a clue that they were not criminal masterminds. On the day of the scam, Raymond pretended to be drunk and terrified when they rang, but insisted that he was too busy to wait any longer to hand over the £15,000 they had demanded. "I will not do it tomorrow," he insisted. "Otherwise you can stick a bomb wherever you want to. I have got work to do.""We will not blow your place up, we will bloody shoot you," the blackmailer replied. "I am a human person and I believe your cause is right. I don't want the IRA shooting Catholics ... because I am a Roman Catholic myself," Raymond answered, only to be interrupted by the pips in the public telephone the blackmailers were using while they searched for more money to feed the call.A few minutes later, the police seized Eden Colman Reid, 26, as he collected a suitcase from Raymond in the foyer of the Whitehall Theatre, before arresting Douglas Stewart White, 52, who had parked the getaway car in a vacant parking space round the corner in Northumberland Avenue rather than waiting on double yellow lines outside the theatre.The police were sure the pair had previously tried to blackmail Guccione, then living in London, for £6,000 by pretending to be Arab terrorists. White, described as intelligent, cunning and scheming and a plausible liar, was jailed for five years and his accomplice Reid, who had been living rough at Euston station, was imprisoned for three.