Two mortuary workers have been questioned over the desecration of a Muslim woman's body by covering it with rashers of bacon, police announced today.A third man, unconnected with the desecration, has been questioned over the allegedly theft of items from bodies at the same mortuary. When detectives raided his home in Uxbridge, west London, they found 2,000 photographs and slides of corpses. Workers at the Hillingdon hospital mortuary in west London discovered the desecration the 65-year-old Muslim grandmother's body. She had died of cancer on January 17. It is strictly against the Muslim religion to touch or eat pork, and detectives are treating it as a religiously or racially motivated crime.A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said that, in the course of inquiries, police had discovered allegations of the desecration of another body at Hillingdon's morgue in 1996, this time a white woman whose body had been marked in pen. The hospital conducted an internal inquiry in 1996, but did not inform police or the woman's family. The two men arrested over the desecration of the Muslim woman's body were held on suspicion of "causing a public nuisance" and have been released on police bail. A 20-year-old man was held on May 16 and bailed to June 12 and a 30-year-old man was arrested on May 19 and bailed until June 20, police revealed today. The 53-year-old man arrested on suspicion of theft is on police bail and is due to return for further questioning on Wednesday. He has been suspended from his job at the hospital. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the photographs found at his home appeared to date back about 10 years. "The bodies photographed vary in sex, age and ethnic origin. They do not depict desecrations," she said. The images are being analysed, and police are working to establish whether they were taken illegally.David McVittie, chief executive of the Hillingdon Hospital NHS Trust, said: "If anyone who worked for us interfered with bodies in the mortuary, that is a deeply shocking fact. We expect all our staff to be respectful of the dead and treat them with the utmost dignity at all times. "I offer my sincere apologies to the family of any person who may have been abused in this way. Although no one could imagine anyone carrying out these appalling acts, we have made absolutely sure it cannot happen again by stopping anyone from working alone in the mortuary and keeping it locked at all other times," he added. The hospital has also set up a special hotline on 018-9523 8282 for people concerned about relatives or friends who died there.