Duwayne Brooks, the surviving victim of a racist attack that killed black teenager Stephen Lawrence, today won the right to sue the police for wrongful arrest and negligence.His solicitor, Jane Deighton, described the court of appeal ruling as "groundbreaking"."He has suffered so much, but he has brought something good out of this. Because of Duwayne's persistence, for the first time police officers can be held to account for the way they treat victims and witnesses of crime," she said.Mr Brooks, 27, saw his friend murdered by a racist gang in April 1993 in Eltham, south-east London. He claimed he was a victim who was treated as a criminal by the police, and he has since been diagnosed as having post traumatic stress disorder.In 1999 the central London county court struck out his claims against the Metropolitan police commissioner and five policemen. However today three appeal judges reinstated the claims - and refused appeals by additional police officers that the cases against them should be struck out.Mr Brooks has been given the go-ahead to sue the Met commissioner for wrongful arrest and negligence and 13 police officers for breaches of the Race Relations Act. Mr Brooks was said to be "very, very happy" today after the court ruling. Lord Justice Kennedy, giving the appeal court ruling, said Mr Brooks and Mr Lawrence were both 18 and black when they were attacked by a gang of white youths. Mr Brooks telephoned for an ambulance after his friend was fatally injured and the police were notified. The judge said: "As is well known, there have been many complaints about the way in which the matter was handled by the Metropolitan police, and in 1997 Sir William Macpherson was appointed by the home secretary to hold an inquiry." Mr Brooks began civil proceedings over the way he was treated by police in April 1999, following the Macpherson report's findings of mishandling of the case by police.All the police defendants sought to have the proceedings against them struck out and in March 2000, Judge Butter QC found in favour of five policemen, and he found in favour of the commissioner in December 2000. The claims against the remaining policemen were allowed to continue. These included an allegation that a policewoman at the scene who spoke to Mr Brooks did not take his account seriously or act upon it. He alleged she had failed to ask for descriptions of the assailants or to try to establish if Mr Brooks had been attacked himself. Mr Brooks claimed she did not offer him any support or check to see if he was all right. The police officer did not "appreciate that he was in a distraught and frightened condition as a result of the attack and the condition of his friend lying on the pavement", it was claimed. Other officers at the scene being sued were alleged to have failed to remedy any of these faults. Mr Brooks also claims that after being taken to hospital, he was given no choice but to go to the police station to make a statement and during four hours there no one asked about his welfare or whether he would prefer to make the statement at home.