A recording of the 999 call made by the men who went to help Damilola Taylor minutes after he was stabbed was played to the jury yesterday. This is an edited version. Bill Casal  (a carpenter who made the call) : Can you send an ambulance to Blakes Road ...it's a boy bleeding to death. He's actually bleeding to death.  Leslie Tunstall ( a colleague who takes the phone):  This boy is approximately 12 years of age. He has lost a hell of a lot of blood.  Operator: How has he done that? What happened?  Tunstall: We do not know, sir. We have just come out and found him on the staircase.  Operator: Where is he bleeding from?  Tunstall: We cannot tell.  Operator: Have a look to see what part of his body is bleeding.  Tunstall: Actually it looks like it's coming from his leg.  Operator: Is it the upper leg?  Tunstall: It looks like from the upper leg, shall we raise his leg?  Operator: No, don't move him.  Tunstall (shouts to the others):  Don't move him, don't move him.  Operator: Is he awake? Is he conscious?  Tunstall: No, it looks like he's drifting off.  Operator: Is he conscious?  Tunstall: No.  Operator: Is he breathing?  Tunstall: Is he still breathing? Is he still breathing? He's still breathing.  Operator: Can you get a clean cloth or a towel? Is he awake at all?  Tunstall: No, it looks like he's going unconscious. Is he still with us?  Operator: Speak to him, try to bring him round. Sir, can you go to where the patient is please?  Tunstall: I am with him right now.  Operator: Get a coat over his body to keep him warm.  Tunstall: We got that, we got that.  Operator: Is he breathing normally?  Tunstall: He's breathing, but he's ...  Operator: Is he making any noises as he is breathing?  Tunstall: No, he's very quiet.  Operator: Is the blood squirting out?  Tunstall: He's actually wearing trousers and the blood seems to be coming from underneath his leg.  Operator: Is there anything you can cut the trousers with? You are going to have to do it ... is there a lot of blood?  Tunstall: There is a hell of a lot ... he is still breathing but he is in a very bad way.  Operator: I want to you to check that he is still breathing.  Tunstall: Is he still breathing? Keep checking him, keep him talking, try to keep him talking. Is he awake? Keep him talking, try and get him to talk to us. We need to cut the trousers ... nice and carefully.  Operator: Have you got something to put on it yet?  Tunstall: We've got some gauze.  Operator: You are going to have to stem the bleeding.  Tunstall: We still can't see the cut ... this could be a stomach wound. It looks like it could be the stomach, it's coming down his trousers.  He tells his colleagues to lift up Damilola's top.   Tunstall: It might hurt him a little bit but we're gonna have to. It's from his leg. Right, we've found it.  Operator: Can you place the gauze on the wound? Can you manage to do that?  Tunstall: We think that is the wound but to be honest, he's stopped bleeding.  Operator: Can you see any blood pumping?  Tunstall: Keep him going! Keep him going!  Operator: Is he awake?  Tunstall: No, he keeps drifting off, he's ... the police have just arrived.  Operator: Has he stopped breathing now?  Tunstall: He's just checking. Has he stopped breathing? They're actually trying to check now. No pulse, no pulse ...  PC Paul Drew, who is working with Pc Jim Greenhill, then takes the phone.  Operator: Has the patient stopped breathing?  Drew: Yeah, apparently so.  Operator: Right, OK, do you know how to do resus [resuscitation]?  Drew: We will try to get on it.  Operator: Right. He's definitely not breathing?  Drew: Jim, is he definitely not breathing? He's definitely stopped breathing.  Operator: Try and get one of your hands under his neck, put one on his forehead and pull his head back slightly.  Drew: Jim, Jim ... we need one hand behind his neck, tilt his back about an inch. Open his airway. Look in his mouth to see if there is anything blocking his airway. Obstructions Jim. Pinch his nose tight and breathe two deep breaths into his lungs. Cover his mouth completely Jim. OK, he's doing that.  Operator: Have you located the wound yet?  Drew: Yes, we've located wounds on his legs.  Operator: Is the breath going in? Is his chest rising as you are doing it.  Drew: Is the chest rising? Hold on a sec ... no, the chest is not rising.  Operator: You need to check if there's anything in his airway.  Drew: Jim, put your fingers in, put your fingers in. He's going to stick his fingers in and find out. His tongue's up, there's nothing blocking it.  Operator: OK, try once more. Cover his mouth completely. Remember to pinch his nose closed. Is his chest rising?  Drew: Yeah, it's rising.  Operator : OK, what I want you to do now is feel for a pulse.  Drew: I'm doing it. I can't feel a pulse.