The crown prosecution service was yesterday accused of "Alice in Wonderland" reasoning after it again refused to prosecute prison officers involved in restraining a black inmate who later died.The CPS said there was insufficient evidence for a prosecution relating to the death of Alton Manning at the privately run Blakenhurst prison, near Redditch, Worcestershire, in December 1995. The only time all the evidence was heard was by an inquest jury who returned a verdict of unlawful killing in 1998, after hearing that Mr Manning, 33, died from "restraint asphyxia". Last year the high court ordered the CPS to review an earlier decision not to prosecute after lawyers for Manning's family said there was evidence of "unreasonable restraint". The CPS sent a 21 page letter detailing its reasons to the Mannings' solicitor, Raju Bhatt, who said: "The reasoning is Alice in Wonderland. They are the same reasons that have been considered and rejected when this case has been considered by anyone else." Mr Bhatt said a judicial review of the latest decision could be sought. When he died Mr Manning was being held at the jail, run by the private company UK Detention Services, a division of an American private jail firm, the Corrections Corporation of America. Mr Manning, who was awaiting trial for an alleged violent offence, was restrained after being ordered to squat naked for a strip search. An inquest heard he suffered bruising and stopped breathing after being held in a neck lock. Blood was coming from his ears. The Mannings have demanded that officers involved in the struggle be prosecuted. West Mercia police sent a file to the CPS in May 1996 who ruled there was insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction against any prison officers. Deborah Coles, co-director of campaign group Inquest, which has worked with the Mannings since his death, said: "This decision once again brings the entire criminal justice system and the role of the CPS into disrepute. This death and its investigation have revealed corporate culpability that will go unpunished." The CPS said in a statement: "The decision was taken by a senior CPS lawyer in consultation with leading counsel and follows a legal challenge by Mr Manning's family of an earlier decision not to prosecute."