They call it the Peckham frontline. It is a desolate stretch of road, lined by rundown shops. The children and teenagers who loiter along this stretch of Peckham high street, on their way to and from school, are used to violence. Backpacks slung over shoulders, they pass by, oblivious to the yellow police boards calling for witnesses to the latest assault or stabbing. They are also, by and large, oblivious to the drug dealing - often conducted openly on these streets, and often by youths much like themselves.And just as they accept the violence here, the children accept that it will follow them into the school playgrounds. It is not uncommon for schools in this part of south-east London to have security guards patrolling their playgrounds and CCTV cameras monitoring their corridors. But however accustomed these schoolchildren may have become to violence, nothing could have prepared them for the news that the blood of a 10-year-old had been spilt on these same streets. "He was just a tiny kid," says Ellen, 13, tears welling in her eyes as she stares towards Oliver Goldsmith primary school. It is, of course, far too early to speculate about what led to the stabbing of Damilola Taylor as he was returning from the primary school's computer club to his council flat on the nearby North Peckham estate. His body was found just outside a social services office building where the Southwark's youth offending team is based.Whatever led to Damilola's death, the killing must surely draw attention to what is happening to all the children of Peckham, and other parts of inner-city London. For Damilola's killing took place against a burgeoning subculture of youth violence which has been taking root, seemingly beyond the control of any agency, and beyond control of the police. To put it simply, this is the subculture of the gang and, as such, is nothing new for inner-city London. But the gang culture of today is perhaps more disturbing than ever because of the extreme youth of those it attracts - and the extreme youth of some of its victims. In Peckham, where the black population is the majority, both gang members and their victims are usually black. "What we are seeing is more extremes of violence among teenagers and young kids. We are seeing extreme lifestyles and a willingness to use weapons. There is a thing among young people to use violence at the moment," says one black police officer, who works with families affected by violence in this area. Nobody disputes that gang culture is spreading here. Not far from where Damilola bled to death, another teenager was stabbed and killed just a week ago. Seven people were injured at a nightclub shooting along the same stretch of road about a month ago. A 17-year-old, Andre Drummond, was knifed to death outside McDonald's in nearby Camberwell earlier this year. Andre had recently been excluded from school. The latest statistics for the area show that while crime in general is down, violent crime is rising. In October 2000 there were 854 instances of violent crime in the London borough of Southwark, 54 more than occurred in October last year and part of a steady rise. One local community worker explains what is happening: "Young people in these areas are more desperate than ever. Those who are black and excluded feel there is nothing in mainstream culture for them. They are lonely and uncared for. They are looking for a way of finding their identity and many cannot resist turning to the gangs." Youth provision for children in areas such as Peckham is pitiful. The schools are usually too hard-pressed, trying to achieve targets to focus attention on youth clubs or other youth services. The borough of Southwark is one of the most deprived in the country, where vulnerable teenagers often come from broken homes and find little hope of breaking free of the cycle of poverty around them. "They feel they have to give 200% just to stand still," says a black youth worker. As one former Peckham gang member puts it: "It's lawless out there on the street, but the laws are our laws, right. We want respect and we make sure we get it." The gang subculture also comes with its own ready-made economy: drugs. "It's easy money. I started selling puff to kids on their way to school. I was good at it," says another former gang member, now in Feltham prison for young offenders. "They look around and feel there is no future for them," says another community worker. "But they are kids and like all kids they need to feel good about themselves. They are confused about their identity so they join a gang. It gives them a recognition. It gives them their own set of rules and relationships. It means you can hang out with those who are like you rather than those who want to change you." There is also little doubt about the extreme levels of violence among the youth gangs, or that they are recruiting younger and younger members. At Kids Company, a young people's club on Camberwell Road, former gang members talk of joining gangs as young as 12 or 13. "It's the norm for kids like us. It's what everyone does. Maybe you go to prison. Maybe you don't. But if you do, you'll find all your mates there, so why not?" says one who says he has decided to leave the gang life behind. "It's good money for a few years but then what?" he asks. The gang members say the recruiting grounds are often in the schools or among children excluded from schools. Southwark schools all have high numbers of children barred for disruptive behaviour. Many of these youngsters fall through the education net and are excluded several times before being effectively lost to the authorities. Some are as young as 14. While the extent of the crisis among alienated children and teenagers is evident, however, nobody working in the field claims to have any answers. Police appear frustrated, unable to penetrate the operations of the gangs, and fear a community backlash should they probe too far. "They are like a defeated army. They don't know how to handle it," says one south London solicitor. Community workers also despair of being able to reach the alienated youngsters who are attracted by the gangs. Two youth clubs in the Peckham area have recently had to close down due to gang violence on their premises. The schools, meanwhile, will play down any suggestion that youth violence spills on to their playgrounds for fear of destabilising their already vulnerable children. Headteachers prefer to turn a blind eye. The question is: where, after the killing of Damilola Taylor, will it be possible to turn a blind eye to?  Related special report Policing crime Related stories 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Boys murder should be wake-up call - Straw 29 November: Death of a school boyUseful links Metropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate