The results of the Home Office's quiz to ordinary members of the public on their views about crime and punishment will doubtless be assessed alongside the Halliday report, Making Punishments Work. The much-needed review of a sentencing framework for England and Wales was set in motion last May by the then Home Secretary, Jack Straw and conducted by a team of officials under John Halliday, a senior civil servant, with external independent advice. It seems a seductively sensible document: comprehensive, well-argued and unlikely to offend any international conventions by inflicting inhuman or degrading treatment or disproportionate punishment on offenders. Many of Halliday's recommendations suggest practical ways of bringing order to increasing chaos. Over the past decade, the principles enshrined in the 1991 Criminal Justice Act have been subjected to almost continuous variation, as Government and Opposition have competed, almost in knee-jerk response, to assuage public anxiety on crime. Indeed, crime has been elevated to an index of the state of the nation as the two main political parties vie to appear tougher on crime. The Halliday report will appeal to the Action Man approach that has come to characterise New Labour's policy formulation. The temptation may be, as the recommendations are debated, to impose an even more executive will upon the courts. While Halliday is not without merit, there are very good reasons, acknowledged in its pages, why it ought not to be implemented, either wholly or in part. Not least is the prospect of a further increase in the size of the prison population by anything between 3,000 and 6,000, edging it towards 100,000. Even if the additional cost of £440-550 million were forthcoming, such an expansion in the number of prisoners is hardly likely to be welcomed by the already overstretched public prison service. And there is a more fundamental flaw in that the report fails to tackle head-on the relationship between sen tencing and crime control, or what it repeatedly refers to as 'crime reduction'. It is overly optimistic that sentencing policy can be used to reduce re-offending, which is, in any case, not the same as reducing crime. Halliday does not sufficiently acknowledge the lamentably low clear-up rates for the commonest crimes - those against property. Moreover, we can only be certain of the effects of sentencing on offenders who have been caught and convicted; we don't know what deterrent operates on those who go undetected and know that the risk of being caught is low. The simple, if unpalatable, truth is that criminal courts, while able to affect the lives of some individual offenders, can have little impact upon crime control in general. The margins of criminality, both in law and in the public mind, move with the tides of opinion, not least when those who face legal sanction are articulate. More than that, the importance the law attributes to a particular form of law breaking may be at variance with a broad spectrum of public sentiment. The use of cannabis is one example. Sentences are not just to deter re-offenders. The criminal justice system also hopes to dissuade a civilised population from violating commonly approved social codes. The stigma of being arrested, investigated and prosecuted, never mind convicted, disgraces and degrades (and thereby deters) those for whom respectability is important. But the desire to be respectable is not an issue for the vast majority of offenders. They see themselves as having nothing significant to lose. Those who work with offenders often identify a connection between perceptions of self-worth, realistic estimates of life chances and the social and educational circumstances of those who habitually break the law. Fifty years ago, criminologists noted that while more privileged children were encouraged to develop a sense of right and wrong (and experience guilt) the less fortunate were controlled by external sanctions - physical punishments and eventually incarceration. The courts alone cannot eradicate crime, just as hospitals alone cannot cure disease. There are plenty of analogies with public health - spraying the breeding swamps of malarial mosquitoes and providing proper drains and safe drinking water in great cities. Halliday relies on a mix of two theoretical approaches, one based upon justice (fair punishment for what the offender has done) and one more utilitarian (punishing persistent criminality and those likely to do further harm). Not that there is anything inherently wrong with the philosophy of 'just dessert' provided it embodies a system of fair trial and transparent and consistent penalties for those convicted. How far incarceration is its necessary adjunct is questionable. For non-violent offenders there is surely scope for much more imaginative penalties? Limitation and deprivation of the rights of citizenship, together with directed public service ought to form a significant and expanding aspect of restorative justice. Imprisonment, being such a scarce and costly resource, ought sensibly to be restricted to those who represent an immediate or continuing danger or for those whose crimes are so great that only incarceration will satisfy the principle of just dessert. And intermittent detention, especially by way of weekend imprisonment, is futile, as the Advisory Council on the Penal System told the Home Secretary 30 years ago. The initial Government response to Halliday was a cautious welcome. There now exists the possibility that Blunkett will approach the subject rather more open-mindedly than his predecessor. But he would do well to send his officials back to the drawing board. Referring to the 'prison works' philosophy, Lord Faulkner of Worcester suggested in the recent Lords debate: 'Before we pass more laws on sentencing, it is essential, as the Government intend, that they and the judiciary come to an under standing on the purpose and principles, on how large the prison population should be...' Not a word in the report refers to the almost 5,000 prisoners serving life sentences, mostly resulting from the mandatory penalty for murder, widely deplored by the judiciary, most prison governors, Victim Support and penal reformers. Nor does Halliday look at the vexed issue of the extension of the mandatory principle to other areas of sentencing. The growing power of the executive and its relation with Parliament and the judiciary casts a long shadow over the whole report. We are fortunate to have a judiciary which, in recent years, has shown not just high intellectual calibre but also great courage in being prepared to take forthright decisions that have displeased politicians and the tabloid press. Much may be made of the notion that the 'will of Parliament' reflects democratically the 'will of the people'. But there is a danger that in the course of assuaging populist sentiment and satisfying administrative convenience, governments will be inclined to opt for controlling the criminal justice system through increasingly formulaic devices, garnished with the demotic language of modern business management. If a hitherto largely independent judiciary finds itself increasingly handcuffed by legislation, the ghost of the French political philosopher, Montesquieu, will approve; it was he who argued for judges to be reduced to the status of automata. But when they are we risk abandoning the essential principle of proportionality in sentencing. We may not always approve of particular decisions, but judicial independence is the surest way to underwrite justice. That must include a fair trial and an appropriate penalty on conviction, sensibly matched to the offender and his offence; not some prescription from an executive almanac of mandatory procedures and penalties.