A report on how a convicted murderer released from prison went on to abduct and rape a 10-year-old boy will not be made public as it is deemed to be an infringement of the killer's right to privacy.Stephen Ayre, 45, of Saltaire, West Yorkshire, was jailed for life in 1985 for bludgeoning 25-year-old Irene Hudson to death with an iron bar in Shipley. He was granted parole in April 2005 after serving 20 years in prison, after his first four requests for release were refused.After his release, Ayre spent six months in a probation service hostel before he was allowed to move into rented accommodation in Shipley. Four months later, he abducted a 10-year-old boy in Saltaire, Bradford, and threatened to slash his throat, before raping him.He admitted to the abduction and rape and the presiding judge, Justice Tugendhat, said it was the courts' role to establish "how you were free to commit these ... very serious offences". He added that the public would be concerned about certain aspects of the case.The parole board referred the case to its review committee to establish what had gone wrong. It promised to "act swiftly" to implement any recommendations from the review. But yesterday a spokesman said that although an internal investigation into Ayre's release had been completed, he was unable to give specific details under the constraints of the Data Protection Act.The only information which could be released involved "organisational findings", he said. These included introducing a system of case management for the most dangerous offenders, to make sure all information was available before a panel was held. Another recommendation was to highlight public concerns and those of the victim's families, along with better coordination between agencies.Philip Davies, the Conservative MP for Shipley, has led calls for the results of the inquiries into the case to be released in the House of Commons. He also met Home Office representatives to ask about the case, but was refused details. He claimed yesterday that the Data Protection Act was being used as an excuse to prevent the publication of findings which were potentially damaging."A convicted murderer was released from prison and raped a boy in my constituency. For the public to have confidence in the criminal justice system, they need to know what went wrong," he said."Until something changes, people are going to believe that the rules are there to protect the rights of convicted criminals and not those of the decent, law-abiding public."A retired district judge, Paul Firth, said: "It is hard to imagine an offender from whom the public deserves more protection. It is equally hard to imagine many instances where there is greater justification for public accountability."