The police last night reached agreement with the government in their pay and conditions dispute which saw the first ever police mass protest lobby of parliament.Agreement in principle was reached after conciliation talks at the Police Negotiating Board yesterday on the £200m deal which will pave the way for the government's major structural reforms of policing.The Home Office claims that most police officers will be better off under the deal which will see all officers receive £400 from next April on top of their basic salary and 75% qualifying for competency-related pay of £1,002. On the stumbling block of overtime payments, the Home Office dropped its insistence on cutting individual overtime rates and instead agreed a proposal that each police force will cut its annual bill for overtime payments by 15% over the next three years. Home Office sources said the change would produce annual savings of £45m compared with £39m in their original proposals, and individual forces would be able to plough the saved money back into frontline policing. The Police Federation are believed to have accepted plans to close the loophole on sick pay which enables officers to claim half pay indefinitely during prolonged periods of sick leave. A system of special priority and competence related payments which will reward patrol officers and those with detection skills will be introduced.The special priority payments of between £500 and £5,000 will go to officers who do the most demanding jobs. There will also be a system of bonus payments of £50 to £500 for occasional work of "outstanding, demanding or an important nature". The annual system of rostering is to go alongside the changes on sick pay and early medical retirements. There will also be new sanctions to deal with poor attendance, including a provision to dismiss officers whose attendance does not improve. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said the deal was the most radical reform ever of police pay and conditions. "We will now have a modernised pay structure and working conditions for the 21st century to go with the wider policing reforms we are introducing," he said. "We have delivered all of our aims set out last autumn and this settlement is a massive step forward in improving pay and conditions for the police." The Police Federation said both sides reached agreement in principle after tough negotiations in the conciliation talks. The pay package will be put to the full police negotiating board next Wednesday. In an unprecedented ballot, police officers rejected the original package by a majority of nine to one. The ballot result was followed by a mass "bobby lobby" of Westminster to put their case to MPs. The deal has been reached without extra Treasury money, although Mr Blunkett won extra cash in the budget to expand police numbers beyond his target of a record 130,000 officers by next March.Mr Blunkett will address the annual Police Federation conference in Bournemouth next month.