Police investigating the murder of a black teenager in Kent said yesterday they were treating the attack as racially motivated. Christopher Alaneme, 19, described as a "popular young man with lots of friends", was stabbed to death in an apparently unprovoked attack as he walked along Sheerness High Street just before midnight on Friday.Moments before, Mr Alaneme's friend, a 29-year-old white man, had also been stabbed and he was in a stable condition in hospital last night. The two victims, police said, "were part of a group enjoying a typical Friday night out in a town centre".Two men have been arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder and police are looking for three other white men, possibly from London. All three are thought to be clean-shaven, white and aged between 18 and 25.Detective Chief Inspector Jon Bumpus said: "It is important that anyone who knows anything gets in touch as soon as possible."Superintendent Steve Corbishley said: "There were racially offensive comments made to Christopher and his colleague that police believe might be evidence that racial motivation was a factor in Christopher's death."I was with the family when they came to visit the scene. They are absolutely devastated by what has happened," he added. "Any murder is serious and invested in heavily. There's an added dimension to this." He said that 50 officers were working on the investigation with the assistance of local ethnic minority groups, adding: "We treat all hate crime very seriously and we are determined to catch the people responsible."Mr Alaneme, whose family is of Nigerian origin, was from London but had been living in Sheerness. His murder occurred on the eve of the 13th anniversary of the racist killing of Stephen Lawrence in Eltham, south-east London.According to witnesses, Mr Alaneme died in the arms of a bar worker from a pub on the high street who cradled him shortly after he was attacked. Yesterday, dozens of bouquets of flowers were left at the site of his death.Speaking at the scene of the crime, his girlfriend, 16-year-old Cally Inns from Minster, Kent, said her boyfriend suffered racist abuse "all the time" in Sheerness town centre.She said: "He was lovely, funny and kind. If anyone knows what happened they should just get in touch with the police because it's not fair leaving it like this. I feel lost without him."He was going to get a good job and we were going to move into a flat together. I loved him and so did everybody else."Roxanne Vanklaveren, 16, who was best friends with Christopher and introduced him to his girlfriend, said: "We were best friends for a year. He was such a good friend. Nobody can replace him. He is going to be missed so much. It is just so unfair."