John Hancock, POA officer at Wormwood Scrubs prison, London"I hope this demonstrates to the government that the staff and senior officers are so bitterly disappointed at the way they have been treated. They have come to the end of their tether and they are not longer prepared to put up with the pay and conditions. The top pay is around £30,000. The public are rightly horrified when there is an assault of a police officer but when it is on a prison officer it is behind closed walls and the Crown Prosecution Service never prosecutes."I was informed by the POA national executive committee at around 5.30am today that they would be calling a national strike from 6.30am. I arrived at the prison around 6am and we have spoken to members coming on duty and I think they were relieved that at long last we have taken some action."This Labour party had an agreement with the POA before coming into government to rescind the no-strike agreement and they have not done that."Peter Scuffle, Wormwood Scrubs officer"It is a very sad day for the prison service. The government needs to look at the resources the prison service has available. As money is being taken away from budgets, the job gets harder and harder. My work takes me all over the prison and you notice how few staff we have there. The resources are being cut to a dangerous level. Something has to give."Paul Moltby, POA Bristol branch secretary at Bristol prison"From our branch there was absolutely no reluctance to join the action. There is tremendous frustration. We have just had a meeting with the governor who has said there is very minimal cover running in the jail."His understanding is that the prison service will get an injunction. If that happens, then so be it, I think the prison officers will have made their point."Steve Baines, officer at Liverpool prison"I imagine [conditions inside the prison] will be very difficult. I understand there are about 20 management members trying to look after 1,350 prisoners. It is with a heavy heart that we take this action but we have had to vote with our feet. I think the action could go on indefinitely until we get some progress."Brian Caton, general secretary of the POA"We are quite happy to end this strike very quickly. All we want is a call from [justice minister] Jack Straw. But we are not prepared to continue where prison officers are being treated as second-class citizens. I believe every officer has human rights and they include the right to withhold their labour."Lord Ramsbotham, former chief inspector of prisons"I am sad that it has come to this. Two wrongs do not make a right. I do not think it should be seen in isolation. It is symptomatic of the problems of an overstretched and under-resourced prison service. There are record numbers of prisoners and the secretary of state said that budgets would be frozen for three years. That leads to tension among prisoners which impacts on staff."You can never be totally confident [about the security] because when you have huge numbers [of inmates] and a very limited number of staff at work you can never be confident. I hope that food and medication will be given [to inmates]. If there are not enough staff then that could be a potentially explosive situation."Charles Bushell, general secretary of the Prison Governors' Association"The action, as we see it, is widespread and nearly every public prison is being affected. There will be difficulties [inside prison] because the situation is so widespread and unprecedented. We are going to have to accept that prisoners will be spending the day in their cells."Any probation officers, lawyers or family members planning to visit prisons today, I would advise them not to go and not to phone the prison because the person who would normally answer their call will be protesting outside the gates."We take the view that strike action has no place in the prison service. However, we have considerable sympathy with the POA over the two issues they have highlighted (low pay awards and financial restraints)."The vast majority of prisoners will be cross and fed up but will control themselves. Some won't control themselves. They are in a cell with someone else and it is very uncomfortable. We do not like to lock down establishments but that is what is happening."