Stand on Blue Bell Hill, a grassy mound high above Nottingham, and it is easy to understand the city's appeal to television dramatists.All human life lies below. In the distance squats the city centre, framed by ugly 1960s office blocks and concrete car parks, its skyline dominated by the Gothic spires of imposing redbrick Victorian buildings. Here, Get Carter meets Harry Potter. This cityscape will become familiar to television viewers tonight in a BBC2 crime drama, Murder, which was filmed in parts of Nottingham. Directed by Birger Larsen, the man behind the acclaimed Danish drama The Killing, Murder is promising to bring Scandinavian noir to the east Midlands.It is not difficult to imagine Nottinghamshire's answer to detective Sarah Lund feeling at home in the city. At night Nottingham's canals and its warehouses look like backdrops to The Killing, which made extensive use of location shots of Copenhagen's waterfront.It's also easy to imagine Troels Hartmann, The Killing's charismatic mayor, living in one of the penthouse flats overlooking the city's Victoria Gardens. The low buildings that once comprised the old Lace Market would make a suitably cavernous warren to hide a body or two.However, while Oxford's residents were never going to be worried about what the body count in Morse would do for the reputation of their city, not everyone in Nottingham is happy about the subject matter of the drama. Murder is a gritty affair that will pick at the scab of Nottingham's troubled past. Such was the city's reputation for violence a decade ago, it was known as Shottingham. A former shadow home secretary, David Davis, declared that Nottingham was reminiscent of 1930s Chicago. Some of the city's wards, notably St Ann's, were once perceived as no-go areas."I first came to St Ann's on a date six years ago," said Paula Cargill, a community outreach worker who lives in the city. "I said to [my date]: 'I want to get out alive.' There had been stuff in the press that put me off. It made it sound like it was gun capital around here."Cargill recalled a time of postcode wars between rival gangs. "It was quite blatant," she said. "There would be young boys going round with one trouser leg rolled up to show they were in a particular gang."Much of the violence was down to two brothers, Colin and David Gunn, whose Bestwood Cartel dominated the city, even paying police officers to act as informants. Today the Gunns are behind bars, money and resources have lifted once troubled parts like St Ann's, and Nottingham is no longer known as "assassination city".Even that reputation was unfairly earned, say local councillors who claim it was based on an incorrect interpretation of statistics.Since 2003 Nottingham's crime rate has fallen by 60%, according to Labour councillor Alex Norris. But Murder now threatens to dredge up the city's dark past. "Like any big city, we still have problems, but we are worried the series is perpetuating a myth," Norris said.Larsen has not helped to ease anxieties. He explained that he filmed the drama through a red filter, to help capture what he saw was the predominant mood in the city. "We used the colour of blood," he said. "I don't know Nottingham, so it was a huge surprise to me when I went there for the exterior filming we did. I sensed this hostile vibe."The comments provoked alarm at the city's council, which wrote to the BBC seeking to correct the impression. But the damage may have been done. The city's tourism office confirmed it had received "lots of emails" from people alarmed by Larsen's comments. Stephan Richeux, the council's media manager, said he hoped visitors would be able to separate fact from fiction. "Wollaton Hall featured in The Dark Knight Rises, but kids don't expect to go there and see Batman," he said.Erin Huckle, PR manager for Experience Notts, which promotes the city, moved to Nottingham a year ago having lived in Sydney, perennially voted one of the world's great cities to live in. She pointed out that Nottingham has been awarded a Purple Flag – given to city centres considered safe at night – for the third year in a row. "It's such a friendly city, but the mud sticks," she said.Norris expressed hope that the drama could even be good for tourism in the long run – he pointed out that visits to Malmö in Sweden rose after the screening of another Scandinavian murder drama, The Bridge.But a killing a couple of weeks ago in one of the city's wards, Sneinton, offered a reminder that Nottingham will always have its problems. The local paper on Friday carried several stories about armed robberies and street attacks.In 2010 Nottinghamshire had the third-highest crime rate of the 43 forces in England and Wales. Last year HM Inspectorate of Constabulary sent in an elite investigation unit after declaring it had "significant concerns" about the performance of Nottinghamshire police.And this is before most of the city's budget cuts kick in. Norris suggested that Nottingham had been able to shed its gangster image because of extensive public spending between 1997 and 2010 on schools, infrastructure and the police. "Now we've got to find £115m in cuts over the next five years," he said. "I'm worried things could roll back."This fear is implicit in the city's wary reaction to Murder. It is not its past that Nottingham is worried about so much as its future.On Friday afternoon, George Hayford, an IT consultant from London who visits Nottingham regularly, was enjoying the fun fair in the city's Market Square. "The first time I came to this place was eight years ago," he said. "I tried to get a taxi from the station but not one of them would take me. Turned out some taxi drivers had been robbed on previous nights. So …"His voice tailed off. A classic Rolls-Royce was decanting a bride at the town hall. A busker broke into Here Comes the Sun. Children queued for candyfloss. Hayford gestured at the fair. "It's got a whole lot better since then."