Police are scapegoating and alienating Muslims in the wake of September 11, community leaders warned yesterday as Home Office figures revealed that stop and searches of Asians under new anti-terror laws soared 302% in a year.Officers in England and Wales carried out 2,989 stop and searches in 2002-03 on Asians under the Terrorism Act, compared with 744 in 2001-02. The total number of stop and searches under counter-terrorist legislation more than doubled from 8,550 to 21, 577. Anti-terror searches of blacks rose 230%, from 529 to 1,745, and of whites 118%, from 6,629 to 14,429. Yet the overall percentage of arrests resulting from anti-terror searches remained at 13%. Although not all Muslims are Asian, or vice versa, Muslim representatives believe the figures show a surge in Islamophobia among police. They argue it is counter-productive, as it will discourage Asians from helping the authorities. Inayat Bunglawala, spokesman for the Muslim Council of Britain, said: "These figures seem to confirm that police are misusing their new powers. Police have a difficult task ensuring the safety of our country, but this is out of proportion. We think the institutional racism highlighted by the McPherson report [on the inquiry into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence] is morphing into institutional prejudice against Muslims. We are worried a generation of young Muslim men is being criminalised in the wake of 9/11 in the same way young black men were previously targeted by police." Hazel Blears, the policing minister, denied the figures proved prejudice but admitted they were disproportionate. An action team, including community representatives, would examine whether police powers were properly applied. "Stop and search remains a contentious issue in black and Asian communities," she admitted. "We know stop and search is effective in tackling crime when used in an intelligence-led way. The action team is assessing to what extent this is taking place." Ms Blears said police tactics had to be viewed in the context of the threat from al-Qaida. But Massoud Shadjareh, spokesman for the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said: "The people whom the security forces should rely on in helping them fight terror are being alienated by these misguided and Islamophobic policies." Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said that the number of searches of Asians had only increased from two to eight a day, still relatively low. However, Abdal Ullah, an independent member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said young Asians felt they were being picked on because they looked Muslim. "The Muslim community have become a scapegoat," he said. "It is alienating Muslim youth." In total, 869,164 stop and searches were recorded in England and Wales in 2002-03, 22% up on the previous 12 months. There was an overall 17% increase for whites, 38% for blacks and 36% for Asians. Police cited suspicion of possession of drugs as the most common reason for searching black people and Asians, while for whites it was stolen property. A Metropolitan Police Authority report found overall stop and search rates in London up 41% for Asians from 2000-01 to 2001-02, 30% for blacks and 8% for whites. Cecile Wright, chair of the MPA scrutiny panel and equal opportunities and diversity board, said this was a great concern because of its negative impact on community relations and the Met's ability to recruit from ethnic minorities.