Women's prisons have become our social dustbins. They are now seen as a stopgap, cut-price provider of drug detox, mental health assessment and treatment - a refuge for those failed by public services. Twelve years ago, there were some 1,800 women in jail. Today there are 4,300.In the wake of six women's deaths at Styal prison, the government asked Baroness Jean Corston in 2005 to undertake "a review of women with particular vulnerabilities in the criminal justice system". Her recommendations are published today. The extent of those "particular vulnerabilities" are laid out starkly in the report: more than half of women prisoners have suffered violence at home. One in three have experienced sexual abuse. A quarter have been in local authority care. Two-thirds have a neurotic disorder, such as depression or anxiety. Women prisoners have a much higher rate of severe mental illness such as schizophrenia: 14% compared with less than 1% in the general population. Over a third of women who are imprisoned will already have attempted suicide.We are locking up our most damaged and vulnerable women in bleak, under-staffed institutions, from which, despite the best efforts of many people, they are almost bound to emerge more damaged, more vulnerable. Imprisonment will cause a third of women prisoners to lose their homes, reducing future chances of employment and shattering family ties. Home Office figures reveal that more than half those released will re-offend within two years.Distressingly, governors and staff told Jean Corston, many do not need to be in prison in the first place. More women are jailed for shoplifting than any other crime. About 40% serve three months or less. Two-thirds of women enter prison on remand. When their cases are considered, one in five are acquitted and over half go on to serve a community penalty.An alternative model exists already. Across the UK there are a handful of support and supervision centres designed to respond to women offenders in the community. Unlike prison, which tends to diminish responsibility and increase dependence, they succeed in enabling vulnerable women to take responsibility for their lives. Based on the visits to centres in Glasgow, Halifax and Worcester, public seminars, meetings with coroners and sentencers, and research evidence, Corston concluded that there first needs to be "a strong, consistent message from the top of government ... that prison is not the right place for women offenders who pose no risk to the public".This government has failed to match its rhetoric with action. The Treasury spending review in 2004 earmarked funds to "pilot radical new approaches to meet the specific needs of women offenders, to tackle the causes of crime and re-offending among this group and reduce the need for custody". It has taken the Home Office three years even to begin spending this money. A piecemeal response to Corston would risk another care in the community fiasco.The Corston review gives the government the chance to join up its social and criminal justice policies. Most women in prison have committed petty offences. Many have been victims of serious crime and sustained abuse. A new commission for women, with a sensible blueprint for reform across government departments, could replace the outdated, discredited model of large prisons with a network of small units and effective local services. Women who have offended will have their first real opportunity to beat drugs, drink, mental illness and crime, and to take responsibility for their lives, and those of their children. Most will take it.· Juliet Lyon is director of the Prison Reform Trust and an independent member of the Corston review group juliet.lyon@prisonreformtrust.org.uk