The mother of the teenager fatally stabbed at a rural Lincolnshire school demanded justice yesterday and described how her family had been "ripped apart" by his death.Her son, Luke Walmsley, 14, died Tuesday morning after being knifed in the chest following an alleged row with another pupil on the way to a lesson at his school in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire. Last night, a 15 year-old boy, arrested in connection with the incident, was charged with his murder. The statement from Luke's mother, Jayne Walmsley, came within hours of the police's confirmation that his death was being treated as murder. Mrs Walmsley paid a tearful tribute to her son, who she said had had ambitions to be a policeman. Speaking outside the house of Luke's father, less than a mile from her son's school, Birkbeck, Mrs Walmsley said: "Yesterday I woke up with two children but today I only have one. Our family has been ripped apart and will never be the same again. Luke loved life and loved sport. He had his full life mapped out and wanted to become a policeman when he left school. "Luke's future has been taken away from him and Luke has been taken away from us. Our lives will never be the same again. "We now just wish to be left alone to grieve as a family. Luke did not deserve this and we as a family just want justice to be done for Luke." Chief Superintendent Phil Carter said that a post mortem examination had established the cause of Luke's death as a single stab wound to the heart. He confirmed that the stabbing had happened at about 10am on Tuesday in one of the corridors of the school near the science laboratory. Teachers had tried to give Luke first aid before he was flown to hospital in Grimsby by air ambulance. He was pronounced dead within an hour, Ch Supt Carter said. He also confirmed that police had recovered the knife but would not comment on its appearance or whether it had been school property. Education chiefs declined to comment on reports that bullying may have been a factor and that Luke might have been apprehensive about going to school. Cheryle Berry, director of education and cultural services at Lincolnshire county council, said it would be wrong to start speculating, adding: "There are several lines of inquiry." As officers continued to work inside the deserted school, a steady procession of young people passed through the gates to lay floral tributes on the grass. Among the numerous bouquets and cards was a green Liverpool FC shirt bearing a message to the teenager, a keen football fan, reading "missin ya loads, Margy and Nathan xx". Another message told Luke not to worry about his younger sister Lauren, 12, also a pupil at Birkbeck, because she would be looked after in his absence. Outside the school gates the village appeared quiet and subdued. Deacon Jane Cole, who held a short service at the Methodist church for Luke, said: "I think because we are a close community everyone feels it. But the fact that it is so close will also be the thing that helps everyone through this." Gary Loveridge, Birkbeck's headteacher, said that staff, pupils and parents were "totally devastated". He added: "We have a school full of wonderful children and superb staff ... It feels as if a nightmare has descended upon us with one moment of violent madness." Describing Luke as a "strong and positive boy" who was liked by all the staff of the school, the headteacher said: "He was very good at sport. He was a boy who shone. He was a very pleasant lad, he had plenty of friends and was an asset to the school. We will miss him dearly." He added that although lessons would not begin until at least the beginning of next week, the premises would be open for pupils, parents and staff to gather and help each other. Professional counselling would also be on offer, he said. Mr Loveridge made a plea for the school and local community to be allowed to grieve privately.