The mother of a 16-year-old boy who fell to his death from a tower block in the East End of London visited the scene yesterday, saying she could not look up at the building where her son had spent his last terrified seconds. Ahmed Benyermak was being chased by a gang of six youths wearing hooded tops and face-covering bandanas when he fell from the seventh floor of the block on Wednesday after attempting to climb down from a balcony on the 13th floor.In an investigation that could soon turn from an unlawful killing to a murder inquiry, police said they had CCTV images showing five members of the gang who chased the teenager - who had been due to collect his GCSE results on Thursday - leaving the building on the Trelawney estate in Hackney. Detective Chief Inspector Ian Stevenson said: "It is apparent that six youths arrived at the scene on pushbikes on Paragon Road. Five were seen on CCTV to leave. One was confronted by a member of the public and that bike has been left here and is now subject to forensic examination." A witness who had dialled the emergency services told the Evening Standard: "I was looking for my keys and then all of a sudden I heard, 'Help me, help me please'. I turned around and I saw the boy who died hanging on to a pole. He wasn't dangling - his feet were resting on the balcony. He looked me in the eye and said 'Call the police'."The boy's mother, Naima Abdain, 40, saw dozens of floral tributes laid on a patch of grass near the building. "I can't look up, I can't look up," she said. Speaking at the scene, his aunt Mina Benyermak, 47, said his mother was too distraught to speak. "I cannot explain to you but he was a wonderful boy. He was very quiet and friendly with everyone, with the family, friends and neighbours." Ahmed had been due to start a mechanical engineering course on September 1 - his 17th birthday.Stevenson said police were investigating the possibility that the confrontation that led to his death may have been gang-related. He said there was no evidence that Ahmed was pushed or stamped on as he tried to climb down the block. Evidence showed that the youths were all black. He said: "I think that they came here for a specific purpose. I don't know what that was. Ahmed was certainly not a member of a gang. He was a young lad who had just finished school. He was on the periphery of the group he was with." Stevenson, of the specialist crime directorate, said that Ahmed had been with a group of friends on the 13th floor of the tower block. "They were up there for no other reason than hanging about. "They became concerned about another group of youths cycling towards the tower block. We believe this group was made up of six youths. Some were wearing hooded tops and others were wearing bandanas, sometimes concealing their faces. For reasons which we continue to investigate, this caused Ahmed and his friends to leave the flat." He said Ahmed was separated from his friends and remained in the flat. "One or more of the group made their way up and Ahmed was so scared that he climbed on the balcony to shin down. When he got to the seventh floor his progress was stopped by a grille. He cried out for help and lost his grip and fell to his death." He said the investigation was being described as an unlawful killing and added: "There are circumstances in which evidence could emerge that could provide sufficient evidence for murder."