A witness has told the inquest into Mark Duggan's shooting by police that she saw an officer take a gun out of a cab in which Duggan had been travelling and emerge with an expression "like he had found gold".The testimony clashed with that of police who say they recovered the gun 10 to 20 feet away, over a fence, after Duggan had been shot, but cannot explain how it got there.The jury have heard that one possible meaning of the evidence is that an officer planted the gun. The armed officers question the woman's reliability.The woman, referred to as Miss J, said she had no reason to lie and was certain she had seen the gun being moved minutes after Duggan was shot dead in Tottenham, north London, in August 2011. Parts of her evidence and statement are contradicted by other witnesses.Speaking by video link from a location that was kept secret, the woman told the jury of what she claimed to have seen after police forced the cab carrying Duggan to stop, believing he had collected a gun.Duggan, 29, was surrounded by armed officers. The officer who shot him, V53, has said Duggan had a gun in his hand and he was forced to fire twice in self-defence. But he said that after he finished firing he could no longer see the weapon.Miss J said she went close to the scene after hearing two bangs and saw a police officer emerging from the cab 10 minutes after the shooting."I saw a police officer come out with a gun, he had it in a black piece of cloth, in the palm of his hand, like he was showing somebody he had it," she said.Miss J said the officer "had an expression like he had found gold … like 'I've got it', sort of thing."She said she could see the trigger and barrel of the gun. The woman, whose age was not given, said she was so shocked by seeing a weapon that she turned to her daughter beside her and checked that she had also seen the gun.Miss J said: "It will never leave me. It is not often you see a gun in broad daylight."Last month Ashley Underwood QC, counsel to the inquest, told the jury: "I need to explore with Miss J whether her evidence suggests that a police officer took the gun out from the minicab and planted it."Ian Stern QC, on behalf of the armed officers who stopped Duggan, told Miss J: "I am not trying to criticise you. I am exploring how reliable your evidence is." The witness said: "I have no reason to lie."She said she saw police drag Duggan from the car. The jury has heard that he was shot outside the vehicle. She said she saw the cab driver running, but he said in evidence on Monday that he was dragged by police from the car.Miss J said she lived close to the spot in Ferry Lane, Tottenham where Duggan was shot. She said she did not know the Duggan family.The inquest continues next week.