A 35-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of music teacher Jane Longhurst, Sussex police said today.Officers at a Brighton press conference said that the man was arrested at his home address in Hove on Thursday evening.Detective Chief Inspector Steve Dennis revealed that the man had been questioned before as part of the investigation, and described the arrest as "significant". He did not say whether police had any plans to charge the suspect today.Ms Longhurst's body was found burning in woodland at Wiggonholt Common, near Pulborough, West Sussex, on Saturday.The 31-year-old teacher, who worked at a Brighton school for children with special needs, vanished from the home she shared with her partner, Malcolm Sentance, on March 14.Detectives believe that she was strangled shortly after disappearing, and say her body could have been kept for up to five weeks before her killer "panicked" by setting it alight in an area visible from footpaths and a road.They say that items found near to where Jane's body was discovered, which included a match, a box of matches and her watch, had provided a "significant breakthrough" in the investigation.Ms Longhurst's mother Liz read a statement on behalf of Mr Sentance as the family today appealed for anyone with information about the killing to contact police."I am missing Jane every hour of every day and night," the statement said. "It is heartbreaking when your life turns a corner and new experiences occur, and the one person you want to share them with is not there. "I am really going to miss the great company and nights in the pub with friends, I will miss walking, driving about, the pillow fights and swimming in the sea."Mr Sentance, who is out of the country staying with friends, said in the statement that he was relieved his partner's body had been found, meaning that her life could be celebrated at a funeral ceremony."Jane will always be a very special thing to me," his statement added. "She was loving, warm, beautiful, a fantastic musician and teacher, a real laugh, my best mate, and I would have happily spent the rest of my life with her."I do not feel any malice towards the killer. My thoughts are with Jane and her family. We all try to stay positive. I am heartbroken at the tragic loss of a brilliant friend."Ms Longhurst's sister, Sue Barnett, urged anybody who may suspect a loved one of killing the music teacher to come forward."We understand how hard it must be, but a young woman has lost her life in the most horrific way, and we lost someone who was young and so special," she said.Reading a prepared statement, she added: "We are slowly coming to terms with what has happened to Jane, and pulling together as a family to support each other during such a difficult time. "Jane was close to all her family. Whilst we didn't always see a lot of each other, there was always regular contact and we got together when we could. "We heard about each other's lives and took an interest in all that we did. That has now been taken away from us."Ms Longhurst's mother said the only thing the family "can ask for now is for Jane's killer to be found".