Jason Hancock comes across as an intelligent, funny, sensitive, and generally happy young man. We are sitting by a window in the living room of the home he shares with his partner, Jean. The comfortable house is a scene of domestic bliss, a far cry from Exeter prison where, aged 15, Hancock spent the first night of a four-month sentence after being convicted of causing grievous bodily harm.It was the first of a number of criminal convictions and bouts of prison custody throughout teenage years clouded with alcohol abuse and homelessness. There was no clear pattern to his offending - his crimes included criminal damage, assault and shoplifting - except that all were unplanned and all were alcohol-related.Although there was a two-year gap between his first offence and his second, Hancock acknowledges that he committed other offences in between for which he was never caught. The incident that resulted in his second imprisonment - three months in Exeter prison - perhaps gives an indication of the strength of his criminal intent during that time.A drunken visit to an off-licence led to his arrest for stealing a birthday card, a bottle of cider and a jigsaw puzzle. His alcoholism would explain the cider. What about the birthday card and the jigsaw puzzle? "I've no idea," he says. "I didn't know anyone who was having a birthday and I've never been into jigsaws. Maybe in my drunken state I thought I'd be able to sell it to raise money for more drink." He laughs an embarrassed laugh and we both smile at the absurdity of his explanation.Home Office statistics show that 76% of prisoners under 21 re-offend within two years of release. For 14- to 16-year-olds the figure is a startling 88%. Hancock's experience is fairly typical of those who get caught up in the criminal justice system at an early age. Once in the cycle it is hard to break out of it. For many, it can lead to years of criminal behaviour, intermittent imprisonment, and blighted lives with little chance of reaching their potential.Yet it does not have to be that way. Now 24, Hancock is holding down a job, paying his taxes and reaping the rewards of leading the life of a regular law-abiding citizen. He and Jean save for holidays and he enjoys the occasional night out - without the use of alcohol. In his spare time his hobbies are woodwork and cycling. "I'm happy living this life," he says. "In fact, I don't think I could be happier."Statistics tell us emphatically that for whatever reason, whether it be overcrowding, limited resources or a lack of real will on the part of the authorities, for the majority of those offenders who are committed to custody by the courts, especially the young, prison does not work. In spite of the odds being against him, Hancock has turned his life around and it was his experience on a rehabilitation programme founded and run by a former Royal Marines colonel, Trevor Philpott, that brought about the change, rather than his experience of prison.How had that worked and why had prison failed? And how did he hear about the rehabilitation programme? "I was in Exeter prison for the fourth time when someone asked if anyone was interested in attending a life-change programme at somewhere called C-Far [Centre for Adolescent Rehabilitation]. I was desperate. I knew I needed to change my life or I was never going to have a life so I put my hand up and said I would give it a go." I ask him if it was a "boot camp" and he laughs. "Not at all," he says. "I'm not saying it was easy, it was hard work, but it felt really worthwhile."He hands me a C-Far information booklet and points to a photograph of Philpott. "Trevor is a good bloke," he says. "Him and his team have helped a lot of people. That's why I wrote to the prime minister when I heard that C-Far was closing down because of a lack of funding."The programme, which provides cognitive behavioural guidance, certificated courses in work-related activities, anger and stress management tuition, housing and employment education, confidence and self-esteem enhancing exercises, as well as team-building activities to name but a few, was managing reasonably well until March when the Home Office refused to help when the reorganisation of statutory funding led to cashflow difficulties. C-Far's trustees decided that it would be inappropriate to rely totally on charitable trusts for funding. And so the centre went into voluntary liquidation. The sum needed to keep it afloat was about £150,000.Despite Philpott's submissions, citing the evidence of C-Far's success (of the 150 trainees who completed the 12-month programme over a four-year period, most, like Hancock, have gone on to lead crime-free lives), the government has refused to reconsider its decision to withdraw its funding. The reasoning appears incomprehensible. While it costs, on average, more than £36,000 a year for each place in prison, which has a 76% failure rate, each place on a C-Far life-change programme - three months' residential and nine months' aftercare with onhand support and a success rate of higher than 75% - costs just £16,000.Indeed, had the 68 young men who were on the life-change programme been returned to prison when C-Far was forced to close, the cost to the public purse over a year would have been £2.5m. Hancock hands me a copy of his letter to Tony Blair. His pleading is pitiful."Dear Mr Blair, I want to know why your government will not give the necessary funding to C-Fst. C-Far changed my life totally - for the better!! I used to be an alcohol-addicted criminal, constantly going in and out of prison. I was homeless, living on the streets, sleeping in shop doorways. My home was Tesco's doorway, sometimes hospital, sometimes prison. If C-Far was not there to help me change my life around when they did, I would either be back in prison, or dead and buried. I am just one of many of the trainees helped by C-Far. It gave me the strength to change my life and become a valued member of society. C-Far WORKS - I AM THE PROOF. Please help. Kind regards, Jason Hancock."The response from the prime minister's office is a fairly standard reply, with a reminder of the government's past support, but regretting that although the prime minister "recognises the energy and commitment that has gone into the development of C-Far" he is unable to intervene.I ask Hancock about his first period of imprisonment. After spending his first night in Exeter prison he was transferred to Portland young offender institution for the remainder of his sentence. In the 1990s, Portland was the subject of some of the most damning reports of the entire young offender estate by the prisons' inspectorate. "It wasn't that good," he says, "but I didn't complain. I just kept my head down."Was there anything good? "I got my GCSEs there," he says. When I ask him how many, he tells me: "Seven". I'm about to tell him how impressive I think that is when he stops me. "My main memory of my time there is of (he names a prison officer). He always seemed to have it in for me. Twenty five per cent of the officers did the job they were paid to do, but the rest seemed to take pleasure in giving us a hard time."I ask him about the officer he says had it in for him. "He was about six foot four," he says. "He used to put a pillow over my head and hit me in the face for having dust in my cell. I'll never forget that."I ask him what he thought such behaviour was supposed to achieve. "I don't know," he replies. "I was there as a punishment. All that most of what happened there did was fill me with fear."After his release Hancock vowed never to go back inside again. "I couldn't imagine going through that again," he says. Yet that same night, after failing to make contact with a probation officer, he started drinking again. I ask him about his later experiences of prison. "It was mostly bang-up, just passing the time reading magazines and sleeping. I saw an alcohol counsellor a couple of times, but obviously it wasn't enough."C-Far has now closed down. Trevor Philpott is in the process of raising funds for a new programme to be run along similar lines called Lifechange. For more information email Trevor Philpott or telephone 07779 221162.