West Midlands police have launched a murder investigation after a man was stabbed to death on a doubledecker bus in Handsworth, Birmingham.A man in his 30s was found with multiple wounds on the top deck of the 11A bus after a fight broke out. A passenger reported an attack at 10.43pm as the vehicle headed towards the centre of Birmingham on Monday night.Paramedics tried to resuscitate the man but he died from his injuries soon after they arrived. The man, who has not been formally identified, was knifed “several times” in the stomach and back, according to police. DS Tom Chisholm said the attacker had boarded the bus minutes earlier in Rookery Road, Handsworth, before a row broke out which quickly turned violent. It does not appear the pair knew each other, he added. Chisholm said: “There didn’t appear to be much of a buildup to this incident. It very quickly became physical and clearly the one male has overpowered the other one and there’s a number of blows been exchanged.”The detective said: “It would appear he was stabbed in the abdomen and back area, several times, but it’s really too early to speculate on where those blows landed and the amount of times.” The weapon thought to have been used in the attack – a folding pocket knife – has not yet been recovered, although searches of the scene and surrounding area are continuing. The fight occurred in front of other passengers on the top deck, four of whom immediately got off the bus. Police are appealing for those people to come forward, suggesting they may not have realised the seriousness of the incident. Chisholm said: “One of the passengers remained with the injured person, the other people left the bus. They need to contact the police as a matter of urgency now.” The family of the victim, who is black and believed to be in his 30s, have been informed. A postmortem is expected to take place later. Police were searching for the alleged attacker, who was seen leaving the bus. He was described as a black man, thought to be about 5ft 9-10in tall and was wearing a dark padded jacket. He also had a dark baseball cap, a “non-descript” duffel bag and some “bin-type earphones”. Rookery Road, where the attack took place, was sealed off, together with two other adjoining roads, as forensic teams collected evidence at the scene. Detectives were also reviewing CCTV footage from the bus and the local area.The attack is the second stabbing in a week on Rookery Road amid growing concerns about a rise in knife crime and gang-related violence in the area. Last week, a man was wounded in a barber shop, according to Desmond Jaddoo, who runs Yes to Life, a Birmingham-based multifaith initiative aimed at tackling knife crime.Jaddoo, who is a trainee minister, said: “There is shock, horror and concern in the community. This whole problem of people carrying weapons has to remain in the forefront of community safety.”Asked if he thought Monday night’s incident was a retaliation to last week’s attack, he said: “It is difficult to say, because the circumstances are different. The one last week was in a barber shop. The one last night was on top of the No 11 bus.”Before Monday’s stabbing his campaign had planned an anti-knife march on 4 February on Rookery Road. Jaddoo said there had been an alarming increase in knife crime. “I grew up in the Aston Handsworth area, and when I was younger people used to settle disputes with their fists or through dialogue. Now unfortunately people will settle their disputes with weapons.”Handsworth is one of the poorest areas in Birmingham and is still remembered for riots against the police in the 1980s. Jaddoo said today’s violence is different. He said: “I remember the riots, but they were based more on community relations with the authorities, this is more now people on people. And in terms of people on people crime it at a brand new level.”Dave Virdee, who runs Virdee Estates, a lettings and estate agents on Rookery Road, said antisocial behaviour in the area was driving people away. “These things are really getting on our nerves. There are too many stabbings and stealings. When I joined this place 10 or 11 years ago it was very clean, very calm, very quiet. Slowly things have got messier and on every corner you see gangs of young people standing around doing antisocial things.“It has affected businesses a lot. Our clients will ask, ‘Do you have anything outside Handsworth?’ We feel it has had an impact.”The police asked anyone with information to call them on 101 or the independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.