A four-year inquiry into £3.7m worth of "unreconciled" spending on corporate credit cards by members of Scotland Yard has led to the conviction of six officers, and the disciplining of 34 others, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said.The inquiry, codenamed Operation Cosperville, was mounted by the Metropolitan police's directorate of professional standards, which is supervised by the IPCC, after two anti-terrorist officers were found to have misused their credit cards. A full review of all 3,500 credit cards in the force later identified the £3.7m of unreconciled spending, and singled out 1,019 officers who could have used their cards inappropriately.Many individuals had subsequently paid the money back and the expenses incurred were legitimate, but 195 cases were subjected to a detailed review by the Met's internal affairs department. No further action was taken in 137 cases but 58 were passed to the IPCC for more investigation. A further two cases involving senior officers were referred to the police watchdog by the Metropolitan police authority. These two officers were later cleared.Deborah Glass, the IPCC commissioner for London, said: "This was a painful, protracted but necessary process to ensure that public money was properly accounted for … the extent to which criminal activity and misconduct was able to take place inevitably says something about the environment of financial control in which it was able to happen in the first place."It is important that the MPS has taken major steps since these abuses were first exposed."Glass warned, however, that with the conclusion of the inquiry the Met must continue to scrutinise whether their new system of controls was being complied with. "It is individuals not systems who are responsible for acts of criminality or misconduct … those who exploit the system for financial gain will not be tolerated," she said.The six officers were convicted over the past three years; they included anti terrorist officer Detective Sergeant Richard de Cadenet, who was jailed for 10 months after admitting spending £73,000 on his Met Amex card. The detective, who worked on the 7 July London bombings inquiry, took his wife and mistress on luxury holidays. The officer is the son of Alain de Cadenet, the racing driver, and the brother of Amanda de Cadenet, the TV presenter. Of the 415 payments he made on his card, only 28 were legitimate. The IPCC said the money has yet to be recovered.Another anti-terrorist officer, Detective Constable Darren Pooley and his wife were found guilty of conspiracy to defraud more than £93,000. He was given a three-year sentence and dismissed from the Met. Confiscation proceedings are taking place to recover the money.Of those who were subjected to misconduct hearings, two officers were required to resign, four were fined and two received a reprimand. Twenty-four others were given written warnings, and two were given words of advice. Two Acpo rank officers were caught up in the inquiry but both were cleared.Commander Ali Dizaei was cleared of misusing his card after Dorset chief constable Martin Baker found no evidence he acted dishonestly or without integrity.Deputy Assistant Commissioner John McDowall also had his card spending scrutinised by the IPCC-managed inquiry. But Chief Constable Baker also found that the spending was entirely legitimate in this case. The senior anti-terror officer, who suffers from motor neurone disease, had used the card to buy clothes while working on the 7 July inquiry.Commander Peter Spindler, head of the Met police's directorate of professional standards, said: "We have identified and held to account those who fraudulently used their Amex card for personal gain, ensuring that officers who made a quick profit from the public purse faced the consequences of their actions through the courts or misconduct action."As well as rooting out dishonest behaviour, an important part of the investigation was to identify weaknesses in the corporate credit card system and introduce new measures to improve governance and compliance."