Victims of some of Britain's most notorious miscarriage of justice cases protested outside parliament today against budget cuts at the body which investigates disputed convictions. They claim that cases such as those of the young east Londoner Sam Hallam, who is serving life for murder, cannot be reinvestigated swiftly enough without the restoration of funding.Paddy Hill and Billy Power of the Birmingham Six, Gerry Conlon of the Guildford Four and Patrick Maguire of the Maguire Seven, along with Hallam's relatives and friends, handed in a petition on the subject. They claim that government spending cuts at the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) mean that innocent people are spending years in jail when their cases should be referred back to the court of appeal.The campaigners are highlighting the case of 21-year-old Hallam, jailed for life in 2005 for the murder of Essayas Kassahun, a 21-year-old trainee chef, who was killed in 2004 in Finsbury, north-east London. Kassahun had come to the aid of a friend, Louis Colley, who was being attacked by a mob of youths over a trivial perceived insult. Among Hallam's other supporters are the actor Ray Winston, whose nephew and daughter know him.Hallam was convicted on the basis of the disputed identification evidence of two witnesses who placed him at the scene of the murder. Hallam claimed that he was playing football with a friend at the time. Now his supporters say that there is fresh evidence which should lead to a successful appeal, but that the process is taking too long."Sam was a victim of bad luck and a ghastly sequence of events," said veteran campaigner Paul May, a leading light in the Birmingham Six campaign. "If you met him you would know that he is just not the kind of person to be involved in something like this." May said that Hallam, who was planning a career in the army at the time, was aware that there was going to be trouble on the night of the murder as a mob set off to look for Colley.Hallam was one of seven initially charged with the murder. Following his arrest, on the advice of his lawyer, he declined to answer police questions, something that his supporters claim may have counted against him at the trial. One other man, Bullabeck Ringblong, was also convicted of the murder and is serving life.The campaign has gathered new evidence, including statements from witnesses present at the murder scene, testifying that Hallam was not involved. May said that he believed that analysis of Hallam's mobile phones would also place him away from the scene of the crime. The evidence was submitted to the CCRC in February 2008.Patrick Maguire, who was wrongly convicted when only 13, said: "The commission's annual budget is under £8m – less than the cost of a day's policing at the G20 demonstrations – yet it's being cut. It's time the government honoured the promise made 800 years ago in the Magna Carta and stopped innocent prisoners like Sam Hallam suffering the nightmare of wrongful imprisonment. I know what it's like. I've been there. In this day and age, it should not still be happening."Paddy Hill said: "When you look at the evidence, it's obvious that he's innocent. We thought the system would change after what happened to us. It has changed – but it's got worse."Gerry Conlon added: "What happened to Sam is very similar to what happened to us. There's more innocent people in jail than when we were convicted, you just don't hear about them."The CCRC said that Hallam had recently been visited in prison. "Like all public bodies, the CCRC needs to carefully control its use of taxpayers' money to ensure it spends public funds efficiently," said an official. "Although our funding has reduced in recent years, performance at the commission has improved with waiting lists reduced and substantial reductions in the time that applicants wait for a review to start."Mr Hallam's application was received in February 2008 and was allocated to a case reviewer in September 2008. That seven-month period before allocation was in line with expectation at the time and significantly better than the position in 2005 when a similar case would have waited around 20 months to be allocated."