Up to 120,000 fun-seekers are thought to hit Manchester's streets every Friday or Saturday night. Mostly t-shirted and bare-midriffed the revellers roll from bar to bar and then compete to get a taxi home.Three or four years ago, the party was getting out of hand: there were too many drink-fuelled fights and even murders. Something had to be done. There is still vomit on the streets but rather less blood. The police, city council and bar managers claim that in three years much has been achieved. "We believe the city centre is now a much better place," said Gordon McKinnon, chief executive of Manchester City Centre Management Company which is funded by the council and 40 businesses. "The crime figures in recent months have bucked the national trend and we are making significant progress. Serious woundings are showing a marked decrease year on year and it's the same for street robberies." Mr McKinnon might be surprised to learn that violent crimes against the person in central Manchester are up 15% this year but the Home Office puts it down to how the statistics are recorded. Manchester, it seems, may have turned the tide. If it has, that could in part be down to the City Centre Safe, a project, promoted by Greater Manchester police which created a dedicated team of officers who work with pub and club managers, coordinate police patrols, visit places where there has been trouble and take action - up to seeking the end of a licence. "We get about 2 million visitors a week in the city and we are now recording an average of three-and-a-half serious woundings a week," said Superintendent Mark Robinson, who heads City Centre Safe. "There has been a magnificent improvement, considering the sheer number of people who come here. I think this is a safe community. "But we are not complacent and there are still issues we have to address." Other measures include a new bylaw introduced three years ago to ensure that alcohol could not be drunk or carried on city centre streets. "This was not designed to hit people drinking outside pubs but those who would carry open bottles from one club to another or jump out of a taxi with a pint glass," said Mr McKinnon. "It has proved very successful and has allowed police to restrict the availability of glasses for use as weapons." The city centre is covered by more than 50 CCTV cameras and a radio network linked to the control room: bar managers use it to pass on information about trouble or large groups moving round the streets. Fifteen emergency help points with big red alarm buttons also provide direct contact with the control room. Fred Booth, director of the Printworks complex, admitted that central Manchester had "a bit of a bad reputation" a few years ago but claimed it had "ebbed away". He loved to see up to 30,000 punters a night having fun in his 11 bars linked by a street borrowed from New York. "But no one will get one yard on that street with a bottle in his hand," he said. "He will be stopped immediately. And we cannot afford to let any of our tenants slip below high standards. "We want to make sure that when people come here, they enjoy a safe environment." Over in the gay village, Alistair Birdsell, manager of Prague Five and coordinator for Pub and Club Watch Manchester, suggested that Canal Street is returning to its roots. "There is a certain group from the hardcore yob culture who will always be hell-bent on causing trouble but compared with other towns and cities, Manchester has made great inroads. "People know about the quality of the CCTV cameras and how often they are used in prosecutions." Mr Birdsell's bar, like many others, operates a plastic glasses rule for those drinking outside. "It's effective in removing potential weapons," he said. He said: "If more people are able to go for a night out in the city without fear, that is proof that what we are doing is working."