The prime minister may have championed the principle of introducing cameras for sentencing in trials but judges remain jumpy when caught at the wrong end of a lens.Greater transparency for public services is clearly not the same as unauthorised snapping inside the hallowed precincts of Her Majesty's courts. And the uninformed better appreciate the difference.An unfortunate 19-year-old last week received a harsh lesson in the subtleties of courtroom policy over photography. The teenager was sitting in the public gallery of Luton crown court last Friday when he received a message from a friend asking him where he was.To explain why he couldn't talk, he recorded a shot on his BlackBerry's camera and sent the picture to her of the courtroom. The police officers in the dock noticed.The phone was seized and the youth, Paul Thompson, was taken down to the cells under arrest. An hour later Thompson reappeared in court, was charged with contempt of court and sentenced to two months in prison.Swift justice, undoubtedly. Judge Barbara Mensah told Thompson:There are notices all around the court building about not taking photographs in court. This is a serious offence and the message must go out that people cannot take photos.Contempt of court is one of those offences for which a wide range of punishments may be imposed. There do not appear, as yet, to be any specific sentencing guidelines on how to deal with snap-happy mobile users. Last September, the Ministry of Justice revealed that 24 people were at that time locked up for a variety of contempt offences.Earlier this month the attorney general warned the justice select committee about the danger of encouraging "theatricals" if cameras were allowed in courts – but he had in mind the problem of showing the face of the accused during sentencing.Judges have acknowledged their frustration at being unable to prevent contempt of court being inflicted by the plethora of modern communication devices and networks. Preventing juries consulting the internet about the cases they consider is become more problematic.Addressing defiance of privacy injunctions by Twitter users, the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, declared in May:Are you really going to say that someone who has a true claim for protection perfectly well made has to be at the mercy of modern technology?I'm not giving up on the possibility that people who peddle lies about others through using technology may one day be brought under control, maybe through damages, very substantial damages, maybe even injunctions to stop them peddling lies.In the Luton case, the trial was not abandoned but the mis-user of technology was easy to apprehrend.Let's hope Paul Thompson is not a repeat offender and did not naively smuggle his mobile into jail: last year an estimated 8,000 phones and sim cards were said to have been found behind bars. But that's a whole other story.