For the last six years prison escapes have fallen steadily - with not a single category A inmate escaping since 1995 - only for the home secretary to discover a different unexploded bomb in his department. Since 1999, more than 1,000 foreign nationals convicted of serious offences have been released at the end of their sentence without being considered for deportation. The fault was two-fold: initially a failure of communication between two different arms of the department - prisons and immigration - and subsequently a poorly managed migration service. Only 100 have been tracked down so far, but the hunt for the other 900 began in earnest last night following the home secretary's admission of his department's failure. Yet as both main opposition parties recognised yesterday, Charles Clarke does not deserve all the blame. The chaos began five years before he even arrived at the home office. He is right to argue that his job is now to sort out the mess.Instead, opposition parties properly turned their fire on another aspect of Mr Clarke's work: his attack, in a speech on Monday night, on liberal media critics of his government's law and order policies. He is right that some members of the commentariat do not do enough research. But he should ask himself whether the reason he is so irked by these critics is that, in broad terms, they have got it right. The biggest and most serious fault of the Labour government since 1997 - a fault that precedes the acts of terrorism in New York, Madrid and London - is the retreat from the rule of law and due process. This criticism is not confined to liberals. Just a year ago, the Guardian published interviews with 10 of the most senior legal figures in the country, who were united in anger with the government's contempt for the judiciary and its increasingly authoritarian rule.Any audit of the government's record has to begin with anti-terrorist legislation, but there is much else to consider: Asbos, asylum, ID cards, restrictions on free speech, police powers and prison numbers. But first, anti-terrorism. There were already 200 pieces of anti-terrorist legislation before the government added four more in the last five years. The UK was the only country to derogate from the European Convention on Human Rights and introduce arrest and detention without charge or trial for serious terrorist suspects. But for the opposition parties, these laws would have been even stronger with more detentions, less judicial scrutiny and fewer rights of appeal. But for the law lords, suspects would still be being held in breach of international law. Then there is the way in which the coercive poison of anti-terrorist legislation leaks into other parts of the justice system. David Blunkett tried to deny failed asylum seekers the right of appeal, ignoring both the high proportion of administrative mistakes and the serious consequences for the applicants - torture or possible death - in being returned to their home countries. But for the House of Lords this would be law.Rhetoric can be as important as laws in undermining civil rights. Tony Blair and his first two home secretaries openly advocated re-writing the 1951 Geneva Convention protecting refugees. Mr Blair went one step further with foolish talk of replacing the criminal justice system with a victims' justice system. The founding principle of the current system is that it does not favour either side but remains strictly independent, objective and neutral. Ministers have refused to recognise the dangers of Asbos, despite warnings by senior advisers. The data registrar has expressed concern about the dangers of "a surveillance society" should more information be allowed on the new ID cards. Labour's "tough on crime" laws helped push up prison numbers by 25,000 in a decade, compared to an increase of just 11,000 in four decades between 1951-1991. To deny the above changes are not evidence of "creeping authoritarianism" is perverse.