Maxine Carr yesterday appeared in court facing 20 deception charges, including lying about her qualifications to get a job at the primary school that Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman attended.Carr, 27, is accused of "falsely representing" her academic achievements when she applied for posts at St Andrew's in Soham, Cambridgeshire. She is also alleged to have lied when she applied for jobs in a food factory, chain store and local shop. She faces a further 15 counts of dishonestly obtaining, or attempting to obtain, housing benefit, income support and job seeker's allowance by claiming she had no partner when she was living with Ian Huntley, who was convicted in December of murdering Holly and Jessica. She allegedly received more than £3,000 to which she was not entitled. There was a large police presence inside and outside Peterborough magistrates court, amid fears that Carr's appearance could attract a mob. Around 40 reporters were crammed into the courtroom for the 34-minute hearing. Dressed in a grey suit and V-necked top, Carr gave her full name - Maxine Ann Carr - to the three magistrates and told them her address was HMP Holloway in London. She stood as the 20 charges were read out. The earliest - April 1996 - related to an application for a job as a production operative at the Blue Crest food factory in Grimsby. Carr was also accused of lying about her qualifications when she applied for a job as assistant at the Bhs store in Scunthorpe five years later, and when she tried to get a job in the One Stop Shop in Soham in January 2002. In April 2002, she allegedly "obtained a pecuniary advantage" by falsifying her qualifications when she successfully applied to become a temporary classroom assistant at St Andrew's primary school. Three months later she allegedly lied again when she unsuccessfully applied for the permanent position. Ten charges related to a period in 2001 when Carr is accused of obtaining housing benefit she was not entitled to while living in Scunthorpe. She also faces two charges of attempting to obtain housing benefit dishonestly. A further three charges relate to claims for job seeker's allowance and income support. The court clerk asked her if she wished to indicate pleas. Carr replied: "No indication." Prosecuting, Marion Bastin gave the court more details about the alleged offences, and asked the bench to transfer the case to a crown court. Magistrates agreed to move the case to Peterborough crown court. Carr will appear there on April 23 for a plea and directions hearing. She is serving a three-and-a-half-year sentence. She had nothing to do with the Soham murders in August 2002.By the time Carr was driven away from the court in a van escorted by a police car and outrider, a crowd of about 100 had gathered. There was no repeat of the scenes which greeted a previous appearance by her at the court.