The government has designated 67 courts as special street crime courts to speed cases in areas with the highest rates of robbery, carjacking, snatch theft, and firearms offences.Existing courtrooms will be set aside to process cases quickly and court buildings modified to provide a safer environment for victims and other witnesses in an attempt to stop intimidation. Victims and witnesses will have secure waiting areas to stop them coming into contact with their alleged assailants, and will be helped by Victim Support, before, during and after their evidence. In the 10 police forces taking part in the crackdown on street crime, witnesses will be able to view video identity parades instead of live ID parades to prevent victims from coming face to face with their attackers. Ministers hope the better protection for witnesses will reduce the number of cases which collapse because victims and other witnesses are too frightened to give evidence. The 26 crown courts and 41 magistrates courts have been designated in the areas with the highest street crime, including parts of London, Manchester, Bristol, Taunton, Doncaster, Sheffield, Reading, Oxford, Preston, Bolton, Nottingham, Liverpool, Leeds and Bradford. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said: "These courts are a vital step in ensuring swift and effective action to tackle street crime and will build on the work of the police in the 10 force areas in bringing more of these offenders to justice. "While crime overall is down, street crime is rising. If we are to succeed in turning this tide we must continue to work to ensure that the processes are in place right across the system to bring about the real and lasting differences that will make people feel safer." The lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, said: "This is about all of government working together to support the frontline criminal justice agencies. Street crime is being given a priority throughout the criminal justice system, from arrest through to conviction. "The courts, of course, have a vital part to play in ensuring cases are dealt with swiftly while allowing time for the thorough and effective preparation of cases which is essential to the successful conviction of the guilty." Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of probation officers union Napo, said: "Any attempt to reduce the intimidation of witnesses must be welcomed. But it is difficult to see how street crime courts will bring about swifter justice because the real problem is the delays in the courts, thanks to the adjournment culture." He said that nine out of 10 defendants accused of street crimes pleaded not guilty. This week, ministers announced new funding of £20m for crime fighting partnerships in local communities, £10m of which was to be targeted at robbery hotspots. Separately, the Metropolitan police launched a Safer Streets campaign which targeted robbery hotspots in nine of the capital's boroughs. This week it was announced the operation was being extended after it managed to reduce street robberies, which had risen rapidly in the last 12 months, back to March 2001 levels.· More on law and order at theguardian.com/crime