Police forces will be urged today to improve the way they record offences after a report found that true crime levels could be at least 20% higher than official figures suggest.An HM Inspectorate of Constabulary study of the way crime is recorded by police forces in England and Wales found that thousands of offences, including assaults and burglaries are being left out of official statistics. The report, which comes a fortnight after the government reported a 3.8% increase in the official crime rate last year, says inconsistencies and bureaucracy are the main causes of the inaccuracy. The official figures showed that a total of 5.3m offences were reported to police in the 12 months to March, compared with 5.1m in the previous year. There was a 16% increase in violent crimes, with the number of robberies rising 26.1% and the most serious cases of violence up 12.6%. The suggestion that actual crime levels are 20% higher than the official figures will add to the pressure on the home secretary, Jack Straw.The authors of the new report found that in too many instances, decisions on whether a crime had taken place were left to individual officers. They also said that there were too many differences between forces on the categories under which offences should be recorded. After the report by HM Inspectorate of Constabulary was leaked earlier this month, police chiefs and ministers said they were committed to producing as accurate a picture of crime levels as possible. A consultation paper aimed at increasing consistency between forces will accompany the report when it is officially published today.Home Office minister Charles Clarke said that the different ways of recording violent crime across the 43 police forces were "completely dotty". Changes needed to be made to define the various kinds of crime and to increase the recording and reporting of crime, he said. "The level of comparability is very poor right across the country." He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "There are important categories of violent crime - for example, domestic violence, racial violence, sexual violence - where there is significant under-reporting of crime, because people haven't been confident that there problems will be sorted out directly."The chief constable of Gloucestershire police, Tony Butler, said that the system of recording crime figures was unhelpful and needed to be "simplified". He told the Today programme that the Association of Chief Police Officers would work with the Home Office on the issue.