Burglars facing an 18-month prison sentence or less should receive community-based punishments instead of being locked up to reduce the problem of overcrowding in jails, the lord chief justice ruled yesterday.Lord Woolf urged the courts to give probation and community service sentences as long as they were an effective punishment which would also tackle an offender's underlying problems, such as drug addiction. "If, and only if, the court is satisfied the offender has demonstrated by his or her behaviour that punishment in the community is not practicable, should the court resort to a custodial sentence," he said in test case appeals. "We fully accept that there are some cases where the clang of the prison cell door for the first time may have a deterrent effect but the statistics of reoffending suggest that the numbers who will be deterred by their first experience of incarceration are not substantial," he added. The new sentencing guidelines, which come into effect immediately, were intended to provide "better protection for the public and to result in some reduction in the use of custody", he said. The decision handed down at the court of appeal was Lord Woolf's latest attempt to slow the explosion in prison numbers which is already at a record level and set to rise further. Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Silber and Mr Justice Grigson, said they had not forgotten the importance of maintaining public confidence in the criminal justice system. But prison sentences were not turning the vast majority of offenders away from crime. Citing a report by the government, he said the cost of re-offending by ex-prisoners was "staggering" - the cost of dealing with crime committed by ex-prisoners was at least £11bn per year. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, welcomed the new guidelines. "The guidelines very sensibly put prison as a place of last resort and enable all but the most serious offenders to serve an effective sentence in the community," she said.