The last unreformed public service in the UK got its marching orders yesterday. Almost a decade after the last attempt - the 1993 Sheehy report - a new bid was outlined by David Blunkett to take the police into the 21st century. They moved from being an artisan force to a professional service some years ago, but in terms of pay and conditions they are still stuck in the Victorian era.Pay is still dependent on promotion. There is too little regard for the roles individual people perform: the officer behind the safe desk getting as much as a colleague on a tough inner-city frontline. Automatic annual increments still push the incompetent to the top of their rank pay structures. And the number of ranks remains absurdly long. Chief inspectors and chief superintendents, who began to be stripped out after Sheehy, have returned. The inefficiencies of the service are legion. They have been documented by the Audit Commission in a succession of reports: huge variations in response time, detection rates, and patrolling. Although patrolling is meant to be the main duty of 60% of officers, only 5% are on the streets at any one time. As yesterday's white paper notes, the already large variations in performance have been widening. Detection continues to decline down from 40% of recorded crime in 1980 to 18% last year. Fear of crime continues at high levels despite the 20% fall in crime since 1997. There is a lower level of public satisfaction with the police than in many European states and despite the fall in crime, a higher level of victimisation than on the continent. And then there is the "sick note" culture with 1.5m policing days lost last year. But the biggest indictment of the service is that it required the home secretary to step in. The chief constables should have been cleaning up their own stables. Ironically, their failure to do so is not to do with their competence - in a service of 126,000 officers there is cream at the top - but the culture of their association: thou shalt not teach thy neighbour to suck eggs. Mr Blunkett is stern enough - and tough enough - to ensure yesterday's reforms are pushed through. (Sheehy failed when Michael Howard replaced Kenneth Clarke.) The reforms include a new standards unit to spread good practice and end unacceptable variations; a new corps of specialist detectives; new police priority areas to target crime hotspots identified by the standards unit; a new corps of community support officers to provide a visible presence to tackle anti social behaviour freeing the police to tackle more serious crimes. The white paper also wants to create "a new police family of community support" through local forces accrediting the growing number of neighbourhood wardens and security staff of pubs and local offices. Pay has been passed to the negotiating body with a clear remit to reform the cynical exploitation of current rules - like early medical retirement which rose to 63% in one force or sick pay in many more - plus more pay for officers in demanding posts or good bobbies on the beat. There are two caveats. Mr Blunkett should watch his tone. The best way of turning round the police is not rubbishing their performance but enthusing and motivating them to emulate their best performers. A modernising government should have learned that by now. Secondly, New Labour doublespeak continues: much talk of devolution to local basic command units, while new powers are consolidated at the centre. Stalinism won't work because constables have to have discretion. The art of change in the police is converting all ranks.