Detectives will start this week to target 1,600 individuals identified as masterminding Britain's biggest organised crime syndicates.Tomorrow the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) kicks off a series of operations against a list of criminal suspects responsible for orchestrating a £40bn trade in drugs, corruption and human trafficking.The Prime Minister, Tony Blair, will launch the agency, dubbed Britain's FBI. Its immediate priority will be to target hundreds of suspects whose 'enormous' wealth is believed to have been generated from the proceeds of forgery factories, people-smuggling and drug cartels. Most are understood to be laundering money through seemingly legitimate premises.One of Britain's biggest drugs gangs was recently found to have laundered £20m a year through two rundown cafés as it smuggled heroin from Colombia via Spain to Britain. Soca will be targeting men like Darren Owen from south Wales, who was recently convicted for running a drugs empire that operated like a legitimate business complete with regional managers. Others include Viktoras Larcenko, a Lithuanian gangster who made up to £100,000 a month smuggling young eastern European women into Britain for prostitution, and Jesús Aníbal Ruiz Henao who laundered millions of pounds of drugs money through a travel agent.Based in 43 secret locations across Britain, Soca has more than 4,000 officers who will use sweeping new powers to seize criminal assets, bar suspects from Britain and strike Queen's Evidence deals with informants.Amid intelligence that the proceeds from organised crime in Britain are growing, senior officers are worried about the emergence of potential new markets for gangs. These include the 2012 London Olympics and this summer's World Cup in Germany, both of which could become a focus for criminals targeting markets for prostitutes, drugs and fraud as well as lucrative government contracts.Alongside tackling human trafficking, Soca's main objective will be targeting international drug cartels. The chairman of Soca, and former head of MI5, Sir Stephen Lander, said narcotics syndicates were becoming increasingly sophisticated. 'We need to learn more on the major drugs industry,' he said. 'It looks like the cocaine, heroin and synthetic drugs market will get worse.'Detectives for Soca have identified a list of countries responsible for exporting different types of criminal expertise to Britain. Vietnamese gangs, for instance, operate hundreds of marijuana farms across London. Thailand dominates the market in forged documents and passports, while Triad groups from China are mainly involved in human trafficking.Soca, which will have armed units and electronics surveillance experts, will incorporate the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and key functions of the immigration and customs services. One crucial element will be Soca's authority to reach written agreements with suspects who testify against leading crime figures.A specialist team of 500 officers will have the duty of following suspicious financial transactions. Lander added: 'We will be chasing money, freezing assets.'