Britain's largest police force was engulfed in a new row last night over allegations that it allowed a racist culture to develop unchecked in its ranks, with black and Asian officers facing insults, discrimination and intimidation by white colleagues.A damning confidential internal report, obtained by The Observer, says that the Metropolitan police has not done enough to eradicate racism, has a poor image with black and Asian people, both inside and outside the force, and often approaches grievances from ethnic minority staff with 'apathy and misdirection'. It says that a greater proportion of black and Asian officers leave the force during their training or probationary period than equivalent white officers. Police confirmed that claim last night, admitting that more than double the number of black and Asian officers who join the force leave before they have completed their probationary period compared to whites. The damning report quotes an officer at the force's training centre in Hendon, north London, saying to one Asian trainee: 'If one of my daughters came home with a black man I'd probably kick him out of the house.' The report, 'What is Happening to Our Ethnic Minorities?', will reignite the debate about racism in the police sparked by the BBC documentary, The Secret Policeman, which was largely filmed at Bruche training centre in Warrington, Cheshire. Last month the programme showed one police officer donning a Ku Klux Klan-style hood and showing how he would 'kill a Paki'. The report by the Metropolitan Police Black Police Association, which has been handed to the force commissioner, Sir John Stevens, says that problems exist across the force, particularly at Hendon. Hendon is the country's leading training centre, dealing with more than 3,000 police officers a year. It traditionally trains all London's police officers. 'It is right to state that our recruitment of ethnic minorities is at the highest it's been ever but what is not publicised is the colossal losses we experience before their training is complete,' the report says. 'Why are so many minority groups leaving Hendon?' The Metropolitan Police last night confirmed that it had launched an inquiry into the report which has also been passed to the Home Office and the Metropolitan Police Authority which has overall responsibility for the force. The inquiry will be headed by the assistant commissioner of the force, Tarique Ghaffur, Britain's most senior Asian officer. 'They will as a matter of urgent priority review recruitment and training procedures at Hendon,' a Metropolitan Police spokeswoman said. 'The Met will not tolerate racists and is determined to ensure that people are treated fairly both internally and in its interactions with the public.' The report details nearly 20 cases of black and Asian officers and civilian staff across the force who have felt that they have been discriminated against. In one case an Asian officer was called 'Paki' by a colleague and in another a black receptionist was arrested under suspicion of stealing a purse. Charges were later dropped. In other cases, black officers took extended sick leave rather than face an atmosphere that many described as intimidating. Letters and emails revealed in the report point the finger at named officers. The report also says little of the lessons of the McPherson recommendations following the death of Stephen Lawrence had been implemented. The report points out that the Metropolitan Police should have a policy of sacking police officers found guilty of racism, rather than the current situation in which many officers are sent for "racial retraining." All the cases, the report says, were dealt with poorly, raising the suspicion that black and Asian grievances are not taken seriously. 'As you can see from the report ethnic minorities are still suffering within the organisation at a level that makes us wonder just how much of an effect the Macpherson report has had,' the report says. 'Looking objectively at our own practices is one of the most difficult things to do especially when a member of staff has been ill-treated. The organisation's first instinct is to protect itself.' Leroy Logan, the chairman of the black police association, said that although many of the senior officers at the Metropolitan Police had worked hard on racism issues, there were still people who did not take the issue seriously. 'A black recruit is three times more likely to leave in the first 18 weeks at Hendon than a white recruit,' he said. 'In the first two years of his or her career in the service he is five times more likely to leave.' Between September 2002 and August this year there were 3,222 new recruits at Hendon. More than 13 per cent of ethnic minority trainees left, compared to 6 per cent of white trainees.