Two men were jailed for 13 years today for their part in the robbery that led to the killing of the jeweller Marion Bates.Dean Betton, 24, and Craig Moran, 23, were convicted yesterday at Stafford crown court of plotting to rob Mrs Bates, 64, who was shot dead while trying to protect her daughter.Peter Williams, 19, who attacked Mrs Bates's husband, Victor, with a crowbar and helped the gunman to escape, was yesterday convicted of murder and will be sentenced in four weeks, pending psychiatric reports. Lisa Unwin, 23, was convicted of conspiring to pervert the course of justice along with Moran, by providing him with a false alibi, and was freed on conditional bail. The killer of Marion Bates has yet to be found. He was said in court to have probably been James Brodie, who is linked to a number of armed robberies. Brodie disappeared after the shooting and it is thought he may have been murdered in a gangland execution.During the trial, the court heard how Mrs Bates stepped in front of her daughter, Xanthe, in an "instinctive act of bravery" when Williams and the gunman burst into the family shop in Nottingham, wearing motorcycle helmets, on September 30 2003. Mr Bates then picked up a fencing sword in a bid to stop the two men from escaping but Williams beat him to the ground with a crowbar. Gregory Dickinson QC, prosecuting, said that, as the gunman pointed his weapon towards Mr Bates, Williams had set to work with the crowbar jemmying a padlock on one of the display cabinets. At the same time, Xanthe was on the telephone speaking to her husband when the gunman turned his weapon on her and told her: "This is an armed robbery." Mr Dickinson said: "For a moment she did nothing. She was so paralysed with fear, she did nothing at all. She kept the handset in her hand and, perhaps because she did not react quickly enough, the gunman started moving towards her. "Xanthe's mother, Marian Bates, had been towards the back of the shop. It was at this stage that she moved forward very quickly, her arms outstretched. She was shouting out, 'No.' She was clearly determined to put herself between the gunman and her daughter - an instinctive act of bravery by a mother trying to protect her daughter - and it cost her her life." Brodie, 21, was named in court as the prime suspect in the murder and the man who police believe pulled the trigger and branded his dying victim a "silly cow" as she slumped to the floor. Brodie, who vanished within days of the shooting and is now believed dead, is thought to have carried out a string of violent attacks and armed robberies before he allegedly gunned down Mrs Bates.