I would like to begin by thanking the Howard League for inviting me to speak at this conference. I have been a supporter of the League since 1971, when I was a Member of Parliament and they assisted me over the plight of a constituent who was incarcerated in a Turkish jail for smoking marijuana in his hotel room.I have remained a supporter of the League since that time and have come to admire a group of dedicated people who are regularly dismissed by the tabloid press as "loony lefties" or "do-gooders". Whereas in fact the changes they have brought about within the prison system so often benefit the general public every bit as much as the prisoner. From the outset, I would like to make it clear that I do not consider our legal and prison system either unjust or punitive. Indeed it was Anthony Howard who wrote in the Sunday Times: "No-one could describe Archer as a bleeding heart liberal." However, after two years of incarceration, I should like to offer one or two thoughts that I hope both the government and the opposition might consider. Some problems are deep and complex, with no easy solution, while others possibly have more simple answers. Today I wish to identify three such problems, and offer constructive solutions. The first concerns education in prisons, but before I outline one serious anomaly that I came across, I would like to give you a little background. When you first enter prison, you have to take an education test, which is sensible enough, and indeed I later came across several inmates doing vocational training, GCSEs and A-Levels, some of whom went on to take degrees and even PhDs. Those prisoners have grasped the opportunities offered. However, many others do not, and in this respect I believe I have identified a weakness in the system that could be dealt with overnight. During your first two weeks in prison, you go through an induction period, when you are offered the chance to take up paid work.This can range from gardening to cleaning, to peeling spuds or alternatively signing up for full-time education. This must be commendable because a better-educated prisoner is surely more likely to get a job after leaving prison and is therefore less likely to reoffend. However, over 90% of inmates do not take up the opportunity of further education, and often, simply because of the difference in pay structure. As a gardener, a wing cleaner, or potato peeler, you can earn as much as £12 a week, whereas if you take up education, you are likely to receive somewhere between £4 and £5 a week. Ninety per cent of prisoners smoke and their one luxury is tobacco, which they can purchase from the canteen once a week. The next most important item for the vast majority of prisoners is a phone card - cost £2 - so they can keep in touch with their families. Should they need any extra food or toiletries, they won't get much change from their £12 - were they to choose full-time education, it would end up being tobacco or a phone card. This, despite the fact that, according to a report in the Guardian newspaper last year, six out of 10 prisoners are functionally illiterate, compared with the basic skills agency's estimate of the national average being around 20%. With this in mind I would offer two suggestions which I think would benefit the prisoner, as well as the general public:1. Pay those taking up full-time education the same wage as any other prison job. 2. Introduce an intensive 12-week reading and writing course for all illiterate prisoners, which would include a test at the end of the course, that the prisoner would have to pass before they could be considered for any other job, or even more draconian, early release. This could result in thousands of prisoners returning to society with their minds, rather than just their muscles, expanded, as well as the burden and stigma of total illiteracy lifted from them. Governors complain that they simply don't have the resources to cover the extra cost. I would suggest that this would not only be a sound investment for anyone who wanted to deal with the causes of crime, but would, in the long-term, also prove cost effective. My second suggestion concerns the categorisation of prisoners, and once again, I should first give you a little background. Once convicted, you are sent from the court to a remand prison for a period of up to three weeks while the police decide which category you fall into. This process can be completed in 24 hours, as I discovered when I applied to attend my mother's funeral, and was granted D-cat status, which meant I would, in time, be transferred to an open prison. However, I was sent direct from the Old Bailey to HMP Belmarsh, where I spent my first three weeks. Belmarsh is a category A prison which houses terrorists, murderers, rapists, drug barons and large numbers of GBH and ABH offenders. During that three weeks, I also came across several inmates who had been convicted of traffic offences, and other minor crimes, who were obviously destined for an open prison, but were still made to live with professional criminals for anything up to a month while their categorisation came through. A month is a very long period of time when you are locked up in a cell with two other prisoners for 22 hours a day. One particular case I came across allows me to illustrate a problem that is not uncommon. During my daily 45-minute walk around the exercise yard, I was regularly joined by another prisoner called Peter. He was a builder by trade, who had been sentenced to six months for driving a motor vehicle without a licence or insurance, so he could expect to be released after three months. On his first night in prison, he was banged-up with a murderer and a drug baron. He told me that he was fearful of falling asleep at night in case he was injected with heroin by the drug baron, and by day he became terrified because the man awaiting trial on a murder charge was offering him £10,000 on his release to bump off the key witness in his upcoming trial. Peter assured me that he felt able to survive the three-week ordeal, both physically and mentally, but how many less confident individuals would either end up as drug addicts, or facing another charge within days of being released? Not many, admittedly, but too many, and first-time offenders should not begin their prison life among the professors of crime. If it was possible for me to be categorised in 24 hours then a time delay of three to four weeks is not acceptable, and I would suggest that defendants on bail for a first offence should be categorised during their trial, and if sentenced, go straight to an open prison where they would be far less likely to come into contact with hardened career criminals. I discussed this problem with the deputy governor of Belmarsh and she raised two interesting points. First, with 60 or 70 prisoners being shipped into Belmarsh five nights a week, there is no time to decide which cell each prisoner should be allocated, so it's not uncommon for a shoplifter to be incarcerated with a murderer. However, the senior officer on duty tries to sort this problem out in the first few days but it cannot be considered a priority while our prisons are so overcrowded. Her second point was that civil rights campaigners might complain were you to categorise a prisoner before they were convicted, thus suggesting guilt. This must be a classic case for the Howard League to take up because I am in no doubt that early categorisation is in the best interests not only of the prisoner but of the general public. It is also interesting to note that open prisons (D-cats) are the only establishments that are not overcrowded so this reform would also address the urgent problem of overcrowding in closed prisons. My third suggestion concerns the biggest problem currently facing the prison service, namely the widespread use of illegal drugs in prison. I do not intend today to discuss the question of how to stamp out drugs in prisons, or the fact that over 70% of prisoners are on drugs, or the lamentable failure to stop drugs entering closed prisons by the bucket load, because these are issues worthy of a series of lectures by someone far better qualified than myself. During my incarceration, I received over 10,000 letters, cards and messages, all of which I have retained, and, following the publication of my first diary which detailed the drug abuse I observed in Belmarsh, not one person who wrote to me has suggested that I had overestimated the drug problem. However, I came across one anomaly that I feel could be rectified immediately. If a prisoner is caught taking drugs, he is rightly put on report and punished by the governor. This punishment can range from a fine - no pay for a month and loss of all canteen privileges - to the most feared reprisal if you are in an open prison, of being re-categorised and returned to closed conditions. Because there are no specific guidelines for governors, they often draw no official distinction between a prisoner who smokes marijuana at the weekend and one caught injecting himself daily with heroin. Indeed before entering prison, I might also have considered "taking drugs" as a crime that should not have distinctions. This I now recognise as naive, given the relative social damage inflicted by the two drugs, and it might even be pragmatically sensible in prison given the need to bear down on drug abuse by prisoners, were it not for the unintended consequences. What I wasn't aware of until being locked-up is that when you smoke marijuana, traces of the substance remain in your bloodstream for 28 days, whereas should you take heroin, it is possible by drinking vast amounts of water - and there is a wash basin and lavatory in every cell - to flush all traces of the drug from your body within 24 hours. Result and consequence: in the long hours of boredom spent in your cell, especially at weekends when you're locked up for periods of 22 hours a day, some marijuana smokers turn to heroin as an alternative, only because the chances of showing positive at an MDT (mandatory drug test) are so much smaller than if you have a few puffs of marijuana. This results in a small percentage, but a large number of inmates who enter prison as social marijuana smokers, and come out as heroin addicts. Whereas I have felt able to suggest solutions to the issues of education and categorisation, I can see no easy answer to the drug problem. It would be indefensible to suggest that the laws concerning marijuana should in any way differ in prison from those that apply to the general public, and I should add that while I am against the legalisation of marijuana for all the well-rehearsed reasons, I was in agreement with the decisions made last week by the Association of Chief Police Officers and endorsed by the home secretary, that the police should no longer arrest the majority of people found in possession of small amounts of cannabis for personal use. Perhaps this could be extended to prisons by issuing clearer guidelines on the scale of punishment, according to the drug taken, especially when marijuana is involved. Being sent back to closed conditions is so draconian compared to losing a month's wages and privileges, and if all drugs being treated equally results in a marijuana smoker ending up as a heroin addict, indefensible. While I was in prison, I wrote over a million words, and today's paper is a tiny encapsulation of the many problems I came up against.It is not my intention to become a prison reformer, but I hope that my diaries and this paper will create some constructive debate on a subject that most people wish would just go away. For that, and many other reasons, we all owe a great debt to the Howard League and similar organisations, who have the courage to put their heads above the parapet, and sometimes face the wrath of the public, and the ridicule of the tabloid press. I end as I began, by thanking the Howard League for inviting me to address this conference, and I apologise to those seasoned campaigners who have only had their worst fears confirmed. Thank you.