David Chenery-Wickens lied to his wife, Diane, throughout their 11 years of marriage. During that time, the spiritualist minister seduced a series of women, sponged off his wife financially and repeatedly disparaged their relationship.When it looked as if she would finally uncover his lies and expose his life as a sham, he killed her. Today, nine months after her decomposing body was found in a shallow grave near their home, he was found guilty of her murder.On the night she was killed, Diane, a Bafta award-winning makeup artist who worked on The League of Gentlemen, Dead Ringers and Casualty, had come home to the £500,000 cottage she shared with her husband in Duddleswell, a hamlet in East Sussex.There she discovered an itemised phone bill, which told a story she did not want to hear. It included several repeated numbers, which she decided to call. One led her to the voicemail of one of her husband's mistresses, another to a gay chatline which her husband frequently called.What happened next is unclear but, throughout the six-week trial, the prosecution argued that Diane confronted her husband and, faced with the prospect of having his web of lies exposed, he killed her before dumping her body less than 10 miles from their home and about a quarter of a mile from the Lavender Line steam railway track, where he volunteered, in Little Horsted, near Uckfield.Philip Katz QC, for the prosecution, told jurors at Lewes crown court: "If the defendant realised that he was going to be exposed as a liar, a charlatan and a hypocrite with debts up to his nose, this would have been the clearest possible motive to kill Diane. She had to say only two words to him to bring his whole false life down around him in ruins. Those two words were, 'Get out'."She was found five months later when a dog walker noticed a strong, unpleasant smell. Chenery-Wickens had not even attempted to bury his wife: she was left in a thicket of brambles and when she was discovered, her body was so badly decomposed it was impossible to know how she died.His actions after her murder were incoherent and desperate. Two days after the prosecution alleged that she was killed, Chenery-Wickens reported his wife missing. He told police that the couple had gone to London because Diane had a meeting at the BBC. They arranged to meet later at her hairdresser's, but she had not turned up, he said.CCTV evidence showed Chenery-Wickens had travelled to London alone, and the BBC had no record of any meeting. Then Chenery-Wickens took his wife's mobile phone, and sent messages to her friends to make it appear she was still alive.Knowing she was dead, he left another message on her mobile phone saying: "I'm trying to tune into you, you seem to be in not a good place. I'm at home, our home, wishing you were here with me now."Days after her death, he was caught on CCTV pawning Diane's jewellery, which had great sentimental value, for £100. Police found more bloodstained jewellery hidden in her home, although friends said she never took it off.In a later police interview, Chenery-Wickens changed the story of Diane's disappearance, saying the couple had parted at East Grinstead railway station and that his wife, too ashamed to face up to her money troubles and their failed marriage, had told him she was going to start a new life in Spain.The truth was she was already dead. And the same night he reported her missing to police and her family, he made sexually explicit calls and text messages to several people, the court heard. He left "intimate" messages on a former girlfriend's phone and later called a gay chatline and arranged for a man to come to his house. The man told the court the only reason they did not have sex was that, after being greeted by Chenery-Wickens in a white towelling robe at the door, he was not attracted to him.Chenery-Wickens had a voracious sexual appetite. Several women, some protected by reporting restrictions, told the court how they had been seduced by the spiritualist minister. He told them a string of lies about his wife: they were getting divorced, she was a drunk, she was mentally unstable.An opera singer lent him more than £21,000 after he told her he was suffering from prostate cancer, although he was in good health. He never repaid the money, yet she called him "an extraordinary man". Another woman, an alternative therapist known only as Witness A, met Chenery-Wickens at meditation and astrology groups. As with many of his girlfriends, he told her that he was divorcing his wife and selling their house, neither of which was true.Chenery-Wickens had been volunteering at the Lavender Line for about two years when his wife went missing. Locals in the pub next to the railway said the man they knew as "the reverend" was "very plausible".Andy Brooks, 50, the landlord of the Laughing Fish in Isfield, said Chenery-Wickens was a likeable character who wanted to do well. He would often be joined by his girlfriend Kerry Lippett."He said he was estranged from his wife, even though we knew they lived under the same roof," said Brooks. "And as he was often with his girlfriend we had no reason to think otherwise."Peter Ongley, 45, who also worked on the Lavender Line, said Chenery-Wickens would often be visited by women. "He had his harem, if you like. Well-dressed women he met through being a spiritualist minister."Diane Chenery-Wickens , who had always out-earned her husband, has been described as sweet-tempered and mild. A neighbour, who did not want to be named, remembered meeting her at a party. "She was just really lovely, incredibly gentle," she said. Chenery-Wickens, on the other hand, gave a less favourable impression. "He was boorish and dominated the conversation. I thought it was a shame because she was so lovely."Diane was also someone who had difficulty facing up to reality. When one girlfriend, Susan Roberts, who had been told that Diane was "neurotic" and had been detained in a mental hospital, phoned the Chenery-Wickens house she was surprised to hear Diane answer, and revealed the affair. She told the court: "I couldn't believe an educated woman like her was with a man like that. I actually said to Diane, 'I'm having an affair with your husband' and I remember her saying, 'You're jealous'."On another occasion, confronted with news that her husband was having an affair with Sally Lyon, the landlady of her local pub, Diane told John Lyon, the woman's husband: "We're very happy, we're soulmates."Her mother, Joan Wickens, described Diane as "the loyal wife that went along with whatever [her husband] said". Asked by her sister if she worried about Chenery-Wickens's absences at Christmas dinner or holidays, Diane answered: "It's all about trust".During the trial, Chenery-Wickens told the jury that murder was against his spiritualist beliefs.He said: "The principle is that you don't take life, any human life or your own human life, and that you don't hurt people by words, actions or deeds. If I do, I know, as a spiritualist medium, what is waiting for me."They were principles which, according to the verdict, he betrayed entirely.