Brixton, the scene 24 hours earlier of violent rioting which the police blamed on "an unruly criminal element," had last night returned to a mood of uneasy calm.Saturday's rioting had followed the shooting by a police inspector of Mrs Cherry Groce in an early-morning police raid. Mr Richard Wells, the Metropolitan Police Deputy Commissioner, told a Scotland Yard press conference: "Following our tragic shooting of Mrs Groce yesterday, feelings began to run understandably high in Brixton, with marked hostility towards the police. These genuine feelings, particularly those of the relatives and friends of Mrs Groce, were taken up by others, who apparently knew sadly little of the true facts or background."Mild skirmishes had developed into a series of larger battles in Brixton Road and Acre Lane, where two cars were set on fire. Large crowds were dispersed by 50 or more police banging their truncheons on their riot shields but they reformed and further confrontations took place. The police then cordoned off all the roads leading to Brixton Road and cleared the area's main shopping thoroughfare.Several people were injured in the operation. A photographer said he had been bitten by a police dog and an 18-year-old youth was hit by a truncheon as he walked his girl friend home. The boy lay unconscious and bleeding for several minutes, a police sergeant chasing away those who tried to help. Police said that they had made 149 arrests during Saturday's rioting, many for violence, 20 for burglary and theft and two for petrol bombing.Major crimes discovered totalled 137, 58 of them burglaries, and 55 motor vehicles had been burnt or damaged in the rioting which erupted after petrol bombs had been thrown at Brixton police station on Saturday night.Forty-three civilians and 10 police officers were hurt, one seriously.Michael Groce, the 19-year-old police were looking for when they raided his mother's home in Normandy Road, Brixton, and shot her, gave himself up yesterday. Mr Groce was accompanied into Kennington police station by his mother's solicitor, Mr Paul Boateng, who is also chairman of the GLC's police committee.Scotland Yard said later that Mr Groce was being interviewed by officers who believe he could lead them to two men who carried out an armed robbery at a jeweller's shop at Royston, Hertfordshire, on September 10. He was later charged with illegal possession of a sawn-off shotgun at Waterloo on September 26.