The father of a seven-year-old girl killed when her quad bike hit a 4x4 car on an unlit rural road yesterday received a nine-month suspended jail sentence after admitting her manslaughter.Elizabeth Cooke and her older brother Jack were following their father's car on Boxing Day last year when she collided head on with a Range Rover. The children had been given the 100cc bikes for Christmas.Organic egg farmer Gary Cooke, 46, admitted killing Elizabeth during a hearing at Chelmsford crown court, in Essex. Stephen Harvey QC, prosecuting, said that it was the first time Elizabeth, known as Lizzie, had driven a quad bike on the road. The court heard that Cooke went to collect friends who lived less than a mile away from his farm near Blackmore, Essex. He allowed the children to ride their new quad bikes, with a top speed of 36mph, behind his Range Rover. Elizabeth was killed after an oncoming Range Rover drove past Cooke and hit Elizabeth on Fingrith Hall Lane, an unlit narrow road which is single track in places.Elizabeth was thrown on to the bonnet of the Range Rover driven by a 28-year-old woman and fell unconscious on the side of the road.Harvey said neither Range Rover was travelling quickly, but Elizabeth had not been able to control her quad bike."This tragic incident was a direct result of the defendant's gross negligence," said Harvey. It is illegal to ride a quad bike on the road under the age of 16.Annette Henry, defending, said Cooke held himself responsible for his daughter's death. "Clearly this is a tragic accident which has absolutely devastated the Cooke family and one for which Mr Cooke holds himself responsible," she said. "He clearly will never forgive himself for what has happened. He is already living a life sentence."Judge Christopher Ball QC said Cooke had been "grossly negligent" and "stupid"."I don't suppose I am alone in remembering the shock of hearing the news on the radio when this happened," said the judge. "I don't suppose I was alone in immediately thinking 'what sort of a fool would allow his child out in such circumstances?'."It was a moment of great folly and the consequences will remain with you for ever."The judge suspended the jail sentence for two years and banned Cooke from driving a quad bike on public roads for two years.Sergeant Dave Jones, of Essex police, said yesterday that Elizabeth's death had been an avoidable tragedy."I hope that anyone thinking about buying a quad bike, mini moto or motorised scooter this coming Christmas will think really hard about the potential consequences. These are not toys, they are machines that can be dangerous and need skill and experience to handle. "I sincerely wish that lessons are learnt and something like this doesn't happen again."