I made my first arrest last week. I was on an assessed patrol with a tutor and we got called to a shoplifting at the M&S in Cardiff. The shoplifter wasn't struggling. He was just an old man, to be fair, and I think he was drunk as well, so it was a nice easy one. But I've only been a special constable for five months, so it was quite exciting.As a special, you have the same powers as a normal officer. We also have all the same equipment as the regulars: CS spray, handcuffs, the new ASP extendible baton, radio and stab vest. It's all quite heavy and I'm quite small. The recruitment process is basically the same as for a normal officer. There's a written test, a fitness test, and then an interview, followed by two-and-a-half months of training, from 9am to 5pm each Saturday and Sunday. There were about eight of us, and we were taught the basics: self-defence, background on how to be a police officer, and first aid. Our intake was quite mixed, including an older woman who is a mother. You often find people close to retirement who want something interesting to do with their time and maybe they also want to give something back to the community. I've been interested in joining the police force for a while, but I wasn't sure whether it was the right job for me. At the moment, the South Wales police force is running a pilot scheme that allows specials to join the regulars after 18 months, without having to go through all the recruitment again. It's a good way to work out whether it's what you want to do, and the 18 months give you time to build up your confidence and competence. Monday to Friday, 9 to 5, I work for the Inland Revenue, so I tend to work in the evenings or at weekends for the specials. If I had to go to court or it was an emergency, though, missing work wouldn't be a problem.I'm based at Cathays police station, in Cardiff. The regulars usually work eight-hour shifts, so I'll do about four to five hours of a shift. We do a lot of work at the Millennium Stadium when there are football or rugby matches on. The evening shift is from 10pm to 6am, so I'll come home from work and go to the station for about 9.30pm. We'll be briefed about the kinds of calls coming in and then I'll be assigned a police officer for the shift. We get our call, sign for the radio, book out our CS spray and pick up our handcuffs and baton. Then we head off.We go out in the car to deal with the calls. If we're on a night patrol and we're not on a call, we'll go to the areas having problems with car crime and make sure everything is OK, and keep an eye on the cars. The first time you go out in your uniform it's quite daunting because you feel like everybody's looking at you. But the novelty has worn off for me now. You really do feel you're a part of the community and people trust you. It has made me confident as a person and made me realise there are a lot of people out there who require help. You feel you're doing a worthwhile job and it gives you a bit of a buzz.We still train for a couple of hours each week on the law. It is quite daunting because you feel you don't actually know very much, but you pick it up quite quickly. You always have the back-up of a regular colleague too. Some people assume that the regulars don't like the specials, but I've found they really appreciate us. We don't get paid: I think the regulars appreciate that.It becomes the norm after a while. A few weeks ago I was involved in interviewing a suspect who had stabbed somebody. It's nice to find out the back story to events you'd normally only read about in the newspaper. · Claire Burge, 23, is a special constable in Cardiff