Watching life on the wing in HMP Mandrake, the fictional setting for Buried, Channel 4's new prison drama, will be an enlightening experience for people who have never spent time inside. The title alone took me back to the closed system as soon as I heard it. Back to the landings, the people, the smell, the fear. Existing in those institutions for years on end often felt like being buried alive.The last prison I was in that resembled HMP Mandrake had a reputation as one of the better places to serve your time if you were doing a "big lump" (a long sentence). Most of the prisoners were serving sentences of between four and 20 years and around a third were doing life. The jail was popular because time spent "out of cell" was maximised, often as much as 12 hours a day, in work, education, or "association" (watching television, playing darts, table tennis or pool). But there was a downside to all the freedom. To maintain control in such a liberal regime the prison employed a tactic known officially as "dynamic security". This meant that staff-prisoner relations were encouraged, to open up as many channels of information as possible. The authorities hoped it would give them an overview of who was doing what. Nobody could argue that it did not provide for a better quality of life than a regime which favoured plenty of "bang-up." But it is impossible to get through each day unscathed in such a place. Distrust and resentment constantly simmered amongst the prisoners. Anyone who spent more than a couple of minutes in the wing office was a grass. A prisoner who was polite to a prison officer was a brown nose. Feuding and plotting was rife. Paranoia was widespread, fuelled by alcohol and drugs. The alcohol was mostly "hooch", made from orange juice mixed with sugar and mashed fruit, and fermented with yeast stolen from the prison kitchen. It was the perfect environment for the most negative aspects of prison culture to thrive unchecked. Looking back from my situation now in open conditions it's like looking at another world, a world of human reduction and destruction that has never been acknowledged in the accepted crime and punishment equation. Channel 4 says that Buried "offers a truthful insight into prison life". It is an ambitious claim. Life inside is such a peculiar existence, especially closed prison life. Rather like war, it is difficult to understand unless you've been through it. And most people will never experience it. I wondered how the makers, World Productions, had managed to acquire this secret knowledge. The drama follows the fortunes of a new prisoner, Lee Kingley, serving eight years for shooting and grievously wounding a man who raped his sister. In the outside world Kingley was a hard-working family man. But inside he is a lost soul, naïve and trusting at first. The only thing he has going for him - though he is reluctant to capitalise on it - is that his brother Troy, a disturbed individual serving life, is one of the most feared prisoners in the system. This ensures Kingley a measure of respect from his fellow prisoners for a while. But eventually, just like everybody else, he has to learn the hard way how to fend for himself. Inevitably he is sucked into the mire and it isn't too long before his basic instincts go into overdrive and he is searching out the top spot in the jailbirds' pecking order. But "king rat of the shit heap" is a dangerous position to hold. The prison world has been waiting a long time for a realistic portrayal of prison life on television. Films such as The Shawshank Redemption and more recently Lucky Break have served the cause of prison drama well. But TV, certainly in this country, has so far failed to deliver anything that anyone connected to the prison system would recognise as authentic, apart, of course, from Porridge, which still encapsulates so many truths about life in prison. The constant tussles of Fletcher and his chums with prison officers represent the eternal struggle of the underdog against authority figures everywhere. But the minor victories, like the one featured in a recently repeated episode where Fletcher manages to liberate half a dozen rolls of the Governor's own soft toilet tissue leaving him to "rough it" with the less salubrious material meant for the cons, appear so much sweeter when they are gained at the expense of the man who holds the key to another's freedom. Though real prison humour is as black as midnight, it is what helps people get through an otherwise unbearable existence. My only reservation about Buried is that there is a dearth of optimism, not much hope and very little to smile about. Without these treasures on the genuine wings and landings few people would ever reach the end of a prison sentence. Despite this deficit it is clearly well researched. Director Kenny Glenaan's experience with drama workshops in Scotland's infamous Barlinnie prison must have proved invaluable. The series stars Lennie James as Kingley - one of the most challenging parts of James's career so far I would guess. The other key character is Nick Vaughan, the ubiquitous prison psychologist, played by Stephen Walters. Vaughan is determined to involve himself in the prisoners' lives to the point that he appears to want to be inside HMP Mandrake as much as the prisoners do not, a desire which Freud might have blamed on Vaughan's own brush with the law when he was in his teens. It's his guilty secret, but as he learns, there are few secrets that can be kept for long in a prison. Jane Hazlegrove is wonderfully believable as Mandrake's only female prison officer, "DD", as is Dean Andrews as Barry Shiels, the established "daddy" of the jail when Kingley first lands on the wing. But the towering presence in HMP Mandrake is Principal Officer Steddon, an oak of a man, who can be as devious as any of his charges when it comes to keeping the lid on his bubbling den of iniquity. Steddon, played to perfection by Conor McIntyre, will be instantly recognisable to blushing POs in jails all around the country. The set is based on the inside of the notorious Woodhill high security prison in Milton Keynes, faithful down to the graffiti in the phone-booth. Producer Kath Mattock, who also produced The Cops, says that during their research she and the writers had been allowed onto the landings of Wormwood Scrubs in London and into Grendon, a prison near Aylesbury, Bucks, which runs a unique therapy-based regime and claims one of the lowest reoffending rates for former prisoners. "In Wormwood Scrubs the prison officers were very helpful," she explains. "They told us that we could go anywhere we liked and speak to any of the prisoners who were prepared to speak to us. Grendon was an interesting place, geared to helping people take responsibility for their actions." And what about insights? "In either prison it was difficult to really get under the skin of prison life from the prisoners' point of view. It was much easier to grasp the culture of the prison officers. When we were researching for The Cops we could go out on patrol with the police. For obvious reasons this was impossible with the prisoners. But I think we picked up as strong a flavour as possible about what constitutes life on a prison landing." Writer Jimmy Gardner says: "We wanted to show that most people who go to prison are ordinary people caught up in extraordinary situations. And that basically any of us could end up in there given the wrong set of circumstances." But he is adamant that the idea was not to produce a polemic. "This is drama," he says, "it is meant to entertain. But we hope that we have created something that is honest. If it makes people think a little more deeply about the purpose of prison in our society, then that will be no bad thing." I asked several pals to watch a tape of the first two episodes with me: the Celtic Poet, the Tank and Reece, an Australian master carpenter who spent four years of his five year sentence fighting to stay alive in one of the "heaviest" category B jails in this country. When it ended nobody moved. The four of us sat in silence for a minute. When I got up to change the video I turned around and could see through the dim light that Reece's eyes were glistening. I asked him if he was okay. "Fucking hell man," he said, "nobody should have to live like that." By the end of the second episode my eyes too had welled. Again nobody moved. We were watching people that we knew, seeing ourselves, remembering places, days, events. "Phenomenal," said the Poet. "They've got it right anyway," said the Tank. People on the outside have many misconceptions about prison life. One that Lee Kingley probably shared with many before he went in is that prisons have rules and prison officers to keep order. This is true, of course, but it is far from the whole story. Prisons belong to prison officers - this is indisputable. But no matter how long they spend in the service and no matter how well intentioned they consider themselves, unless they end up getting found out for a serious crime, prison officers will only ever have minimal insight into the life experienced by those in their custody. They administer the rules - the formal prison rules that is - but as Kingley discovers, on the landings, prisoner to prisoner, there are no rules. The modern closed prison structure - the prison officer hierarchy, buildings, fabric and regime - has developed into a firmly established hostile entity which has the effect of systematically undermining any sense of a shared humanity. That is not to say that prisoners themselves cease to feel or believe themselves to be human. But the feeling that the system whose mercy they are at resents them - despises them in fact - creates a psychological detachment. This feeling of detachment is reinforced by the press depiction of prisoners almost as a different species of creature to the "law abiding majority". Prisoners see other prisoners as the primary source of potential harm. Hence the paranoia and the high level of social imbalance evidenced amongst many prisoners serving the longest sentences in the highest security prisons. World Productions should be commended for taking the time and making the effort to lift this veil of mystery. Make-believe and fantasy about the subject has been peddled by programme-makers for too long. Unwittingly the team behind Buried have performed a great public service. It should be watched by anyone who wants to know about the darker side of serving time in a closed prison (without committing a serious crime) and be entertained. · Buried, Tuesday, 10.30pm, Channel 4