Not all men are rapists or sexual predators. But with sexual violence affecting one in three women, the chances are that every man will know victims of sex attacks – even though they may not know it. Many victims feel so dehumanised by their experiences they are unable to tell even their closest friends or family.Crimes of sexual violence are at epidemic levels – partly because it is a crime that is so easy to get away with. The police and health agencies have dramatically improved the way victims of sexual violence are treated; but it is still increasingly difficult to obtain the proof necessary to bring charges – let alone secure a conviction. So every tool in the fight against this heinous crime must be made available to the police.One such tool is the national DNA database, which has proved invaluable in identifying those responsible for some of the vilest crimes imaginable. In 2001 the law changed to allow the database to retain records of people who, having been arrested merely on suspicion of committing an offence, had subsequently either not been charged or had been acquitted. Those opposed to the DNA database argue that these records, together with the records of those convicted of non-sexual or non-violent crimes, should be removed from the system. It sounds a reasonable argument. Until you consider that there are rapists and murderers in prison today who have been convicted specifically because they were on the database.According to the Home Office, by the end of 2005, the database contained about 200,000 samples that would otherwise have been destroyed before the law was changed. Some 8,000 of these samples matched with DNA taken from crime scenes, involving nearly 14,000 offences, including murders and rapes.It may not be an outcome David Davis wants, but the reality is that if the database operated only in the way he wants, these rapists and murderers would not be in prison but on the streets, free to strike again and destroy the lives of more victims.But Davis is right about the unfairness of the current system. You're either a convicted criminal or you're not. The current system creates a third group of people who, quite rightly, feel aggrieved that they are being treated with permanent suspicion. The way to right that wrong isn't to remove them from the database, but to ensure that everybody else is included. The national DNA database has been attacked as an abuse of our liberty. If it were expanded to include everybody in the country the only "liberty" at risk would be the liberty of those responsible for countless unsolved rapes and murders, who could find themselves behind bars.