A manhunt is under way for a convicted double killer who failed to return after day release from an open jail and is a suspect in the killing a "good Samaritan" in a Hertfordshire village.Graham Buck was stabbed to death after coming to the aide of his neighbour Francis Cory-Wright, 86, who is a convicted paedophile.The man police are hunting in connection with the attack, Ian McLoughlin, is believed to have met Cory-Wright in prison and to have hunted him down to rob him. McLoughlin, 55, has a manslaughter conviction and was in the 22nd year of a 25-year sentence for the murder of Peter Halls in Brighton.He was due back at Springhill prison on Saturday evening after being allowed out on day release. Police warned the public not to approach McLoughlin and described him as highly dangerous.The attack happened in the village of Little Gaddesden, near Berkhamsted. Police said Buck, 66, was in his front garden on Saturday afternoon when he heard shouting from the home of Cory-Wright, two doors away. Cory-Wright, a former Lloyds underwriter, survived the attack and is believed to be in a safe location. In 2011 he was jailed for 30 months for the indecent assault of a 10-year-old boy.Buck had three children and two grandchildren. Detective Chief Inspector Jeff Hill, of Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire major crime unit, praised his selflessness: "Mr Buck's actions were totally selfless and illustrate a deep sense of community spirit which deserves recognition and respect."Police issued CCTV pictures of McCloughlin who may have large amounts of £20 and £50 notes on him after a robbery.Hill said McLoughlin may have left Hertfordshire. "The hunt has gone nationwide with ports authorities, police forces, airports across the country all being notified and put on alert." Police urged guest house owners, hoteliers and people working in transport and pubs to be vigilant and said McLoughlin was known to drink heavily.Detective Chief Inspector Martin Brunning said: "The picture emerging is that Mr Buck, who lives two doors away from Mr Cory-Wright, became aware of shouting from the premises, as we believe by Mr Cory-Wright, and went to his assistance based on what he heard from his front garden."In a statement, Buck's family said: "He was a man who would help anyone in need, with a strong sense of doing the right thing. We have no words to express how much Graham will be missed. We were all in such a happy place as a family. We were all so settled, with growing numbers of grandchildren whom he adored being around."The Prison Service said day release prepared inmates for eventual release. "It helps to reduce the chance of re-offending by setting up appropriate employment and rehabilitation work in the community, and maintaining family contact. This is essential for successful resettlement."