Shoplifters are stealing tens of thousands of pounds worth of goods from charity shops every day, taking advantage of the increase in trade due to the credit crunch to steal clothes, DVDs and books.David Moir, of the Association of Charity Shops, which speaks for 270 charities including Oxfam, the British Heart Foundation and Cancer Research, said that charity shops were now seen as an easy target."The credit crunch has made shops busier but also a bigger target for shoplifters. It's an inevitable consequence of the recession. The fact that many shops are staffed by volunteers – some of whom are elderly and many of whom are women – does make them appear to be easy targets for the opportunist thief, whether schoolchildren or the more professional shoplifter," he said."They don't have sophisticated security measures like other stores can afford. The economic situation means the demands on charity shops to raise money to help people has increased and this [extra security] needs to be financed."In a scene repeated up and down the country, the Dewsbury branch of the British Heart Foundation in Yorkshire is one of the charity outlets that has been targeted. Diane Crotty, the shop's manager, said: "Thefts are a big problem at the minute. We are definitely getting hit hard. People are coming in and stealing videos, music, DVDs and clothes, which is having a big effect on the shop takings. We have a lot more customers coming in now because of the credit crunch. People are looking to save and get a bargain."It's very disappointing that thieves are hitting somewhere where people are trying to save lives. It's a real shame that people are going for charity shops like ours, as we are raising money for a good cause."Crotty said she had been forced to look for more volunteers to work in the shop, in a bid to deter thieves. "The way we can fight back is if someone who has lost their job becomes a volunteer in the store for a couple of hours. An extra pair of eyes on the shopfloor will really cut down the thefts."In Cannock, Staffordshire, ExtraCare, a charity that provides the elderly with retirement villages, has also been targeted by thieves. It is appealing for someone to donate a CCTV camera.Kim Harpe, from ExtraCare, said: "Thefts have really gone through the roof over the past couple of months – because of the credit crunch we are busier, and the shop is always quite full. But the thieves are using this as a cover, and are stealing things from right under our noses. Earlier this week, we had someone steal a pair of shoes from out of the front window. We only put them there to stop the thieves from getting at them. But they still got them. They are blatant and don't seem to care."If anyone could provide a CCTV camera for the shop it would be a great help. We need to do something about these thieves, because they are stealing from needy and vulnerable people. We need somebody to help us because we seem to be getting robbed every day we open."Ken Blair, chairman of British Heart Foundation Shops, estimated that its charity outlets could be losing up to £2.5m a year due to dishonesty.He said: "We have a big increase in the number of thefts. Unfortunately when times are hard you see an increase in this type of activity. A hundred pounds per week per shop is a fair estimate, but it may be more."Charity shops are busier than ever at the moment, as you would expect. But the money we are losing could fund some serious research for the charity. The thieves are robbing people with heart conditions of a better quality of life. We benefit communities but are more vulnerable to thieves because we don't invest as much in security."