The handover followed a familiar thriller storyline. The tormented couple were told they would get their loved one back if they turned up with a wad of cash, and no police watchers.At the last moment the location was changed by the jumpy suspected kidnappers, in this case from a truckstop next to a cafe called Greasy Joe's, to a supermarket car park, presumably to throw the authorities of the scent.Even the weather was right - it was a dark, rainy night when David and Mareth Curnock turned up to try and get back their precious youngster.Mr Curnock, a retired carpet retailer, said: "We were really frightened. We didn't know if they would just steal the money and run. We locked the doors and refused to get out until we saw Buddy."But as soon as Mrs Curnock glimpsed Buddy, a placid, handsome, 18-month-old lurcher, she jumped out of the car, called out to the dog, and he bounded into her arms. The money was handed over and the couple took their beloved hound back home.A happy ending, but the Curnocks were yesterday at loggerheads with the police for paying what amounted to a £750 ransom for the safe return of Buddy, who is recovering from his ordeal, with the help of extra big meals, at home near Bath.A spokesman for Avon and Somerset police said handing over ransoms encouraged the criminals to move on to the next target. If crooks asked for ransoms, the police should be contacted at once.But the Curnocks insisted paying the ransom was the only way to get Buddy back where he belonged - on the sofa lolling beside their other dog, Holly.The Curnocks' ordeal may sound frivolous to non-dog-lovers, but Mr Curnock, 66, said losing Buddy was like losing a child. "It's like a member of the family went. We've had him since he was a puppy." His wife, a 63-year-old retired hairdresser, added: "I couldn't think of anything else when he was missing. I was wondering if he was being treated well. I had to go to the doctors, I was so down."The problem of dognapping is growing. Jayne Hayes, founder of the website doglost.co.uk, claimed 100 dogs a week were being taken. Many are worked hard by the thieves - the man who handed Buddy back said the hound had caught enough rabbits to keep three families fed - until a reward is offered, at which point they are returned, often for much more than stipulated by their owners.Buddy went missing after he was tied up outside the Curnocks' local shop at Saltford, in September. Two men grabbed him and bundled him into an estate car. Since then the Curnocks have covered 3,000 miles following up leads, but after they offered a reward of £750 the call came through on Sunday night.Mr Curnock said: "This guy said, 'I believe I've got your dog.'" They arranged to meet next to Greasy Joe's in Cirencester, Gloucestershire, an hour from the Curnocks' home. "He said, 'You will come alone, won't you?'"We didn't tell the police because we just wanted our baby back," he added.Buddy lost 5kg (10lb) and has some cuts on his paws.But despite all the rabbit-chasing he is still the same placid animal.But the police are not impressed. A spokesman said: "While we can understand an owner's number one priority is the safe return of their pet, if the ransom is paid then the offenders will simply move on to their next victim. It makes catching the thieves far more difficult for us."