You must admire solicitors acting for the Itsu chain of sushi restaurants. They moved with Ming Campbell-esque speed to remind newspapers that the poisoning of the former KGB agent Aleksander Litvinenko did not occur "as a result of the food sold, its preparation at the (Itsu branch in Piccadilly) or that Itsu (or its staff) was involved."Got that, everyone? No food-poisoning at Itsu, no sir. There is therefore no question whatsoever - do you hear me? - that Russian agents, who may (not) have slipped something nasty into his lunch, did so because they thought a poisoning case would go unnoticed at Itsu.But was it wise to tick the "no publicity" box? Chances like this don't come along often. Plots are good for business. Did rents collapse at the Watergate building in Washington after the 1972 burglary? No. And what about the Au Pied de Cochon along M St in Georgetown? Not a great eatery, if I recall, but having Soviet defector Vitaly Yurchenko re-defect through the loo window during a meal did the place no harm. They put up a "Yurchenko's Last Supper" plaque. It is true that Granita in Islington has closed down since Tony and Gordon did that deal over dinner. It's now a Tex-Mex, possibly a tribute to the Blair-Bush pardnership. But the old Soho favourite L'Etoile got a boost last month when it was revealed as the venue for a private arts-grub-fest hosted by David Cameron. Cliveden, where the late John Profumo met Christine Keeler is as posh as ever, a hotel nowadays.Years ago, Labour got up to shenanigans (political, not sexual) in a hotel too: the St Ermins in Westminster, close enough to the Commons and party HQ in Smith Square for a spot of plotting. It's still there. So is the lefties' Soho haunt, the Gay Hussar, a Hungarian restaurant patronised by Nye Bevan and a host of acolytes, including young Mike Foot, who eats there still. Their books and cartoons are on display, bewildering all by knowing tourists. New Labour has no time to plot over lunch and is too puritanical for long ones. It summons Pret a Manger.