Like most boys his age, 11-year-old Bugsy enjoys sport, and sometimes thinks about what life will be like when he is older. He wants to be a boxer or a footballer, and sees himself having a lot of kids. But, unlike most boys his age, Bugsy is the son of a gangster and is having to navigate his way through life exposed to extreme violence and a criminal underworld.Listening to Bugsy can be chilling. Gangsters are people who "go around killing, but not for no reason," he explains, matter of factly. He says he would go to jail for his family if necessary. Bugsy's cousin Sean, a 15-year-old wannabe X-Factor contestant, also has a peculiar take on life. "Every gangster family has a singer," he says. "I sing at weddings, funerals and acquittals. Mainly acquittals." And 19-year-old Erin boasts that he has bashed people's heads in and "would chop you in half" to protect his hard-man reputation.Bugsy, Sean and Erin are featured in the latest instalment of investigative reporter Donal MacIntyre's documentary series on the lives of the north Manchester gang family, the Noonans. The programme, to be broadcast on Monday, follows on from an initial documentary that charted the criminal activities of the head of the family, Dominic Noonan (Bugsy's father), and his gaggle of teenage tearaways.Behind the facade of a security business, the gang has a reputation - which it boasts about on camera - for an array of criminal and violent behaviour. Last year, Desi Noonan, Dominic's elder brother, was murdered on a Manchester street.MacIntyre's new documentary steers the spotlight on to the "next generation" of Noonans and local aspiring teenage gangsters. Employing what has become a trademark MacIntyre style of using a pop music soundtrack and lingering shots of rundown terraced streets, the programme is put together in a way that encourages viewers to wonder how such children can possibly escape the legacy of violence and criminality they have inherited.But, even with the best intentions, such programmes can often face fierce criticism - frequently from within the communities they feature. They run the risk of being regarded as patronising, car-crash TV.MacIntyre's critics, both within communities and beyond, argue that his documentaries paint a bleaker-than-reality picture of life. People are portrayed as doomed victims of circumstance, steeped in a cycle of criminality, with neither money nor prospects. Some critics believe MacIntyre is too cosy with the criminals he observes and that, by providing a platform for them to brag about their crimes, he is glamorising violence.For the critics who live and work in the communities, these programmes can feel like nothing more than a spectacle produced for the voyeuristic delectation of smug middle-class families. "It leaves a nasty taste in your mouth," says community worker Angela Smith. "It makes it look to outsiders like our communities are just full of gangsters. Yes, some kids do have guns. Yes, local people are often afraid. But I just think there's not a lot of [the wider] truth in Donal's programmes."Smith is convinced that MacIntyre glamorises gangster life, that he is too sympathetic to his subjects, and that they in turn "play up" to the cameras. And she has another beef. "He seems to take what the kids say at face value," she says. "You don't have to walk very far to find a kid who will boast about being bad. Just because they say it, doesn't make it true."It is the depiction of children in MacIntyre's work that has concerned Hilton Dawson, former social worker and Labour MP, and current chief executive of Shaftesbury Homes. After Society Guardian printed transcripts of some of MacIntyre's interviews with what he described as "feral" youth, Dawson lambasted the reporter for demonising young people, and accused him of exaggeration."The idea of a 'lost generation' is fatuous," Dawson says. "MacIntyre might reflect that the use of language such as 'feral kids' is utterly demeaning of young people." He would like to see something that "recognises that these are needy children, not the fearless gangsters MacIntyre paints. We need to address the root causes of their behaviour, not label them."MacIntyre, a man accustomed to controversy and criticism, defends his approach, saying: "We are holding up a mirror, not analysing. What we are trying to do is reflect this world."He denies charges of being too cosy with the gangsters or of hyping their circumstances. He acknowledges that he tries to make his documentaries "as dramatic as possible", but insists that making something "beautiful to watch" is not diminishing credibility, and that he is offering an insight into a world that would otherwise go undocumented.MacIntyre says his critics should talk to him directly if they have a problem. But will they find his latest documentary any closer to reality as they perceive it?They may be surprised. Bugsy and Sean do say some things that are disturbing, but they come across as more forlorn than feral. They may not live in model nuclear families or have conventional middle-class ambitions, but they hope to do more than end up in jail.· MacIntyre's Underworld goes out on Monday at 11pm on Five.