Former cabinet minister Chris Huhne has attacked "the Murdoch press" and its role in the speed points swap scandal which had "monstrous" consequences for himself, his ex-wife and their family.Writing in the Guardian, the former Liberal Democrat MP claims that the Sunday Times, which broke the story, "groomed" his ex-wife Vicky Pryce to divulge details of how she had taken three penalty points for him a decade ago when he was an MEP.When both Pryce, 60, a one time senior government economist, and Huhne, 58, were jailed in March for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, she was just another "burned contact", he writes.The former energy and climate change secretary argues politicians must "combat concentrations of power", including of the sort possessed by Rupert Murdoch, who "has used his media muscle to bulldoze a way for his business interests".Each government made Murdoch more powerful, he says, as he calls for a more diverse media ownership.Huhne believes he may have been targeted by Murdoch's newspapers because he called for the Metropolitan police to reopen the voicemail hacking inquiry. He claims that at around the same time the now defunct News of the World, suspecting he was having an affair, had him tailed. Huhne's marriage collapsed when the Sunday tabloid exposed his relationship with 46-year-old PR adviser Carina Trimingham. He left Pryce for Trimingham in 2010. His career was destroyed when, in 2011, Pryce told the Sunday Times that eight years earlier she had taken three speeding points for her then husband. Huhne had been caught by a speed camera on the M11 in Essex and faced a driving ban due to the number of existing points on his driving licence.Huhne, who last month was hired as European chairman of the US energy firm Zillha Biomass Energy (ZBE)  says that the point swap seemed like a "minor matter" at the time. Acknowledging he should not have done it, he admitted his actions had not helped the low regard in which the public hold politicians.He argues that modern-day parliamentarians are no more "venal or self-serving" than those outside politics, but says they are now subjected to "24-hour media scrutiny" that is far more intrusive than in the past, and is having a corrosive effect on how the public views politics. He claims there is a "new aggression" in the tabloid press, partly due to falling sales.Huhne had maintained his innocence right up to the first day of the joint trial, when he changed his plea to guilty and stepped down from his seat in Eastleigh, Hampshire.Pryce pleaded not guilty, citing the rare defence of marital coercion, but was convicted following a retrial when the first jury failed to reach a verdict. Sentencing the couple in March, judge Mr Justice Sweeney said "any element of tragedy is entirely your own fault". Sweeney said Pryce was motivated by "an implacable desire for revenge" on her former husband, whose reputation she had set about ruining whilst trying to protect her own. In her dealings with the media, she had demonstrated "a controlling, manipulative and devious side" said the judge. She has since written a book, Prisonomics, based on her time in jail.To Huhne, Sweeney said: "Despite your high office you tried to lie your way out of trouble by claiming you were innocent, by repeating that lie again and again during your extensive interviews by the police … you have fallen from a great height, albeit that that is only modest mitigation given that it is a height that you would never have achieved if you had not hidden your commission of such a serious offence in the first place."