Eleven o'clock on a Friday morning, and a knot of neighbours stands round another smashed car window. What shall we do? We could call our local anti-social behaviour co-ordinator and demand that an interim Asbo be served. We could try the anti-social behaviour hotline.Or we could sidestep the Asbo industry, ring Autoglass and remember the £6 rule. That is the going rate for a fix of crack and thus a vital unit of local currency. According to the police, prostitutes charge £6, which sounds tragically low. Our visiting anti-social behaviourist - most probably a sad kid on a bike - will break into cars for anything that will raise £6 to spend at the crack house which the Prime Minister should be closing any moment now.Eradicating such establishments is part of the anti-yob drive announced last week. So is better drug treatment. But these worthy, difficult aims seemed secondary to an explosion of Asbos and other eye-catching schemes, some administered by amateur law-enforcers. Parish council wardens, the Bow Street Runners of their age, will soon be able to issue £100 on-the-spot fines for dog-fouling, littering and graffiti.If such problems are secondary on the streets of Falluja, they are not necessarily a big deal in Frinton either. The British Crime Survey shows that people are much more worried about speeding cars and illegal parking than rubbish or vandalism. Only 9 per cent worry about noisy neighbours. Obviously squalor and low-level disorder are a problem, but they require a sense of proportion.Half of the 2,633 Asbos handed out last year went to under-18s, of whom a third broke the conditions and so faced prison. The move to increase pilot areas from 10 to 60 will inevitably send more young people to jail. Given that 85 per cent reoffend when they are let out, this seems an odd way of delivering Nirvana Avenue to badland Britain. Asbology is the least precise of sciences. No one, Mr Blair included, has a clue whether the orders work. No research exists, and no evidence underpins the vast expansion of the anti-social behaviour programme. If medicine was tested like this, the NHS would be still be treating flu with leeches. There are plenty of indicators, though, that Asbos might often do more harm than good. The Chief Constable of South Wales warns they should only be used as a very last report. Nacro and Rethinking Crime and Punishment caution against making children pariahs, and everyone knows converting troublemakers into criminals is a one-way street. Despite talk of tackling drugs, the suspicion is that the Government is abandoning welfare for retribution and the politics of fear. Something bigger than low-level yobbery is going on. Called pre-election hype, it is centred on communities and crime. Anti-social behaviour is the ideal focus, because it is both vague and fixable. The Government can be certain of a result, not because its methods are good, but because crime is falling anyway, for reasons ranging from better locks to shrewder policing. Figures out this month showed reported burglaries down 23 per cent and robbery and gun killings cut by 15 per cent. David Blunkett says public silence at this success is 'a subject of perpetual woe' but, if people are constantly told they are at risk, they are obviously less likely to notice feeling safer. This gives the Government a dilemma. It cannot promise all-out war on miscreants while simultaneously acknowledging modest progress towards peace. Mr Blunkett concedes he is walking 'a tightrope'. To maintain balance - and logic - he calls fear of anti-social behaviour the 'white noise' that stops voters noticing that no one has recently mugged their granny. That might be convincing, but for the Crime Survey's finding that fear of anti-social behaviour is dropping. The Government seems determined to batter such complacency. Apart from the Asbo epidemic, Mr Blair has announced, to general uproar, that more juries in child abuse and theft cases will hear of previous convictions. Leading judges privately blame 'Home Office spin' for resurrecting a battle the judiciary fought and lost last year. Mr Blair is only recycling, as part of his pre-election strategy, a measure that, however undesirable, is already on the statute book. Swagger and anxiety are contagious. In the wake of the stabbing of Robert Symons, a London teacher, the Tories have joined a call for the law to be 'rebalanced' so that householders can protect themselves against criminals. This recalibration, a shorthand for allowing armed vigilantes to maim or kill, appeals to few victims. The elderly and the frightened, who have neither the wish nor the toys to play Terminator, want burglars never to arrive or, failing that, to be caught quickly, tried efficiently and persuaded not to reoffend. But better detection and drug treatment for the majority of burglars who steal to feed a habit are less newsworthy than rifle-packing pensioners, such as Kenneth Faulkner. According to a neighbour, Mr Faulkner was a peaceful man who had guns merely to keep rabbits and deer off his vegetables until he shot a burglar in the knee. Far from facing charges, or an Asbo, he was commended for acting 'sensibly' by Judge Andrew Hamilton. It will be interesting to see how Hamilton reacts if confronted with cases involving dead have-a-go householders or petty thieves with bullets in the brain. Labour's hysteria over crime and disorder is a come-on to campaigners who argue that prison works and firearms work better. Look at gun-slinging America, where you can sleep with your windows open and the keys in the Hummer, and where murders are up three per cent to 16,503 a year. The Home Office, sensibly, rejects calls for a new law on self-defence. The trouble is that Mr Blunkett cannot simultaneously be the voice of reason and of doom. Either Britain is a hellish country redeemable only by the Asbo and the gun or, more plausibly, it is a relatively safe place marred by some dangerous people and grim areas. Since each Asbo costs £5000 to administer, and jailing a child for a year is £50,000, curtailing both would pay for more dedicated workers and youth centres to deal with unruly teenagers and so help those whose lives they mar. In addition, the middle classes should stop pretending, patronisingly, that they are only worried about the poor. In roads like mine, people treat a smashed window as evidence of Armageddon, even though everyone feels more secure than they once did. Conversely, there is often little enthusiasm on sink estates for coercive measures, partly because people do not want to see their relatives or friends ostracised or in jail. David Blunkett knows all about such neighbourhoods, and he wants, quite genuinely, to 'empower' them. That makes it all the more odd that he does not grasp the impossibility of rebuilding communities by wrenching them apart. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk