The Tory leader, William Hague, clashed with the Lord Chief Justice today after Britain's top judge called for politicians to resist the temptation to call for ever greater use of imprisonment.Lord Woolf argued that many people in prison did not need to be there, and were simply adding to overcrowding, which undermined efforts to rehabilitate more serious offenders. He stressed that serious criminals had to be incarcerated. "If a person has committed a serious crime, I am strongly in favour of the person receiving serious punishment," said Lord Woolf, who added that the objective of the penal system should then be to make the offender less likely to reoffend on his eventual release."He added: "Overcrowding of prisons is a cancer which undermines the work of the prisons and the problem is we have people there because of the system who should not be there, who contribute to overcrowding. "What we have to do is to achieve a situation where our punishments in the community are ones which the public find more acceptable than they do at the moment, because many things can be done so far as offenders are concerned without sending them to prison which actually provide better safeguards for the public than what we are doing at the moment. "Politicians ... see prison as something which the public feels is an important safeguard and so they will be in favour in the rhetoric that they use of more and more prison, but that actually is not necessarily in the interests of the public," Lord Woolf told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. But Tory leader William Hague took issue with Lord Woolf. He said: "I think that it may be necessary to have more people in prison, in order to deal with the law and order situation in this country," he said. "I don't think it is being dealt with at the moment. Crime is rising, the number of police is falling and everybody around the country knows that it is an increasing problem and it must be dealt with."Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, accused Lord Woolf of "joining the liberal brigade" and said weak sentences were partly to blame for high crime rates. He said: "The reason there are many criminals in prison is that judges give out weak sentences that do not act as a deterrent." "Those who are guilty of serious offences are the types that society rightly needs protection from. The Lord Chief Justice appears to have joined the liberal brigade. However, the Prison Reform Trust welcomed Lord Woolf's calls for fewer offenders to be jailed and said the public should be more "confident in community penalties". Director Juliet Lyon said: "A crowded prison cannot be either effective, just or humane. We believe that the Lord Chief Justice is right to call for increased public confidence in the use of community penalties. Prison must be kept as an absolute last resort.Home Office minister Mike O'Brien said Tory tax-and-spending policies would mean reductions in spending on law and order. "It is simply impossible to lock up more people at the same time as cutting spending on law and order as the Tories have pledged to do. "Tory policies simply do not add up. Under the Tories crime doubled and more criminals got away with it. With Labour crime has fallen 10% and for the first time in years police numbers are rising." And Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes also challenged Mr Hague's views. "Given that half of all people released from prison reoffend within two years, the argument that prison is an effective deterrent is clearly flawed," he said. "What we need is more effective use of time in prison for those who need a custodial sentence, much more effective help and support on release, and more effective alternatives which make the offender directly accountable to the community and victims, against whom their crime was committed."Harry Fletcher, of the National Association of Probation Officers, predicted that in the run-up to the general election politicians would vie with one another to appear tough on crime. But he questioned the effectiveness of tough-sounding measures, such as the three-strikes-and-you're-out penalty for burglars, after it emerged that judges had failed to use the power to jail third-time burglars for three years against any offender in its first year. Related special reportSpecial report: Tories in oppositionRelated articles27 December: courts fight shy of 'three strikes'26 December: Woolf says judges must promote confidence26 December: Tories attack government over policing levelsUseful linksHome Office crime reductionHome Office crime surveyConservative party official site