The family of a woman who was stabbed to death by a highly dangerous criminal out on probation has called for senior officials to resign as they prepared to read a report into the circumstances leading to her death.The report, commissioned by the chief inspector of probation, into the murder of 40-year-old Naomi Bryant, will be published on Thursday and is expected to reveal a catalogue of errors involving the police, probation services and the people running a hostel where her killer, Anthony Rice, was living.Michael McGovern, Bryant's former partner and father of their daughter, Hannah, spoke for the first time about the turmoil the family has been through in the last few months, as it became clear that Rice was supposed to have been supervised while on probation and should never have been let out of the hostel alone.The crisis in probation will be one of the first serious tests of the new Home Secretary, John Reid, who was appointed in last Friday's reshuffle.McGovern said he was glad that Charles Clarke had been sacked from the job. 'But if Tony Blair thinks that's an end to the problems, then he is wrong,' said McGovern, speaking from his home in Winchester, Hants.'Naomi died because an awful lot of people were not watching Anthony Rice closely enough. He was classified as a low risk, when he should have been seen as a high risk. He had only been released months before, after serving a 16-year jail sentence for terrible crimes including rape. What on earth could lead people to think that he was ever going to be safe on the streets?'On August 17 last year, McGovern took his daughter to her mother's house only to discover a terrible scene of carnage.'We walked in and Hannah said "Dad, I can smell gas," and that was because the oven had been left on. All the lights were off but when we turned them on, I could see two drops of blood on the stairs. I went into the sitting room and there was blood smeared all over the sofa.'As they went upstairs, Hannah and her father found blood across the landing.'I realised that something was terribly wrong but hoped it was just an accident,' said McGovern, trembling as he spoke. 'I looked into the bedroom and there was a vast amount of blood and gore but no body. Then Hannah said to me, "Look behind the bed, dad," and that was where I found her body. The bastard had stripped her naked and stabbed her ferociously 15 times. 'Luckily, Hannah didn't see the body. I managed to shield her from it but it was just too terrible for words. The police took us to a safe house and had to do DNA tests and everything and then we finally got to my house at 4.30am. We just sat there and cried for what seemed like hours.'In the court case last year, Rice pleaded guilty and was sentenced to a minimum of 25 years, which would make him 73 before he could be released again.Details of Rice's past, which came out during the court case, horrified McGovern and the family. 'It turned out that he had already received a 16-year sentence for attempted rape, indecent assault and actual bodily harm. In the months before he attacked Naomi, he had attacked some other poor innocent woman in Southampton.'McGovern, who has nothing but praise for the police liaison officer, Anna Maxwell, who has been with the family since the murder, nevertheless cannot understand how there could have been such a failure of the system designed to protect the public. The report out this week will identify how the Multi Agency Public Protection Arrangements (MAPPA) system, which is set up to supervise very dangerous offenders, could not have been followed. Rice was staying in a hostel in Winchester at the time of the killing and had managed to leave without anyone noticing he was not there. The murder of Naomi Bryant follows the killing of London banker, John Monckton, who was killed by Damien Hanson who had been released on probation after serving seven years of a 12-year sentence for attempted murder.'Given what the officials knew about Anthony Rice, how on earth was he allowed out?' said McGovern, who is unemployed but looking for work. 'If he was categorised as low risk, what would you call somebody who was high risk?'He is keen that his daughter Hannah, 15, should be able to get on with her life.