As an experienced barrister and a judge, Douglas Marks Moore spends his days getting to grips with tricky legal problems. But when faced with the rather less cerebral challenge of a suspect allegedly attempting to escape from his court, Marks Moore proved he had brawn as well as brains by rugby-tackling the man to the floor.A jury was told how the 60-year-old judge, in wig and robes, grappled with sex offender Paul Reid twice as he tried to flee Woolwich crown court in east London. The judge grabbed Reid around the throat, then chased him down a corridor when the defendant wriggled free, the jury heard. Finally he brought him down with the rugby tackle and held him until prison officers arrived.Reid, 34, made his bid for freedom after giving evidence in his trial in August last year on an undisclosed matter, the Old Bailey was told. The defendant had spent the afternoon in the witness box when he made his move, it was claimed. The main entrance to the court was secure but the doors leading to the judge's corridor were unlocked on safety grounds. "One thing stood between Paul Reid and freedom - the judge trying his case," said Rupert Gregory, prosecuting. "The jury was just leaving when the defendant jumped up and ran across the clerk's bench to get to the judge's door. As he went through the door his honour Judge Marks Moore grabbed him round the throat to try to bring him down. Together they went down three steps and then Mr Reid broke free and ran down the judge's corridor. The judge gave chase."Just as Mr Reid was about to open a push-handle fire door, HHJ Marks Moore rugby-tackled him around the throat and waist and brought him crashing to the ground, landing on top of him. He held him there, struggling and protesting, until the prison officers managed to catch up, secure him and return him to custody." Gregory added: "There is only one reason why a crown court judge would rugby-tackle a defendant to the ground – because he is trying to escape and the judge is the only person in any position to prevent that escape."The court heard that in 2008 Reid had escaped from another court after being sentenced to an indeterminate period for public protection, with a minimum of two years for indecent assault. He was taken to Brixton jail but returned to Inner London crown court 10 days later for an ancillary matter. After the hearing, Reid allegedly pinned an officer against a wall, slipped his handcuff off and ran out via a fire escape. Reid, originally from south London, denies both this and the escape attempt involving Marks Moore.The trial continues.