The murder of Anthony Walker initially drew comparisons with the 1993 killing of Stephen Lawrence. Both were 18-year-old black students killed in unprovoked racist attacks while waiting with friends at a bus stop.Stephen was stabbed to death by a gang of thugs in Eltham, south-east London. Anthony was killed with an ice axe in Huyton, Merseyside, in July.Both were ambitious young men looking forward to making their way in society, Stephen as an architect and Anthony as a lawyer.Anthony's mother, Gee, pointed out the similarities. Speaking the day after his murder, she said: "This is on a level with the Stephen Lawrence case. My son was killed purely because of the colour of his skin. We cannot change our colour."Stephen's mother, Doreen, travelled to Merseyside to lend her support. "How many young people have to die before society sees and makes changes?" she said. "I am hoping that Anthony's killers will be brought to justice, because I think he deserved that and his family deserves that."Within four months, Anthony's killers had been convicted, and the Walker family has nothing but praise for Merseyside police."That was 13 years ago, when Stephen Lawrence was killed, and times have changed," she said. "The police made mistakes then, but they learned their lesson and they've not made the same mistake twice."The police's determination and efficiency in their investigation was there to see. We appreciated it."Detective Chief Superintendent Peter Currie, who led the investigation, has enjoyed a close relationship with the Walker family. He said that, shortly after Anthony's death, one of his sisters expressed doubts about the police.He said: "I asked her: 'What would give you faith in us?'. She said: 'If you catch whoever did it'."After we charged [Paul] Taylor and [Michael] Barton, I went to the Walkers' house and the same sister happened to be there. I asked her: 'Have you got faith in us now?'. She put her arms around me and said: 'Yes, I have'."Mr Currie said all murders on Merseyside were investigated seriously and professionally, no matter what the victim's race."I've been asked a number of times how the Stephen Lawrence case affected this investigation," he added. "Whilst that was at the back of my mind, it didn't affect how we directed this inquiry."My intention from the outset in this inquiry, as in any inquiry, was to provide a quality service. Whether the victim is black, white or any other colour, that is always our aim."A-Level student Stephen was stabbed when he and his friend, Duwayne Brooks, were attacked by a gang of white youths in April 1993.Soon after the killing, five men were arrested, but nobody was ever charged. An inquiry into the Metropolitan police investigation concluded that the force was guilty of "institutional racism" and had made a catalogue of errors in its investigation.The Macpherson report changed the way in which police forces dealt with race hate crimes.