Police have arrested the estranged husband of a woman after she and her mother were discovered stabbed to death in east London.Police were called at 7.30am after reports of a woman stabbed near a bus stop in Stansfield Road, Newham. Svetlana Zolotovska, in her 40s, was pronounced dead at the scene.Her identity documents led the police to a nearby property in Leamouth Road where firefighters extinguished a fire believed to have been deliberately started in one of the bedrooms. When officers entered the house they found Zolotovska's mother, believed to be in her late 60s or early 70s, on the ground floor with stab wounds. Zolotovska's husband, named locally as Sergei Zolotovsky, was found in the loft of the house with injuries to his throat.The suspect, who is aged in his 40s and believed to be a self-employed plumber, and the two murdered women, are all from the east of Europe.Michael Herbert, 47, said he and a colleague chased a man after hearing a scream while he was cutting a hedge near Stansfield Road."I saw the girl, she was lying on the ground," he said. "He was standing over her, holding a knife. She was in a bad way, I think she was unconscious, her throat was slashed open and so was her stomach."He said he had noticed the woman a few minutes earlier wearing a smart suit and trousers as though on her way to work."We shouted at him and started to chase him across the playing fields," Herbert said. "I didn't have time to be scared, I just carried on chasing him."He said he lost the man in an alleyway around the corner from Leamouth Road.Neighbours said police dressed in protective uniforms and dog handlers smashed their way into the Leamouth Road house at about 8am.Ben Tilley, 28, said: "I have not seen him [the estranged husband] for about a year since he moved out. When they first moved here they were a nice couple, a pleasant couple."They were very house-proud. Something happened a year ago and he moved out."He said he saw the man taken from the property by paramedics.A Metropolitan police spokesman said: "Inquiries are under way to identify the deceased and trace next of kin. Inquiries continue."The Met's homicide and serious crime command is investigating.A London Fire Brigade spokesman said the first floor of the Leamouth Road home was badly damaged by the fire and smoke. He said the cause of the blaze, which took 35 minutes to bring under control, was under investigation.A London ambulance service spokesman said paramedics were called to Leamouth Road shortly before 8am.A single response vehicle, two ambulances and the air ambulance went to the scene but the woman could not be saved.