An independent inquiry into all aspects of the Harold Shipman case was announced today by health secretary Alan Milburn.In a statement, Mr Milburn told a hushed House of Commons that the full report into the GP's murders would be completed by the autumn. The families of Shipman's victims would be given the opportunity to have their say, he promised.The inquiry, to be chaired by Lord Laming of Tewin, a former chief inspector of social services, will consider the risks posed by doctors working in isolated single-handed medical practices and GPs' access to controlled drugs.Mr Milburn said police had investigated a total of 136 cases involving Shipman. "He abused his position of trust in a way that was callous, systematic and determined," the health secretary said."The relationship between individual doctor and individual patient is built upon trust. The Shipman case must not be allowed to erode the bond which rightly exists between our excellent family doctors and the families they serve"Having betrayed the trust of his own patients, Harold Shipman should not be allowed to break the vital bond of trust that exists between family doctors and their patients."But he also said: "It is of course true that a determined criminal can defeat the best regulated organisation in pursuit of his purpose. But we must be confident that we do indeed have the best systems for regulation and self-regulation firmly in place. There is no doubt that those systems have to be strengthened and to be changed."Doctors will be required to disclose criminal convictions and action taken against them by a professional regulatory body before applying for appointment to medical lists. It will also become compulsory for GPs to report deaths in their surgeries and other serious incidents to health authorities.The chief medical officer is to oversee a clinical audit of Shipman's past practice, including the pattern of deaths, causes of deaths, prescription of restrictive drugs and relevant medical records. Mr Milburn also promised immediate moves to prevent Shipman being paid for another month and said he was considering whether to withhold the doctor's pension entitlement. He urged the general medical council to give its "most urgent attention" to removing Shipman from the register of medical practitioners. Shipman was convicted yesterday of killing 15 women patients. Police believe he could have been responsible for up to 150 deaths.The general medical council had to be accountable to patient health, Mr Milburn said. Home secretary Jack Straw was setting up an urgent review of the system of death certification which would include the role of coroners. Hard-working GPs in this country should not have their bond of trust with their patients put at risk by the Shipman case, he said.Shadow health secretary Liam Fox, a former GP, said he felt "horror and disgust" at Shipman's actions. But he said Mr Milburn's statement had been "well balanced". "It is Harold Shipman that has been found guilty, and not the medical profession and not GPs," Dr Fox said.The chairman of the British Medical Association, Dr Ian Bogle, called for regulations governing the issue of death certificates to be changed."What we need to do is speed up the work we are doing with government to make sure that clinical governance of general practice - the looking at how GPs' standards are in place and how patients' safety is guaranteed - is being got right," Dr Bogle said. "Doing nothing is not an option. We do support an inquiry. Death certification must be part of the inquiry, as must the handling of drugs and the ability to get drugs in the way that Shipman did."New legislation has given the General Medical Council the power to act more decisively on the kind of information that it had on Shipman in the 1970s, and meant that a repeat of the case was less likely, he said.But Labour MP David Hinchliffe, the chairman of the House of Commons health select committee, said he was not so confident that the GMC was capable of acting in time to prevent future tragedies. "There needs to be a much closer look at the role of the GMC," he said. "I am not so convinced that the situation that happened in the 1970s could not be repeated."Last night the West Pennine health authority, which covers the area in which Shipman practised, suspended its medical adviser Dr Alan Banks and said an earlier investigation into Shipman, which took place in March 1998, would now be re-examined.During a 56-day trial, the jury heard how Shipman gave fatal morphine injections to 15 women aged between 49 and 81, including Kathleen Grundy, 81, on June 24, 1998. In addition, he was sentenced to four years for forging widow Mrs Grundy's £386,000 will, an act which led to his downfall.Ann Alexander, a leading clinical negligence expert, praised the swift action taken by the government. Ms Alexander, a solicitor who led the campaign for an inquiry into the case of child killer nurse Beverley Allitt in the early 1990s, said she was impressed that an independent inquiry into the case had already been called.Ms Alexander, the managing partner of Cheshire-based Alexander Harris solicitors, said: "The speed at which the government acted in this case is to be applauded. It took us months in Allitt to even get an inquiry."Ms Alexander said she believed the West Pennine health authority, which employed Shipman, would have a huge cost to shoulder."Compensation claims are not going to cripple the health authority but what is going to be enormous for them is the cost of the inquiry because it will be a long time," she said. "The changes which will be implemented in the wake of this will also be costly, but this is going to apply across the country."As the authorities grappled with the questions how, the question why remained even more of a mystery. Detective chief inspector Mike Williams, who interviewed Shipman, said: "He likes control, and the ultimate control is over life and death."Even after his conviction, Shipman's patients were incredulous at his fate. Juliette Clanford, 61, who said she had been his patient for 23 years said: "I am very, very shocked by this whole thing, I really like doctor Shipman and I didn't think he was guilty. Everyone wanted to get on his list, he was such a popular doctor, I just can't believe this has happened."At the Shipman home in Hyde, his son, David, said: "There's no comment now, there will be no comment in the future, there will be no comment at any time."