More than 60% of prisons in England and Wales are overcrowded with some holding nearly double the number of inmates intended, according to research by a leading penal reform charity.A league table of the most overcrowded jails published today by the Howard League for Penal Reform found the most serious problem was in HMP Preston, which has 661 inmates in its 356 spaces - an occupation rate of 186%.It was followed by Shrewsbury with 331 in 184 places (180%), Leicester with 351 in 199 places (176%), Dorchester with 258 in 153 places (169%) and Swansea with 364 in 219 spaces (166%). The prison population currently stands at 71,471 and is beginning to climb after a drop of several hundred earlier in the summer, confounding the normal summer-time pattern of an overall fall in the number of inmates.It has spiralled from 45,500 in June 1992 and risen by a staggering 6,000 since the start of this year.The Howard League said 64% of jails are now overcrowded. Its director, Frances Crook, called on the government to include a compulsory limit on the prison population in the criminal justice bill, which is due to be published later this year. "Our prisons are becoming no more than warehouses once again," she said. "The consequences of overcrowding are jeopardising both the safe running of the prison system and the rehabilitation of individual offenders. "If prison is to serve any useful purpose it must be to return prisoners to the community better equipped to lead crime free lives. The current crisis effectively precludes this." The prisons minister, Hilary Benn, said: "The current level of overcrowding is undesirable, but very limited. Only 20% of prisoners are currently having to double up in a cell designed for one. "Regimes are still being delivered, and prisoners are still receiving education, purposeful activity, offending behaviour programmes, and getting exercise and time out their cells."The government rejects the idea of a statutory limit on the prison population. "No prison is being required to take more than its operational capacity and we are committed to ensuring that overcrowding does not impact on safety in any way, and we recognise the pressures it creates for prisoners and staff." He added that a review will examine management of the prison population and that the prison service plans to increase its capacity by about 1,100 places by the end of October, with a further 1,200 places by March next year. But the Howard League said although 20% of inmates are "doubling up" in cells designed for one, the prison service does not collect data on overcrowding in other types of cells, such as when three inmates have to share facilities designed for two.