Murder and racism, indifferent and incompetent policing combined with continuing injustice, make for a toxic mix. The circumstances surrounding the death of Stephen Lawrence contained all these ingredients. Stephen's fine young face, and the dignified struggle for justice of his parents, Doreen and Neville, loom large in our collective memory. Doreen Lawrence continues that struggle to this day. There was, of course, nothing new or unusual about racism in the Metropolitan police and other forces at that time. My early practice as a civil liberties lawyer included many cases that reflected a culture in which racism was often the norm. Casual and often violent racism was pervasive. Many believed the Met's special patrol group had an "open season" on black youngsters in the inner city. Some brave officers stood out against the prevailing culture; others were silent; some joined in with varying degrees of enthusiasm. Too many of the force's leaders acquiesced or colluded in the policing culture that reflected this racism.The legal profession in the early years, not immune to racism itself, barely challenged it. This was before pioneering lawyers like Benedict Birnberg – who Gareth Peirce, myself and many others our first chance in the law – began to expose a reality the judiciary couldn't ignore. Like Lord Justice Scarman, whose report followed the Brixton and other inner city riots of 1981, a lot of judges tended to attribute the problem to a few "rotten apples", thus exonerating the institution itself. Sir William Macpherson proved to be different. The exposure of blatant racial bias in the enforcement of the infamous sus law in the 1970s and 80s helped bring that about. A group of black women from Lewisham led the campaign for change. As their legal adviser, my abiding memory was of the determination of these women to speak up for young people. One of those who listened was Sir John Wheeler, the Conservative chairman of the home affairs select committee, which recommended the abolition of the sus laws. This was in the teeth of Labour ministers' opposition to any change whatsoever. They ignored even their former colleague, the late Alex Lyon MP, an early supporter of the campaign along with the veteran Liberal Eric Avebury. They were not the first ministers to be captured by the Home Office. If those Home Office officials had had their way I doubt that an inquiry of the sort ultimately set up by Jack Straw would have been commissioned. Much too risky. The risk, once taken, was to have far-reaching consequences. Because with Macpherson, the penny dropped. Racism, and attitudes and practices that worked unfairly against a minority, could infect a whole institution. This idea provided then – and still does – a shudder of horror on the part of those with a vested interest in the status quo. The allegations made against Macpherson's finding that institutional racism existed within the Metropolitan police became depressingly familiar. "Political correctness gone mad", "pandering to liberal elites", "naive", "unfair", "a body blow to the force" were repeated time and again. The reality was that the report reflected the reality in the Met at that time.Power concedes nothing without a demand. The Lawrences demanded an inquiry and Macpherson spoke the truth to power. This had some surprising outcomes for me. When, in the mid-90s, I took Doreen Lawrence and her lawyer, Imran Khan, to the Home Office to unsuccessfully demand such an inquiry, I hadn't envisaged that I would be police minister when it was finally published. It took the election of Tony Blair's New Labour government to commission it.The government changed, but the Home Office, a monster of a department, still retained its salient characteristics. Every other cupboard was likely to contain a skeleton. The walking wounded stalked its corridors. Many ministerial and official careers had floundered there. As a department I never saw it more nervous and febrile than on the eve of the publication of the Macpherson report, and with good cause. New Scotland Yard appeared to be in near meltdown. Its commissioner, Paul Condon, it was said, might have to go. On reflection, he probably should have done just that. The report was leaked (some things never change) in the Bermuda triangle between the Home Office, No 10 and the Yard. What is more, there was an appalling blunder in the publication of appendices containing confidential personal details of witnesses. But none of this detracted from the explosive content of the inquiry's findings. Nothing was to be quite the same again, and although individuals escaped responsibility for their own and their institution's failings, a landmark report had come into being which changed our perspective on policing and race. Ten years on, the young officers I see from a now more racially diverse and more accountable Met come out of a very different policing culture from their predecessors. To the question "was it really all worth it?", I would answer resoundingly: yes it was. It took courage to commission the report. Courage to write it. And courage on the part of all concerned to implement its findings. But that courage is nothing compared to that of Doreen and Neville Lawrence, whose vigilance brought about the report and who have to live with the consequences daily of a continuing injustice and the loss of their dear son.