A former British National party candidate who believed the country was teetering on the brink of civil war built up a stockpile of chemical explosives and weapons and told his wife that he wanted to shoot the prime minister, a court heard yesterday.Robert Cottage, 49, had become increasingly radical since joining the far right party four years ago and was preparing for the political and financial crisis that he believed would engulf the country.Manchester crown court heard that between January and September last year he and another BNP supporter, David Jackson, bought a large number of chemicals over the internet which if mixed correctly could create a powerful bomb.The prosecution said that Mr Cottage also had a digital copy of the Anarchist Cookbook, a bomb-making manual, as well as crossbows and four air-rifles at his home in Colne, Lancashire.An entry from his diary, which was read out in court yesterday, stated: "Thought for the day - the easiest way to save the country is to assassinate Tony Blair and when Prescott takes over shoot that fucker as well."Prosecuting Louise Blackwell QC, said: "These two men together agreed to order these chemicals ... and they intended to make a bomb with them, that much ... is clear due to the information found on the computer. The bomb they intended to make would have had the ability to cause damage or cause serious injuries."Mr Cottage pleaded guilty to one count of possession of explosives but denies one count of conspiracy to cause an explosion. His barrister, Alistair Webster QC, said the former BNP candidate had ordered the chemicals so he could make "thunder-flashes" to deter attacks on his home and family in the event of a civil war rather than to injure anyone.Mr Jackson, 62, of Nelson, Lancashire, pleaded not guilty to one count of possession of explosives and to conspiracy to cause an explosion.The court heard how Mr Cottage's wife, Kerena, had first raised the alarm in September after becoming concerned about her husband's increasingly extreme views and the large number of chemicals arriving at their home. She said he had told her that he wanted to shoot Mr Blair and the local Liberal Democrat peer Lord Greaves.Ms Blackwell said: "[Kerena] had concerns about his behaviour; he wanted to shoot certain members of parliament and held strong views and opinions on immigration." In a written statement read to the court Mrs Cottage added: "Rob believes there will be a civil war and the emergence of a new world order. Rob has also started stockpiling supplies ... I have seen a change in Rob since he became involved with the BNP four years ago.""Rob was becoming very radical in his views and opinions. The BNP made mine and Rob's marriage suffer. It drove a wedge between us."When officers raided the couple's home police also found a large quantity of rice, sugar and petrol that the court heard could be used as fuel in an explosive device. They also found tubs of ball-bearings which the prosecution said could be used as shrapnel.Mr Cottage, who worked as a driver transporting people with disabilities for Lancashire county council, had also bought large amounts of food which he said would last for several years.Mrs Cottage said in her statement that her husband was a "very religious" man who was a member of the Church of England and who would regularly quote from the Bible. "He says he prays to God all the time in his head," she added.The court heard that the former BNP candidate had begun listening to Republican Radio on the internet in January last year which detailed conspiracy theories about who had planned the attacks on New York and Washington in September 2001.Mr Jackson, who worked as a dentist in Cumbria, met Mr Cottage at BNP meetings, the court heard.The jury was told that he had told Mr Cottage which chemicals to buy and had sent a £400 cheque to pay for them.When Mr Jackson's home was searched detectives found a bow and arrow as well as two nuclear protection suits. When arrested he told officers that he had wanted the chemicals to help teach chemistry to Mr Cottage's teenage son.The hearing continues.