If there is one thing the Ministry of Defence cannot be criticised for, it is book-keeping. The military is fond of compiling lists, and there is no better list than the one that comes out every year detailing what has been stolen - or reported missing - from the MoD.The latest comprehensive breakdown comes courtesy of a written answer to the Labour MP Madeleine Moon, a member of the defence select committee.In response to her question, defence minister Mark Francois set out last Friday the items that have disappeared from military buildings and barracks between April to September this year. And what a cornucopia this list proved to be.It included a £500 pony that was taken from Royal Artillery Equestrian Centre in Hampshire - though this was recovered a few months later, fit and well. The rustler in question got a caution, apparently.Top of the range items taken included; copper cylinders, worth £2,320; boots, body armour and combat uniforms worth £5,470; water, worth £12,718; lead roofing, worth £10,000; aluminium fuel piping, worth £12,000; outboard engines, worth £25,233 and diving helmets, worth £20,958.Rifle cleaning kits, DVDs, TVs, sleeping bags and galvanised shackles (!) also disappeared, along with silver jugs, teapots, and baskets. Racing bikes, a fridge, a drain cover, sniper belts and more than £20,000 in cash went missing too.No wonder, perhaps, that the army is going to shut down its offices and buildings for more than three weeks over Christmas, partly to save money.The full list can be found on the parliament website. The MoD points out that the scrupulousness of the reporting regime doesn't mean that all of these things have been taken and not returned. Some items, like the horse, have turned up. And the value of the items taken is a fraction of the total value of military assets.Which doesn't really help explain how and why all these things disappeared in the first place. Here is the MoD statement."The MoD takes the loss or theft of equipment very seriously and works hard to detect and deter theft. There are robust processes in place to raise awareness of the need for vigilance in all aspects of security and we actively encourage individuals to report loss or theft. This work has resulted in a rise in the number of reports over the last year. Where theft does occur and a suspect is identified, prosecution or internal disciplinary action will follow as appropriate."Officials say the estimated value of thefts from the Mod as whole for 2010/11 was in the region of 0.0015 per cent of total MoD assets.