A police informer who helped to jail some of the UK's biggest drugs barons claims his handlers have "hung him out to dry", leaving him at the mercy of ruthless gangs.Selim Duzgun, 39, provided officers at the National Criminal Intelligence Service (NCIS) with vital information on heroin importers, several of whom could obtain a tonne of the class A drug at a time and sell it on in multimillion-pound deals. Mr Duzgun, under the codename Norman Nice, gave NCIS officers an invaluable insight into the London Turkish criminal community and their involvement in a global network of drugs, arms procurement and people trafficking. He risked his life to bring to justice Mehmet Ebcin, one of the most powerful figures in the Turkish underworld. Ebcin was jailed for 14 years after Operation Ferdinand, a drugs bust in north London in March 2002. Two other gang members were also caught. Abdurrahnan Gencer, arrested with Ebcin, also got 14 years in prison, and Murat Ozturk, who rammed a customs car and escaped but was captured that May, received a 12-year-sentence. But only 10kg of heroin out of a haul of several hundred kilos were recovered. Mr Duzgun felt that his handlers bungled the situation, leading to his arrest and the exposure of his role. Mr Duzgun was on licence when he was arrested and so spent months on remand in jail before he was freed following his acquittal at a separate trial, during which his handlers openly acknowledged that he was the most valuable informant they had ever had. But since he was released last month, he claims witness protection officers have refused to provide him with the new identity or relocate his family abroad, which he believes is the only way to escape the clutches of the gangs he is convinced will stop at nothing to kill him. Currently in hiding and moving daily from place to place every day to avoid de tection, he alleged the police appeared to cut him adrift with no regard for his safety, while covering up for one of their officers who failed to return his panic-stricken phone call on the day of the drugs bust. Mr Duzgun, devastated because he feels he was put in a position where he had no choice but to betray members of his own community, said: "I will never know the moment they come for me, but they will come, of that I am sure. It is in our culture, blood for blood, they will not let what I did go unavenged. "There is nowhere in England I could be safe. In every town there is a kebab shop, a Turkish corner shop. The other day, I went to a barber and Ebcin's cousin came in. "The police shafted me and they don't care what happens to me. It is a nightmare. Sometimes I feel the back of my neck go warm as if the bullet has already struck." Both the NCIS and the National Crime Squad, which is responsible for protection issues, said they did not comment on matters regarding alleged informers.An NCIS spokesman said: "For their own protection, we do not discuss informants or informant handlers." Catherine Feast, a spokeswoman for the National Crime Squad, said: "We can neither confirm or deny any information in relation to informants." It is understood, however, that someone in Mr Duzgun's position would be offered a range of witness protection alternatives, but would have to agree to conditions, such as staying away from certain areas, to give police the best chance of keeping him safe. Moving abroad could be problematic, as some countries will not accept someone with a criminal record. Mr Duzgun's career as an informer began in the late 1980s when he supplied intelligence to the police and other agencies. But in 1998, while serving a 10-year jail term for intent to supply heroin, he was visited by NCIS officers who offered him the chance to work for them. Police intelligence officers often saw prisoners about to be freed in the hope of getting information about drugs movements within prison, and which inmates and prison officers were involved. The police called three times before he agreed to cooperate, believing it was the best way to avoid deportation or loss of parole. Just before his release in November 2001, Mr Duzgun received some other visitors, associates of Mehmet Ebcin, a linchpin in the heroin trade. Again, he was not keen to get involved. When he got out, however, he was drawn further and further into Ebcin's murky empire, under increasing pressure from NCIS. Ebcin had an entourage of runners and bodyguards, and the gang's heroin-supplying operation linked hundreds of farmers in Afghanistan to dozens of buyers in the UK. "He is a very clever man, polite and controlled," said Mr Duzgun. "If he decides to do something, it is done, 100%. He never talked about any individual, but he said if someone is an informer they should have their legs encased in concrete and be dumped in the sea. "Ebcin asked me to take £2m to a money launderer but I refused. He asked me to hold drugs in my house but I said no. I never took money from him either. I didn't want to owe him. I told my handlers my life is in danger but they wanted a result, no matter what. I felt I was being squeezed between two huge rocks. I had no choice." NCIS gave Mr Duzgun two mobile phones, one for them to contact him, although he was always to use public phones to ring them, the other for him to contact Ebcin. He had two main handlers, "Keith" and "Graham", but feared Graham was unreliable. On the days leading up to Operation Ferdinand, Mr Duzgun insists he did not know what Ebcin was planning but grew increasingly anxious as the drug baron kept calling him. Keith was on holiday, so he phoned Graham, but the officer failed to return his call. Turning up to meet Ebcin in north London, he suddenly found himself in the middle of the drugs bust, and was arrested, but soon freed when a customs officer intervened. He was advised to give himself up to Customs the next day and did so, confident that they knew about his role as an informer and that his arrest and interrogation was a mere formality. But he was charged, and his defence team had to battle long and hard to have his case tried separately. When he was eventually freed on November 10, the police took him to a hotel in Hastings where he spent five nights before moving him to Bournemouth for another five nights. "They couldn't tell me what was happening. They said they'd relocate me, but when I asked for details, they couldn't tell me. They said if you don't trust us, there's the nearest tube station, so I left. "I'm terrified to go home in case they petrol-bomb the house or try to shoot me and my family get hurt. I need a passport to get out of the country. I need a new identity and to move to Canada or New Zealand, somewhere they can't follow."