A robber was convicted today of the murder of wealthy London financier John Monckton, who was stabbed to death in front of his wife and nine-year-old daughter.Damien Hanson, 24, was also convicted of the attempted murder of Mr Monckton's wife, Homeyra - who was stabbed and left seriously injured - and of robbery.The jury at the Old Bailey heard how Hanson, who was obsessed with the rich and collected articles about them, had previous convictions for attempted murder and robbery.Hanson tricked his way into the Moncktons' £3m home in Chelsea, west London, with his childhood friend Elliot White, also 24, at around 7.30pm on November 29 last year.White has admitted robbery but denies murder and attempted murder. After delivering their verdicts on Hanson, members of the jury were sent home for the night.The jury sent a note to the judge saying members could not make "any further progress" considering their verdicts on White.Blood from White was found at the scene of the bungled robbery and he admitted tricking Mr Monckton, a 49-year-old senior bonds director with Legal & General, to open the door by posing as a postal worker with a package for him.When the door was opened, the trial heard that White and another man wearing a balaclava, and carrying a handgun and a knife, forced themselves inside. Hanson had denied he was the masked man and claimed he had been visiting his sister that evening in Brixton, south London. But the jury - which was told he had previous convictions and a propensity to raise alibi as a defence - rejected his alibi for the killing of Mr Monckton. As the verdicts were read out, Hanson showed no emotion but then glanced fleetingly at his co-defendant.The prosecution, which argued the Moncktons were targeted because of their wealth, said Mr Monckton could have been knifed eight times by his killer. He tried to fend off the repeated thrusts to his body and had defence injuries to his hands.Ms Monckton, 46, who now needs a stick to walk, told the trial she saw the masked man fighting with her husband. She was stabbed twice herself in the back as she tried to reach an alarm button on the first floor and blacked out. The court heard she was left "on the brink of death" by the attack. The Moncktons' youngest daughter, Isobel, who was upstairs when the raiders burst in, saw part of the attack. She came to her injured mother's aid after hearing her calling out for her. Isobel called the emergency services after the robbers fled. Hanson was released from a jail sentence for attempted murder and robbery only three months before he murdered Mr Monckton, it emerged during the trial. He had served just over half of the 12-year term.Richard Horwell, prosecuting, told jurors the law now permitted the jury to hear about and assess the relevant bad character of the defendant.Mr Horwell listed Hanson's previous convictions to the jury. In July 1995, aged 14, he burgled a home at night when the residents were asleep inside. His fingerprints were found inside the letterbox. A hand had been placed in the box to release the Yale lock, Mr Horwell told the jury. "He contested the allegation, raising alibi as a defence, but was convicted of burglary." On November 12 in the same year Hanson robbed a 17-year-old youth of £20 at knifepoint. He was with another robber but Hanson had the knife. The youth was kicked and stabbed by Hanson, Mr Horwell said.Hanson again raised alibi as his defence, saying he was visiting friends in east London at the time. But he was identified by the victim and convicted of wounding at his trial.The trial continues.