A nurse who stabbed her four-year-old daughter to death before drinking antifreeze has been sent to prison for 12 years.Dawn Makin, 35, killed Chloe Burke at their home in Bury, Greater Manchester, after she was sacked following allegations that she passed information about patients to a personal injury claims firm.Preston crown court heard that Makin was suffering from an "abnormality of mental function" when she attacked Chloe. Makin had earlier admitted the manslaughter of her daughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility.Peter Wright QC, for the prosecution, said: "She was no longer able to form a rational judgment and believed the only way was to kill herself and her daughter."The court heard how the nurse practitioner lost her job at Moorgate walk-in centre in Bury after giving patient details to her boyfriend, Martin Campbell, who worked for a personal injury claims firm. Her dismissal in August 2010 had "a considerable effect … both financially and psychologically," Wright said. Five months later Makin and Campbell split up, causing her further "considerable distress", the court was told.Then, in February 2011, two days after Makin learned she was to be summoned to court to face data protection charges, both she and Chloe were found by her mother. The little girl was lying dead on her mother's bed in clean pyjamas and a dressing gown surrounded by cuddly toys. She had suffered knife injuries to her chest, neck and throat. Following the attack her mother had removed her blood-stained pyjamas and put them in a washing basket before dressing her in clean clothes. Makin was found alive but with serious injuries and rushed to hospital.Wright said: "The defendant had cut her wrist, there was a bottle of antifreeze on the floor and antifreeze in a glass nearby … The effect of the antifreeze was to leave her permanently disabled and confined to a wheelchair." He added that a number of suicide notes were found and also an "apology". In one of the notes Makin said: "I had no choice, my life was wrecked." She also wrote on a picture of her daughter: "I'm so sorry I've taken her away from you all, but I couldn't leave her with no money, that would be too cruel. Sorry."Passing sentence, Judge Anthony Russell QC, the recorder of Preston, said the facts of the case were appalling."This case must be treated as one where an intention to kill is proved," he said. "The victim was your four-year-old child, vulnerable and someone who trusted you. Chloe must have undergone considerable physical and emotional suffering."Outside court, Chloe's father, Michael Burke, 40, said: "I'm shocked at the jail term because she's already got a punishment. I feel sorry for her in a way. She wasn't in the right state of mind and didn't know what she was doing at the time."She had chances to speak to me, plenty of chances to talk to me about what was going on, but she was too ashamed to talk to me. I miss my daughter. She was beautiful and lovely and she was a princess to me. I just miss her so much. Life is not fair."A full review of the issues surrounding Chloe's death is due to be carried out by child protection experts in Bury.Makin was jailed for 12 years and must serve a minimum of six years before she can be released on parole.