The lawyer for one of two men accused of blackmailing a member of the royal family yesterday insisted his client was innocent.Simon Jowett, who is preparing Ian Strachan's legal aid-funded case, said his defence was likely to centre on conversations with an undercover detective who met Strachan and co-defendant Sean McGuigan posing as a member of the royal's staff to view a video tape alleged to contain sex and drugs claims.The pair were arrested at the meeting at the Hilton hotel in London's Park Lane and charged with blackmail. Mr Jowett said Chelsea-based Strachan, 30, a keen party-goer who works in the fashion industry, socialised on the fringe of royal circles and knew most of the royals.Last night speculation about the identity of the royal at the centre of the alleged plot, who is not a senior member of the family, was intensifying. Several websites featured discussions on the possible identity of the individual, who is protected by a gagging order.Mr Jowett, who will be seeing Strachan today in Belmarsh prison, said he hoped for a bail hearing later this week. The two defendants have been behind bars since their first court appearance last month, and are due to appear at the Old Bailey for a plea and case management hearing on December 20."My client will be pleading not guilty," Mr Jowett said. "He has a defence. We are of the view that no blackmail took place. He is a man of good character and we look forward to his acquittal."Our defence will be that at no stage did we engage in blackmail, that we were offered money and then subsequently substantial efforts were made by the authorities to turn this into blackmail."The tapes are alleged to show a royal aide cutting cocaine into lines before snorting it, and claiming he had been involved in a sex act with the royal.Strachan grew up in Aberdeen, attending Aberdeen Grammar School in the early 1990s, when he was known as Paul Adalsteinsson. Friends said he ran a clothes shop in the city before moving to London where he lives with his mother. He is thought to have taken his mother's maiden name after his parents split.Last night his father, Charlie Adalsteinsson, refused to comment on the case at his home in the small coastal village of Cruden Bay. He said: "It is nothing to do with me. I have not seen him for a long time." Buckingham Palace has refused to comment, saying it is a police matter.