A teacher who fired a pellet gun at a gang of youths outside her home as retribution for a campaign of violence against her family was jailed yesterday. Linda Walker, 48, who teaches children with behavioural problems, kept the gun in her underwear drawer for four months after her home was burgled. That was the start of a campaign by local teenagers during which her garden ornaments were thrown over a wall, her fish stolen from her pond and nuisance phone calls were made calling her 17-year-old son James a "poof". A court heard that "the straw that broke the camel's back" came in August last year, near her home in Urmston, Greater Manchester. After a confrontation with a gang of youths who had tipped water over James's car, she picked up the Walther CP88 gas-powered pellet pistol and an air rifle belonging to her son. In a phone call to the police, she said: "I'm going over to that field over the road, I've got an air rifle and a pistol and I'm going to shoot the vandals that come around here." The court heard that she left the house to confront the youths again, pointed the pistol at the feet of 18-year-old Robert McKiernan youth and fired it at the road. She said she had left the house like a "madwoman possessed". She told police: "I feel totally, totally distressed after all these things that have been happening. I know you do your best, but the law is on the side of the yobbos, these criminals, not the victim." She had tested the pistol before leaving her house, firing it at the top of the staircase. Walker was found guilty of affray and possessing a firearm with intent to cause fear of violence, after a week-long trial at Manchester crown court last month. Her 56-year-old partner, John Cavanagh, was cleared of affray. Yesterday Walker was sentenced to six months in jail for possessing the firearm and one month for affray. Recorder Louis Browne said the sentences would run concurrently and she would serve three months with the rest of the term suspended. Farrhat Arshad, for Walker, said that although the acts of vandalism and theft at her home appeared petty, the effects on her were great. "She thought her family, which was supposed to be safe, was being attacked." Walker was under extra pressure because New Park school in Salford, where she was head of year 11, had been put under special measures by the government, Ms Arshad told the court. Nigel Haslam, a former headteacher at the school, told the court that Walker had been praised by Ofsted inspectors at every inspection.Mr Browne said the offences she had committed were serious and her response to the incident had been "wholly disproportionate". A spokesman for Salford city council said: "Now legal proceedings are ended, any formal disciplinary action can also be concluded. This will be completed as quickly as possible."