A fragment of a child's skull found at the Jersey "house of horrors" where dozens of people claim they were abused was put there while it was a children's home, police said today.The remains of a child were found at Haute de la Garenne, which closed in 1986 but is now the centre of a major investigation into child abuse on the island, on February 23. Tests have now shown that they were placed there no earlier than the 1920s. That date was 70 years after the site was opened as an industrial school for boys, said Jersey police. "It could well have found its way there more recently than that, but no earlier," said a police spokesman. "This leaves us with no knowledge of how, when, or indeed where, the person died. All we can say is that the bone was placed where we found it in the 1920s or more recently."Further tests carried out on the skull fragment had failed to date it. Other bone fragments recovered were still being examined to determine their origin. These include a number of small charred pieces of bone which will be sent to the UK for examination when a final identification has been made of all other bone fragments collected from the scene. Police have been investigating four secret underground chambers at Haute de la Garenne, where around 100 people have claimed they were abused. The chambers were referred to as "punishment rooms" by some victims, who claimed they were kept in solitary confinement and physically and sexually abused. Police have said there were blood spots in the bath in the first cellar, where shackles were also found. The investigation team is still sifting through the "massive amount of information" received from the public after a police appeal. "As soon as we are satisfied that all the relevant evidence has been collated in respect of certain suspects, then the process of arresting them will commence," said the police spokesman. Forensic examination of the cellar area is continuing and further samples have been taken from a bath and are being sent to the mainland UK for examination.So far one person has been charged in connection with abuse at Haute de la Garenne. The home's former warder, Gordon Claude Wateridge, is charged with three offences of indecent assault on girls under 16 between 1969 and 1979. The 76-year-old, who is originally from Croydon, Surrey, was remanded in custody and will next appear before St Helier magistrates on April 14. A number of other care facilities on Jersey are also being investigated. There are thought to be more than 40 suspects in the inquiry as a whole. The Jersey government has voted for a public inquiry into the issues surrounding the decades of abuse allegations. The allegations at Haute de la Garenne and other care facilities on Jersey date back to the 1940s. Police have already said they are investigating why claims of abuse made at the time were not handled "as they should have been".