Amel Guedroudj had it all. She was 16, popular, beautiful, an academic high-flyer and a member of the Scottish junior judo squad. Life was good, as it is supposed to be for the privileged "young ladies" whose parents can afford the £2,000 per term it costs to send a daughter to St Margaret's school in Edinburgh.Her judo instructor, George Kerr, a former British and European champion, calls her "an amazing kid". Amel had guts as well as good fortune, he says. "It was such an unusual combination to find someone so beautiful and such a nice person that can go out and take on anyone. She would come off the mat and you would think butter would not melt in her mouth." Amel hanged herself in the bathroom of her family's home in Edinburgh's historic New Town on the evening of Friday, January 4. Her older sister, Sabrina, found her. "Amel was upstairs," says her mother, Fazia Guedroudj. "We had gone out shopping but she had stayed home to revise for her chemistry exam. I was in the kitchen cooking dinner and sent her sister upstairs to call her. Then I heard a scream, a horrible, horrible scream." Mrs Guedroudj held her unconscious child in her arms until the ambulance arrived to take her to hospital. Amel was placed on life support, but died three days later. Her mother is certain that she knows what persuaded her happy, fun-loving daughter to end her own life. The facts, though not their interpretation, are beyond dispute. On November 24 last year, Amel attended a party at a house in the Barnton district of Edinburgh. When she set off to meet her friends from St Margaret's and boys from the equally exclusive Edinburgh Academy, she was in the best of moods. What happened that night left her shattered and humiliated. Whether Amel was very drunk - or actually unconscious - is not clear: those who were present have not spoken about the incident. But a group of boys from the academy used a digital camera to take a series of pictures of her semi-naked with her top pulled up. The pictures were displayed on a noticeboard in the sixth-form common room at the academy. Versions were passed around the internet as email attachments. Amel told her mother that she had been assaulted in an atmosphere of alcohol and "total chaos". "She said she had passed out and that the last thing she remembered was a group of boys standing around her, laughing," says Mrs Guedroudj. Amel cried for weeks after the party, her mother says. She describes her daughter "just sitting on the floor in her bedroom, pulling out clumps of hair and crying". Amel told her: "You don't know how it feels. They were supposed to be my friends." Mrs Guedroudj believes the "appalling humiliation" destroyed her daughter. She sank into a deep depression which only lifted for a few days during the Christmas and New Year holidays. Amel's parents are adamant that the pictures caused their daughter's suicide. The police take the allegations seriously. Their investigations are focused on six boys, all Edinburgh Academy pupils, and could result in charges of indecent assault. But despite assistance from the school and steps to search personal computers belonging to the boys, no copies of the pictures have been retrieved and no charges brought. Mrs Guedroudj is furious. She believes the academy is seeking to protect its reputation by sweeping the incident under the carpet. She has called on the school to expel all the pupils involved and has threatened legal action if it refuses to comply. "We just cannot believe the school authorities have not taken proper action against these boys. They know who was responsible. These boys are being made to feel as if they are above the law." That is not immediately implausible. Edinburgh Academy reeks of establishment Scotland. Its pupils in their lovat-green tweed jackets are the sons and daughters of advocates, judges and consultant-grade doctors. Along with the prime minister's alma mater, Fettes, it has an alumni roll which reads like a catalogue of Scotland's rich and influential. And Edinburgh's elite do not wash dirty linen in public. Problems in politics, business or with the law are sometimes sorted out over drams at the New Club. Getting one's name in the papers is regarded as an offence just as serious as anything one might have done to justify the exposure. So, an immediate paradigm emerges. The Guedroudj family, relative newcomers of French- Algerian descent, are outsiders confronted by the entrenched interests of a ruthless parochial elite. The grief-stricken family's yearning for justice is being blocked by a school frantic to defend its reputation. Again the argument appeals. There is defending to be done. In recent months the academy has been battered by controversy, although some of the allegations concern incidents more than 40 years ago. First the actor Iain Glen and others claimed that they had been abused there by staff in the 1960s. Then there was a move to impose drug tests on pupils after a few of them admitted smoking cannabis at parties. Female staff in the junior school have complained of verbal harassment by managers. In the wine bars and coffee shops of Morningside and the New Town, whispered allegations abound. Pupils are rebelling against the school's notorious military-style regime. There is nothing like enough discipline. One former pupil laments that with the lowering of school fees, and the dramatic proportion - more than 25% - of Edinburgh parents now willing to sacrifice almost anything to avoid state schools, unwelcome elements are able to gain admission. The picture builds. Arrogant, complacent snobs refuse to admit what the sons of their culture did to a woman who was not entirely one of their own. They do not care precisely because she was from beyond the fold. The school reinforces their prejudice. John Light, rector of Edinburgh Academy, dismisses that as crude, selective distortion. "Is something rotten in the state of Denmark? I do not think so. Everywhere I have been in teaching for 27 years incidents have happened. You are dealing with people and people are essentially unpredictable. The law of averages suggests sooner or later there is going to be a break-out of some sort." Light points out that there have, in fact, only been two incidents: the party at which Amel was abused and the cannabis-smoking, both of which occurred off school premises. "Young people have a capacity to delight and if you are an optimist you concentrate on that. But you have to be a pragmatist as well. Young people also have the capacity to disappoint." The family is more than disappointed. Their son was a pupil at the academy although they have since removed him. "These boys know what they did was wrong and so does the academy," says Mrs Guedroudj. "But we still have heard no apology, no attempt to make amends, essentially no justice." There is another perspective, one which says very little for the maturity or compassion of the boys who photographed Amel or their friends who leered at the images, but which puts their conduct in a sort of context. Nobody reported the incident at the party after it happened, either to the police or the school. No matter how vile, exploitative and unfeeling those drunken sons of privilege were, their objectification of a vulnerable young woman occasioned no formal protest at the time. The suggestion, made sotto voce by some of Amel's contemporaries and, more often, by their parents, is that these were high-jinks gone wrong, an immature prank of a type which occurs at any adolescent party. Blame the culture of lad mags they say. This stupidity only took on dramatic resonance when Amel died. That view is tenuously supported by reports that Abdelhamid Guedroudj, Amel's father, has admitted that there was a family row on the day she died. It is said that her parents refused her permission to go out. "There!" says Edinburgh society. She was a victim of parental discipline. Their grief is provoking a row about nothing. Light has consistently refused to apportion blame. He and his colleagues adhere rigidly to the legal truth that anything they say might prejudice future criminal proceedings or exacerbate the suffering of the Guedroudj family. "My greatest sadness is that this affected one family in a desperate fashion. If you are a parent you can just sense, but you cannot imagine, the absolute agony," he says. Perhaps the procurator fiscal will bring charges, but the consensus is that he probably won't. In the end there remains just the tragic death of a talented young woman who had her life ahead of her. When formal investigations are concluded it will be appropriate for Edinburgh Academy to accept that, no matter how excellent its academic reputation or sought-after its places, some of its pupils behaved atrociously. Whether their voyeurism caused Amel to commit suicide or merely contributed to her decision to take her own life can never be proved. But it would be perverse to pretend it made no difference.