A 22-year-old man was stabbed to death yesterday in Oxford Street, central London. The attack happened outside a McDonald's restaurant just before 5pm on one of Britain's biggest shopping streets.Police said last night the murder victim had left the restaurant when he became involved in an altercation on the pavement which ended in him being stabbed.Paramedics arrived at the scene five minutes after the emergency services were called and tried to save the man, but he suffered a cardiac arrest and died at the scene. The victim was formally pronounced dead after arriving at St Thomas's hospital in central London.Bystanders included hundreds of shoppers and tourists enjoying a warm afternoon. Many were being interviewed by police last night. There were unconfirmed reports that the attack happened following a fight between three people outside the restaurant. Scotland Yard hoped to piece together the motive for the attack from interviews with witnesses. Officers would not comment on reports that a weapon had been found near the murder scene.One witness, who declined to be named, said: "I just heard the screaming and then saw a couple of guys run past us. The ambulance arrived and they got to work on him. It looked very serious."A London ambulance service spokesman said: "We were called to Oxford Street at approximately 4.45pm to reports of a stabbing. We sent two ambulances and two fast response cars. The first unit was on the scene within five minutes and began treatment. He went into cardiac arrest at the scene and was taken to hospital."Police cordoned off about 400 metres of Oxford Street close to Oxford Circus during rush hour and nine bus routes were diverted, causing localised traffic congestion. Crime scene tents were erected on the pavement where the man died and where the weapon was understood to have been discovered.The Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime directorate has been called in to conduct the murder inquiry and will be examining footage from CCTV."Oxford Street is one of the most policed streets in Europe," said Jace Tyrell, spokesman for the New West End Company, which represents retailers on Oxford Street. "There is full coverage with CCTV cameras, police patrols, both uniformed and discreet, and our own red-cap wardens. It is a very safe street and we can't think of a similar incident in its history."Ray Lewis, London's deputy mayor with responsibility for cutting knife crime among young people, said last night: "We all know that Mayor Johnson has put tackling youth crime at the heart of his agenda - and our job is to work with the Metropolitan police and others to find long term plans to solve this vexing problem."