Detectives investigating the fatal shooting of a biker on a busy motorway, have received more than 300 calls from members of the public in the UK and abroad. Gerard Tobin, 35, from south London, was killed in a "well-planned" attack on the M40 in Warwickshire, on Sunday afternoon, as he left the Bulldog Bash motorcycle festival.A police spokeswoman said while the majority of information had come from the UK, particularly the London area, some calls were from Mr Tobin's home country of Canada. More than 100 of these were received yesterday, following a police appeal for information.The spokeswoman said the international motorcycle gang, the Hells Angels, was one of their lines of inquiry, although detectives are unable to confirm that Mr Tobin, a biking enthusiast, was part of the group. However, the green or dark Rover 620 car seen parked in a lay-by on the A46 close to junction 15 of the M40, remains the central part of the investigation, the spokeswoman added. Many of the calls included possible sightings of this vehicle, which officers are investigating.The first picture of Mr Tobin, showing him smiling and looking relaxed, was released by police today. Detective Superintendent, Ken Lawrence, appealed again for anyone who may have captured the shooting on their mobile telephones to send him the images.Police believe Mr Tobin left the Bulldog Bash event at Long Marston Airfield, in Stratford, with two friends on Sunday afternoon and headed in convoy up to the M40. Before they joined the motorway at Junction 15, they passed a lay-by where police believe a green or dark Rover 620 car was parked.This vehicle is thought to have pulled out and followed the bikers on to the southbound carriageway where a shot was fired, hitting Mr Tobin in the back of the head. Anyone who saw the car parked in the lay-by, is asked to contact police. Mr Lawrence, who is leading the inquiry, said: "The green Rover 620 was seen travelling very close to the group of motorcycles and then continued after the incident."I need further witnesses to this car. Did anyone see it during the course of the Bulldog Bash event? Did anyone see it leave the motorway further south on the M40?"Anyone with information is asked to contact the incident room on 01926 415581 or email: incidentroomwarwickshire.police.uk.