A solicitor at a leading law firm was stabbed to death in an apparent robbery 100 yards from his front door. Tom ap Rhys Pryce, 31, was on his way home in north-west London after a night out with colleagues on Thursday when he was attacked.Detectives said yesterday they were looking for two suspects who held up Mr ap Rhys Pryce - a litigation lawyer for the City law firm Linklaters - at knifepoint as he walked from Kensal Green underground station to the home he shared with his fiancee. The attackers then "gratuitously and unnecessarily" stabbed him to death, police said.Mr ap Rhys Price tried to defend himself as he was stabbed several times in the head, torso and limbs, said Det Supt Julian Worker of the Metropolitan police homicide command. "It would also appear from blood and the scene that the attack continued for a number of yards towards his home address, where he then fell into the street across the kerb," he said.At about 10.50pm on Thursday, Mr ap Rhys Pryce had called his fiancee, Adele Eastman, to tell her he was catching the train home and expected to be there at about 11.30pm. At about 11.45 she heard a commotion outside her home in Bathurst Gardens, Willesden, and came out to see paramedics treating a robbery victim, who she did not immediately realise was her fiance.Emergency services had been called by residents who heard fighting in the street. By the time police arrived, the muggers had fled. Officers found some of the victim's belongings nearby, including his gloves, a book and papers containing internet research he had done for his wedding, planned for September.Mr ap Rhys Pryce, believed to be a graduate of Trinity College, Cambridge, was taken to Central Middlesex Hospital, where he was later pronounced dead.Yesterday, police cordoned off the street and appealed for witnesses to contact them, including anyone who may have treated the attackers for any injuries suffered in the incident.The attackers appeared to have stolen cash and some of Mr ap Rhys Pryce's possessions, although it was not clear exactly what. They were last seen taking off on foot towards the nearby street of Clifford Gardens, and were described as being black, in their late teens or early 20s. Both were about 5ft 6in tall, according to witnesses, and were wearing loose clothing at the time of the attack. One of them had a hooded top."Due to the violent nature of the attack it may be that one or more of the suspects may be injured," said Det Supt Worker. "I'm appealing for anybody who may know someone that's been injured or anybody who may have treated someone in the early hours of [yesterday] morning."The victim's fiancee, also a solicitor, is said to be distraught and was staying with her family. Police said Mr ap Rhys Pryce's parents and brother live in Surrey.