Every neighbourhood will have a dedicated team of beat officers within three years, under a Home Office scheme that will recruit 19,000 more police community support officers at a cost of £340m.The rapid expansion of neighbourhood policing, to be announced by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, today, is to be accompanied by measures to give local communities a more effective say in the policing priorities, including a statutory "trigger" if their local force refuses to take action. The detailed plan published today also confirms the government's intention that every household should know how to contact local named officers, who, ministers promise, will be in the job long enough to build lasting relationships with their communities. Ministers hope that a much improved response to issues raised by the public will result in better local intelligence in targeting crime and hotspots. The old notion of "policing by consent" is to be replaced by "policing by cooperation". "We are not harking back to some mythical bygone age of policing. "There never was, in reality, a bobby on every street corner in Britain. But we do want policing to be more visible and accessible - and make the best use of the record numbers of police officers we have now," Mr Clarke said. The government intends to meet its pledge of a dedicated team in every neighbourhood by 2008. The first step is to ensure that each of the 43 police forces has at least one division which has implemented the plan by this autumn. The government expects half the country to have neighbourhood policing by the end of 2007, with full coverage by 2008. Ministers say they are flexible in their definition of "neighbourhood" - it can be a few streets, an estate in big cities, or groups of villages or parishes in the countryside. Each neighbourhood beat team will have a mix of police constables, community support officers, and other patrolling staff such as neighbourhood wardens. The mixture of professionals with support staff to maximise resources mirrors reforms in other parts of the public sector, such as the introduction of teaching assistants into the classroom. Mr Clarke hopes that the extra funding will boost community support officer numbers from the 5,000 currently recruited to 24,000 over the next three years. Their numbers will be supplemented by 12,000 constables who ministers hope will be released from paperwork duties for beat patrol by the introduction of technology, such as the new generation radio system and hand-held and in-car mobile data terminals to check on the police national computer. A date has also been put for the first time on a three-digit national non-emergency number that the public can use to report vandalism, noisy neighbours, graffiti, and other disorder issues. A pilot scheme is to run next year with full national service in by 2008. The Labour plan contrasts with the Conservative promise to employ 40,000 more officers over eight years with a pledge to scrap the recording of stop and searches to save time. Mr Clarke yesterday defended the recording of stop and search on the street, saying the police needed to explain why they were stopping people: "The paperwork involved in stop and search is not enormous. The real paperwork problem is a different one, which is the court's requirement on disclosure by the police is very substantial. That is the real problem." 