Alcohol-fuelled violence, "low-level thuggery" and better reporting levels were blamed yesterday for an 11% rise in violent crime recorded by the police between April and June.The rise masked a continuing fall in crime overall - by 5% on police figures and by 7% on the more authoritative British Crime Survey which were both published by the Home Office yesterday.The biggest falls were in domestic burglaries - down 23% on police figures, car crime which has fallen 18% and robberies down 15%. The drive against gun crime is to be intensified in the wake of annual figures showing firearms offences continuing to rise by 3% to 10,590 in the 12 months to June 2004. However, the number of people killed as a result of shootings fell from 82 to 70 over the same period. The fall may be linked to a 10% drop in the number of incidents involving a handgun and a 35% rise in the number involving a replica or imitation weapon. Home Office statisticians said that changes in the way the police record violent crime meant much of what is recorded, such as common assault, amounted to actions such as pushing and shoving, and involves little or no physical injury. The police recorded 303,000 violent incidents out of 1,447,400 offences between April and June this year. Chris Fox, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said that notwithstanding the impact of the changes, the rise was mainly the result of "low-level thuggery" and alcohol fuelled violence. "In the run up to Christmas the police will again be concentrating on these areas to reduce harm to decent members of the public and our communities," he said. The British Crime Survey, which is based on interviews with 40,000 people, shows smaller falls in these big "volume" crimes. On violent crime the BCS gives a different picture to the police figures showing a fall of 6% compared with the 11% rise recorded by the police. The risk of becoming a victim of any crime is calculated at one in four adults - the lowest level since the BCS was started 23 years ago. Nevertheless, the home secretary, David Blunkett, acknowledged that he need to take the issue of violent crime "head on", saying there was a direct link between the spread of crack cocaine and gun culture. "Recorded violence has pushed up concern. People are genuinely worried about them, so we are targeting them. Police efforts in the four cities which account for more than 75% of all firearms incidents - London, Birmingham, Manchester and Nottingham - are to be intensified in the new year to coordinate the most effective tactics and clampdown on crack houses. The shadow home secretary, David Davies, said the rise in violent crime was due to the government's failure to deal with the drink and drug problems. "It is far too easy to smuggle a weapon into the country, to convert a replica or to pick up a pistol for under £200." The Liberal Democrats' Mark Oaten said: "Today's increase in firearms offences is totally unacceptable. The government is still not doing enough to stem the flow of guns on to the streets of our towns and cities. We need a national border force to stop these weapons reaching the UK in the first place."