  Marvin Henry, 17, who was shot dead in Mill Hill. Photograph: National PicturesA 17-year-old youth killed on a north London estate may have been the victim of a pre-arranged clash between rival gangs, it was claimed today.The victim, named as Marvin Henry, was found with a fatal gunshot wound to his torso after police were called to the former Inglis Barracks site in Mill Hill following reports of youths fighting at 12.25am today.First reports claimed he had been stabbed, but residents on Bray Road, where he was found, reported hearing two or three gunshots. Police confirmed tonight that the victim was shot.Detectives were questioning 10 male youths and a 21-year-old woman, all arrested at the scene – nine of them on suspicion of murder and two on suspicion of violent disorder. The youngest is aged 14.One avenue of investigation is that the victim – known in the area as "Spooky" – may have been killed during a pre-planned fight between more than a dozen young people. Friends who laid flowers at the scene today said they thought the killing could have been linked to an "ongoing dispute" between one youth and several others in the neighbourhood.Detective Chief Inspector Nicky Wall, heading the investigation, said: "The circumstances leading up to the death are still unclear."The victim, who is known to police, is the second teenager in four days to be murdered in London, and the 17th this year.As grieving family members visited the scene, one resident described hearing a group of youths in the night then hearing gunshots.The 55-year-old, who did not want to be named, said: "There was a group of 15 or 16 youths who were all running down the alleyway. Then there was definitely two or three gunshots."A body was lying on the ground. There were two people on top of him, shouting and screaming, crying 'Oh my God.'"A procession of stunned friends, many of them teenagers, visited the spot throughout the day. One broke down as he said: "Marvin was one of the good guys. One of the quiet ones. He was no gang member."But others left messages on social networking sites referring to him as a "fallen soldier" and warning of revenge attacks.A teenage girl laying flowers said: "He loved rap. He never stopped spitting lyrics, he always talked in lyrics, he never talked properly." Asked if he had any problems, she said: "He was a teenage boy. It's just what happens here."Richard Harris, 20, whose one-year-old-son, Tyler, is Marvin's godson, said: "He wasn't one of those 'gang bang kids'. He wasn't anything like that at all. This is something outrageous."He was said to have "loads of friends" on the estate and spend a lot of his time there, though he lived half-a-mile away, where friends gathered outside the family's terraced house to console his mother, Lynette Campbell.It also emerged two of his brothers were convicted of killing a teenager. His older brother, Lloyd Henry, 23, and half-brother, Andre Campbell, 27, are serving jail sentences for killing 19-year-old Ian Page in Edgware Road in November 2006. According to friends, Marvin had recently finished at a pupil referral unit, the Pavilion Study Centre, which educates pupils excluded from mainstream schools.Among the messages left with the flowers, one read: "Love you Marvin. Wheelie those clouds!!! B." and another said: "Liccle Marvin It's Peak G. I don't even know what to say. Words can't describe how I'm feeling right now. RIP Bro."Another read: "To one of da good Brothers."In recent weeks, residents have reported problems with drug dealers, and some said "gang warfare" had broken out.He is the second teenager in less than a week to be killed in the capital. Samuel Adelagun, 16, of Newham, was shot in the chest by two gunmen wearing balaclavas in Plaistow, east London, on Saturday.