Levels of violent crime recorded by police jumped 11% in the second quarter of this year, government figures showed today.The figures included a 14% leap in offences of violence against the person - a total of 265,800 incidents from April to June compared with 265,800 in the same period last year.In all there were 303,500 violent crimes recorded in England and Wales in the three months, up from 273,100. It also emerged that more serious violent offences were increasing more quickly than minor ones.But the overall number of crimes recorded by police fell by 5% compared to the same quarter last year, including a 23% slump in domestic burglary and a 15% fall in robbery. According to the separate British Crime Survey (BCS) - which interviews 40,000 people about their experiences of crime but omits offences against under-18s and businesses - overall crime dropped by 7%.Ministers announced a new initiative to tackle gun crime in four major force areas - London, Manchester, West Yorkshire and Nottinghamshire - after provisional recorded firearms offences for the year to June showed a 3% increase overall to 10,590 incidents. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said: "There is an issue about violent crime so let's take it head-on. "We're going to target those areas of the country and those particular neighbourhoods where violent crime is being and has caused concern." There was a 15% drop in gun killings and a 10% fall in the use of handguns, the figures said, but use of rifles rose 15% and imitation or replica weapons by 35%. The BCS suggested that violent crime fell by 6% and that violence involving injury dropped by 12%. The Home Office said the rise in violent crime recorded by police was down to more people being willing to report their experiences, and more "low-level thuggery" being recorded as crimes. In further explanation, officials said figures from police forces and "anecdotal evidence" suggested violent crime was still being boosted by statistical changes to the way police record crimes - a measure introduced more than two years ago. Mr Blunkett defended the reliability of the British Crime Survey when compared with recorded crime statistics. "Crime is down and these statistics in both measures are irrefutable because they compare like with like," he said. "There are lies, damned lies and statistics and we're all familiar with them. People can manipulate statistics all they like but we have been very honest all along. We know recorded violence has pushed up concern for violence. We know people are genuinely worried about them, so we are targeting them. We're not running away from them, we're not washing our hands of them." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said increasing violent crime was "a consequence of the government's failure to deal with the drink and drug problem blighting this country".The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said: "Today's increase in firearm offences is totally unacceptable and shows that last week's tragic shooting of Danielle Beccan is not just an isolated incident." Data showed that among the overall 14% rise in offences against the person, more serious offences were increasing more quickly than less serious ones. The more serious category, including homicide and serious wounding, rose by 16% to 12,000 offences. Other offences against the person - such as less serious wounding - rose by 14% to 122,700 incidents. The remainder, comprising offences such as harassment and common assault in which no one was injured, rose by 13% to 131,200. About half of all violent crimes did not involve injury to the victim. Sexual offences jumped by 18% to 14,900 incidents, which may have been partly due to increased confidence in the way police and courts handle sex crime. Crimes recorded by police in the period totalled 1,447,400 compared with 1,526,100 in the same period in 2003. Jan Berry, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, called for more armed police to counter gun crime. "In the last six years we have witnessed a reduction of nearly 10% in the number of authorised firearms officers in the police service. "This is unacceptable at a time when increased gun crime means we should have more, not less, fully trained firearms officers available should they be required." The president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Chris Fox, said: "Our analysis of the rise in police recorded violent crime has shown that much of it represents 'low-level thuggery' and alcohol-fuelled violence."