Former Runaways bassist Jackie Fuchs has criticised Chrissie Hynde’s comments suggesting women should not make themselves targets for sexual assaults by dressing provocatively or getting drunk. Fuchs, who spoke earlier this year about having been raped by the Runaways’ manager Kim Fowley, said: “I don’t want to cast a stone at Chrissie Hynde – just at that one particular statement. Because it’s a really dangerous message.”The Pretenders’ leader, interviewed by the Sunday Times about her autobiography, had remembered an incident in which she was sexually assaulted, saying: “Technically speaking, however you want to look at it, this was all my doing and I take full responsibility … You can’t paint yourself into a corner and then say whose brush is this? You have to take responsibility. If you play with fire, you get burnt. It’s not any secret, is it?”In her book, Hynde writes: “If I’m walking around in my underwear and I’m drunk? Who else’s fault can it be? If I’m walking around and I’m very modestly dressed and I’m keeping to myself and someone attacks me, then I’d say that’s his fault. But if I’m being very lairy and putting it about and being provocative, then you are enticing someone who’s already unhinged – don’t do that. Come on! That’s just common sense. You know, if you don’t want to entice a rapist, don’t wear high heels so you can’t run from him.”Fuchs took issue with Hynde’s statements. Interviewed by Yahoo Music, she said she was bothered that Hynde had not spoken to other rape victims about their experience. “If you had seen the messages that people sent me, so many of them were about ‘I’ve always thought it was my fault’ … So this is just telling people who’ve recently gone through this experience of being raped or abused, ‘Yeah, you’re right, it is your fault.’ But there’s no such thing as asking for it. And poor judgment is not an invitation to rape, nor an excuse for it.”Fuchs agreed that women might wear high heels less often – but only because they are bad for backs and feet, not to help outrun rapists. “Are most of us really going to be able to outrun a rapist even in sneakers? And are rapists really going to look at a woman and think, ‘Nah, fuck it, she’s wearing flats’?”