Police were tonight questioning two more people in connection with the multi-million pound Securitas raid as the depot boss targeted by the gang spoke for the first time about his family's "horrific" ordeal.Colin Dixon, 51, said the "terror" he, his wife Lynn, 45, and young son Craig had experienced had amounted to the "worst night of my life" and he appealed for the public's help in catching the "terrible" gang. In a statement read to a press conference by the Securitas security director, Paul Fullicks, Mr Dixon said: "The night of Tuesday February 21 was simply the worst night of my life. "But more than that, it was the worst night in the lives of my wife, Lynn, and our son, Craig. "The terror of what happened and the horror of what might have happened is with us in every waking moment. "This horrific experience angers me beyond belief. We are a normal, law-abiding family and no-one should suffer as we have done."Mr Dixon expressed his anger towards the criminals who placed his family in "unimaginable danger".He said Craig, who only turned nine yesterday, was still in "deep shock" and would carry the experience with him for the rest of his life. "For the criminals to use me is bad enough, but to kidnap my wife and child and put guns to their heads and threaten them with death, is something so frightening that no words can convey them today."I mean, how would you have felt? All that is precious to you - your family - placed in unimaginable danger through no fault of their own, entirely because of someone else's greed. "This crime was not about money for us, it was about our survival," he added. His statement came as police announced they had arrested two men aged 33 and 55 in the Maidstone area of Kent this morning in connection with the Tonbridge raid, which ended in the early hours of Wednesday. Both are being held at a police station in the county on suspicion of conspiracy to commit robbery. Three other people arrested earlier this week remain on police bail. The assistant chief constable of Kent, Adrian Leppard, said Mr Dixon's statement was a reminder of the "callous" nature of the criminals involved in the raid. He also disclosed that a red Vauxhall Vectra found partially burning on Thursday night in the village of Leeds near Maidstone may have been used during the armed robbery. The Vectra was found alongside a Volvo saloon that may have been used by the gang to abduct Mr Dixon. Mr Leppard said the Volvo S60, which had false number plates fitted, was stolen from Krisswood Avenue, New Addington, near Croydon on the morning of February 1. The final figure for cash netted in the raid was still a mystery tonight but Mr Fullicks said the final amount - up to £50 million - may be known by Monday. Earlier, detectives released an efit of one of two men who posed as police officers to kidnap Mrs Dixon and Craig at the family's home in Herne Bay. Kent Police said the man, wearing dark police-style clothing and possibly a wig and false moustache, deceived Mrs Dixon into thinking her husband had been involved in an accident. The image shows the man as he looked when he arrived on the Dixons' doorstep. Forensic experts have also continued to examine bags of cash recovered from a white Transit van spotted by a member of the public in the car park of a hotel in Ashford. Police have confirmed that the van contained a "quantity of cash" but have yet to say whether or not they believe the money came from the Tonbridge depot. The white Renault lorry thought to have been used to remove the cash from the depot is still missing although it is now known that it had a plywood floor and a white load storage rail running round the inside. Detectives are continuing to appeal to the public for help and again urged anyone with any information to call the incident room hotline numbers - 01622 652361 or 01622 652366. Mr Leppard said police had so far taken more than 800 calls from the public to the incident room numbers.