Last week the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, announced that Police Community Support Officers will be issued with a standardised national uniform. The announcement will be welcomed by serving PCSOs everywhere, since not a day goes by without one of our number being mistaken for a traffic warden during the course of their duties.I'm not suggesting that shirtsleeve length or epaulette colour will make a difference to frontline policing. But anything that publicises the role of the civilian arm of the police force and our uniform is very welcome. Officers are often called upon to explain their role and powers to members of the public, only for them to reply: "So you're not going to give me a parking ticket then?" Let's not forget that the role of a PCSO is still very new. It didn't exist at all before the Police Reform Act of 2002, and is still evolving.The one section of the community that has no problem recognising PCSOs is the one that we deal with most often - the known criminals and young men and women who have no respect for society or the law, commonly referred to as "hoodies". These people know all too well how to identify us and the limitations of our powers. "I don't have to listen to you, coz you can't nick me, innit" they announce triumphantly."Maybe not," we retort as we dutifully gather evidence for an Asbo application, "but we can make life very difficult for you." Power of arrest or not, these groups don't like our presence, and have quickly learned that if they cross the line, we will detain them and have them arrested, acting as trained and professional witnesses to the offences that they have committed.PCSO powers are also going be standardised across the country. PCSOs have the power to detain suspects for relevant offences. However, the role of a PCSO is a non-confrontational one, and officers are instructed to withdraw and observe while making notes should a confrontational situation arise, pending the arrival of a police officer. This policy creates a direct conflict with the power to detain - the kind of conflict that leads officers to stand and watch violent crimes being committed. That behaviour, of course, does little to inspire public confidence in the role, and goes against what most people - myself included - think the job is about. After all, no one is going to criticise officers for going above and beyond the call of duty. In fact, I know plenty of officers who do so on a daily basis and have been commended for it.It was recently reported that two PCSOs stood by and observed as a man was assaulted by three teenage girls. As instructed, they radioed for support and took notes at the scene. It was left to a member of the public to intervene. These officers, it seems, were under the impression that they were forbidden from intervening, when of course they have powers under the law to get involved. Policy can be broken; the law cannot. It is this kind of ambiguity and conflict within the role that needs clarification so that this kind of situation, when police staff are reluctant or uncertain of whether or not to perform their civic duty, doesn't recur.The difficulty in instructing PCSOs to leap into confrontational and violent situations in the same way that a police constable would lies in the fact that PCSOs do not carry the protective equipment that a PC does - handcuffs, truncheon, CS gas - and if things don't go their way, they are more vulnerable and likely to get injured. Police services nationally will not, on health and safety grounds, encourage this change in policy until PCSOs are issued with more equipment and get training in how to use it safely and effectively. This change is unlikely to happen, however, as it would detract from the main purpose of PCSOs, which is community engagement and providing a highly visible presence - and the use of protective equipment incurs a considerable amount of paperwork, which would take officers off the streets.Jacqui Smith spoke out in support of PCSOs in her statement, quite rightly placing us at the centre of neighbourhood policing. The majority of intelligence reports are currently written by PCSOs, who are out and about with their ears to the ground, seeking out the kind of people that you might cross the street to avoid - and their local knowledge is becoming invaluable. We provide a useful deterrent to crime while providing reassurance to local residents. No, the job is not perfect; which is why changes and support from the home secretary are needed and welcome. Just as long as they don't include the power to issue parking tickets.