Chris Bryant: the Welsh Rugby Union can be a force in preventing domestic violenceI know, nobody loves a spoilsport. Everyone loves belting out a good old-fashioned song at the rugby. And Delilah has become an unofficial second national anthem in Wales, with its rising cadences and its flashy melodrama. Thousands love shouting “she stood there laughing”, adding “a-ha-ha-ha” for dramatic effect. Many people say they don’t even know that it’s all about killing a woman (despite the words: “I felt the knife in my hand and she laughed no more”).But here’s my problem. Domestic violence kills two women a week in the UK. All the charities that work in this field – and the police – say there’s a noticeable spike in the number of domestic violence incidents on international match weekends. All too often a first incident that goes unreported or ignored leads to a far more serious second incident. Which is why I was so proud of the Welsh Rugby Union last year when it ran its Not in My Name campaign against domestic violence. Prominent players got the message across and many clubs signed up en masse to the white ribbon campaign.But the violence continues. Women and men nurse bruises, lie for their abusive partner when they have to go to A&E and lie again when – and if – the police come calling. Thankfully, crime is low in my constituency, but nearly all the murders in my 15 years as MP for the Rhondda have been domestic. In two cases the man killed his partner and their child. Depressingly, the most recent statistics suggest that the number of such incidents is on the increase.I am not saying that singing Delilah incites violence. Of course not. There is no evidence for that. Nor am I saying it should be banned from the airwaves or that fans should be banned from singing it. But with violent crime up by 23% locally, I think we in Wales – and across the UK – have to look deep into our souls and ask why the horror of domestic violence continues unabated. Undoubtedly alcohol – and our social glorification of it – plays an important part. So do attitudes around what it is to be a “real man”.That’s why I think it would make a big difference if the WRU ran its Not in My Name campaign every year. I also think far better sex and relationship education is needed in all our schools so that people learn other ways of handling powerful emotions.Delilah comes from an era when the police would refuse even to attend “a domestic”. So I just hope that if people choose to sing it they give a thought to the victims back at home.Lots of people are indignant that I have raised this. I just hope they get equally indignant about domestic violence.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Welsh fans singing Delilah before a match, 2012.Julie Bindel: Let’s use Delilah as a brilliant example of how violent men make excusesBan Tom Jones’s Delilah? Not on your life. I am not defending its existence because it is a good tune, but because rather than glamorise violence against women, it makes plain what it is really about.The first time I clocked on to the fact that Delilah was about a man killing his wife because he believed her to have been unfaithful to him was in 1992, when I chose that song to sing at my 30th birthday party karaoke. As I read the words on the autocue, my heart sank, and a handful of feminist friends started heckling.Justice for Women (JfW), which I co-founded in 1990, is best known for its campaigns to challenge the convictions of women who have killed their abusive male partners. However, we are every bit as committed to exposing the appalling leniency with which the courts often treat cases such as the one that Jones sings about.For men who kill their partners, such as the fictional husband of Delilah, the defence of provocation, which reduces murder to manslaughter if successful, is tailor-made. It can be enough for the defendant to show that they were “provoked”, usually, it is claimed, by her “nagging” or alleged infidelity. In fact, JfW uses the shorthand “nagging and shagging” to describe these homicides. The lyrics in Delilah perfectly evoke the excuse made by many men who kill their wives The lyrics in Delilah perfectly evoke the excuse made by many men who kill their wives. I have sat in murder trials, hearing almost exactly: “She was my woman. As she deceived me I watched and went out of my mind.”These men claim ownership of their partners, and, more often than not, wait until she leaves or attempts to leave before stalking and killing her.Such men frame themselves as the victim. “I could see that girl was no good for me. But I was lost like a slave that no man could free.”Whenever JfW has defended a woman at trial who has killed her violent male partner, we would hear the judge or prosecution ask, “If she was so terrified of him, why didn’t she leave?” I have never once heard a man on trial in a Delilah case asked why he didn’t leave if she was treating him badly.Let’s use Delilah as a brilliant example within popular culture of how violent men make excuses for themselves and blame the victims for their actions. Hearing these words in the cold light of day could provoke more women into speaking out on behalf of all the real-life Delilahs.