The person arrested in connection with the murder of a 14-year-old schoolgirl in Nottingham on Saturday has been released without charge, a police spokeswoman confirmed today.Police made the arrest after Danielle Beccan was shot only yards from her home in the early hours of Saturday morning as she returned from a fairground with friends. Officers say they are baffled as to why Danielle or her friends might have been targeted by the gunmen, although witnesses said they believed the gunmen had been targeting one of the boys she was with."She was an innocent 14-year-old-girl, and I think we have to concentrate on the fact that this was a child who has been senselessly shot and killed," Sue Fish, the Nottinghamshire Assistant Chief Constable, said.Danielle's friends and relatives have been leaving dozens of messages and floral tributes at the spot where she was killed. A simple message from her mother, Paula Platt, which was attached to a toy dog, read: "We will miss you always. Our hearts are broken." Her grandfather, Alvin, spoke tearfully of his "friendly, easygoing" granddaughter. "She was just easygoing. She was a nice girl," he said. "She was popular. All the family are cut up about it." Police said they had spoken to a number of Danielle's friends, and believed another group of around 30 youngsters had been in the area at the time and could help trace the girl's killers. "We were trying to identify everybody who was with Danielle at Goose Fair," Assistant Chief Constable Fish said. "I am now confident that we have traced most of this group. We now want to trace people in another group just a few hundred yards away from where she was shot. It is a very strong possibility that these people were witnesses. "We need to know the motive [for the murder]. We need to know whether it was a case of mistaken identity." Superintendent Dave Colbeck, of Nottinghamshire police, said officers had received intelligence that there could be trouble at the annual Goose Fair. Measures had been put in place to combat any problems.