The son of a couple found stabbed to death in a maisonette in south London is today being questioned by police.Officers were called to reports of a disturbance in Campden Road, south Croydon, where they found the two bodies just before 12.20pm on Wednesday.The victims were named locally as Barry Dighton, 61, a former headteacher, and his wife, Elizabeth, 60.Their 34-year-old son was arrested at the scene and taken to a south London police station. Postmortem examinations were being carried out in Croydon. A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said they were awaiting formal identification of the victims and would not comment further.A web page set up as a tribute to the Dightons quoted a close friend, Edward Handley, as saying: "I am deeply saddened by the news. He was a very nice man and his wife was a lovely lady. They were such a kind and deeply caring couple who thought only of others."The couple had been married for 40 years and had recently moved to south Croydon to be near their son Daniel, according to the tribute.Dighton retired about three years ago as headmaster of Elmhurst school for boys in south Croydon. He was still involved in school activities and was secretary of the Croydon Schools Cricket Association.One parent, identified only as PO, left a message on the tribute page saying he had emailed his son's GCSE results to Dighton this summer even though the former headmaster had not seen his son for five years because "he made such an impact on our lives". "What a loss! Barry Dighton was one of the last of the old breed of teachers – teachers who devoted their lives to the teaching of children.""The children he taught both loved and respected him. We parents admired and respected him whilst appreciating what he was sowing into our children's lives. Mrs Dighton was the ultimate supporting wife. Mr was witty, but above all caring. He knew every boy at Elmhurst not only by name, but thoroughly."A neighbour whose son was taught at Elmhurst said the Dightons' son had worked as a classroom assistant at the school until the end of last term."The Dightons had a big house somewhere outside London but moved here to be closer to their son," said the woman, who did not want to be named."Apparently he had been offered a job in Thailand as a foreign language teacher and it fell through. He had already resigned from Elmhurst."Another neighbour, whose son was taught cricket by Dighton, said the nature of the deaths was "unbelievable". He described Dighton as "a really perfect man with a great sense of humour". "Dighton was Elmhurst school," he said.Dighton continued teaching cricket with his son after his retirement, the neighbour said. "He was an excellent head. The boys loved him. Their son was loved by a lot of the kids."Forensic officers were examining the property last night. A man who lives in the street said he realised something was wrong when he saw police running past a neighbour's window."At first we could just see two police cars but shortly after they were everywhere, with cars, vans and three ambulances and an air ambulance," he said."I saw a man with dark hair, aged in his 30s being led out in handcuffs."