As dusk falls on the Somerset resort of Weston-super-Mare the streets quieten quickly, though it is a balmy autumn evening. Women hurry home and will not venture out alone again; children are ordered in; everyone makes sure their loved ones are safe behind locked doors.A sex attacker who has struck six times in 12 days has spread fear throughout this pleasant seaside town. Though police have a description of the man they are looking for, they appear to be struggling to catch him. Extra patrols are being carried out amid concerns that the man could become even more violent and officers have handed out 10,000 personal alarms. Self-defence classes have been hastily arranged and special taxi services are being run for lone women. Community leaders are worried that the attacks are doing further damage to the name of a resort whose reputation has been tarnished in recent years by both lager louts and football hooligans. The hunt for the attacker began two weeks ago. At 10.40pm on Monday September 15, a 42-year-old woman was walking home from a friend's house along a path lined with conifers on the Bournville estate, a mile south of the town centre. A man wearing a baseball cap but with his face uncovered drew up alongside her on a mountain bike and kicked her legs from under her. As she lay on the ground, the man kicked her in the face and subjected her to a "serious sexual assault". The woman, a mother of three, punched the man and shouted. A dog barked and the man fled. The woman gave police an excellent description, which was turned into a striking efit. Aged around 20, the man had blond or bleached hair with a long fringe. He had a pointed nose and a pierced eyebrow and wore sports clothing and "chunky" trainers. Two days later the man pounced again on the same path, this time in the middle of the day. He rode up to a 22-year-old woman, grabbed at her top and hit her in the face. Next evening an 18-year-old was indecently assaulted at the same spot. The man's modus operandi appeared to be to approach his victim from behind, spin her around and sexually assault her. Tension grew on the Bournville estate. Though not the most prosperous it had previously been considered a reasonably safe, tightly knit community. The victim of the first attack, identified only as Sarah, described the impact on her and the area. "I am usually a confident person," she said. "Now I am very nervous. I am finding it hard to cope with the kids and family life. This has knocked a hole in me." She added: "It made me sick when I heard of the other attacks. I was too scared to go out. You have to walk in twos now. You don't go out by yourself, no matter what time of day it is." Others spoke about how the attacks had changed how they went about their lives. Connie Short, a 25-year-old care worker, now gets to her nightshift early to avoid walking along "that path" at dusk. "The scary thing is this guy obviously doesn't give a monkey's. He doesn't seem to care if his face is seen or not." Police worked hard to find the man - and to be seen to be taking action. A mobile police station was set up on the estate and officers on motorcycles patrolled the area. Another batch of personal alarms was arriving yesterday. After mutterings from some about vigilante action - and after men turned up on the doorsteps of people police had questioned - police appealed for calm. But three days later the attacker struck again, this time in the Earlham Grove area of the town, a mile from the Bournville estate. A 17-year-old woman was walking home in the early hours after a Saturday night out when she heard footsteps behind her. A man pushed her against a car and assaulted her. She fought back, biting him. Police said they were convinced it was the same man. Detectives investigated attacks in the town pre-dating the assault on Sarah and concluded that an attack on a 17-year-old close to Earlham Grove in the early hours of the day before the first Bournville attack was probably by the same man. Then it went quiet. Detectives were beginning to think the attacker was a holidaymaker who had moved on. But his knowledge of paths and cycleways seemed to indicate firm local links. Then last Friday a 42-year-old woman was assaulted on an Earlham Grove cycleway. The man fled after the woman activated an alarm. The police helicopter was scrambled but the attacker escaped. A team of 40 officers is now involved in the inquiry. Around 170 names have been given to the police, of which 70 have been eliminated. A profiler is helping police to prioritise which suspects to target. Community leaders are hoping the man will be caught before permanent damage is done to the town's image. A police spokesman, Darren Bane, said: "Before, if you asked someone what they knew of Weston, they would talk about sand and donkeys. Now it's becoming the place where the sex attacker is." 13 days of violence Sunday September 14, 12.30am 17-year-old woman subjected to serious sexual assault on Summerlands Road, in the Earlham Grove area, a mile from of the seafront  Monday 15, 10.40pm 42-year-old woman sexually assaulted by man on mountain bike on path in Bournville estate, a mile south of first attack  Wednesday 17, 1pm 22-year-old approached on same path by man on bike who punches her in face  Thursday 18, 9.30pm 18-year-old indecently assaulted on Bournville estate. Description matches two previous attacks on estate  Sunday 21, 3.30am 17-year-old attacked near scene of first attack  Friday 26, 10.30pm 42-year-old woman indecently assaulted on cyclepath in Milton Road area, near Earlham Grove. She activates personal alarm and attacker flees