David Blunkett today broke historical precedent when he became the first home secretary to take on the police, warning the Met that he would take it over if it failed to improve.Mr Blunkett told metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens that London's police force could be one of the first targeted by "takeover" powers to be granted to the home secretary in his police reform bill. In an interview with London's Evening Standard newspaper, Mr Blunkett said he wanted "a clampdown on the visible signs of violence and street robbery" within six months. Within two years there should be a complete sea change in the capital so people felt confident in the Metropolitan Police and safe on the streets.Issuing the ultimatum to Sir John, Mr Blunkett said: "We will give you the freedom to do the job, but if you don't do it, I'll have to intervene. "Because in the end the people of London, as with the rest of the country, will turn to me as home secretary and say what did you do about it?" It was his first explicit comment on how the new police standards unit will use its authority to take over failing divisions. The controversial bill, which is expected to have become law within the six month timescale set out by Mr Blunkett, also, for the first time, grants the home secretary powers directly to order a chief constable to take specific actions to improve a force's performance. These powers have alarmed police leaders - and Mr Blunkett's comments suggest he would be prepared to take the controversial step sooner rather than later in order to boost public confidence on violent crime. Asked how long the commissioner would be given to make an impact on street crime, Mr Blunkett told the Standard: "I think realistically we need two different time scales. "We need over this next six months to clamp down on the visible signs of violence and street robbery. "We need two years to be able to turn around the position where people genuinely feel that we are going in the right direction." The bill places great emphasis on senior police being more accountable for their performance and results. Mr Blunkett yesterday said he was interested in learning more about a computer system introduced by former mayor of New York Rudolph Giuliani when he was reformed in the NYPD in the mid-1990s, which enabled him to track the performance of each top officer and make them face up to their weak spots. Mr Blunkett said: "My job is to get resources, it's to set the framework, but it's the Met Police authority, the mayor and the Met together that will make the difference. "We need to each take responsibility for our area and be clear what it is and then hold each other to account for what happens." Scotland Yard has already moved to tackle the problem, last week re-deploying 475 officers, including 300 from the traffic department, to fight street robbery. By the end of the first week of operation safer streets there had been 1,536 arrests and the number of street crime allegations fell 12% from 511 to 452 incidents, said a Scotland Yard spokeswoman. The home secretary said his long-term aim was to increase the capital's police strength to approach New York's 42,000 officers, which would take between five and 10 years to achieve. The home office last night announced that the number of officers in the metropolitan police grew by 1,116 between March and December last year to reach 25,994. Mr Blunkett has already pledged to have 130,000 police in England and Wales by next March.