The start of a new phase in the troubled life of Maxine Carr began yesterday when she made what will almost certainly be her last appearance in public to admit a string of deception charges.After leaving the dock at Nottingham crown court, Carr, who is nearing the end of a jail sentence for giving a false alibi to her former boyfriend Ian Huntley, was whisked away by an armed police guard. Over the next few days the final touches will be made to an operation designed to allow her to be released back into the community with a new identity and police protection. She is expected to be smuggled out of Foston Hall prison in Derbyshire later in the week and will be kept in police custody until Monday when she is eligible for release on licence. From there the woman who has been characterised by sections of the media as the new Myra Hindley is expected to be set up in a safe house away from her home town of Grimsby. But at yesterday's hearing, during which Carr was given a three-year community rehabilitation order, her barrister, Michael Hubbard QC, acknowledged that she would remain a hated and hunted woman. Mr Hubbard said: "There can't be any woman in England who has been more vilified." He added that Carr, 27, faced a "wretched future; blighted, daunting, restricted". She would forever be looking over her shoulder. The barrister also claimed that the decision to prosecute Carr over the deception charges, which relate to false benefits claims and lies she told on job application forms, was politically motivated. He said: "We suggest this prosecution has the hand of the Home Office all over it." And he dismissed stories in the press suggesting Carr would start a new life abroad - the terms of the community rehabilitation make this impossible anyway - or that tens of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money would be used to pay for plastic surgery to change her appearance. Courtroom two was packed with reporters and members of the public for Carr's final appearance. Wearing a grey suit and black shirt and looking gaunt, Carr pleaded guilty to 20 offences between 1996 and 2002. The court was told how Carr's deceptions were exposed when police investigating the murders of 10-year-old friends Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman looked into her background. She lied when she applied for jobs at a frozen seafood factory, at two stores and, most importantly, when she applied for a job as a teaching assistant at St Andrew's primary school in Soham, where she got to know Holly and Jessica. She claimed to have passed 11 GCSEs and A-level English as well as completing courses in counselling and dressmak ing. In fact, she left school without any qualifications. After Carr began living with Huntley, who was found guilty of the girls' murders last year, in around April 1999 she fraudulently applied for housing benefit and other allowances. She told the authorities she lived alone and lied that Huntley was her landlord, friend or relative. Carr wiped a tear from her eye as her barrister argued that Huntley had compelled her to make the claims, which netted the couple almost £4,000. Mr Hubbard said that when Carr had been interviewed by police she claimed Huntley could be violent towards her, "kicking me with his work boots, throwing things around, smashing things, pushing me about". She told officers she stayed with him because "I love him to bits". Carr's lawyer claimed it "beggared belief" that she was now being prosecuted for offences which dated back to when she was 19. Mr Hubbard asked: "What possible public interest could it serve to prosecute her?" He suggested the case might have been pursued because some people were unhappy at the three and a half year sentence she received for conspiring to pervert the course of justice. He reminded the court that the home secretary, David Blunkett, had personally intervened this year to change the rules on an early release scheme for which Carr might have been eligible, to stop her getting out of jail sooner. Turning to the media's reaction, Mr Hubbard said elements of the press had launched a "sustained attack" on Carr, turning a "wretched woman" into "copy fodder". He described some of the claims about the arrangements which were being made for her as "fairy tales" and said they continued to "stoke up the fires of public indignation and wrath against her". Mr Hubbard said she was hoping for "closure" by pleading guilty to the deception charges and concluded that she had one request - "that she may be left in peace to recreate within herself a new heart and that she may be free to live her life again". The prosecution and the Home Office denied the case had been politically motivated.