Senior policeman are not known for their incisive insights into society's ills. Traditionally they never stray far beyond the often-mundane world of day-to-day policing.But Sir Ian Blair, commissioner of the Metropolitan police, is different. In fact, he arguably has a better reputation as social commentator than he does as a policeman.It is difficult to imagine any other senior policeman discussing family dynamics and the care of vulnerable children in connection with gun crime. But for the man known in the force as being "relentlessly politically correct," it is nothing new.But many believe he may now be on to something in his remarks to the Guardian today about gang culture.He said he wants the child protection system to be used to protect children from gang violence. He added that children who face pressure from older siblings to join gangs should be placed on the children protection register and in extreme cases be taken into care.Sir Ian says that this kind lateral thinking is needed to tackle the alarming spate of gang-related murders. "The solutions to the problem of youth violence go far wider than policing. There is a need to think outside the box ... we should be thinking about how to stop children drifting into gangs."Is he thinking outside the box, or to use another management cliché, is he trying to pass the buck?Child protection registers are confidential lists of children and young people believed to be at risk of harm, held by social workers and others. They are designed to help various agencies watch out for and prevent the abuse of children within the home.Liz Davies, senior lecturer in social work at London Metropolitan University, says they could also be used to protect the victims of gangs.She says: "Child victims of gangs are certainly at high risk of significant harm. Children are used to carry weapons and drugs, to sell stolen property or for sexual exploitation. They are lured into belonging to the gangs by a well-recognised system of grooming followed by indirect and direct threats if they attempt to escape."She claims that current child protection policy focuses on socially excluded children, but it can miss families who are vulnerable to pressure from local criminals.She says: "The child protection register would be an excellent mechanism for ensuring that agencies work together attending to the safety of all children in the family."But she points out that Sir Ian's comments come as such registers are being phased out in many areas.George Hosking, chief executive of the Wave Trust, a charity set up to tackle violence and child abuse, also broadly supports Sir Ian's comments.He said: "Having an older sibling in a gang does make children more vulnerable to violence. The research evidence strongly supports that."He adds: "It is excellent that the police are talking about preventative solutions rather than just reacting after the event. Prevention is much more effective and cost effective. My only hesitation is that I'm not sure how effective the child protection registers are at preventing abuse. They can flag up problems but local authorities do not have enough resources to do much about it."He adds: "No one likes putting children into care and the outcomes for children placed in care are not good, but there are circumstance where it is right to step in."Pam Hibbert, principal policy officer for the children's charity Barndardo's has more serious doubts about Sir Ian's remarks."We question whether formal involvement with the child protection system is necessarily the way to go," she says.She points to the link between children who are taken in to care and those who end up in prison later in life."The child protection system may help some children at risk from gangs, but it should not be an automatic route. It is already very overstretched," Ms Hibbert says.She adds that it would be "very difficult" to prove that a child is at risk of harm because an older sibling is involved in violent gangs.The Reverend Nims Obunge, chief executive of the anticrime group the Peace Alliance, is also weary of Sir Ian's suggestion."It is right to focus on prevention. But you have to be careful about the child protection register. Families immediately think it's about taking children away from them."The state cannot raise children. The key thing is that there has to be support for vulnerable young children and families."He says the child protection system should only be in extreme cases.