It becomes clearer by the day that justice minister Jack Straw, who allowed mass murderer Pinochet to escape the consequences of his actions, is not prepared to show the same degree of mercy to working-class people. So if any of his constituents in working-class Blackburn fall foul of the law, they should not look to their MP for compassion, or justice for that matter.Hot on the heels of his refusal to accept the parole board's recommendation to release Ronnie Biggs, our justice minister – and one-time firebrand president of the National Union of Students – has refused to pardon football supporter Michael Shields, who was jailed in Bulgaria in 2005 for the attempted murder of a barman. Shields has always vehemently denied the offence and his campaign has attracted massive support. Initially jailed for 15 years, his term was cut to 10 and, in 2006, he was transferred to a jail in England. He is now in an open prison and is due to be released in 11 months.The rights and wrongs of Shield's conviction are too many and varied to go into here; suffice to say that the Bulgarian legal system has been heavily criticised in the European parliament and that, of the seven witnesses who "identified" him as the attacker, five of them did so in court, in a heavily guarded dock and when his photograph had been splashed across the Bulgarian media in the weeks before the trial.But as so often with this government, it is not so much the decisions they take as the shabby manner in which they conduct their business. In parliament, some weeks ago, Gordon Brown told a Labour MP that Straw's decision on Shields's pardon would be relayed to his solicitors. Instead, yesterday, the 22-year-old was called up to the governor's office in his prison and handed a 50-page document "explaining" the reasons for the refusal to grant a pardon. According to his solicitor, John Wheate, the language in the document is so technical that "after 37 years of working in the law, it will take me three days to decipher it." As with most prisoners in open conditions, Shields is eligible for day release and home leaves. He was due to take a four-day leave this Tuesday, but it was cancelled because of potential media interest. So, a lad who had hoped to be pardoned this week is knocked back, in language difficult for a layman to decipher and then told that a leave-earned by good behaviour is cancelled through no fault of his own.The decision to undertake a review of Shields's conviction and consider a pardon came only after the family sought a judicial review of Straw's refusal to consider a pardon, on the grounds that he did not have the power to do so. It took the high court to tell the minister of justice that he had the power to grant a pardon to a citizen of the UK. Two months ago, Merseyside police finished their investigation into Shields's conviction and reported to the Ministry of Justice. The family believe the report contains information that will further their cause. Either way, they may never know – they were told they could not see the report's findings and a recent Freedom of Information request to be allowed to do so has been rejected.Michael Shields's father asks if Straw would treat his own children in this way? Of course he wouldn't. But then, there's one law for them – and the Pinochets of this world – and another for the working class.