Michael Howard today rejects criticism of his Tory conference attack on visible policing levels on the streets of Brixton by repudiating "selective statistics" and insisting that recorded crime has risen by nearly 850,000 under Labour.In an article in today's Guardian the Conservative leader singles out last Friday's Guardian comment by Polly Toynbee which reported widespread anger in the south London neighbourhood following Mr Howard's speech to his party conference in which he said he had walked the streets of Brixton for two hours without meeting "a single policeman". One Brixton chief inspector was quoted in Ms Toynbee's article saying: "Basically Mr Howard, go and shove it." Tony Blair attempted to embarrass Mr Howard over his Brixton comments yesterday in a speech laying out his vision for a third term Labour government. He said: "When Michael Howard told his story about visiting Brixton and finding no police, it took the borough commander and outraged residents to point out that numbers of police were at record levels and crime had fallen not risen in Brixton." In his Guardian article today, Mr Howard counters that line of attack. He writes that there is widespread and real concern among voters - black and white - about the absence of police on the beat: "Polly Toynbee and the Guardian don't apparently share this concern. They've howled in protest at my comments and demanded an apology. "But no one has contradicted what I said - for the simple reason that I spoke the truth." Mr Howard, who has made fear of crime a major feature of his key pledges ahead of the coming election, rejects charges that his Bournemouth speech carried "racist overtones". He also cites expert claims that the British Crime Survey figures cited by Ms Toynbee are significantly flawed, not least because they concentrate on mainstream high volume crime, but exclude important categories like murder and drug dealing.Calling for "an honest and reasonable debate on crime and the causes of crime", he implicitly acknowledges the point made by Brixton police chiefs that overall crime has fallen - a point generally accepted by experts. "This is welcome, and I am happy to congratulate the police for their success. But [Polly Toynbee] failed to mention that violent crime in Lambeth has risen by almost 10% in the last five years. Violent crime really frightens people - and a police presence on the streets helps to reassure the public." Mr Howard highlights his record as home secretary when, ignoring official advice and working closely with the police, he saw crime fall by "nearly a million a year". Ironically the British Crime Survey, which he has pledged to abolish, confirms that crime has fallen since 1995 - when he was still in office - but says it has continued to fall. 