The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday April 9 2007David Ramsbotham, not Ramsbottom as originally given below, is the former chief inspector of prisons. This has now been corrected.The appalling murder of James Bulger only partially explains the intensification in punishment in the last 15 years (Bulger, Blunkett, and the making of a 'prison fetish', March 31). To fully understand what has happened it is important to ask why some victims of crime have become the focus of political, media and judicial attention, while others, such as women and children murdered by their relatives, whose numbers are much higher, have not received the same scrutiny.It would also mean asking why those relatives, who speak in the voice of reconciliation and forgiveness, such as the mother of the brutally murdered Anthony Walker, have not received the same media coverage or political attention in the aftermath of the initial crime.But such language does not chime with the populist rhetoric articulated by politicians, the media and the judiciary. Furthermore, pragmatic expediency dominates the current debate on law and order which then allows politicians, in particular, to ignore the research which indicates that the public, and victims of crime, may be less retributive if the nuances in sentencing are explained to them.If the government is serious about change, then ministers should think about: introducing a moratorium on prison building; redirecting the criminal justice and prison budgets towards crime prevention and radical alternatives to prison; developing different training and promotion programmes for prison officers; and fundamentally reappraising the training of the judiciary and the culture within which they operate.Prof Joe SimLiverpool John Moores UniversityIt was a pity that the excellent leading article on our prison population (UK headed for prison meltdown, March 31) did not make a special feature of our treatment of children and young people in our penal institutions.Buried with all the other statistics was the information that "we lock up 23 children per 100,000 population, compared with six in France, two in Spain and 0.2 in Finland". A major cause of this "Bulger" effect is the extraordinarily low age of criminal responsibility in England and Wales, which is even worse in Scotland. The European range is from eight to 16 with the mode figure of around 13. The effect of the Asbo regime exacerbates the problem.We are running into difficulties with such needs as cross-border bail and probation in the EU as a result. The EU needs an approximation of the age of criminal responsibility and, as the unruly very young often have social/psychological problems, we need to explore alternative solutions to penal ones. I am sponsoring, with the aid of David Ramsbotham, a new organisation to be launched later this month and we will be pressing the issue in the context of discrimination against foreigners within the EU. I would invite those who are concerned to contact me.Stephen Jakobi Richmond, Surrey stephenjakobi@compuserve.comMore than 10 years of "toughness" rhetoric, populist punitiveness and counter-productive policy making have finally caught up with the government. The penal system is now forced to rely on cells in magistrates courts, police stations and temporary units within already overcrowded prisons to absorb surplus prisoners - the human spillage of a system that is out of control. The excessive incarceration of children, women and the mentally ill is particularly problematic. The ultimate irony of such human degradation is that it will soon be located within a newly established Ministry of Justice. Where is the justice in any of this?Professor Barry GoldsonUniversity of LiverpoolSo, the prison population in England and Wales has exceeded 80,300? In Long Term Trends in the Prison Population to 2007, published in February 2000, the high variant projection was for an average of precisely 80,300 in England and Wales in 2007 (see homeoffice.gov.uk/rds/pdfs/hosb200.pdf) The projections bulletin also described the underlying trends in sentencing which had caused the prison population to rise at a rate which had accelerated from 1994. So ministers could hardly claim that they hadn't been warned. Philip WhiteMonmouth