No direct link exists between the numbers of police in a constabulary and its ability to cut crime, Jack Straw said yesterday referring to figures prepared by Her Majesty's inspectorate of constabulary and the Home Office.The home secretary intends to apply the figures in a reform of the police forces that is designed to improve leadership and instigate a searching inspection regime for the basic command units. But the figures will also provide useful political cover for Mr Straw after he was forced to admit yesterday that total police numbers were still falling, despite announcements to recruit an 5,000 officers over 10 years. "The suggestion has been that in those areas where police numbers have risen, there has been a reduction in crime and in those areas where police numbers have fallen, there is an increase in crime," said Mr Straw. "But there is no correlation whatsoever between the two, none whatsoever". Ministers concede that if there is an election next spring, they will have to face the electorate with overall police numbers lower than at the time of the 1997 general election, potentially a serious embarrassment. Yesterday Mr Straw released an analysis showing that in the 25 forces in which crime rose in 1999-2000, there was a 1.5% fall in officer numbers. In the 18 other forces where crime fell, there was only an average 1.6% drop in officers. He also said that among the 25 forces which oversaw rises in crime, 68% had fewer officers. In the remaining 18 crime-cutting constabularies more than 80% had fewer officers. Mr Straw admitted police numbers had fallen by a further 213 between March and September, representing an overall fall of 2,900 since the general election. Despite earmarking extra funds solely for officer recruitment, Labour has acknowledged that police numbers will not reach the 1997 levels until 2002. Mr Straw added that there was also no clear correlation between improved police budgets and crime levels. Some police forces, aware they were under a fiscal squeeze, had responded by deploying their officers more effectively, he said. The Home Office had tried to reverse the tide by increasing the pay of Metropolitan police officers by £3,300 a year, but the increase had simply led to 200 home counties police applying for transfers to the Met's force. The home secretary is deeply frustrated that overall recruitment was held back by the slow pay-out of extra funds allocated to home counties' forces. He wants police officers within 30 miles of London to be paid an extra £2,000. Yesterday Mr Straw branded the independent police negotiating board, responsible for allocating the extra cash to police forces, as byzantine. The shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said Mr Straw was "entirely to blame" for the fall in police numbers. "If it goes on at this rate, the police will find they cannot do things they should be doing because they don't have the manpower," she said.