The family of murdered schoolgirl Alice Gross will ask for an inquiry into whether British authorities ever knew her killer was a convicted murderer before he attacked her.Arnis Zalkalns, a builder from Latvia, killed 14-year-old Alice last August before weighing down her body on a river bed in west London. Zalkalns then took his own life.He had been allowed into Britain in 2007 despite a previous conviction in Latvia for murdering his wife and concealing her body.Alice’s family will ask a coroner on Monday to set up a wider inquiry into whether British authorities ever knew about Zalkalns’s homicidal past. A pre-inquest hearing is due at West London coroner’s court, where the scope of the inquiry into the death of the gifted teenager may be decided.Alice’s family want an investigation into whether British authorities breached their obligations under the European convention on human rights and whether European Union countries shared information on highly dangerous offenders. Article 2 of the ECHR protects the right to life.In 2009, Zalkalns was arrested by the Metropolitan police over an alleged indecent assault of a 14-year-old girl in west London. It is not known whether British police knew of his murder conviction during that investigation. That case was dropped, police say, after the girl declined to make a statement.In a statement, Alice’s family said: “Losing Alice has left a hole in our lives that can never be filled. But our questions about why the authorities knew nothing about her murderer, despite his previous conviction and arrest, can and should be answered. We hope the coroner will agree.”Coroner Chinyere Inyama will make the decision. If he rejects the family’s plea then the inquest would be a relatively narrow one. Coroners have the power to turn their inquest into a wider inquiry and to make recommendations to prevent further deaths.The Gross family are being supported by the civil rights group Liberty. Emma Norton, a solicitor for Liberty, said: “This government wants to monitor all emails or mobile phones, but does not want to know if someone has a murder conviction. A murder conviction is something the authorities ought to know about.“The state has a positive obligation to protect people from a known risk, in this case someone who was a violent offender.”Norton added: “What happened to Alice appears to have come about, in part, because the authorities knew nothing about this man. Alice’s family want to know why this was the case. Did an information-sharing system break down? Does it even exist? Whatever the answer, they want to do something about it.”Alice’s family say they do not want their daughter’s death exploited by anti-immigration groups: “We believe in freedom of movement and human rights, as did Alice, and we repeat our request that her death not be appropriated by those with an anti-immigration agenda.“We live in a multicultural and multifaith area, and our community has been extraordinary in its unity, sympathy, compassion and support for our family since our daughter was taken from us in this brutal and senseless way.”Zalkalns avoided facing justice for Alice’s death by killing himself and his body was found by police days after they had recovered the girl’s body following a wide-ranging search lasting weeks.Scotland Yard has said there was enough evidence to have charged Zalkalns had he lived and the probable motive for his crime was sexual.Alice was last seen on 28 August 2014 after going for a walk. Police believe Zalkalns came across Alice during her final walk along a canal towpath.One week later, Zalkalns, 41, was reported missing from his west London home.After a month of searches, Alice’s body was recovered from the Brent river on 30 September, after it had been deliberately weighed down by parts of a tree trunk.On 4 October, Zalkalns’s body was found hanging from a tree in dense woodland in Boston Manor park, west London.A music fund has been set up in Alice’s name, Alice’s Youth Music Memorial Fund.