Hard drug use among criminals has reached unprecedented levels, with 60 per cent of offenders admitting to taking heroin and more than half to using crack less than a month before their arrest. A survey of people in police custody over the past year shows that class A drugs are being used with staggering frequency. In questionnaires answered anonymously, 57 per cent admitted to taking heroin in the past 30 days. Fifty-two per cent had taken crack and 13 per cent cocaine, while 48 per cent had smoked cannabis. Previous estimates of criminal drug use, using urine tests, put opiate use at 30 per cent and cocaine and crack use at 20 per cent. The findings will embarrass Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, who pledged at the Labour conference in 1996 to curtail the rise in drug addicts and drug-related crime. Labour then said that heroin addicts steal goods worth £1.3 billion each year and that prison sentencing is likely to harden the addiction, leading to further crime after release. Straw then blamed the courts for not forcing offenders through treatment programmes. While funding has risen under Labour, the number of people sent to jail for drugs offences has risen from 8,788 in 1996 to 11,275 in 1999. Police expressed alarm at the level of drug use and added that the survey was a reliable snapshot of drug use among criminals. 'Nobody wants to see drug use figures this high,' said Superintendent Chris Miles, head of the Metropolitan Police's Drugs Directorate, 'but at the least the people identified in this survey can then receive help for their problem. 'We have to get real about drugs and the fact that they are a problem. The way people answer this questionnaire has no consequence on the way we deal with the offence for which they are arrested. We are thus confident that it is fairly representative.' Offenders were asked to join the survey if they had asked to see a police care worker while in police custody. Police pointed out that offenders more vulnerable to drug problems were targeted by the survey - the London Arrest Referrals Monitoring Database (LARMD) - but stressed it was among their best methods of assessing the problem of criminal drug use more generally. 'This shows alarmingly high use of hard drugs in the criminal population' said a Liberal Democrat spokesman. 'Although the Government seems to be making some progress in funding drug treatment, current measures to aid addicts and the crime they commit are not nearly enough. There needs to be much greater emphasis on treatment and rehabilitation.' Mike Hough, a criminologist at South Bank University who assessed the data, added: 'These figures show a trend in the drug-using criminal population towards crack use and poly-drug use.' The New Adam survey last year showed 69 per cent of people arrested had taken some controlled drug. The survey asked offenders if they wanted to give a sample for testing. Many refused, and only certain offenders were eligible for the trial. In the LARMD survey, the average profile of the hard drug user was a white male, aged between 20 and 24. The survey found 29 per cent spent over £500 a week on drugs, and 30 per cent between £200 and £499. Three quarters of respondents were unemployed. Labour have made tackling drug abuse a priority if they gain another term. They want to reduce by a quarter the proportion of people aged 16-24 using class A drugs by 2005. A Labour source said: 'There is no magic wand to cure this problem. We have invested heavily in treatment programmes and the National Treatment Agency to ensure there is a better provision of treatment.'