The Home Office yesterday attracted fresh criticism of its handling of the Lawrence inquiry report after it attempted to distance itself from the security blunder which led to the identity of police informants being made public.Amid continuing recriminations over the accidental publication of more than 30 names and addresses of people who helped police investigating the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence, Paul Boateng, Home Office minister of state, told the Commons that the Home Secretary deeply regretted the error. But to the jeers of Opposition MPs and the dismay of some Labour backbenchers, he refused to accept that his department was at least partly at fault. Although officials had the report for 10 days before it was published, it would not have been proper for them to have edited the report or second guessed the inquiry's thinking on which people could be identified, Mr Boateng insisted. There was also considerable anger over the failure of Mr Straw to explain the debacle in person. He was out of the country for what officials would describe only as a long-standing private engagement.  Downing Steet attempted to play down his absence, insisting it had been agreed with the Conservatives and the Speaker, who had already received a full explanation from Mr Straw for the sudden withdrawal of the appendices less than 24 hours after the publication of the report. In a letter to Mr Straw yesterday, Sir William Macpherson, chairman of the inquiry, expressed his "deepest apologies" for the mistake and said the document should never have been included in any form. But the Opposition accused the Government of a "catalogue of errors" over the report. Claiming that senior officials should have spotted and corrected an error of such magnitude, John Greenway, the shadow home affairs spokesman, said ministers were trying to cover up their negligence and wriggle out of an embarrassing mess by blaming others. John Austin, Labour MP for Erith and Thamesmead, a neighbouring constituency to Eltham, south-east London, where Stephen Lawrence was murdered in April 1993, said people in the area would greet the Government's explanation of the error with disbelief. It was astonishing, he said, that the Home Office could have had the report for so long without the mistake being spotted. "I appreciate Mr Straw may not have felt it appropriate for him to veto or amend the report in any way - but surely someone in the Home Office could have had the wit to telephone Sir William and say: 'Look, there are names and addresses of sensitive witnesses and informants here'." When the blunder was revealed on Thursday, it prompted concern for the safety of the people named as helping police. But although one of them, Barry Nugent said he was considering suing, it became clear yesterday that the security implications may not have been as serious as first thought.  Much of the concern focused on the safety of the family who allowed police to use their home as a base for the surveillance operation observing the five suspects. The address was revealed in the appendix, but it emerged yesterday that the family moved out six months ago. Two of the most important witnesses - referred to as K and B - named in the appendix were already known to the five murder suspects. 