The news that the CO19 branch of the Metropolitan police has been sending officers armed with sub-machine guns to carry out routine "proactive" patrols in "hotspots" London, has alarmed many of us engaged in civil liberties and community policing. And reports that they are now going to do twice as many armed patrols, in Brixton, Haringey and Tottenham, is enough to make many people feel that we have moved into a parallel universe where London becomes Rio, or Baltimore, where gun-related murders happen every day.For London, armed foot patrols are a drastic departure from normal policing tactics. We've heard that this change was done without authorisation from senior ranks or from the Metropolitan Police Authority. Not to mention leaving out the normal practice of testing such changes by consulting local area representatives on the possible social impact. The justification being used for this unprecedented move is that gun crime is on the increase, apparently the borough police themselves asked for the patrols. But I suspect that the commissioner, the mayor and the police authority will not support this reasoning. Decisions of this magnitude need thorough debate.The change was also made without any discussion of the rules of engagement – exactly how does one use a Heckler & Koch at 800 rounds per minute on densely populated housing estates and streets if you meet a sudden threat? This move has all the necessary ingredients of a tragedy waiting to happen. Reactive armed policing is very different. There is usually some foreknowledge of numbers, range, area etc but unexpected encounters with gunmen can make for unpredictable outcomes.Even highly trained officers can make mistakes. I don't mean the kind of stupid mistakes that lead to the death of Jean Charles de Menezes, I mean the kind of mistake where you shoot yourself in the foot and leg when your gun gets caught in your clothing (Jan 2006), or where you shoot a fellow officer in the chest on a firing range. Guns are dangerous weapons, even in skilled hands.Then there is the crucial question, would it even work? At best it would probably cause the displacement of violent crime; criminals would use areas that aren't patrolled. At worst, it could change our attitude to guns. So that the more we see guns around, the more they become normal to us, which could drive up gun use rather than reduce it. It is doubtful that it could have much impact on gang activity –– such armed patrols would be easy to avoid.Lastly, I can't believe that the sight of a policeman with a machine gun will make people feel safer. The majority of us want fewer guns on our streets, not more. Are we heading down a slippery slope towards armed rather than community policing? Manoeuvres of this kind can only ratchet up tension and fear of crime, not defuse it.In my nine years on the police authority I have worked with three commissioners who have all stated categorically that they did not want to run an armed force. We now need Paul Stephenson to take control of the situation. He must find the officers responsible for the decision to overturn a fundamental tenet of British policing, find the mechanism by which they authorised this new form of policing and make sure it doesn't happen again. When that's done, he should also check every area of the Met to make sure that there are no other unusual tactics being tested without his knowledge.The Met must stop these patrols immediately and take advice from experts on genuinely proactive ways to prevent gun crime.