The prisons in England and Wales will be full until October at least, with inmates "locked out" in police cells for a further four months, the head of prison service told MPs last night.The director general, Martin Narey, also confirmed to the Commons home affairs select committee that spending negotiations between the chancellor, Gordon Brown, and the home secretary, David Blunkett, over his bid for 10,800 more prison places have still not been resolved. Mr Narey said the record 71,400 jail population was only a couple of hundred short of the "usable prison capacity" and 111 inmates were being kept in police cells yesterday. "It would be very unusual if the population did not fall in the next couple of weeks. In October we have 1,000 new places coming on stream and I hope that will get us out of police cells," the director general told MPs. He said he thought it unlikely that future numbers would hit the official statistical projection of a prison population of 80,000 by 2004. Asked how much extra funding the prison service is to receive as a result of the comprehensive spending review, Mr Narey said he did not yet know. The chancellor told the Commons on Monday that Mr Blunkett would announce details of the prisons and probation budgets when he launched his criminal justice white paper on Wednesday, but that did not happen. "I hope to get a full picture in the next few days," Mr Narey said. It appears that Home Office discussions with the Treasury over the asylum budget are also not yet resolved. Stephen Boys Smith, director of the Home Office's immigration and nationality directorate, said £700 million a year was allocated for asylum work. He told the MPs that around 40% of asylum applicants were given refugee status or exceptional leave to remain and so were "legitimately here". When pressed as to what had happened to 23,000 asylum seekers whose appeals had been rejected but who had not been removed, Mr Boys Smith admitted that "a large number of them have remained in the country. There is nothing new in that. But a number of the people also leave voluntarily and try their luck elsewhere. Quite a few turn to North America in particular." The MPs were also given an update on the situation at the new criminal records bureau by the Home Office's permanent secretary, John Gieve. He admitted it had had a very bad start but said it was in recovery and should meet its targets to issue new applications within three weeks by the end of the summer. The CRB has had to sub-contract some of its work to India to help overcome the backlog in applications it faces. More than a million people, including teachers, social workers and others who work with children, need a certificate showing they have no relevant criminal convictions when they apply for a job. Mr Gieve said he could not give a guarantee every new teacher who was due to start work in the new school year in September would have the necessary certificate - he said some teachers might apply the day before the school term began. But most would get partial clearance using the previous system run by the Department for Education and Skills.