Broken Britain is the refrain. Over and over David Cameron blows on the embers of moral panic about an underworld of no-go areas marked on the Tory map as "here be dragons". It's easy to do – all oppositions do it, and the media does it daily. Take any heart-stopping crime and call it a symptom of our fractured, atomised society. Take any lonely death or neglected child and ha! You see! That's what has become of us! Here we go, off to hell in a handcart.But the old trope has been so clumsily used by this generation of Conservatives that it has ended up revealing more about their social isolation than about Labour or society. This shrunken band of Tory MPs knows less than they once did about the great tracts of Britain they don't represent. The "Broken Britain" slogan came from Iain Duncan Smith's report after visiting places he'd never seen. Through social ignorance they assume the newsworthy 2% living profoundly dysfunctional lives represent all the poor, most of whom work.Take Chris Grayling's ill-fated comparison of Broken Manchester with The Wire. Baltimore, where the TV series is set, had five times more gun murders than all of Britain, which had the fewest since 1989. The Conservatives are in trouble if they can't use crime as their Broken Britain battle flag. Crime has fallen fast since 1995, murder down, violent crime down 41%, though the reasons why are debatable. The right says it was Michael Howard's "prison works" policy adopted by Labour, with its bursting prisons. But crime fell right across developed countries with and without high use of prison. Is it more police, as Labour boasts? Sir Ian Blair finds no evidence that more police means less crime. It might be because IQ levels and education are rising across the west, or just fewer young men of crime-prone age.Cameron is unlucky that crime is not rising. Jacqui Smith, as home secretary, warned that recession would bring a crime wave: last time burglary, robbery and theft rose by 19% in 1990, up another 18% in 1991. The government holds its breath in case of a time lag – but it hasn't happened. Despite recession, burglary is down again by 8%, robbery by 9%. How can Cameron plough on with Broken Britain, except by lying?The other emblem of brokenness is moral decay. But when last month's Conservative report, Labour's Two Nations, with a foreword from David Cameron, claimed – three times – that more than half of teenage girls get pregnant in poor areas (real figure 5.4%, teen pregnancy down, not up), it exposed the social cluelessness among those who would govern a country unknown to them. No wonder their solutions inhabit a zone of unreality – less government, less credits, more marriage. Cameron's delusional answer to poverty this week was: "By unleashing a wave of volunteering, together we can make sure far fewer people get left behind."In his Hugo Young lecture Cameron laid audacious claim to be the party to solve poverty. He acknowledged the damage done by inequality: "more unequal countries do worse according to every quality of life indicator," he said, but then immediately contradicted it: "That doesn't mean we should be fixated only by a mechanistic objective like reducing the Gini co-efficient", the measure of inequality. Yet his most effective Broken Britain attacks are on Labour's failure to close exactly that Gini co-efficient gap.That's where Broken Britain draws blood from Labour, as the UK stays bottom of most EU tables for poverty, inequality and social mobility. Children who have free school meals are 19% behind average standards when they arrive at primary school, and 28% behind at age 16. Labour has tried hard, but not hard enough. State schools are now more socially segregated than before 1997 – why not lotteries for places in oversubscribed schools? Unemployment has stayed low on EU scales, but work doesn't always pay – the majority of the poor are in work, but the pay gap between skilled and unskilled rises by nearly 2% every year: why no living wage and no high pay commission to curb excess at the top? Labour's property boom split homeowners from the rest. Everyone got healthier, but the mortality gap widened. Labour let undertaxed wealth and income be sucked upwards, tax credits and social programmes running to catch up.Cameron scores another hit with cultural brutishness. Saturday night Britain looks broken by drunkenness: Labour caved in to the booze industry and let prices fall lower than for decades. Even odder is Labour's gambling boom, 350 new gambling establishments in London in just five years, gambling ads on television legalised, plus 16 large casinos under construction. Now Labour is allowing product placement in TV programmes. But expect no Conservative promise to face down commercial interests.Broken is when so many work hard at essential jobs, but still can't earn a way out of poverty. Broken is when a quarter breaks off at the bottom and the growing gap affects everyone: even the richest are less happy. Fear and isolation replace trust when people no longer belong to the same society, unknown to each other and mutually despising.But how can Cameron make use of that genuine brokenness? The chasm yawns between his critique and his remedies – marriage, a few small schools and volunteers. His pupil premium was exposed by the Institute for Fiscal Studies this week, his schools will widen social segregation and cut funds for the rest. His "radical reform of welfare" is ominous. Every Broken Britain attack carries an unspoken threat: "billions have been poured into tax credits and social programmes and the failure persists" Cameron says. That useful cover spreads a "nothing works" nihilism to allow cuts to things that certainly work, but need more not less to reverse inequality.What's unknown is whether Cameron believes what he says. If he does, he may be shocked as poverty soars when volunteers and marriage fail to compensate for cuts. Naivety or cynicism, it hardly matters. Broken Britain began as a clever slogan – but as the election approaches a critique is not enough. The more strident his claims of moral and social fracture, the more broken-backed Cameron's solutions look. Broken Britain risks becoming another embarrassment in his campaign.• Is Britain really broken? Polly Toynbee joins a panel including shadow minister for universities David Willetts, Revered Giles Fraser, Kids Company founder Camila Batmanghelidjh and Guardian columnist Jonathan Freedland, on Monday March 8 at 7pm, Kings Place, York Way, London N1. For discounted £9.50 tickets go here.