Jenny Roberts, who has died of cancer aged 70, was an inspirational leader of the probation service in Hereford and Worcester, and had a powerful influence on policy and practice at national level. Her work with female offenders, in particular, was grounded in her own understanding of the special needs of women in a system where insistence on equal treatment, for all its other benefits, had caused their situation to be marginalis- ed and their needs submerged.While assistant chief probation officer in Nottinghamshire, she set up an outstanding workshop, where offenders were given the chance to develop basic skills. Over half of those who attended found employment within six months and the reoffending rate was halved. That was followed by an ambitious day centre, Rainbow, which she established after her move to Staffordshire in 1979.Later, as chief probation officer in Hereford and Worcester, she introduced a series of programmes based on similar principles, which also underpinned two Asha women's centres, in Worcester and Kidderminster. These are voluntary organisations offering a women-only environment and providing advice, counselling, training, education, recreation and healthcare. Special recognition was given to the needs of women from minority ethnic groups, and each centre had a creche. Asha, meaning "peace" in Hindi, was the achievement of which Jenny herself was most proud.She made major contributions at national level too. She was a member of Lord Carlisle's committee on the parole system, whose 1988 report formed part of the foundation of the 1991 Criminal Justice Act. As a leading member of the Association of Chief Officers of Probation (ACOP), and as its chair in 1992-93 (the first woman to hold that position), she helped to guide the service through a difficult period, when its practice was changing to take account of the Criminal Justice Act. She worked with the Prison Reform Trust's Commission on Justice for Women (2000), and had a large influence on the recommendations of Lady Corston's 2007 report on provision for vulnerable women. When ministers wanted to see how the recommendations in the report could be brought to life, officials were dispatched to visit Asha.Jenny directly supported the work of the women's policy team in the Ministry of Justice. Organisations in Australia, the Irish Republic and Northern Ireland consulted her about centres on the same lines as Asha, and only a month before she became ill, she was in Glasgow advising on similar types of provision.She was born Jenny Dunton in Sevenoaks, Kent – the family later settled in Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex. Jenny attended Bexhill girls' grammar school and later read modern languages at King's College London. This included a year at the Sorbonne in Paris, where her love of jazz was fine-tuned. After working for a time at the BBC and then at the Royal College of Physicians, she decided she wanted to be a probation officer. In 1966 she went to the University of Nottingham and completed a one-year postgraduate course in social work.In 1967 she was appointed to the Nottinghamshire probation service and worked successfully for three years, during which time she was married, before leaving to give birth to her daughter Sophie in 1970. Sophie was found to have cerebral palsy and other neurological conditions and Jenny subsequently found herself a single parent, living on benefits. This experience spurred Jenny on to help other disadvantaged women.She moved to Staffordshire as assistant chief probation officer in 1979, and was appointed chief probation officer of the Hereford and Worcester probation service in 1983. There, she developed a wide range of programmes for offenders, well before they became part of a national Home Office policy. She began with a project for young offenders, and went on to establish an innovative unit which provided a wider range of services, especially for women.Jenny also used the Geese Theatre to work with offenders. In the 1999 Home Office performance inspection report, Hereford and Worcester was ranked as one of the top two services in England and Wales. Jenny retired in 2001.She married the criminologist Colin Roberts in 1979. They formed a powerful team, combining Colin's academic expertise with her own flair. Jenny was a considerable scholar herself, having attended the senior criminology course at the Institute of Criminology, Cambridge University. She collaborated with Colin on a range of topics including improving the employability of offenders, programme work with young offenders and the supervision of women offenders.Jenny also wrote numerous journal articles and contributed chapters to more than a dozen books on probation and criminology. She edited a book on probation work in European Union accession countries in 2003 and in the same year was a key presenter at the Council of Europe criminological research conference in Strasbourg.In 1995 she was joint editor, with Colin Thomas (formerly HM chief inspector of probation), of a new journal, Vista, which focused on the management of probation work. She became the sole editor in 1999 and continued in the role until 2001. Vista has now become the international journal EuroVista.She was passionate and totally dedicated to improving provision for women and was relentless in pursuing her objectives. She was appointed OBE in 1997. She is survived by Sophie, Colin, and her brother, Simon.• Jenny Susan Margaret Roberts, probation officer, born 12 August 1940; died 19 November 2010