Police investigating the stabbing of Abigail Witchalls last night released a man after she failed to pick him out of a video "identity parade".A magistrates court had given detectives until this morning to question a 25-year-old man who was arrested in Croydon, south London, on Wednesday night. However, he was released last night "pending further inquiries". A Surrey police spokeswoman said: "We played a video clip to Abi in hospital and she failed to identify anyone as her attacker." The spokeswoman said the man had already had the length of his time in custody extended. He would, therefore, have to be re-arrested if police wish to detain him again. However, Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, who is leading the investigation, said that there had been a "huge leap forward" in the last 48 hours in the inquiry. Police have not located the blue estate car Mrs Witchalls' attacker was driving before he got out and ran after her and her 21-month-old son, Joseph, along a secluded country lane near her home in the village of Little Bookham, Surrey, on Wednesday afternoon last week. As she struggled and failed to open a gate blocking her escape, the assailant held a knife to Joseph's throat before pulling her to the ground and stabbing her in the neck. Doctors thought she would not survive. But despite severe paralysis and being unable to speak, she managed to convey a detailed description of her attacker to detectives by mouthing the words "yes" and "no" and using facial expressions. Her attacker was between 20 and 35 years old, 1.78 metres to 1.89m tall (5ft 10in to 6ft 2in), with scruffy dark hair and a long thin pale face, with prominent cheekbones and bags under his eyes. He was wearing large silver hoop earrings and had a deep voice, with a southern English, or possibly Cockney, accent. Police received more than 400 telephone calls from the public in response to an appeal for information. Mrs Witchalls is still under police guard in St George's hospital, Tooting. A hospital spokesman said Mrs Witchalls was in "good spirits" and was "making slow progress, with an improvement in her breathing". He added: "She continues to communicate with her family and Joseph visits on a regular basis. But while the victim has recovered some feeling in her arms, doctors are not sure how much movement she will eventually regain."