Hours after David Blunkett hailed Bexley in south-east London as a model for police-public cooperation in fighting crime, Simon Goding found a different reality yesterday.The home secretary, speaking of "engaged community policing" as outlined in his new green paper, cited the success of an initiative launched a year ago in Bexley, which police say has greatly cut the number of offences. Mr Goding, however, is chairman of the residents' association on the Dale View estate, at the heart of the problems which have beset the Slade Green area of Bexley. He says he pays a price almost every day after becoming the public face of residents' efforts to help the police tackle teenagers who make lives a misery. Yesterday, he said, three youths aged between 14 and 17 years called him a "grass" and threatened to "get" him. He did not report the incident and is losing faith in the police. "They won't do anything, there's no point," he said. However, he is adamant that the community is much improved since the police, the council and other agencies set up forums to listen to and act on residents' concerns about crime. Tackling crime, they found, had to be done by more than just the police. Other agencies had to join in. The borough commander, Chief Inspector Robin Merrett said the results in the Slade Green area, the testing ground, had been outstanding. Street crime fell by 85%, car crime by 29%, and fear of going out after dark fell from half to 6%, with huge increases in public satisfaction with the police and the council. Slade Green has a dedicated police officer people can go to, troublesome youths are targeted and the scheme is being expanded to other areas of the borough. At the heart of the policy are fortnightly public forums where people can make the police and the council aware of the crime that blights their lives. Grace Bell, 77, is one of the people the scheme was aimed at. But in the kind of admission that has policy makers tearing their hair out, she said that after 47 years in the area, "I've never been a victim of crime, but I do fear it." Ann Francis, 25, from the Dale View estate, scoffed. "If the home secretary wants to swap with me, he can. This area is crap. Anyone who thinks it is not is off their trolley," she said.