The home secretary, David Blunkett, today placed offences such as street crime, burglary and anti-social behaviour at the top of a new set of national targets for police.The first ever national policing plan dictates the areas which each of the 43 forces in England and Wales must prioritise when setting out their local action plans. Mr Blunkett announced that key priorities would be drug-related crime, car crime, burglary, street crime and anti-social behaviour. The document also reaffirms the police's crucial role in encouraging vigilance against terrorism. Mr Blunkett, speaking at the Association of Police Authorities' (APA) annual conference in Harrogate, announced there would be above inflation increases in police funding in 2003, when there will be a 5.4% rise. There will also be at least a 4% increase in 2004 and 2005, he said."Police authorities and forces have to reflect national aims in their local policing plans and implementation locally will be key to their success," said the home secretary. "The national policing plan is a working document, not a wish-list, informing local plans and putting people at the heart of policing. "It is part of wider government reforms essential to reducing crime, anti-social behaviour and the fear of crime, and balancing justice in favour of victims." The home secretary also announced he intends to continue the £30m rural policing fund to ensure "no force is left worse off than it was last year". The Home Office said the police funding allocation, after the 5.4% increase, will be £9.607m in 2003-2004.The chairwoman of the APA, Ruth Henig, said: "The publication today of the first national policing plan is a landmark for the police service and for the police reform programme. "This plan provides the framework for discussion with communities from which we can develop clear and robust local policing plans." But the vice-president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Chris Fox, warned that forces risked being swamped with bureaucracy and that the new plan may be doomed to failure. He said: "We support the concept of a national planning framework and want to see the service to the public improved, but we are concerned about the achievability of this plan. "It may not succeed due to its wide-ranging ambition and absence of consideration of the police ability to deliver. "Whilst the document may be useful in describing the type of police service we would like to see, as a plan it may be a plan to fail." He added: "We are concerned that it suggests over 50 actions and priorities that should be included in local planning with little space for flexibility. "Indeed, when local concerns are referred to, they do not appear to be those of the public but relate to Home Office concerns about force performance against their comparators.