Persistent child offenders aged 10 and 11, who are legally too young be locked up, are to be taken into the "protective custody" of a new breed of foster parents, David Blunkett announced yesterday.The home secretary said that "intensive fostering" was one option he was considering to deal with cases such as that of the 11-year-old Cardiff boy charged with more than 70 offences, who was bailed last week "to roam the streets putting police officers and others in grave danger". At a conference on youth crime in London, Mr Blunkett confirmed the plans, disclosed in the Guardian yesterday, to give the courts the power to lock up persistent young offenders aged 12 to 16 on remand while they await trial. These new powers will be available to courts in the 10 highest street crime areas from June and in the rest of the country from September. But as the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, testified that the police are now arresting children as young as eight for serious offences, including robbery, the home secretary said he had to go further. "Crime is not restricted to those aged 12 and over. I am looking seriously at how we can now strengthen the law in respect of those 10- and 11-year-olds who commit persistent but low-level crime." Mr Blunkett said that he and the health secretary, Alan Milburn, were looking at the operation of care orders and the "way in which protective custody can be contemplated where the family has broken down, the community has not been able to intervene and professional services have not been able to stop continuing misbehaviour". He added: "Intensive fostering is a real option we should be exploring." The system would involve people being trained and paid as full-time foster parents. They would not act in isolation but would be part of a programme involving intensive supervision and surveillance by the probation service and others. The home secretary also defended his plans to lock up on remand 12- to 16-year-old persistent offenders to curb reoffending while on bail, saying he was confident there would be sufficient money to fund the extra places needed in local authority secure homes. An extra two secure units for this age group are already in the pipeline and Mr Blunkett said he expected that further places would be made available. In the face of growing criticism from child welfare organisations, he said the public were sick and tired of young offenders who believed their age made them untouchable and wanted them kept off the streets. He also confirmed that he is to give the courts the power to issue orders to parents before their child's behaviour becomes criminal. Mr Blunkett said they were needed because there were parents who kicked their children out of the house in the evening or allowed their 11-year-olds to drink alcohol. "They are as guilty of child abuse as if they had broken their arm," he added. "The aim of the parenting orders will be to offer parents proper support when it can still make an immediate and obvious impact on their child's behaviour." Mr Blunkett's plans faced strong criticism from child welfare and penal reform groups. Paul Cavadino of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders said: "It is wrong in fact and questionable in principle to think that the imprisonment of 10- or 11-year-old children is a burning issue needing urgent government action. You can count the number of 10- and 11-year-olds imprisoned in each year on the fingers of one hand. There must be better ways of dealing with the handful of children who are causing a nuisance or indulging in low level crime than locking them up in establishments intended to deal with serious child offenders." Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers claimed that the idea of "intensive fostering" had been tried in the past but it had always proved difficult to find the parents willing and able to take on the job.