The director general of the prison service today begged judges to think hard before sending women to prison as figures showed a dramatic rise in the number of female inmates. Martin Narey urged the judiciary to consider alternatives to jail as the number of women in prison in England and Wales reached an all-time record of 4,045. His plea coincided with an expected announcement to MPs today that Rochdale's 350-place Buckley Hall prison will become the third men's jail within a year to be converted to house women. Mr Narey said: "I hope that sentencers look very carefully before using custodial sentences for women. "We do not overcrowd women to the same extent - it is not decent to do so, so I need to find fresh accommodation if the population accelerates." The number of female prisoners has reportedly risen by 7% in the three months to the end of September, the equivalent of an annual 28% increase. "No one could have predicted that ... and no one could have coped," said Mr Narey. Attempting to explain the causes of the rise, Mr Narey told the BBC: "I do not think anybody quite knows. I think everybody expected the population to be many hundreds lower at this time of year but the number of women has risen by 700 a year." The last men's prison to be "re-rolled" as a women's jail was Downview at Sutton, Surrey, a 340-inmate Category C jail and a drugs rehabilitation unit. "We have had to take steps to convert men's prisons for use by women and at Downview we have had to do it much more quickly than I think is safe," Mr Narey said. "We have had to do it without enough staff or training but the main problem is that we have to take everyone sent by the courts - we have no waiting list." Mr Narey said having to change Downview prison was "extremely disappointing" as it was "a very good prison" with "extremely good drugs work". He denied the increase was the fault of the last government. Mr Narey said that while the home secretary, David Blunkett, and the lord chief justice were both saying there were too many people going to prison, the numbers continued to rise.The 4,045 women in prison, from a total jail population of 68,357, compares with fewer than 1,000 female inmates in 1970. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said Buckley Hall's re-rolling was "a knee-jerk reaction to the shocking rise in the number of women held in prison. "Instead of wrecking regimes and transferring men to overcrowded prisons around the country we should develop more community sentences for women who do not represent a risk to the public and reduce the use of remand." She added: "Locking up women is an admission of defeat." Between 1993 and 2001 the women's prison population mushroomed by 145%, and in the last year alone it has grown by 16%. Currently, 18 of the 138 prisons in England and Wales hold women.