A central plank of Tony Blair's plans to overhaul Britain's creaking criminal justice system was thrown into disarray last night when leaked Home Office documents passed to The Observer revealed that the moves could lead to the release of dangerous criminals with inadequate supervision.A series of assessments prepared by the Government's own civil servants show they believe there is a 'very high' likelihood that flagship plans to merge the prison and probation service will put the public at risk from violent criminals. With crime named by voters as one of their top concerns during the election campaign, the leak will prove extremely damaging to a Labour government anxious to prove it has the issue under control.The highly critical assessments form part of the business plan for the National Probation Service for the year ahead. They show that civil servants believe the likelihood of 'inadequate supervision of cases leading to unmanageable policy making' is 'high' and that its impact would be 'very high'. They also say there is a high likelihood that 'loss of key skills' from frontline staff, will result in 'inadequate supervision of dangerous offenders'. New community punishments could lead to 'overload' as the courts fail to understand sentencing guidelines, according to the assessment. The so-called 'traffic light' system used within Whitehall categorises the risks as green, amber or red. But several of the risks concerned with the management of dangerous offenders were marked as off-the-scale by civil servants and given a 'black' designation, meaning that there is a high likelihood of them happening. The creation of a National Offender Management Service (Noms) that merges custodial and community punishment is at the heart of the Labour party's commitment to the reduction of crime and re-offending. The Labour manifesto states confidently: '[It] will ensure that every offender is individually case-managed from beginning to end of their sentence, both in and out of custody.' But Home Office experts remain unconvinced and have warned of a series of potential disasters including the collapse of a new computer system designed to link the prison and probation services. The document talks of a 'failure to deliver'. Labour intends to move towards an American-style 'corrections' system if it regains power on 6 May, with an emphasis on tough community punishments and a move away from the soft 'social work' image of probation. But opponents believe the proposals have been ill-conceived, leaving the two parts of the system confused about their role. The internal Home Office document suggests that civil servants agree. Trade unions representing prison and probation staff are also opposed to moves to privatise sections of the probation service, because they believe private security companies will not be able to guarantee public safety. One senior Home Office source with an intimate knowledge of the reform plans described Noms as a 'disaster waiting to happen'. He added: 'Nobody at a senior level responsible for stopping dangerous offenders hurting the public, staff or themselves, has confidence in Noms.' The Conservatives last night called on the Government to issue a statement about the contents of the document to explain why their own civil servants believe their policies risk leaving the public vulnerable. Tory prisons spokeswoman Cheryl Gillan said: 'These documents show there are serious risks associated with Labour's plan. I have asked the Home Office for a full explanation.' Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat spokesman on home affairs, said: 'These assessments raise serious questions marks about the ability of the system to cope.' One source close to Charles Clarke, the Home Secretary, said: 'The idea of Noms is that it protects the public. We believe it is an effective way of managing the offender from the moment they go into prison or probation system.' Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation union said: 'Noms is an ill-thought-out mess driven forward without support from trade unions and opposition from MPs of all parties. Now these internal documents prove that it is putting the public at risk.' The leak of the risk assess ments will put further pressure on the Home Office's head of corrections, Martin Narey, who has promised the Prime Minister he will deliver the new system by 2007. Relations between Narey and the director-general of the Prison Service, Phil Wheatley, are already said by insiders to be at breaking point. One Home Office adviser told The Observer: 'Martin Narey has sold the Prime Minister a very nice idea, but someone should intervene before it does this government serious political damage.'