It begins with a close-up of a guinea pig lying spread-eagled on the floor, each of its tiny legs fastened in place by sticky tape. The camera slowly pulls back to show that a woman, seen only from the knees down, is pacing around the stricken creature in bright red stilettos. Her voice is soft and low: 'You are my victim. Are you frightened, little man? You know that your destiny is under my heels...'Squeals of pain ring out as the sharp point of one stiletto is brought down on each leg in turn, shattering the bones. Next, the creature's back is crushed under a toe, cigarettes are stubbed out on its fur and hip and shoulder bones are systematically trampled and broken until, finally, the woman kills it by driving her heel through its skull. The torture has lasted almost 30 minutes. Known as 'crush videos' or 'animal snuff movies', such films occupy the cross-over point between animal cruelty and extreme fetishistic pornography and, despite being illegal, generate hundreds of thousands of pounds' worth of sales. An Observer investigation has uncovered gruesome evidence that the market for such material in the UK is growing rapidly, with at least 2,000 such titles available at specialist internet sites and through individuals advertising in private chatrooms. They include Vanessa's Frog Stomp, Mistress Di, Princess of Death and Debbie the Destructor, in which kittens, monkeys, rats, mice, frogs and other small animals, or even larger insects such as crickets, are crushed to death under heels, between breasts or simply by being sat on. Until recently, the majority of such films had been made in the United States but last week, in the first recorded case of its kind in Britain, one man and three women from the Stoke-on-Trent area pleaded guilty to charges of animal cruelty and conspiracy to publish obscene material after they were found to be making videos of animals being tortured and killed. Craig Chapman, 27, Christine Besford, 25, Sarah Cooke, 21, and Theraza Smallwood, 22, pleaded guilty to offences involving a kitten, a guinea pig and a number of mice. They appeared in a Stoke-on-Trent courtroom packed full of animal rights activists and angry residents. All the offences took place between March 2000 and January 2002 in the Stoke area. The four will be sentenced at the end of the month. The case has thrown a light on the darkest corners of the world of pornography and increases concerns that, as censorship laws are further relaxed, the illegal market will become more extreme. One sex shop owner in London's Soho, who asked to remain anonymous, told The Observer : 'There has always been under-the-counter stuff. Ten years ago it would be films showing men and women having sex with pigs, chickens and horses. Occasionally you get drunken lads who want the really sick stuff as a bit of a laugh, but there are also your regular punters who are really into it. 'Few people stocked it because the penalties were far harsher than for hardcore sex and there was a real stigma attached to it. That's all gone now and you can buy the stuff all over the place, which means what's left under the counter is that much worse. I guess there always has to be something you can sell for £150 a time. Apparently with the animal snuff films, the idea is that you ejaculate at the moment when the animal dies. It's all about the contrast between doing something which gives life and seeing it taken away. That's what people say. I never watch them, I don't like them.' Although the videos have been around for some time in America, there have been only a handful of prosecutions for producing them, chiefly because of the difficulty of identifying the women who do the crushing. The first prosecution took place two years after New York police officers raiding the Long Island home that 27-year-old Thomas Capriola shared with his mother found an aquarium full of mice next to several pairs of women's shoes covered in blood and guts. An undercover investigator who managed to penetrate a ring was asked to crush a dog and was given step-by-step instructions on how to carry out torture that would last 90 minutes before the animal actually died, in order to produce a 'feature length' film that could be sold for a higher price.