There was a queasy symmetry about the prison releases over the weekend of the shotgun farmer, Tony Martin, and the shot burglar, Brendan Fearon. Together their two faces represented a kind of nightmare of modern Britain. The one, the recidivist career criminal, with his fag-lipped expression of crafty stupidity - and the other, brick-coloured, grim and defiant in the face of his own responsibility for a kid's death. This was less like a couple of paroles and more like the reopening of some societal Pandora's box.As a friend pointed out to me yesterday, we discuss and analyse crime in sociological terms, but rarely in psychological ones. Martin quite probably wanted to shoot a burglar, and may have fantasised many times about doing it before the night that Fearon and the late Fred Barras broke into Bleak House in search of God knows what.A lot of us would quite like to do the same, providing we could avoid the reality of a boy slowly bleeding to death in an orchard. Most non-criminals hate burglars more than we hate paranoid farmers; farmers don't break into our houses at night, steal our DVDs and piss on the floor. Not even French farmers. The film Home Alone was entirely premised on the cathartic hilarity of dishing out terrible pain to a pair of housebreakers. From my correspondence since I arrived on the Guardian, I know that many readers - wrongly characterised as wimpish liberals - are only too willing to hand out condign punishment to those who they feel behave in an antisocial manner. And occasionally this desire to inflict hurt on malefactors extends beyond the government and almost as far as criminals. Guardian readers do not like being burgled any more than Daily Mail readers. This is not surprising. In dreams, the house often symbolises the body. It is our space, and the idea of people trying to break into our homes is unusually psychologically threatening. People now have panic buttons by their bedsides, and some even construct "panic rooms", like people-safes, in which they can lock themselves if they detect intruders. And this is despite the fact that most burglars pretty badly don't want to encounter an inhabitant. If fear is the main problem, then it's perfectly understandable that things seem worse in the country than in the town, even if you have half the likelihood of being burgled. In Norfolk, unlike in Gateshead, no one can hear you scream. The trouble is that the obvious rational answer to this is not to spend an unlimited amount on rural policing, but for people like Martin to move to Gateshead. But what about the burglars? Why do they burgle? Why don't they steal cars, or commit credit-card fraud instead? Probably because they enjoy burgling. My friend Steve spent some time working with criminals, and was fascinated most by the repeat burglars. One used to stack up the household goods by the front door, prior to making his escape. Then, at the last moment, he would pause and decide whether or not to take it all. He said that he enjoyed the thought of a couple coming home to discover that their home had been entered, but that their valuables had not been stolen - and then wondering what kind of man had shown them this strange mercy. It was about power. Another young burglar would only steal from houses where he knew women with young children lived. Once he broke into a house just before Christmas and sat under the tree opening the family presents. In other words, just as the nervous homeowner imagines the burglar, the burglar imagines the homeowner. It may be unconscious, but the burglar enjoys the power of violation. That's why, despite the Martin case and the claims of the hang-'em press, courts are usually pretty lenient with those who physically damage housebreakers. But what the law isn't really prepared to countenance is people buying guns and then lying in wait for someone to break in. It understands that, rather than turn the other cheek, most of us would rather fire the other barrel.