Bob was sexually abused as a child. As an adult, he became clinically depressed and was prescribed antidepressants by his GP before finally being referred to a psychiatrist, to whom he disclosed the abuse. He was more or less told to be a man and pull up his socks. Not surprisingly, he couldn't. By his mid-30s, Bob was in jail for manslaughter. He was self-harming and felt "a lot of hatred". By his own account, he was "a complete mess". In prison, he told a probation officer about the abuse. Once again, the immediate reaction was less than positive, but then he was referred to a specialist service for abused men that was newly attached to the prison. He was offered one-to-one counselling in a non-judgmental environment, with no pressure and unconditional support. For the first time, he had space and time to tell his story. After a couple of months of counselling, Bob was much more relaxed. He was able to come off medication and even declared himself a "happy sort of bloke". Hopefully, this will also have made him less likely to reoffend. The Prison Service estimates that just under 10% of male prisoners report having suffered sexual abuse at some time in their lives, yet the counselling service that helped Bob was unusual, and no longer exists. Short-term prisoners in particular are unlikely to get significant help. The Home Office says figures are estimates only because "disclosure is recorded on individual records but not routinely collected". Services vary from prison to prison; there is no national strategy, no systematic way of dealing with prisoners who have been victims of sexual abuse. The Prison Service adds: "We take these issues very seriously. However ... developing interventions for abuse is a very specialised area, and inappropriate intervention may cause harm." Peter Jones, a former psychiatric nurse and now lecturer in public health at City University, London, strongly agrees with this last remark. This, he says, is precisely why a great deal more needs to be done. Jones ran the counselling service to which Bob was referred and has spent the last six years trying to develop effective ways to help sexually abused men in prison. He has just won an award from the Centre for Public Innovation for his CD-rom, an electronic textbook designed to raise awareness among prison staff and to help them deal effectively with victims of abuse. "This is a massive area and it is so overlooked," Jones says. "One in 10 is probably an underestimate. Society's idea of the male gender makes it very difficult for men to disclose; they are supposed to be strong and 'manly'. And prison is a particularly hard environment in which to do anything that might be interpreted as weakness. It is so important that a safe space is created where men can disclose, and that we then engage these victims constructively." Prisons are, of course, there to deal with offenders. They are not set up to cope with victims. "But these men are victim-offenders," Jones says. And since often the experience and trauma of having been a victim is at least part of what leads - often via mental health problems - to offending, Jones argues that "you have to address the victim part before you can address the offending behaviour". Jones became involved in the issue while he was a psychiatric nurse. A man was referred to the service, where Jones worked, with anxiety, depression and aggressive and suicidal thoughts. He told Jones "a horrific story" of how, as a child, he had been sexually abused by his uncle. For years, the man said, he had wanted to talk to someone, but "there was nowhere to turn". Shocked that this man had had to wait until he was mentally ill before he could get help, Jones set up a local helpline and counselling service in Hull for male victims of abuse, their families and partners. It is still running and gained him a Queen's Nursing Institute award in 1998. One call to the helpline, however, changed Jones's direction. It was from a local prison. A man had been gang-raped by other prisoners and the prison staff didn't know how to handle it. Jones went into the prison to help. He soon found that there was a wider problem, so he set up a counselling service for the sexually abused. Within three months, he had seen 45 of the 500 or so category A prisoners in the jail. Quite quickly, though, Jones decided he could not continue to counsel in this isolated way within the prison service and that there were wider issues to deal with. He says: "I decided it was unethical to encourage men to open up and let down their defences, to give up the coping mechanisms they'd developed to survive in the system, when there was inadequate support for them in the prison service when they left me. "The prison system is disempowering and can be persecutory," he says, so it can easily revictimise people, reinforcing rather than healing the abuse. Really, says Jones, "the whole culture of the prison service needs to change to deal with victim-offenders". He set about creating the CD-rom, which includes a video of himself playing the part of an abused man telling a composite of the stories he has been told. The CD has been piloted in two areas of south-east England - in prisons and mental health trusts - and is now being tried out in Durham prison. Response from staff has been positive and in one case, after looking at the CD, a man who had for 20 years been diagnosed schizophrenic revealed for the first time that he had been sexually abused as a child. "Would his life have been different," Jones asks, "if he had had the CD-rom, if he had been able to disclose, 20 years ago?" Phil Wheatley, head of the Prison Service, says Jones's work is "interesting and innovative" and has "succeeded in raising awareness among prison staff of the challenges faced by sexually abused men". He adds: "I was particularly impressed with the CD-rom, which provides a user-friendly training tool that can easily be accessed by staff." More pilot programmes are expected, with formal evaluation, before any national roll-out is contemplated. "It takes time to improve mental health services in prisons," says Sean Duggan, head of the prison mental health programme for the National Institute for Mental Health in England, "but there is no question that it is happening. [Sexual abuse] is something we are worried about, and this work is groundbreaking stuff." Jones, meanwhile, is developing a broader strategy within which the CD might work and hoping to initiate research to provide better data on the scale of the problem. He says: "This is an issue that is often camouflaged, hidden behind other problems, but if we don't address the needs of these men then we have a ticking timebomb in our prisons that will lead to more suicides and mental health problems, and more offending. If we do nothing, we are colluding in these men's self-destructive cycle - and we do so at our peril." · The Prison Service is at www.hmprisonservice.gov.uk 