More than a decade ago, Tony Blair said we must be "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime". He was right. No serious attempt to improve the quality of life in our communities can ignore the need to understand and deal with the root causes of criminal and antisocial behaviour.Blair has had nearly nine years in power. He could have mounted a systematic challenge to one-dimensional, knee-jerk populism. He could have put in its place a more thoughtful approach: one that improves policing and strengthens the criminal justice system while addressing the complex social, economic and emotional causes of crime and antisocial behaviour.Instead, he has put short-term tactics before long-term thinking. His approach to this issue has been driven by a desire, in his words, to come up with "eye-catching initiatives with which [he] can be personally associated". Remember the plan to march yobs to cashpoint machines? To ban alcohol on public transport? We've had 30 criminal justice acts since 1997; just nine in education. But passing new laws isn't a sign of toughness - it's often a sign of defeat.Blair has been neither tough on crime, nor its causes. And today's announcements on respect show that he's abandoned any serious attempt to be either.The real respect agenda must go deeper than gimmicks. It has to address issues such as drug addiction and chaotic home environments. The tragedy is that almost all the key long-term indicators - family breakdown, hard drug use, binge drinking, domestic violence, teenage pregnancy - are heading the wrong way.These issues can't be addressed by top-down national initiatives: they need patient, personal support - whether it's helping parents under pressure or mentoring boys without a male role model.In every community there are fantastic social entrepreneurs and volunteers who have found solutions to these problems. A real respect agenda would see government stepping back from direct intervention and trusting local people and organisations to do the job. One reason why Labour has been unable to do this is the chancellor's obsession with state solutions, and his belief that only the government can deliver fairness.We won't be hidebound by such outdated thinking. Instead, we'll set out ideas such as our proposals for Social Enterprise Zones, which would remove the many regulations and bureaucratic obstacles that hold back social entrepreneurs. We want to create a level playing field for the voluntary sector and social enterprises so they can win more contracts to deliver more community and public services.And we have to recognise that we're in this together - we have a shared responsibility to build respect. So I've suggested a National School Leaver Programme to offer every young person the chance to participate in community activity at home and abroad after leaving school. Leading youth organisations, including the Prince's Trust and the Duke of Edinburgh Award, will join me soon to explore how it might work.There used to be a time when the debate was polarised. On one side were the "string 'em up brigade" who viewed any attempt to understand the causes as namby-pamby political correctness. On the other were the "limp-wristed Guardian readers" who saw punishment as a dirty word. I think we've got beyond those caricatures. I believe there is a consensus that we need to work on both sides of the equation. It's just a shame the prime minister, who was among the first to recognise the need for action on both fronts, has adopted such old-fashioned, pessimistic and short-term responses to this vital issue.· David Cameron is the leader of the Conservative partycamerond@parliament.co.uk