Barman Joseph Nicklin braced himself for a cheeky remark or an insolent stare when he asked a teenager who was not a member to stop playing on a gaming machine at Ammanford Miners' Welfare Club in south Wales.What he got was what looked very much like a Colt 45 handgun aimed at his face. "I was petrified," said Mr Nicklin. "He pointed it directly at my head from 10ft away. He said he would blow my brains out. He said it twice. It was a unique and frightening experience." The gun turned out to be an imitation. The teenager, Jay Devereux, who was convicted yesterday of possessing an imitation firearm with intent, told police he was "just mucking around" and thought the barman would realise the gun was a fake. Yesterday's crime figures showed that the use of imitation weapons rose by 66%. It is almost impossible to distinguish imitation weapons like the one Devereux had from the real thing unless they are very closely examined. Police forces across the country have expressed concerns about the ease with which fakes can be obtained and the uses they are being put to. In the past few weeks a man was convicted in Liverpool for his part in a robbery in which a young mother was threatened with an imitation gun to force a security guard to hand over tens of thousands of pounds. In Perth a man was found guilty of holding up a Pizza Express restaurant with a fake gun, and in Surrey the singer Mick Hucknall intervened when he spotted a teenager carrying what turned out to be an imitation firearm. Ministers believe that the increase in the number of imitation guns on the streets is largely down to tougher sentences for people found carrying real guns - a minimum of five years in prison. But if the criminal uses an imitation in a robbery he or she will get off much more lightly. Imitation weapons are also being carried as a fashion accessory by some young people, especially in inner cities. Much of the increase in imitation firearms is down to the popularity of ballbearing guns. They are available at model shops, market stalls, fishing tackle shops and via the internet for as little as £10. A quick online search reveals a huge range of BB guns on offer to anyone with a credit card. The Antics model shop, for example, which has branches across the south of England and the Midlands, was yesterday offering via its online store a BB "cybergun" designed to look just like a Walther P990 pistol for £39. Another model is based on the Colt Delta Elite and was retailing for £42. The BB guns fire a plastic pellet, which stings but tends to do no lasting damage unless it hits an eye. An employee at Antics admitted that it was very difficult to distinguish the BB guns from the real thing. He said: "We tell people that if they run around the streets with one of these the armed police units will be scrambled." Armed police burst into a house in Weston-super-Mare when a neighbour reported seeing a boy with a gun in December. It turned out to be a BB rifle and, thankfully, the police held their fire. In South Yorkshire police have been so concerned that they launched a hard-hitting poster campaign featuring a police gun sight focused on a teenager's head and the slogan: "If you carry a gun you're the target." Yesterday's figures will increase the calls for imitation weapons to be banned or more closely controlled. One of the arguments against a ban is that toy guns, even water pistols, could be caught up - but anti-gun campaigners point out that controls have been imposed elsewhere, notably in Holland. Gill Marshall-Andrews, of the Gun Control Network, said: "It is terrifying what is available out there." The MP for Birmingham Hall Green, Steve McCabe, said: "Imitation weapons are far too readily available. I don't believe it is impossible to frame laws and these figures show that action needs to be taken."