William Hague sparked protests from across the political spectrum yesterday after a provocative speech on crime in which he blamed the Macpherson report into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence for a collapse in police morale.Stephen's father, Neville, led the protests when he blamed the Tory leader for playing the race card in the run-up to the election. "He has been desperate to play the race card and has found a way to do it here." Mr Lawrence's criticisms were echoed by politicians, senior police and the report's author. Mr Hague, who dismissed the criticisms, suffered embarrassment last night when it emerged that the main crime figures in his speech were wrong. Tory officials blamed a "phrasing error" for Mr Hague's assertion that the number of arrests by the Metropolitan police, following stop and searches, fell from 18,752 a month to 11,858 after the Macpherson report. Tory sources claimed the error was unimportant because the arrest figures showed a similar fall in real terms. These showed that arrests fell from 2,609 a month to 1,898. Mr Hague used the fall in stop and search arrests as an example of how the Macpherson report has hampered the work of police. The report accused the Met of "institutional racism" and raised concerns that police use stop and search powers against black people without good reason. In a speech to the rightwing Centre for Policy Studies, Mr Hague pledged to overturn the tide of liberal "political correctness" which he said had brought the criminal justice system to its knees. He went on: "The next Conservative government will take on and defeat the attitude of the condescending liberal elite that has never trusted the police and now wants us to believe they are all racists. The tragedy of the Lawrence family and the further urgent work that needs to be done building up trust between our ethnic communities and the police do not excuse the way in which the Macpherson report has been used to brand every officer and every branch of the force as racist, has contributed directly to a collapse of police morale and recruitment and has led to a crisis on our streets." His remarks drew a withering response from Downing Street which branded the speech "desperate and disreputable". Alastair Campbell, the prime minister's official spokesman, said: "Having lost on the economy, lost on the big arguments in Europe, his shadow home secretary having made a complete hash of their approach on law and order ... he is just casting around to get himself noticed." Sir William Macpherson denied his report had caused an increase in crime. "I believe the police up and down the country are to be highly congratulated in buckling down and learning lessons from the report and attempting to put matters right," he said. The Police Federation offered Mr Hague support. Its chairman, Fred Broughton, said some officers did have a sense of vulnerability in dealing with minority ethnic suspects which was apparent with the "negative effect on crime reduction." Tony Burden, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, backed Macpherson: "It identified some important issues for the police service to tackle and we should not allow anything to divert us away from our determination to gain the confidence of the black community through fair and effective policing." The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, welcomed her leader's promise to encourage more stop and search activities by the police, saying: "We should all take the attitude that if we are stopped that is a cause of gratitude not resentment." But one former minister feared that after the Tories' recent fall in the polls, Mr Hague had decided to shore up hardcore voters on the right. Tory officials maintained that Mr Hague was speaking for the "mainstream majority". His speech coincided with Home Office research warning that the use of untargeted stop and search is one factor hampering police efforts to recruit black and Asian officers to their ranks.   