Police officers are being armed with stun guns from this weekend even though the government has banned their export because of fears they could be used for torture.Officers hope the Taser gun, which incapacitates its target by delivering a 50,000 volt shock, will reduce the number of suspects who are shot dead. Human rights activists and scientists who have examined the Taser expressed concern yesterday at the lack of detailed independent research in Britain on the medical effects of the weapon. Several people in America have died after being shot by Tasers, though no direct link between their deaths and the weapon has been established. Campaigners also said they were unhappy at the police using a weapon which subjected a target to "intolerable pain" and was considered as a potential instrument of torture. Firearms officers in London, Northamptonshire, North Wales, the Thames Valley and Lincolnshire will be equipped with the US-made M26 Advanced Taser during a one-year trial. The weapon is used by many law enforcement agencies across the world and by some airlines as a counter-terrorism measure. The weapon, which costs £350 and looks like a toy ray gun, fires two barbs up to a distance of seven metres. The barbs attach themselves to the target's skin or clothes and deliver a bolt of electricity through two cables. Officers will undergo a single day's training in its use. They will be instructed to shout: "Taser, Taser, Taser" before firing. The scheme was unveiled in Northamptonshire yesterday. The police decided not to test it on a person in front of the press but on a dummy. Hertfordshire's chief constable, Paul Acres, who chairs the Association of Chief Police Officers' conflict management team, conceded that people had died after being "Tasered" but said the deaths could not be linked directly to the use of the weapon. He said the Taser had been assessed by scientists, including experts at the police's scientific development branch, who had said it was safe to use. Mr Acres said: "The Taser is intended to be a safer, less lethal option and may give police officers the ability to temporarily incapacitate and overpower rather than injure someone." Describing the effect of the Taser, Sergeant Simon Williams, who has experienced a two-second discharge from the weapon, admitted: "It's extremely painful." The trial will be evaluated by a number of bodies including the Police Complaints Authority (PCA). If the scheme is successful, other forces could use the weapons. The PCA's deputy chairwoman, Wendy Towers, who attended the launch, said: "We welcome the extension of the range of less lethal options open to police. "The majority of people shot by police belong to a vulnerable population group, those who are drunk, mentally ill or suicidal, and it is essential that the development of less lethal options takes account of this group." Experts expressed concern. Brian Rappert, of Nottingham University, who has studied the weapon, said he believed more independent tests on its medical effects were needed. He also expressed concern about the scope of Taser use. When he attended a recent demonstration of the weapons, crowd control was one of the uses suggested. Dr Rappert said: "The worry is that once the police have these weapons they will find more uses for them than they are talking about at the moment. Might they be tempted to use them on demonstrators, for example?" John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, said: "These weapons must be medically proven safe before their introduction." Though the weapon is not manufactured in Britain the decision, in 1997, to ban its export shows there were concerns in Whitehall over its use. 