Detective Inspector Benjamin Menon was second-in-command of the investigation, and is the only senior officer involved who is still serving. He recently announced his intention to retire, shortly before he was told he faced disciplinary charges. He has since been told he will nonetheless face a disciplinary tribunal.Lawson Mr Menon, you do appreciate that a large number of what were material decisions in this case do not appear to have been recorded in the policy file?Menon That is correct, sir.Lawson You had information on the Friday night that the Acourt brothers did live at 102 Bournbrook Road. Mr Menon, the justification you gave for not effecting arrests, that you had insufficient knowledge of the Acourts' address, do you think on reflection that really holds water?Menon No. We had information of their address, but we couldn't verify that by other means.Lawson Then information was received which contains at least a positive prospect of an eyewitness being found. There still seems to be an unreasonable delay in doing anything about it, yes?Menon Yes, sir.Lawson Why is that?Menon I have no answer for that.Lawson No answer?Menon No answer.Lawson It does seem a chapter of disasters?Menon That's correct.Lawson Let me ask you, please, about the Grant information coming in. You showed little or no interest in this information when it was being reported to the police station on the Friday night?Menon There was interest in the message, but at the time I was up to my eyeballs in other things.Lawson But the information he was giving was potentially of great significance, was it not?Menon Yes, sir.Lawson Not only identifying or purporting to identify the Acourts as being responsible for the murder of Stephen Lawrence, but implicating them in other violent assaults?Menon Yes, sir.Lawson And it merited your immediate attention, did it not, as the senior investigating officer on duty?Menon If I have one regret, it is that I didn't see Grant.Lawson With hindsight, is it the case, do you think, that the arrest should have been made more promptly?Menon If I had to do it again, sir, then yes, I would agree.Lawson You referred to the victims of the assault, Stephen Lawrence and Duwayne Brooks, as the two young coloured lads?Menon Yes.Lawson Do you understand now that using the expression coloured is regarded as offensive?Menon I didn't know that before, sir.Mansfield I am going to suggest root and branch, the whole operation was a nonsense start to finish, the way you did it?Menon It wasn't, sir.Mansfield Unless, of course, the surveillance was really a sham, was it? Was it a sham? Did you really not want to use it?Menon That's not true.Mansfield Where is the record of evaluation by you, namely, this shows Neil Acourt doing so and so? This shows a bin-bag leaving the premises. Any record of that?Menon I don't think so.Mansfield Why not?Menon I don't think I made a record.Mansfield Why not, officer?Menon I have no answer for that, sir.Mansfield You knew the name. Norris was a criminal name, but it has not rung any bells that this man could in any way be related to the famous - or notorious, rather - name. That is your position?Menon Yes.Mansfield Photographs, bin-bags, removing clothing: by the Monday morning of the 26th, you had plenty of material to effect an arrest, did you not?Menon Yes.