Birmingham police have launched a murder inquiry after a 75-year-old man was stabbed to death.Officers were called by the ambulance service to Little Green Lane, Small Heath, after 10.30pm on Monday night after reports that a man had suffered serious injuries.The man, named by his daughter as Mohammed Saleem Chaudhry, was taken to hospital where he was pronounced dead. A postmortem examination was due to be carried out to determine the cause of death.Chaudhry lived with his wife, Said Begum, off Little Green Lane, yards from where he was stabbed. His daughter, Shazia Khan, said he was returning from evening prayers at the nearby mosque when he was attacked and stabbed in the back four times.Speaking outside her father's home, Khan, who travelled from London, said: "We're just so shocked – for him to lose his life in such a brutal way. It's very tragic. He was very well-respected in the community. He's such a lovely man. I just can't believe it."Everyone, old and young, knew him. Neighbours have told us they heard screams and called for an ambulance. It's thought he may have tried to fight off his attacker."She said the father of seven and grandfather of 22 walked to the mosque five times each day. He had lived at the same address with his wife for about 25 years and worked at a local bakery before retiring, his daughter added."We just hope the police find who did this. It was him today, it could be someone else tomorrow. To kill a defenceless old man who had a walking stick – well, it's just terrible," she said.West Midlands police declined to confirm the victim's name. Detective Inspector Martin Slevin said: "We are in the very early stages of this investigation and the motive for the attack remains unclear."Today we will be examining CCTV footage and speaking to local residents who may have seen something last night. We really want to hear from anyone who was in the area at the time and saw anything out of the ordinary."Did you see anything suspicious between 10.15pm and 10.30pm in Little Green Lane? If you have any information that could help our investigation, please call as soon as possible."Anyone with any information about what happened is asked to call West Midlands police on 101, or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.