The mother of Mark Duggan, who was shot fatally by police, has described Wednesday’s report from the police watchdog clearing the officers of any wrongdoing as “another slap in the face” for her family. Pam Duggan said the family had cooperated with the Independent Police Complaints Commission, but had been “let down again”.The IPCC report said Mark Duggan – whose 2011 shooting in Tottenham, north London, sparked the worst riots of recent times across cities and towns in England – was probably in the process of throwing away a handgun when he was shot.Duggan, 29, who was suspected of being in a local gang, was shot twice on 4 August 2011 in Tottenham, north London, after 11 specialist firearms officers stopped the minicab he was in on suspicion that he was carrying an illegal firearm. While no gun was found on him, a handgun in a sock was discovered on grassland about 14ft from his body.Pam Duggan, 56, told the Guardian: “I don’t want to read it [the report] all the way through ... The IPCC has found that the police did nothing wrong when they murdered my son. This report is another slap in the face for all the family, it’s a waste of paper and a waste of ink. IPCC officials came to my house after the shooting. We cooperated with them, they listened to us and said they would help us. They’ve been working on this report for three and a half years since Mark was shot dead and this is what they have come up with.“Yet again we’ve been let down. After Mark was shot dead by the police we hoped to get justice at the inquest, but the jury found Mark had been lawfully killed. Then we hoped that the IPCC would say that the fatal shooting could have been avoided, but they haven’t done that. Today’s report is just the latest in a long line of disappointments.”An inquest jury returned a lawful killing verdict in January 2014, sparking outrage from his family, after hearing that the police marksman, who fired the two bullets in rapid succession, which hit Duggan in the upper chest and right arm, had the honestly held belief he was an “imminent threat to life”.A majority of jurors said the gun had been discarded by Duggan before he was shot. The IPCC said the most “plausible” explanation for the location of the gun was that Duggan “was in the process of throwing it to his right as he was shot”.  Mark Duggan, 29, was suspected of being a gang member. Photograph: Barcroft MediaThe officer, known only as V53, has said he shouted, “Armed police” and saw Duggan holding an object in his right hand, which he believed to be a gun, and his arm begin to move.The IPCC’s report called for urgent improvements in the accountability of undercover firearms operations after finding that the lack of audio or video material “made it difficult, and on occasions impossible, to know with absolute certainty what happened”. It also recommended that all radio communications taking place during such operations should be recorded and covert armed response vehicles ought to be fitted with in-car data recording systems.The IPCC said its investigation had no evidence that sufficiently undermines the accounts provided by V53 in his statements and the evidence at the inquest. But he had refused to be interviewed by the IPCC, instead providing a statement. The report said: “The lack of an open face-to-face dialogue limits the extent to which the IPCC can effectively probe and verify the detail of his account.” However, it added, “the investigation has not obtained any reliable evidence to undermine V53’s account”. I’ve told my oldest grandchild that when I’ve gone he’s got to keep fighting for justice for his dadPam Duggan The report concluded there was “no credible evidence” to uphold complaints by Duggan’s family that police had relocated the firearm in the sock, that officer V53 did not fire live shots in the belief that Duggan was pointing a firearm at him, and that he did not use lawful force.The report said there was “insufficient evidence” to conclude if officers did – or did not – shout the warning “Armed police” prior to the fatal shots, but evidence did suggest they attempted to tell Duggan that they required him to stop after they got out of their vehicles, it said.It noted that C019 officers were “located within a room and conferred” when completing their statements three days after the shooting. While putting officers together in one room was “inadvisable”, it said, after critical assessment of the officers’ evidence, it did not appear to have undermined the credibility of their evidence in this case.Duggan was shot after police launched Operation Dibri in 2009 in response to rising tensions between organised criminal networks in north London. In the days before his death, Scotland Yard and the now defunct Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) had intelligence that he was about to receive a gun from another man, Kevin Hutchinson-Foster, and launched an armed surveillance operation. Hutchinson-Foster has since been found guilty of supplying a gun to Duggan.The IPCC said the police intelligence justified the surveillance operation on Duggan, as officers did not know where the weapon controlled by Hutchinson-Foster was being stored. It was a “logical and legitimate” decision to follow Duggan when he took a minicab to Leyton, east London, where Hutchinson-Foster is said to have handed him a shoebox containing the BBM Bruni firearm in a black sock, before the cab headed towards Tottenham. The police’s hard stop of the taxi, on Ferry Lane, Tottenham, was at an “appropriate location”, it said. Duggan was shot around four seconds after the minicab was stopped and he had got out of the vehicle.Pam Duggan, 56, who is recovering from surgery for throat cancer, said: “Nobody has been able to explain to me why that gun was not taken off the streets when it was first reported to police.”She said she was struggling to come to terms with her son’s death. “It doesn’t get any easier, in fact it just gets harder. But even while I’ve been sick with cancer, what has kept me going is the belief that I’ve got to keep fighting for Mark. I’ve told my oldest grandchild that when I’ve gone, he’s got to keep fighting for justice for his dad.”Rachel Cerfontyne, the IPCC deputy chair, said the death has had “huge ramifications for the Tottenham community and beyond”. She said that, if implemented, the recommendations would “not only shorten the investigative process, they would provide investigators with immediate, accurate and incontrovertible evidence, which would be of benefit to all”.The Metropolitan police assistant commissioner, Patricia Gallan, said: “It may be almost four years since the death of Mark Duggan, but I do not underestimate the impact his death still has on his family, the community and the officers involved.”She said the IPCC had found no wrongdoing or misconduct for any of the armed officers involved in the operation and the recommendations would “be carefully reviewed by both ourselves and the Association of Chief Police Officers”.Community activist Stafford Scott said: “We are very disappointed,” and called for a public inquiry to find out why police did not remove the gun from the streets when its existence was first reported to them.