Parents at an Essex school where the deputy headteacher used a secret camera to film naked boys getting changed have criticised police for failing to act on intelligence about his sexual offending for more than two years.Less than 24 hours after Martin Goldberg, 46, was exposed for covertly filming in the boys’ changing room at Thorpe Hall school and at the local swimming pool, parents dropping off children on Wednesday said they were “really angry” at the police and demanded to know why it took them from July 2012 until early September this year to challenge him.Goldberg was found dead at his Shoeburyness home on 10 September, the day after Essex police approached him. He had killed himself after trying to destroy evidence.“We all feel really betrayed and disgusted by him,” said one mother of two boys after she dropped them off at the £10,000-a-year co-educational private school, where the children range in age from two in the nursery to 16 in the upper school. “The police are to blame in this instance. I am really angry at them. They should have done something.”Essex police began investigating Goldberg on 9 September, despite receiving intelligence about him in November 2013, when it was passed on by the National Crime Agency’s child exploitation and online protection division.The NCA had received Goldberg’s name from police in Toronto in July 2012, as part of a Canadian investigation into the purchase of videos online. When Essex police finally began an investigation, they discovered 75 indecent images taken in the school’s male changing room and a camera hidden in a bag that he used to capture the material. With a further 465 images captured in the changing rooms at Southend leisure and tennis centre, and 38 from two unidentified locations, they represented 14 years of criminal voyeurism targeting boys aged nine to 12.There is no evidence that Goldberg shared the images or physically abused any of the boys. Detectives have spoken to the families of four children who have been identified in the photographs.Speaking to the Guardian, the headteacher, Andrew Hampton, said he, too, was concerned about the police’s failure to pass on information that his deputy had been buying videos of naked boys.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest “I certainly understand the parents’ anger at that,” he said. “It would be fair to allow the police to make a further statement about that, which I believe they are going to do very soon, and I want to see what that statement is. I am concerned about it. Who wouldn’t be?”He said some of the children had been distressed by the news and were receiving support. But there was some relief that no pupils had presented information about specific concerns that might have suggested Goldberg’s abuse went beyond voyeurism, Hampton said.“I thought I knew the man very well,” he said. “I worked with him very closely for seven years and I would have regarded him as a friend. He was a man in whom I placed a great deal of trust. Now I think that trust was misplaced, and it was a massive shock and a huge sense of betrayal as much as anything else to find out that he was doing what he was doing, that he was [in effect] living a double life.”The atmosphere at the school on Wednesday morning was tense and emotional. “Everyone is very angry,” said one parent through a car window. “It is raw. It is not nice having to explain something like this to teenage boys. They feel shocked and disgusted. They can’t understand it is happening to them. I know it is going on, but you don’t expect it on your own doorstep.”“It is disappointing, and I am angry,” said another mother. “The children were coming out of school yesterday with all these police around, but I think it is something we need to get on with. It has happened and nothing can change that. I feel very sorry for the staff and the headmaster who have to deal with it. A lot of the staff are very upset. This is a brilliant school and this is never something I would ever think would happen here. They have dealt with it well and they are looking after the children and the families.”Others, visibly shaken, declined to speak. “Don’t even think about it,” said one father after dropping off his son.“Don’t you think enough has been reported on it?” said a mother. “It is too much news.”Jo Abbott, marketing manager at the 352-pupil school, said counselling advice from two police community support officers and the school’s welfare officer would be available to students and parents all day. “The school is open as usual and the children will continue lessons as planned,” she said.Four of the school’s governors also arrived on site to speak to parents and children and two manned phone lines for worried families.Abbott said colleagues had been rocked by the transition from grief for a well-respected colleague after he was found dead on 10 September to anger at his crimes of voyeurism, which emerged on Tuesday morning. “The emotion has gone from loss and grief to shock and betrayal, and they are still very much in that realm,” she said.Essex police have declined to comment on the delay in investigating Goldberg because they have referred the matter to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Nick Alston, the police and crime commissioner for the county, said he believed “it is likely something has gone badly wrong here”.The NCA admitted it failed to follow proper procedures in distributing the information it received from Canada, even though it had been assessed.“There have been internal inquiries into this and processes have been altered,” a spokesman said.