A text message received by Claudia Lawrence from a man in Cyprus hours before she disappeared six months ago has led officers to extend the search for the missing chef to the Mediterranean island.A team of four detectives travelled to Cyprus this week to speak to people she knew there. The 35-year-old York University chef has not been seen since March when she failed to turn up for work.Detective Superintendent Ray Galloway, who is leading the investigation into her disappearance, said at a press conference today: "The very last text message that Claudia received, at 9.12pm on Wednesday 18 March, was from a friend in Cyprus. We contacted that gentleman early doors and we knew him to be in Cyprus at the time he sent that text."We don't even know if she even opened that text, but during the course of the investigation it became apparent that Claudia knew several people who lived on the island – hence the need to pursue these lines of inquiry."He said Lawrence had received a number of job offers in Cyprus and had been planning a trip to the island at the time of her disappearance. She had previously visited the island on four or five other occasions in recent years.The man who sent the message from the Greek part of the island has co-operated with police and is not a suspect. However, Galloway said: "Over the past six months our inquiries have led to a broader knowledge of the fact that she knew different people, several people, on the island of Cyprus, all of whom are British and most of whom work out there or live out there."Some of the people that we have contacted have denied knowing Claudia or being in a relationship with her," he said. "I don't believe this to be true."Lawrence is known to have had a number of relationships with men, some of them married, and police have struggled to build a complete picture of her private life.Galloway said one man from Cyprus, who was in the UK on March 18 when Lawrence was last seen, had given police an account of his movements.Lawrence's passport was found at home, Galloway said, but "there are ways in which people can leave the country [without a passport]". There were no signs of disturbance at the house and her purse, bank cards and passport were all present. Her mobile phone, chef's whites and rucksack were missing.Galloway said he still believed she had come to harm, because she had not been in touch with family members on birthdays and other special occasions – which was the key, "as it's not something Claudia would have done".He said there were no formal suspects in the case and no one had been arrested on suspicion of murder, but a number of people were of interest to the investigation.Speaking outside his daughter's home in Heworth, Peter Lawrence, Claudia's father, said the painful search continued."It feels most of the time like an eternity," he said. "I just feel empty, hollow. We are convinced somebody out there knows where Claudia is. It is a matter of getting that person to give information."And if any friend, workmate, neighbour or anybody has something at all, even if they don't think it is important, could they please, please tell the police or Crimestoppers – and put us, the family, out of [our] misery."He was angered by people who refused to acknowledge to the police that they had a relationship with his daughter and said the last six months had been "absolutely devastating and clearly affected us all".