The fate of Britain's proposed supreme court hangs on both high level constitutional principle and venal demands by law lords for a splendid building with state of the art facilities and a prestigious central London location.Lord Falconer, the secretary of state for constitutional affairs and a "cheeky chappie" in Lord Woolf's opinion, is struggling because he has not yet found a definite site for the law lords new court once they are ejected from the gilded splendour of the House of Lords. The law lords, divided on both the principle and practicalities of a supreme court, are now nearly united on delaying the measure until a satisfactory and ideally purpose-built building has been found. Even though Downing Street announced its support for a supreme court on June 12 last year, no location has been found. The law lords collectively fear that if they let the bill introducing the supreme court go through the Lords in the next few months - the bill's second reading is due on March 8 - then they will have no comeback if Lord Falconer fails to negotiate a sufficiently prestigious building on the right terms from the Treasury. Lord Woolf made this point explicitly in his controversial Cambridge lecture this week. In discussions with the Treasury, Lord Falconer has been surveying a range of sites including Somerset House, currently occupied by the Inland Revenue, a beautiful Impressionist painting collection and a winter ice rink. The Inland Revenue is reluctant to move out and Lord Falconer is uncertain that the supreme court, with a UK-wide jurisdiction, should be sited too close to the Royal Courts of Justice, with an exclusive English and Welsh jurisdiction. Middlesex crown court, in Parliament Square, is symbolically the most appropriate site since it would create a quadrangle of parliament, Westminster Abbey and the Treasury. The law lords have argued that the layout is inappropri ate: judges would be sitting high above the litigants. Some say that this difficulty could be overcome with the help of a decent carpenter, but English Heritage might object to a make-over. At present Lord Falconer can only promise that he will be able to announce the new building in the summer. Lord Woolf raised deeper constitutional objections yesterday. He pointed out the name supreme court for the new British appeal court was a misnomer. The new court will have largely the same jurisdiction as the law lords have at present, except it will deal with devolution issues which are primarily dealt with by the law lords in the privy council. The new court will also be entirely subordinate to parliament, as expressed in legislation, and will have no jurisdiction to hear Scottish criminal cases. He argued that as a result the British supreme court will be "a poor relation" in comparison with other supreme courts. For instance the US supreme court can strike down legislation passed by Congress and assert the primacy of the US constitution. Lord Woolf did not argue that the absence of comparable powers for the British supreme court made the proposal deficient, but simply needed acknowledgement. He did however develop a new objection to a British supreme court, warning it was possible that once ejected from parliament the law lords, freed from their previous democratic moorings, might become more proactive in their decisions.He also expressed fears about the funding of the court, objecting to the running costs of the court being recouped from a surcharge on court fees.The current arrangements cost £700,000 a year, not counting the individual law lord salary of £170,000. Lord Woolf has argued a new building properly serviced will cost £50m. Lord Falconer has said the annual running costs are likely to be £10.8m and the costs of the court might be as much as £32m, depending on which building was chosen.