A mother who reported her teenage son to the police after he confessed to killing someone wept in court as he was jailed for four years yesterday. Terence Gaskin, 19, of no fixed address, had admitted manslaughter at an earlier hearing. He blew a kiss to his mother, Wendy Hutchinson, as he was led away to the cells at Preston crown court. Gaskin, who had been out drinking with friends, carried out an unprovoked attack on Kenneth Turnbull, a 51-year-old father of four, in Darwen, Lancashire, in August. Gaskin had approached Turnbull, who was returning home after a night out, and punched him in the face. Turnbull collapsed and died within minutes after suffering a brain haemmorrhage. When police arrived, Gaskin pretended to be a concerned bystander, telling officers that he had found him lying in the street. The next day he told his mother: "I've killed someone. They are dead."Mrs Hutchinson said later: "I had to do what was right. It was a very tough thing to do, but I had to phone the police. Terence told me what happened and he said it was an accident. It was an accident - one punch."Francis McEntee, for the prosecution, said: "The defendant made admissions to his mother. His mother immediately advised him she was going to call police. He begged her not to, but his mother did, quite appropriately, ring the police." Gaskin then handed himself in to the police, but changed his story, telling them that he had acted in self defence after Turnbull had gone for him. After being shown CCTV footage of the attack, Gaskin admitted manslaughter.Turnbull had visited Manchester for a northern soul music event and was travelling home after having a meal with two friends in an Indian restaurant. "He was a gentleman, after an evening out, simply making his way home," McEntee added. "Within 30 seconds, maybe a lot less than that, of encountering Mr Turnbull the defendant delivered the blow that killed him," McEntee said. Jailing Gaskin for four years, Judge Anthony Russell QC said: "This was utterly unprovoked, completely inexcusable violence. Your actions were those of a coward, committing an unprovoked attack on a vulnerable person who you and your friends saw as elderly."Mr Turnbull's wife, Anita, his sons Mark, Andrew and Oliver, and other relatives wept as the court heard that they could not come to terms with his death. "Mrs Turnbull and Mr Turnbull's children have been irrevocably damaged by this loss," McEntee said. "The heart of her family has been ripped out."Det Supt Neil Hunter, from Lancashire police, said: "No sentence will ever bring back the tragic and unnecessary loss of a husband and father whose life was taken from him in terrible circumstances. Sadly, it highlights the perils of drinking far too much alcohol and being oblivious to the consequences of your actions."