The scale of violence against women in Britain has, since records began, been appalling. Currently, emergency services receive a call each minute of every day about domestic violence. More than two women a week are killed by a partner or former partner. More than one in 20 women are raped, and many more are sexually assaulted. Figures released last week showed that conviction rates for rape are the lowest ever at 5.6%.Government estimates show hundreds of cases of forced marriage and at least a dozen "honour killings" every year. Thousands of trafficked women are known to be forced to work as prostitutes. A staggering half of all women in the country report sexual harassment during their working lives. It's a worrying tally which will cause second thoughts in anyone who thought we had the problem under control.The Labour government came into power in 1997 intent on pushing violence against women up the political agenda. Fuelled by the influx of women MPs, it has done some tremendous work. But every success encounters a further challenge. We now need to build on the separate efforts that have been made, so far mainly in the fields of domestic violence and sexual abuse, to develop a truly strategic approach that catches all violence against women in the same net. Sometimes, when I argue for more sexual assault referral centres, which are the Rolls-Royce models of care for victims of rape, I realise that similar havens, with advocates, counselling and supportive medical services, are exactly what survivors of domestic violence need too - but they aren't there. On Monday, I chaired a historic meeting in parliament. Amnesty International and the Women's National Commission were the guests of the two all-party parliamentary groups that work on domestic violence and sexual abuse. The event launched a new report, What a Waste: The Case for an Integrated Violence Against Women Strategy. What would a more strategic approach to eradicating violence against women look like? It must ensure that victims always receive support and protection, and that perpetrators are punished and deterred. Crucially, it must also ensure that preventative work is done - for example work with young people on their attitudes to violence against women, as well as intervention with offenders. We need measures that will bring the kind of attitude change that has been so successfully achieved with drink driving. Protection from violence is a human right, but a successful anti-violence strategy would also bring great benefits for government. Domestic violence alone costs the state and employers around £6bn annually. The majority of women offenders have been victims of violence or abuse. Its reduction would be likely also to cut crimes committed by such women. Joining up departments, learning from best practice and moving firmly into preventative work will eradicate a lot of human misery. A strategic approach to ending all kinds of violence against women in the UK is a policy whose time has come. · Vera Baird QC is MP for Redcar and chair of the Fawcett Commission on women and criminal justice bairdv@parliament.uk