 A 15-year-old boy suffered serious injuries after being knifed in the same road where Steven Grisales was fatally stabbed as murder squad officers carried out house-to-house inquiries 100 metres away.For the second time in a week, College Close, Edmonton, north London, was taped off as a crime scene as residents spoke of being terrorised by gangs of youths, often on bikes, who regularly congregated in a small unlit park and playground. On Thursday a fresh trail of blood led from the park through the cul-de-sac and into a terraced house where the boy, said to be nicknamed Yardie, received help before being airlifted to hospital with arm injuries described as "serious but not life threatening".The house is close to where Grisales, a 21-year-old architecture student, was stabbed after remonstrating with three youths who threw conkers at him as he walked to Silver Street railway station at 7pm on 31 August after a shopping errand for his grandmother. He died in hospital the following day. A 15-year-old boy has been charged with murder.Detectives investigating the killing were in the street leafleting and seeking fresh witnesses when the second attack occurred at 6.50pm on Wednesday. Two people have been arrested. Witnesses, who did not wish to be named, said the victim and another youth were arguing in the park, with one calling the other "moist", said to mean "no ratings" or "dumb".A father of three said recent events had left his children wanting to move home and that they were too scared to play in the street. "Of course I am scared for them," he said. "Everybody is scared."Poor street lighting attracted gangs of youths and girls, often with dogs, to the park. "We've been seeing it for a long time. They used to break the windows of cars, etc. But now this is more serious. Much more serious." he said. "Why has it become such a bad area? I don't know the reason." Three new lamp-posts were erected recently following complaints. "But we need CCTV", the father continued. Another, who moved to the area 25 years ago, said it had deteriorated. "It's young kids running around with knives. They are totally out of control." Police were called to an unconnected stabbing on Wednesday evening in nearby Victoria Road, where a 50-year-old man was injured.Chief Superintendent Dave Tucker, Enfield borough commander, said: "Despite the understandable concerns and fears of local residents in Edmonton, it is essential to recognise that Enfield remains a safe borough and, in reality, only a very small proportion of residents and visitors are affected by crime. Crime in Enfield has fallen over the last eight years and we have seen the most significant reductions in violent offences and serious assaults as well as gun and knife crime."At this stage there is no direct link between the two stabbing incidents and we retain an open mind regarding a possible link between the murder of Steven Grisales and the incident in College Close."Initiatives against knife and gun crime included the use of mobile metal detectors, particularly at bus and train stations and other places people were likely to congregate for antisocial behaviour. Enfield has one of the largest Safer Schools units in London, with police visiting schools to raise awareness of the impact of knife crime, said the Metropolitan police. Targeted stop and search operations were also used as deterrent.In April, Negus McClean, 15, was fatally stabbed in Edmonton as he tried to protect his 13-year-old brother when they were allegedly attacked by a gang over a BlackBerry mobile phone. On 17 August, 14-year-old Leroy James was fatally stabbed at Ponders End recreation ground.