New powers for courts to lock up hundreds of persistent teenage offenders aged from 12 to 15 while they await trial are to be introduced within the next few weeks, the home secretary, David Blunkett, is to announce today.The move will put the already overcrowded prison and youth justice systems under immense pressure as they struggle to find sufficient places to detain the young teenagers, including street robbers, in secure accommodation. There is also scepticism over whether Treasury funds have been secured to fund the £13,000-a-month cost of a place in one of the local authority secure units where the young teenagers will be held. It is thought that up to 600 places will eventually be needed to remand these persistent offenders while they await court hearings. A reorganisation of the way teenagers are held in local authority secure accommodation and in prison service young offenders' institutions is to take place to accommodate the remanded young teenagers. They are too young to be held in prison and will be given one of the 440 places in local authority secure homes. To make room for them, teenage offenders who have already been sentenced will be moved to YOIs at Lancaster Farms, near Lancaster, and at Onley, Warwickshire. In turn some YOI inmates will be dispersed across the prison system. The initiative, which has come out of the weekly meetings of the Downing Street summit to combat street crime, is to be accompanied by a new police presence in the schools regarded as breeding grounds for juvenile street gangs. The announcement follows the extension of tagging teenagers and more voluntary parenting skills programmes for the parents of children who get into trouble. At present the law allows young offenders under 16 to be held on remand only if they have committed a very serious violent or sexual offence that would carry a prison sentence of up to 14 years if they were adults, or if they had repeatedly absconded while on bail. But Mr Blunkett will tell a conference on youth crime in London today that he is going to implement section 130 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 which extends that power to persistent offenders with a recent history of committing offences while on bail. The home secretary's initiative follows complaints from the Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, earlier this year that the courts were bailing those arrested for street crime seven or eight times in a row, allowing them to intimidate witnesses. "We cannot go on treating people as though they were shoplifters when they are actually violent robbers," the commissioner said. A Home Office source agreed, saying that there was no reason in principle why 12 - 15-year-olds who were persistent offenders should not be held in secure accommodation on remand. "The public are brassed off with people being released time after time to reoffend," he said. It is believed that the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, dispatched a circular to magistrates courts last week preparing them for the announcement. It has also caused a new headache for the prison service director-general, Martin Narey, who is struggling to cope with the record 70,266 prison population. Cathy Evans of the Childrens' Society criticised the move, saying it flew in the face of recent significant efforts by the youth justice board to reduce the number of children in custody. "We are concerned that this is being introduced ahead of new places being available and we want assurances that it will not increase overcrowding," she said. Harry Fletcher, of the National Association of Probation Officers, said the real issue was money. "There is a government silence on funding this secure remands project," he said. "There are real fears that the knock-on effects will exacerbate overcrowding in the young offenders' institutions."