An Israeli firm involved in home secretary David Blunkett's "prison without bars" tagging trial is aiming to use its UK experience to expand its operations in mainland Europe. Yoav Reisman, chief executive of Dmatek, the London-listed company whose Elmo-Tech subsidiary is conducting the Greater Manchester trial, argues that while Britain is a significant market in its own right for the company's satellite-linked tagging technology, the UK experience is being closely watched by other countries in western Europe. "The UK is a large market in itself, but we have 10 or 11 programmes elsewhere in western Europe. They are still small, and the Home Office in the UK is a sort of guideline for others." Mr Reisman claims tagging represents a double saving for the authorities. It is cheaper to tag offenders than to send them to prison, he says, but tagging has other advantages. "If you look at first-time offenders just beginning on the criminal way - if, rather than sending them to prison you can steer them on a different way, you can save tons of money in the years to come." He acknowledges concerns about privacy issues but argues that if the alternatives are tagging or a prison sentence, "tagging is the better option". Though Dmatek, which operates in the United States, Australia and Latin America, derives most of its business from the criminal justice market, Mr Reisman believes the market for medical applications is likely to be bigger in the long term. One area in the medical market is tagging dementia sufferers - so-called wandering prevention - but Dmatek is working at "smart" tagging that will allow what Mr Reisman calls "wellbeing monitoring", which automatically checks on conditions such as body temperature, heart rate and activity rate, and which alerts carers to any problems. "People don't like panic buttons. They feel using them means they can't take care of themselves. We are taking a different approach." In the longer term Dmatek is working on a sophisticated security system which will not only tell monitors who has entered a building but also show exactly where everybody on the site is in real time. Mr Reisman acknowledges that implementation of such a system "is still in the future".