The family of Lucy Braham, who was stabbed to death in their home on Thursday night, paid tribute last night to a 'stunningly beautiful daughter'.In a statement Lucy's mother and father said the 25-year-old daughter of a schoolmaster at Harrow School in north-west London, was so modest she hated having her picture taken. Last night the family released a new picture thought to be taken last weekend at the Bestival music festival on the Isle of Wight.'It is an irony that someone so dismissive about her looks, who disliked being photographed, should have her face in every national paper,' the statement from parents, Jason and Julienne, read.Lucy was murdered at the family home in the grounds of Harrow, one of Britain's most prestigious private schools. The alleged perpretrator, Will Jaggs, the son of the school's head of design and technology, was found naked beside her. He had stabbed himself several times. Last night he remained in hospital in a 'serious and stable condition'. Police confirmed they were examining a line of inquiry that Jaggs, 22, had a history of mental health problems.Police sources are acting on information that Jaggs had become obsessed with Lucy, who lived four doors away in houses both owned by the school on Harrow Hill. The two, however, were not friends. Her family indicated last night that 'Lucy had no social connection with her attacker or his friends, who were some years younger than herself'.Messages left on an Oxford University website, where Jaggs was studying English literature, indicate that Jaggs had begun to behave 'erratically'.One message read: 'Will took this year out so he hasn't finished his degree yet; I remember being told that his tutors had told him to go and "sort himself out" because he wasn't doing any work and was behaving erratically. He used to do some very odd and antisocial things on occasion around college. How utterly horrible, though. Whilst I'm shocked, I'm not overly surprised I guess.'The family's statement continued: 'A fashion graduate, she was very creative and was designing and making clothes and accessories in her studio at the family's house. The weekend before her murder ... she had been talking over ideas for selling her designs over the internet.'The statement added: 'It is the cruellest tragedy that someone so gentle should have had her life snatched away so senselessly.'Her family and friends all miss her terribly. Lucy was quiet, calm and graceful. She had a circle of very close friends and a warm and generous smile that touched everyone she met.'