The family of a teenager who was abducted and murdered by five Asian men blamed gang culture for his death and appealed for help in catching his killers yesterday.In a statement, Kriss Donald's mother, Angela, described the gang as "full of hate", but called for calm as racial tensions threatened to heighten in the Glasgow suburb where Kriss was abducted. Mrs Donald said: "Five men, full of hate, and it doesn't matter to my family and extended family what colour these men are, murdered my eldest son. They have killed Kriss and taken him from his loved ones.""Kriss is gone because of gangs, not just in Pollokshields, but every area of our communities. However, I would urge the public not to target the Asian community because of his death." The British National party announced that its leader, Nick Griffin, would be visiting Pollokshields this weekend. The move was condemned by the local MP as an opportunistic attempt to stir up racial hatred. Mohammed Sarwar, the MP for Glasgow Govan, said: "Somebody has lost their life and it is a terrible time for their family. "But the BNP do not care about this, they are going to exploit these tragic circumstance for their own twisted end. I appeal for calm and respect on all sides." Mrs Donald's appeal came as Strathclyde police announced they had recovered two cars which may be connected to the incident. Kriss, 15, was walking with a friend, Jamie Wallace, 19, in Kenmure Street on Monday when he was approached by an Asian man. An argument broke out and four more Asian men drew up in a silver car. He was bundled into the back of the car but his friend got away. His battered body was found by a cyclist in a lane in the east end of Glasgow on Tuesday morning. Kriss had a brother and three sisters - Laurie, 10, Samantha, 17, and four-year-old twins Amber and Tayler. Samantha said: "My beautiful wee baby brother has been taken away from me but I know in my heart he is watching down on us and I pray to God that the men responsible are caught and punished. "Laurie, Amber and Tayler have lost their big brother who they love and look up to. He is such a big part of all our lives and we will never forget him." Detective Superintendent Elliot McKenzie, who is leading the inquiry, said: "We have recovered two cars in the Glasgow area that are being forensically examined. "However, at this stage, we are unable to confirm if either vehicle was the one involved in the abduction."