A serial burglar with a history of violence stabbed a teacher through the heart a month after being released early from jail on parole, it emerged yesterday.The details were revealed after an Old Bailey jury took just 40 minutes yesterday to convict Yousef Bouhaddou of murdering Robert Symons, 45, in his home in Chiswick, west London, in October 2004.Bouhaddou, a 28-year-old crack cocaine addict who police believe is responsible for dozens of crimes, served only half of a five-and-a-half-year sentence for a string of burglaries across the capital. The case puts further pressure on the Parole Board, which has been criticised over the case of Damien Hanson, who stabbed the millionaire financier John Monckton to death in his home in Chelsea in November 2004 after being freed on licence.DefendedThe board last night defended its decision to let Bouhaddou out of jail early, insisting that while he had used violence before, it could not have predicted it would escalate to murder.Bouhaddou admitted breaking into Mr Symons's £1m house in the early hours of the morning, but denied murder. He claimed the householder died accidentally during a struggle. Mr Symons, an IT consultant before becoming a teacher, heard noises and went downstairs to investigate. Linda Davies, his wife, found him dying on the dining room floor as the couple's two daughters, Harriet and Melissa, aged five and three, slept upstairs. Ms Davies, a photographer, wept as she told jurors how she ran to her husband when she heard him yell "Lin"."From the top of the stairs, I thought I could see someone leaving," she told the court. "I ran to make sure the door was shut. On the way through, I saw Rob lying on the dining room floor. I went straight to him. He was groaning and could not talk. I tried to find where the wound was. I had this idea if I talked to him, he might stay alive." Mr Symons was rushed to hospital but died soon afterwards. Bouhaddou, from Notting Hill, west London, was first convicted of burglary in 1996 at the age of 18 and sentenced to two years but released in February 1997.A year later he was back in prison for dangerous driving and he turned back to crime after his release in 1999. He prowled west London looking for expensive cars to steal and sell on. He would push a bamboo cane through letterboxes to open front door latches and find the keys of vehicles parked outside.In May 2001, he dragged a woman out of a basement window as he made off with her handbag, and in September that year he was caught as he tried to drive off in a Saab convertible, punching the owner in an attempt to escape.He received a five-and-a-half-year jail term in May 2002 for five burglaries and dangerous driving, but was freed on licence on September 13 2004. Two weeks later he was back on the streets, stealing a Mercedes Kompressor to fund his £180-a-week crack habit. In the early hours of October 20 2004, he spotted Mr Symons's Lexus car in the driveway of the family's house in Chiswick, and used a bent car aerial to undo the front door latch. He was in the kitchen when Mr Symons woke and came downstairs, where Bouhaddou killed him.In a statement, Christine Glenn, chief executive of the Parole Board, said the board deeply regretted the circumstances that led to the death of Mr Symons. But Ms Glenn defended the decision to release Bouhaddou early, saying while he had used some violence in carrying out previous offences, there was nothing approaching the level of violence he used against Mr Symons.Assessments"The risk assessments provided to us assessed him to be at low to medium risk of re-offending and all of the professional reports recommend that he be released. The review committee concluded, after careful consideration, that the decision to release Bouhaddou was defensible, given the information available to the panel, and the offence for which he has now been convicted was not predictable."Mr Symons had sold a successful IT business to retrain as a science teacher and had taken up his first post at Queens Park community school in Kilburn, north London, two months previously.Outside the Old Bailey yesterday, solicitor Louise Delahaunty read a statement on behalf of Ms Davies, saying she and her daughters had "lost a beloved husband and father. The pain of losing him continues every day. She will never forget that her husband's life was so needlessly and callously taken in a single violent moment by a stranger wielding a knife".