Interpol was called in yesterday after a young woman bar worker was found murdered in Wiltshire soon after her Portuguese former boyfriend had left the country on a flight to Lisbon.Detectives sealed off a house in Trowbridge where the 22-year-old woman's body was found after she failed to turn up for work at the weekend. Wiltshire police said that Hayley Richards, who was three months pregnant, had been killed a week after she filed a complaint that her former partner, Hugo Qintas, had assaulted her. An immediate alert was put out for sightings of Mr Qintas, who is 23 and had been living and working in Trowbridge. The killing shocked the quiet county town of Wiltshire, where Ms Richards was well-known and popular. Detective Chief Inspector Kevin Capstick said that the Independent Police Complaints Commission had been asked to investigate the actions taken by the police after the complaint of assault. Ms Richards' brother, Paul Richards, said: "I am led to believe that just over a week ago Hayley was attacked in her home by her ex-boyfriend and we were informed that an arrest was imminent, but that an interpreter would have to be present. A week later we find ourselves devastated with the loss of Hayley." Superintendent Peter Russ said that officers had been investigating the case and their actions had been referred to the PCC by Wiltshire's deputy chief constable, Stephen Long. The victim's family issued a statement saying: "Hayley was a beautiful young woman. She hurt no one and was loved by all. She was always there when required, no matter what was asked of her." More than 50 officers were working on the case yesterday. Forensic teams combed the area around Ms Richards' sealed-off home and that of Mr Quintas, which is nearby. A neighbour, who asked not to be named, said she was woken in the early hours of Saturday by a scream. "I was woken by the sound of a fight and it sounded like someone was crying and shouting," she said. "Then there was a scream I can only describe as blood-curdling. I just thought it was a domestic."