A prisoner who overdosed on stolen methadone was taken to hospital last week on the day a report was published severely criticising officers' treatment of a similar incident at the jail where she is serving her sentence.The Home Office confirmed yesterday that a prisoner had been taken from Styal women's prison in Cheshire for treatment on Thursday after a suspected overdose. "We are conducting a full investigation into how this may have happened," said a spokeswoman.The Guardian has learned that the unnamed woman was taken from the segregation unit after swallowing methadone thought to have been stolen from a medication trolley.In his report on Styal, the prisons ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, criticised the use of prison for women with mental health and drug problems, claiming it was "disproportionate and ineffective".He investigated the deaths of six women at Styal within 12 months and gave particular attention to the case of Julie Walsh, 39, who died in August 2003 after drinking a large quantity of the antidepressant drug Dothiepin stolen by prisoners from an unattended drugs trolley. Four prisoners drank from the stolen bottle, but Walsh, a mother of two, died after going into a violent fit. A verdict of accidental death was recorded at an inquest.Mr Shaw said that although the empty bottle was passed to staff, no action was taken. He also criticised the delay in calling for an ambulance, following an incorrect diagnosis by a prison nurse.Campaigners said they were amazed that a similar incident could happen on the day Mr Shaw's report was published. Deborah Coles, director of the campaign group Inquest, said no lessons had been learned from previous incidents at Styal. "This warrants a full investigation, by a truly independent body, that will hold those responsible to account," she said.In another incident at Styal last week, Fadeke Badderin, 29, took a cocktail of medicines and cosmetics when told she was to be transferred to Drake Hall prison, Staffordshire, two months before the end of her sentence. She wished to remain at Styal because her mother, who lives in Manchester, recently suffered a severe stroke. Inmates claim that staff did not respond for 30 minutes after the alarm was raised and that it was left to fellow prisoners to escort her, vomiting violently, to the healthcare centre.Following the deaths of the six prisoners, a new governor was installed at Styal and new safety measures were put in place. These include a first-night centre, where medical and psychiatric needs are assessed, and the opening of a therapeutic unit. Prisoners report that the regime has improved but a number are believed to have lodged official complaints about the treatment of Ms Badderin.