A new report from the Prince's Trust says that the gang is replacing the family in British society. The stereotypical image of happy families sitting in sunny kitchens may seem a long way from groups of gangsters lurking on our street corners, but their functions are surprisingly similar.Gangs, like families, provide units of security in a world too dangerous for individuals alone. Like families, they provide their young members with structure and routine. They give them role models, a sense of identity and a feeling of belonging.This report is interesting because it challenges the popular belief that gangs are simply power-hungry groups of thugs who set out to cause trouble for the sake of it. Gang behaviour might be offensive, but the primary motive for their existence is defensive. These groups are not set up to wage war on a peaceful world; they spring up in response to a hostile one.For many young people, the decision to shed blood on the streets rather than spend time with shared blood at home is not a real choice. According to the report, one in three young people think that their parents are not worthy of respect. Many kids' parents have walked out, some suffer from addictions, some are violent. Other parents are never at home because they're having to work two jobs to make the rent. When adult communities disappear, we shouldn't be surprised when young people seek alternatives of their own.Take Dark Side Massive (DSM), a gang of young black guys who used to rule our common room at school. They'd strut about playing bad garage remixes at lunchtime, stealing from the tuck shop and dealing knives. These were the same kids whose parents never turned up for parents' evening; the ones who didn't go home like me and the other middle class kids to families chatting around the dining room table; the ones who had to create a community of their own.But the problem with these alternative communities is that they don't provide access to the experience and knowledge offered by networks of adults. Kids are coming together in the streets because they're suffering the same problems. This might bring them closer, but it doesn't always help create a solution. They are trying to figure out what it means to be an adult and cope with the problems of growing up without guidance from those who have been through it before. In gangs there are no men to follow, just boys to imitate. In such environments, it's not surprising that the definition of adulthood starts to become twisted. It's not surprising that kids start exchanging respect for threat, security for fear and hugs for hoodies.In school DSM were powerful. They controlled everything. Middle class kids sat in corners nibbling wholesome homemade sandwiches, watching their reign of terror over the canteen. But where is that DSM crew now? They started fading out around the time we took GCSEs. By A-levels, they had slipped off the radar. I still hear rumours; some have gone to prison, some are out there dealing, others have become early fathers – none went to university. Ultimately, they are the ones who have suffered. "Taking responsibility" seems to be a very popular subject with politicians at the moment, but it's not a term that should be reserved for gang members alone. If adult communities are supposed to be the answer to the problems associated with gangs, then absent adults should also take responsibility for their formation. Separated parents need to make an effort to stay in their kids' lives if not their partners'. Adults fretting about youth violence should, where they can, volunteer to be mentors for young people and plug the gaps for kids who – for whatever reason – are left without parents of their own. After all, community is a necessity. If we don't provide our kids with positive networks, what choice do we leave them but to form more sinister ones of their own?