Seizures of illegal meat smuggled into the UK from 'high-risk' countries where infectious animal diseases can pose a risk to human health have spiralled by almost 20 per cent, according to new figures. The revelation raises fresh concerns about the black market trade and comes as it emerges that the government has appointed a scientific task force to investigate the consequences if bush meat carrying viruses, including the deadly Ebola virus, were smuggled into the UK.The decision by the Food Standards Agency (FSA), the food watchdog, to conduct the first risk assessment of the threat to the UK from bush meat - such as antelope, giraffe or monkey, which makes up 3 per cent of the illegal trade - has been long overdue, according to experts. 'This assessment is about looking at the really nasty viruses and diseases and asking whether they can be transferred to humans,' said Jenny Morris, policy officer with the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.'For some time, our concern has been that nobody has done a theoretical examination of the risks to public health. But if it could happen we need to know. The consequences would be enormous,' Morris added. Figures to be published this month, as part of the HM Revenue & Customs' annual review into the illicit trade in smuggled produce, will show an 18.5 per cent rise in the number of seizures of illegal meat smuggled from the 15 countries that are classed as 'high risk' of animal-borne disease. The figures show that customs officers carried out 11,388 seizures from the 15 'high risk' exporter countries of illegal meat in the 11 months to March. This compares with 9,616 seizures the year before, and may be a sign that customs is becoming more successful in the war on illegal meat smuggling. 'Customs takes the detection of illegal meat imports seriously. By making the most of technology, using our resources flexibly and identifying areas most at risk, we are becoming increasingly successful in tackling smugglers involved in illegal meat imports,' a spokeswoman said. Seizures from Nigeria - the biggest exporter of illegal meat outside the European Union - increased from 1,463 to 1,965 while those from Bangladesh almost doubled, from 736 to 1,361. But the figures will also raise concerns that the true scale of the illegal meat trade is only starting to become apparent as more resources are devoted to tackling it. 'There are an awful lot of unknowns out there,' Morris said. 'There is good evidence that there is a considerable problem in various parts of the country, and in these areas it is getting worse.' Bush meat is usually smuggled in from western Africa, and is sold for hefty prices to people who consider it a delicacy. But there is now a growing concern about the threat bush meat poses to human health. A recent government briefing paper on the bush meat trade suggested that 'zoonoses' - animal diseases that pose a threat to human health - are now 'among the most important public health threats facing humanity'. While the likelihood of viruses such as Ebola entering the United Kingdom via illegally smuggled meat is considered an extremely remote 'nightmare scenario', the government now believes further research needs to be done into the threat. 'However, recognising the continuing concerns about this trade, it has recently commissioned a formal review of the microbiological hazards that could be associated with illegal imports of meat, to determine whether any additional advice is required,' an FSA spokesman said. Research suggests Ebola, which has no vaccine or known cure and causes 90 per cent of its victims to bleed to death, can be caught by eating meat from infected apes, such as chimpanzees and gorillas.