The £4bn merger of the prison and probation services in June was hailed as a breakthrough in the battle to cut reoffending rates and ease pressure on overcrowded jails. But it was also one of the biggest, riskiest and potentially most controversial public sector structural changes of recent years, and a consensus is emerging that its implementation is going less than smoothly. The Guardian disclosed last month that the concern about the National Offender Management Service (Noms) goes to the very top. The "traffic lights" paper for Noms - Whitehall's now compulsory risk assessment for every project - included four "high probability, high impact" alerts. These included a warning that the project was so large and complex that there is a danger of a loss of confidence among ministers, staff and unions. This would not surprise many in the criminal justice system, who have made it clear they are unhappy that Noms has been rushed or are angered by the introduction of "contestability" competitions for prisons and probation areas which they regard as back-door privatisation. There were even rumours that the man in charge, Noms chief executive Martin Narey, was unwilling to see through the reorganisation. Narey, however, has told Society Guardian he has no intention of going anywhere until the merger is safely under way - even if that is several years away. He insists that not only is the merger "going rather well", but there are also early signs that it is beginning to persuade the courts to send fewer minor offenders to prison and to secure a modest reduction in reconviction rates. He denies that he had applied for any other job - including that of permanent secretary at the Department of Constitutional Affairs. "I did not apply," says Narey, who also disputes suggestions that the cabinet secretary, Sir Andrew Turnbull, insisted he stay the course. "I have been invited to apply for a number of jobs and I have declined to do so. I want to do this, and I have no intention of going anywhere until it is well on the way. It is going to take a lot of years, but I am going to do this. "I know why the trade unions are pushing all the scare stories. I understand why some individuals are anxious, because this is a very, very big programme. It is certainly the biggest thing I have ever done. Despite the fact that it is a huge challenge, I think that things are going rather well. We have made a lot of progress on offender management. We are set to introduce contestability, not privatisation, to make a big difference, and there are some signs of getting some sense into sentencing, which for as long as we can remember has been the real scourge." He says that, despite widespread speculation, ministers have not yet made a decision on whether the four jails dedicated to the under-18s will be the first group of prisons to be put out to tender. Instead, he says it may be "a geographical group like a cluster", but the public sector will be given the chance to keep the work. Narey defends the pace of change, saying it has to happen "pretty promptly", otherwise organisations become paralysed by the process. He admits that, in the face of criticism, he had to redraw the development of Noms and reprieve the probation boards. This meant taking "a slower path", but he says the project is justified by the prize - being able for the first time to secure a lasting cut in reconviction rates. "We have never on any sustained basis been able to reduce reoffending, and neither has any other correctional service in the world," Narey says. He says that for the first time they have the money, they have "genuinely effective community penalties", and there is emerging evidence of modest effects on reconviction rates. But the reduction is nowhere near as big as could be achieved "if we joined our efforts together and we really had offender management". Narey is angered that people can't see that contestability is not the same as privatisation. "We are talking about taking a prison or prisons and saying let's see what's the best you can do, public sector, and we will price that against what the private and the not-for-profit sector can do," he says. "Frankly, I don't see how anyone can possibly take issue with that. If the public sector is better on price and quality, then the work stays with them. Ministers have made that very, very clear. Privatisation is about taking work and putting it in the private sector, and that is not what we are about."  He claims that if the prison companies heard he was an arch-privatiser they would fall about laughing because of his record of bringing Blakenhurst and Buckley Hall jails back into the public sector. He also claims it is wrong to assume that because a representative of the private sector - from United Kingdom Detention Services - sits on the Noms board, there will be a presumption in favour of a private prison company winning the new competitions. "That is based on a misunderstanding," he says. "The Noms board will not make any of those decisions like that. I make those recommendations and put them directly to ministers outside of that board. The board is a very large vehicle chaired by the minister in an attempt to bring together all parties. "We are moving into a situation where we are going to have different providers. So we have the head of the public sector there, a representative of the private sector and the three main trade unions. This is a genuine attempt at real consultation." But with one of the major unions - the prison officers - already pledged to boycott the constestability competitions, it is now hard to see how this outbreak of inclusivity can last. · National Probation Service is at www.probation.homeoffice.gov.uk· Read National Offender Management Service updates at www.probation.homeoffice.gov.uk/output/page224.asp