By the time it was clear he was not facing prison, the 13-year-old standing before Manchester magistrates court had plucked up the courage to ask the judge the question that really mattered. "Can I ask one question? When will I get my phone back?"The BlackBerry in question had been taken by police on Tuesday night, after the boy went into Manchester city centre with a hammer strapped to his right leg.He pleaded guilty to possession of an offensive weapon and was given a referral order, a non-custodial sentence in which he will be required to make reparation through community work. He was ordered to pay £85 court costs, which his mother will pay in fortnightly instalments.In an interview outside court, his mother gave a rare glimpse into the lives of the children who made up one of the most disturbing elements of the UK's riots.Asked how she would punish him, she said: "I'll take his Xbox off him. That hurts more than anything in the world."Her son, a skinny, pimply boy who attended court in a red hooded top and jeans, went into the city centre that night after Facebook conversations with friends "about going to watch the riot," the court heard. The hammer, the court was told, was taken for self-defence.The boy lives with his mother and 18-year-old sister. That day, his mother said, her children said they were going out to a barbecue. But her daughter came home without her son.He was arrested, the court was told, after a policewoman asked him if he "had anything with him he shouldn't have," and he rolled up his trouser leg to reveal the hammer.On the leafy, tidy, east Manchester housing estate where the family lives, his mother and her cousin talked about her parenting style.In court, she gave this description of his daily routine. "He's perfect. He gets up, wraps a towel round him, sits there and puts the Xbox on. He says – 'can I have my dinner?'"His parents are separated and his mother is on income support and disability living allowance. The Xbox was a gift from his father – who may be working, his mother isn't sure – but she has to save up for everything else. The family are indignant that his BlackBerry, and the jeans and trainers he was wearing on the night are still in police possession.The boy's mother was accompanied to court by her female cousin, and both say that poverty doesn't undermine their parenting skills. The cousin points out that a wealthy businessman's daughter has appeared in court over the riots.The mother said: "Because we're poor, people think we're scum, but we're not scum."In court, the boy appeared cowed and remorseful. Asked by district judge Khalid Qureshi for an explanation, he said: "Its pretty much the worst thing I've ever done. Stupid."The boy's mother is vague about her children's education, though his good track record at school was presented as mitigation in court.Her son is due to choose GCSE options next month, but she is unsure which ones he intends to pick. Her cousin suggests his choices may include: "history, IT, athletics." that he wants to be a vet, "because he likes animals."The boy has no previous convictions and the judge accepted that he had a "supportive family life".His mother and cousin are reluctant to blame wider social causes for the boy's crime – although they do raise one outside factor. "You should put how they're closing down the youth centres round here," the mother's cousin said. "Do you use the youth centres?" she asked the boy. "No," he replied.