Christmas is for charity and rightly so. For some Christmas is for regret, repentance, rage and a desperate sadness. Imprisonment is society's cruellest sanction and Britain imposes it with a recklessness unknown elsewhere in Europe. I do not accept that this is because Britons are peculiarly criminal. I must assume it is because Britons are peculiarly immune to state cruelty.Therefore this Christmas I give a voice to some victims of this syndrome. Some, I am sure, need to be in prison. Most do not and some I know to be innocent, falling foul of a rotten judicial system that cannot admit mistakes. Whatever they may be, they are human beings with imagination and a pen.For eight years a theatrical director, Bruce Wall, has been visiting prisons across Britain with his Shakespeare workshops. He invites inmates, many barely literate, from their cells into prison chapels or gyms to act and write verse. They exercise to iambic pentameters. They shout Shakespeare's abuse, laugh at Shakespeare's humour and moon over Shakespeare's romance. Within hours Wall has them speaking and composing Shakespearean verse, mostly sonnets.I print below the product of this work. The poems were all composed in jail by men and women whose feelings are clearly raw and who found in poetry a vehicle for their anger and shame. Some poems were pressed into Wall's hand, sweatily scribbled on scraps of prison paper. Others emerged from the energy of the workshop sessions. In every case we can sense these people looking, like Oscar Wilde, "with such a wistful eye / Upon that little tent of blue / Which prisoners call the sky."One of the poems is anonymous. Another is by an inmate who sadly died in a young offenders' institution shortly after writing it. Darren Raymond and Fabian Spencer were recently released and have become actors. They are to tour with a production of Wall's version of Othello, Blacking Iago. Peter Bradbury has been released and is now a writer. Clare Barstow, a talented writer, remains in prison. The poems clearly owe much to Shakespeare. Their quality, and metre, is variable. Their passion is not.Happy Christmas to them all.To ChristmasAt Christmas I no more desire a roseI no more yearn to see the bars stand proud.I no more lust to party with this crowdI merely covet the joys that freedom grows.At Christmas I don't beg my family's callI no more yearn my sole child's shame to seeI no more crave that "Happy Christmas" pleaI merely thirst to move beyond these walls.Of Christmas I no more aspire to thinkNo more the joys of Christmas morn entreatNo more hunger I such rich fruit to eatI merely sit; mind lost upon a brink.On Christmas day to save us Christ was bornStill, my child sits home. Alone. Forlorn.FSHMP BrixtonI AmI am the judge, I am the jury, I am the crime that feeds the fury.I am the tooth, I am the claw, I am the nature's angry law.I am the power, I am the force, I'm where evil takes its course.I am the breath, I am the life, I am the twisting of the knife.I am the pressure, I am the pain, I am logic gone insane.I am the whimper, I am the scream, I am the noises in-between.I am the bone, I am the skin, I am the pressure, I am the sin.I am the fire, I am the fuel, I am the violent, I am the cruel.I am the Devil, I am God, I am the staff, I am the rod.I am the blood, I am the tears, I am the hours, I am the years.I am the play, I am the stage, I am the act, I am rage.Anon HMP StockenSonnetHow oft I count the clock that tells the timePondering how I wasted blackened hoursPulling syntax and grammar into rhyme'Stead of pursuing more fruitful bowers.In darkest hours of long, frigid, slow nightWhen sleep evades my mind for far too long,Tossed, turned, I set to put my scansion rightUntil interrupted by the clock's rude song.Perhaps time never meant to be split openInto divisions of hours of metre?They imprison man. They cause him to scratchOn minds by implicit laws unwritten.Should I rest? No. I'd not so read and write.Verse needs that light, being set in blackest night.PB HMP WoodhillFollowing "Tomorrow La Scala" or Writing Wrongs of "Dumbing Down"I thought to pull down prisons with my pen.My honeyed verses, like strong silver reedsBlown from Tennyson's trumpet, might thenProve written words far mightier than deeds.But in this drossy age where thoughts cost dearAnd prophets false with forgeries abound;Where speaking Truth to Power is quelled by Fear,Few oracles of Honesty are found.Shelley describes poets as "legislators",Even Auden in a dismal strain replies:"Poems make nothing happen." Of these pratersAnd their priestly pronouncement, which applies?Though few lend ink to any satiric jibesAnd oft Love's labour's lost in vain disgust,I'd yet expose those "takers of base bribes"For wolves holding Creativity in mistrust.CB HMP Cookham WoodBreaking FaithI didn't think. I didn't pause,I lived my life outside the laws.Circles of trouble surrounded me.Sentences of shame, they came to be.Prison walls they held me tight,Even though I chose to fight -Even when outside those gates I'd spree,Circles of crime enveloped me!Neon-lit cells still hold as I recall -The waiting and waiting after the fall,Bars on the windows, locks in the doors;And echoing footsteps on eternal corridors.Those chains of shame are broken now,My faith stood bail, I know not how!I called. I "prayed" with all my heart,And I - my faith - changed me in every part.Yes. Yes. My faith came to rescue meFrom my prison my faith did set me freeAnd with the breaking of earlier spellsI freed - myself - from a living hell.Ian HMYOI AylesburyCold TurkeyIt's addictive. First time's never enough.You wanna taste it again and again.Without it, believe me life can be tough.You think it's easy to quit? Think again.Just thinkin' of it makes me excited.Anxious. Like a little kid. I can't wait.I've tried. I really have tried to fight itBut the feeling you get - the buzz - it's great.It gives you confidence to be "the man",Fighting raging bulls like a De Niro.Makes you invincible: like Superman.Only there's no kryptonite for this hero.You wanna try this drug? Go on. Here.Don't worry. It's harmless. It's just Shakespeare.DR HMP Pentonvillesimon.jenkins@theguardian.com