Two policemen under investigation for shooting dead a man after mistaking a table leg he was carrying for a gun will not be charged, it was confirmed today.The Crown Prosecution Service said there was "insufficient evidence" to charge either of the two officers over the death of the painter and decorator Harry Stanley in 1999.Not enough evidence was available to rebut the men's assertion that they had been acting in self-defence, the CPS said. Chief Inspector Neil Sharman, 42, and 38-year-old PC Kevin Fagan, of the Metropolitan police, were arrested by officers from the neighbouring Surrey force in June in connection with Stanely's death. The father of three from Hackney, east London, was shot in the head and hand on September 22 1999 after a table leg he was carrying in a bag was mistaken for a sawn-off shotgun. "The Crown Prosecution Service announced today it has advised Surrey police that there is insufficient evidence to charge Chief Inspector Neil Sharman and Police Constable Kevin Fagan with any offence in relation to the fatal shooting of Henry (Harry) Stanley in a London street in September 1999," a CPS statement said. "The CPS has concluded that the prosecution evidence is insufficient to rebut the officers' assertion that they were acting in self defence. "We have also concluded that the threat which they believed they faced made the use of fatal force reasonable in the circumstances as they perceived them."Stanley's wife, Irene, said his family was "devastated" by the announcement.A second inquest into his death in October last year returned a verdict of unlawful killing, but the decision was overturned by the high court in May. Nevertheless, the two policemen were arrested the following month as part of an investigation launched after the inquest verdict. This had led to the discovery in January of "significant forensic evidence" - two bullet holes to the top left shoulder of the jacket that Stanley had been wearing when he was shot. "This forensic evidence appeared to indicate that Mr Stanley may have been shot as he began to turn towards the officers, in contradiction to the statements provided by them," the CPS said."On this basis, the officers were arrested by Surrey police on suspicion of murder, gross negligence manslaughter, perjury and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice on June 2 this year."In mid-September, the officers' defence team submitted independent forensic evidence, which the CPS said could "reasonably permit interpretations consistent with the officers' belief that they were acting in self-defence".The Scotland Yard assistant commissioner, Steve House, welcomed the CPS announcement. "This has been a very stressful time for the two officers involved, their families and their colleagues," he said. "It is also a very difficult time for the family of Mr Stanley, and we again express our sympathy to them." He urged the Independent Police Complaints Commission to come to a swift decision regarding any possible outstanding police disciplinary issues against the two officers.Members of Stanley's family today vowed to continue their battle. "What happened today was an injustice," Mrs Stanley said. "I am devastated by it, although I half expected it. I am going to keep fighting, but can't say any more until I receive legal advice."Today, the police officers who killed Harry Stanley - and whose accounts of the shooting were not accepted by two inquest juries - have walked away from these events without ever being brought to account in a criminal trial. The family consider that the evidence justified criminal charges."Deborah Coles, the co-director of the pressure group Inquest, said: "Public confidence in the criminal justice system as it relates to the police has been severely undermined by this decision, which apparently puts police officers above the law."