The Home Office has just announced that 30,000 police officers will be trained to carry "tasers": laser-targeted guns which fire metallic darts that temporarily confuse a suspect's nervous system with a five-second 50,000-volt charge.Police organisations argue that these weapons improve public safety by reducing the need for guns. In some exceptional circumstances involving highly-trained officers (think of De Menezes), this might be true. But rolling out stun-guns to tens of thousands of police officers after what Amnesty International claims to be nothing but a two-day training course cannot fail to increase the chances of their misuse. Not only that, but if tasers can replace guns, they can also replace other devices used by the police like PAVA or CS sprays. Unlike tasers, these weapons do not have the power to kill. In the US – where the guns are widely used by the police – tasers have been linked to over 70 deaths.But the biggest threat posed by tasers isn't likely to be how they work or how they will be used: it's how they will be perceived. Officers carrying guns become authoritarian agents to be feared rather than like-minded citizens to be trusted. Friendly local bobbies end up looking like agents from some sci fi dystopia out to subdue the populus. In a police force where ethnic minorities are highly underrepresented, this is a dangerous move.I'm a white British female with nothing to feel guilty about, but if I see a police officer with a bright orange stun gun in their pocket I'm more likely to cross the street than stop and chew the fat about neighbourhood safety. How would I react if I were a teenager who felt unfairly accused, a new migrant with bad experiences of the state, or a black man who had grown up listening to allegations of police racism? These guns won't make our communities feel safer; they just add one more thing to the power gap between the insufficiently representative uniformed officers in the force and the diverse citizens on the street. The police have come a long way in challenging their reputation for thuggery; we should not let the widespread introduction of the stun gun jeopardize that progress. Tasers cause the subject's muscle's to contract uncontrollably, and have been reported to inflict a great deal of pain. Cause that kind of damage unwisely just once (and risk someone capturing video footage on their mobile), and the ripple effects of that story are likely to do catastrophic things to the Met's reputation. This is a dangerous measure because, without trust and respect for the police, individual citizens will not feel comfortable approaching officers to seek help, report crimes or turn themselves in. No one is denying that the police have a difficult job, but the widespread introduction of stun guns is likely to make their role a harder one to play.If we really want to increase public protection, we need to put down the tasers and focus on building the real bedrock of community safety: good relations between citizens and the police.