Family and friends of the murdered landscape architect Joanna Yeates have attended her funeral in the village where she grew up.The ceremony to commemorate the life of the 25-year-old was held at St Mark's in Ampfield, Hampshire, known as the church in the woods.David and Teresa Yeates followed their daughter's wicker coffin, which was adorned with daffodils and small sunflowers, into the church where she was christened. Next came Yeates's brother, Chris, and behind him her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, with whom she lived in Bristol.More than 50 floral tributes were placed outside the church. Among them were flowers from friends, family members, Yeates's employer, and Avon and Somerset police.A note on one read: "Our dearest, Jo you will be with us always. Gran and Uncle Clive." Another read: "Dear Jo, Your vivacious spirit and considerable presence will not be forgotten. I will miss your ever cheerful greetings. Until we meet again. Love Uncle Pete xxx."Yeates's parents had said the day of her funeral was bound to be the worst day of their lives but have also insisted they are more fortunate than families whose relatives disappear and can never be given a funeral.Before the service they released a new photograph of Yeates, whose body was found on Christmas morning, eight days after she vanished following drinks with work colleagues in Bristol.The photograph was taken in June 2010 and shows Yeates looking at a piece of work she produced for her postgraduate diploma show at the University of Gloucestershire.A tribute from her course tutor, David Booth, was also issued. Booth said Yeates "made a strong and lasting impression on staff and students".He added: "Jo was one of those students who you can tell would be destined for great things and it almost goes without saying that she graduated at the end of her studies in July 2010 with a distinction."Her death is a huge loss to all, she was very well liked and admired by her peers, she was a very gifted student and a high achiever in all she did. Many of our students have contacted us to say how much of an inspiration she was and that their thoughts are with her family."The university will remember Yeates through an annual landscape design prize sponsored by BDP, her employer in Bristol.In a statement the family made it clear that they did not want the funeral turned into a media circus."We would like to thank the media for all their support and consideration during the past six weeks, from the time when Jo was a missing person. As you are aware, this period has been traumatic, to say the least, for both our family and also Greg's family."We anticipate a large attendance at Jo's funeral, and accept that the media wish to report on these proceedings. Our preference would be that it would be a private occasion, but circumstances appear to disallow this."No satellite trucks or other media vehicles were allowed near the church and a no-fly zone was imposed over the building. Only one reporter, one photographer and one camera crew were allowed into the churchyard to supply material for all the media.Dutch national Vincent Tabak, 32, has been charged with Yeates's murder.