Lawyers representing Glasgow lorry driver Thomas Ross Young, who has served 30 years in Peterhead jail for raping and killing bakery worker Frances Barker, have been given access to evidence gathered by detectives working on the World's End murders.Now aged 73, Young is seeking to have his conviction overturned by the Criminal Cases Review Commission after fresh evidence about his case was revealed following the failed prosecution of Angus Sinclair last week. Sinclair had been accused of the murders of Christine Eadie and Helen Scott in October 1977 but the case was thrown out by Judge Lord Clarke.The decision provoked widespread controversy last week, further fuelled by the revelation that the Crown Office had originally thought of prosecuting Sinclair for several other murders in the Seventies - including the one for which Young had been given a life sentence in 1977.An FBI profiler had been asked by Strathclyde police to look at a series of murders of young women at the time and concluded that one man was responsible for all of them. These included the killings of Christine, Helen - and Frances Barker.In each case, the women were strangled, raped, gagged with their own underwear and left partly clothed in secluded woods. It has also been found that Barker lived only 40 yards from Sinclair.None of this evidence was available at the time of Young's trial, however. A violent sexual inadequate who admitted using prostitutes, Young was accused of killing Barker after she had been abducted by a kerb crawler near her home in Maryhill Road, Glasgow. Her battered, strangled corpse was discovered several days later in June 1977 in a wood in Glenboig, Lanarkshire.Although Young has always professed his innocence, the evidence of witnesses painted a compelling picture. A hair that could have come from the dead woman's body was found in his cab and when detectives searched his ex-wife's home they found a woman's compact which they said linked him to the victim - although Young's daughter later claimed her father had given it to her months before the crime.Witnesses, some of them prostitutes, told the jury how Young had picked them up in either his lorry or a car and attacked them in isolated lanes. In the end, it took the jury at the High Court in Glasgow only an hour to return a guilty verdict on Young on 26 October, 1977. He was jailed for a minimum term of at least 30 years, the longest sentence ever imposed by a Scottish judge.However, the revelations that have followed the failure of the Sinclair case have undermined Young's guilt, say his lawyers. The Lord Advocate, Elish Angiolini, admitted to the Scottish Parliament that investigators thought the same killer was responsible for the killings of several women, including Barker. 'The position was .... weakened, because in one of the cases involving the murder of Frances Barker, another man, Thomas Ross Young, had already been convicted on the strength of evidence which directly implicated him.'If freed, Young's case will represent one of the most serious miscarriages of justice in recent legal history in Scotland.