The jury in the Peter Falconio murder trial was today told to disregard his girlfriend's belief that her attacker had been caught on CCTV footage near the scene.Joanne Lees - who told police she was abducted and assaulted on the night Mr Falconio, British backpacker, was allegedly murdered in the Australian Outback - said she thought a man in pictures taken at an Alice Springs service station hours later looked like her attacker.Bradley Murdoch, 47, of Broome, Western Australia, denies murdering Mr Falconio and abducting and assaulting Ms Lees after flagging down the couple's camper van on a highway north of Barrow Creek, around 200 miles from Alice Springs, on July 14 2001.The judge, chief justice Brian Martin, told the jury at the Northern Territory supreme court, sitting in Darwin, to disregard Ms Lees's evidence on this specific point because she had not had the opportunity to see her attacker walk.The video, taken at the Shell truck stop at 12.38am on July 15, showed freeze-framed images and did not show the man walking continuously."You should disregard Miss Lees's belief as to the offender being in the video," the judge said. "Perhaps her belief is understandable ... but it cannot be of any assistance to you." The court had also heard that the video was of "poor quality", and that police investigating the alleged murder did not seize the computer hard drive on which the original digital video images were stored. Instead, officers copied the video on to VHS tape, further reducing the quality of the images."From your viewing of the video alone, you could not safely draw the conclusion that the vehicle in the video is the vehicle of the accused," the judge said.Mr Murdoch sat in the dock taking notes on an A4 pad during the judge's summing up, which today entered its third day. Ms Lees sat with members of Mr Falconio's family in the public gallery at the back of court six.The judge later summed up evidence relating to how Ms Lees, 32, had moved from the front to the rear of her attacker's vehicle."Immediately after the events, Ms Lees believed the vehicle had bucket seats and she got through to the rear by moving between those seats. Ms Lees now says she is not so sure," he said. "She said: 'It's possible now he [her attacker] might have pushed me through the side of the canvas.'"Ladies and gentlemen, obviously this is a very significant issue. If it's a reasonable possibility it's not the accused's vehicle, then it would also follow that it's a reasonable possibility that it was not the accused."The judge said that, if that was the case, the jury should acquit Mr Murdoch. He also discussed Ms Lees's description of the attacker and compared it to Mr Murdoch, who had short hair.The judge said Grant Algie, defending Mr Murdoch, suggested Ms Lees had "shifted her evidence". However, Rex Wild, prosecuting, said she was "confused because of the trauma and distress". The judge said Mr Murdoch carried cannabis across Australia, used amphetamines to stay alert and carried a gun for protection, but told the jury that they could not use that evidence to say he was the type of person likely to have committed the alleged murder, abduction and assault.The trial was adjourned until tomorrow, when the judge said he was likely to send the jury out to consider its verdict at around lunchtime.