Career criminals - the hardcore group of repeat offenders responsible for one-man crime waves - are to be tagged with tracking devices capable of detailing their every movement.The move represents the latest application of electronic tagging technology, which is now assuming a central role in the Government's attempts to cut crime. Home Secretary David Blunkett is studying the findings of the Carter Review into electronic monitoring, which is understood to call for a huge increase in the use of tagging technology. In anticipation of the move, the National Probation Service is to launch three pilot projects to monitor the movements of what are termed 'high-end' - serious - convicted criminals using satellite technology. Previously, the technology has been imposed on 'low-end' offenders, or as an alternative to prison for those coming to the end of custodial sentences. As part of the pilot, the NPS is looking to track the movements of so-called 'prolific offenders' - those criminals whose actions are thought to be responsible for most crime in an area. Criminologists estimate that these offenders number anything between 10 and 20 in any county in the UK. The monitoring devices, which, unlike normal tags, use satellite-positioning technology to pinpoint their location, will have built-in electronic diaries that can be downloaded by probation officers at the end of each day, providing a minute-by-minute record of where the offender has been. The pilots, which will start within six months and run for two years, may also track sex offenders, paedophiles and those who have committed serious assaults. But it is the devices' ability to track prolific offenders that is particularly significant. 'Prison isn't effective for prolific offenders. They come out and they reoffend. These are people on short sentences who don't get access to the rehabilitation they need, such as help with drug addiction or a chance to improve their employ ment prospects - the sort of things that would stop them reoffending,' said Lucie Russell, director of Smart Justice, the campaign group that seeks community-based solutions to crime. Eighty per cent of 18- to 20-year-olds reoffend within months of leaving prison. However, experts warned that the new technology, which will cost £1.5 million to test, has limits. 'If, say, burglaries in an area have shot up, this will allow us to download the areas where an offender has been. But it will not tell us what they have done. It's not going to be a panacea,' said Eithne Wallis, director general of the NPS. Wallis, who this year travelled to the US to see a number of electronic monitoring programmes in operation, said the NPS would introduce similar technology only if the pilots showed they were value for money. 'At the moment we don't know whether passive tracking of certain individuals would be useful. It's not the answer to everything. But potentially it's a useful tool,' Wallis said, pointing out that the technology needed to be used alongside rehabilitation treatments. News that 'high-end' criminals are to be fitted with tags will reignite the debate over electronic monitoring, the use of which has shifted over the past 12 months. Previously, most offenders fitted with tags were on curfew. But recently around half of those fitted with tags have been given them as an alternative to a custodial sentence, leading to claims that the Government had been bounced into embracing the technology due to overcrowded prisons. Of the new pilots, Russell said: 'People see it as a soft option. There is still a belief in locking people up. The Government needs to prove it is just as effective as sending people to prison.'