The public inquiry into the activities of serial killer Harold Shipman will investigate the deaths of 618 people, it was revealed yesterday.Dame Janet Smith, the chairman of the Shipman inquiry, stressed that this was not necessarily the definitive figure for the number of patients who had been murdered by the former GP. "We are examining 466 deaths, but this number may increase if further information is forthcoming," she said. "The number is not an estimate of the number of people Shipman might have killed. It would be quite wrong for me to speculate about the number of deaths for which Shipman is responsible." The figure of 466 includes the 15 women patients from Hyde, Greater Manchester, whom the former GP was convicted in January last year of murdering with lethal injections of diamorphine. A further 152 deaths will also be investigated in cases where Shipman had signed death certificates but no concerns had been voiced by relatives. It is possible these deaths may not be suspicious, but the inquiry team will be contacting relatives in each case for more information. Dame Janet, a high court judge, anticipated there would be many cases in which she would be able to say there were no grounds for suspicion. "However, it will not be possible in every case for me to provide a definitive answer one way or the other," she said. "But I shall do my utmost to put an end to the uncertainty that has prevailed for so long and has caused such distress." The inquiry will take place in a converted council chamber in Manchester Town Hall. Two large video screens have been installed in the chamber and the proceedings will be relayed by closed-circuit television to a room at Hyde library. Counsellors from Tameside Victim Support will be available at both venues. The huge scale of the inquiry is likely to cost taxpayers millions of pounds. Computer equipment has cost £400,000 alone. Dame Janet admitted that it would be expensive, but it was the inevitable cost of a public inquiry. The home secretary, Jack Straw, has made an order allowing south Manchester coroner John Pollard to open inquests into the deaths of a further 260 patients. The inquests will be adjourned until after Dame Janet's interim report is completed. The coroner will then be able to amend the death certificates without the need for the inquests to be resumed, she said. Inquests have already taken place into the deaths of 27 of Shipman's former patients. In all but two the coroner reached a verdict of unlawful killing and in the others he recorded open verdicts. An audit of Shipman's practice last year by Richard Baker of Leicester University, using data from the former GP's surgeries, concluded that the most likely number of suspicious deaths was 236. Shipman's solicitors have been contacted by the inquiry and they have indicated that he does not wish to participate. Dame Janet refused to say whether she would use any powers to compel Shipman to give evidence. Last week, he was transferred from Frankland prison in Durham to Halifax police station, where he was questioned by detectives for more than 30 hours over the deaths of nine people in Todmorden, West Yorkshire. Shipman worked there between 1974 and 1976, but had to leave when he was convicted of possessing the prescription drug pethidine. A file on the nine deaths has been sent to the crown prosecution service. The terms of reference of the inquiry will consider the extent of Shipman's activities, and the actions of statutory bodies, authorities and other individuals concerned with procedures which followed the deaths of his patients. It will also recommend steps which could be taken to protect patients in the future. The first phase of the inquiry will begin on June 20 and will consider how many patients Shipman killed, the means employed and the period over which the killings took place. It is expected to continue until the end of the year. Phase two - which is divided into four sections - will begin in January 2002 and will examine the role of different authorities, including the police and coroner, the procedures over death and cremation certificates and the roles of the registrar and health authorities in analysing mortality rates. The initial March 1998 Greater Manchester police investigation into Shipman, which failed to find any concerns, will also be investigated. The final phase of the inquiry will look at proposals for change and will take submissions from experts and a series of public seminars.