Four men allegedly involved in an attack that Sinn Fein has dismissed as simply a pub brawl have become political prisoners.The four accused of assaulting republican dissident Bobby Tohill a fortnight ago have been transferred to the republican wing at Maghaberry jail, Co Antrim, The Observer has learnt. Chief Constable Hugh Orde had stated that the attack on Tohill in Kelly's Cellars bar in central Belfast was a Provisional IRA operation, comments which plunged talks aimed at restoring devolution into decline. Unionists said this proved the Provisional IRA was still active, so they could not share power with Sinn Fein. Republicans said that in the past such allegations had been proved to be false. Tohill received almost 100 stitches after masked men in white boiler suits and wielding black US-style police batons attacked him in the bar. They overpowered the former INLA prisoner with pepper spray and dragged him into a van. Tohill was saved by a passing police patrol, which rammed the van and rescued the republican dissident. Liam Rainey, Gerard McCrory, Harry Fitzsimmons and Thomas Tolan were moved into the Lagan House section of the jail, which holds 21 Real IRA prisoners, on Thursday evening. But the West Belfast men are likely to be shunned by their fellow prisoners who voted reluctantly to allow the four into the house. Marion Price, a former Provisional IRA hunger striker and Old Bailey bomber, said the transfer of the four from the integrated houses of Maghaberry proved that the assault on Tohill was more than just a pub fight. 'If the Tohill attack was a pub brawl then why do the men accused of it opt to join the republican wing? Why are they in effect stating that they are political prisoners? 'I know of people from west Belfast with a republican background who are in jail for criminal offences. They do not opt to go into a wing reserved solely for republicans,' she said. Price, the spokeswoman for the Irish Republican Prisoners' Welfare Association, added: 'These four will simply be ignored. Our people [the Real IRA inmates] will avoid any form of friction with them on the wings. I think our people will be sensible but there will be no interaction. They take a very different viewpoint from these four men, so although they are in the same house they will not be made welcome.' She revealed that the Real IRA now has 23 prisoners in Maghaberry including two women, one from Belfast, the other from Strabane. A spokesman for the Northern Ireland Prison Service also confirmed yesterday that the four men charged with the Tohill assault were moved from the integrated wings to Lagan House last week.'They are sharing accommodation with the 21 Real IRA prisoners. They were moved after fears were expressed for their safety on the integrated wings,' he said. Republicans were given separate wings after frequent clashes between them and loyalists, of whom there were more. The UDA has gained similar concessions with their own 'house' at the prison although the Northern Ireland Prison Service denies that this will lead to a Maze-style regime where paramilitary factions effectively ran their H-Blocks.