Were it not for a Christmas party at a backstreet chemical firm, Myra Hindley might never have taken the hellish path that led her from good Catholic girl to the woman in the police photograph that became iconic shorthand for evil."I think she was a perfectly normal girl prior to meeting Ian Brady," said Geoff Knupfer, the chief superintendent who took her confession to the killings of Pauline Reade and Keith Bennett. "Had she not met Ian Brady and fallen in love with him, she would have fallen in love and got married and had a family and been like any other member of the public." But Hindley had, of course, fallen in love with Brady. From almost the moment she joined Millward's Merchandise in 1961, she was besotted with him. As soon as he smiled at her, she later said in a letter to the Guardian, she was head over heels in "a fatal attraction". For a year she "begged God" to make Brady return her feelings. But their relationship swung only from mere flirtation to downright coldness - until the office Christmas party. As they danced, Hindley took her first steps towards becoming the most reviled killer in Britain. Whether she went willingly or was dragged by a domineering man is a question that will never be definitively answered. Hindley - and her supporters - said she was indoctrinated though culpable. The families of her victims and some of those who met her, however, do not believe blood should be allowed to wash so easily from her hands. Mark Leech, editor of the Prisons Handbook, met Hindley in her Durham jail cell in 1997. By then she was said to be a reformed character: at one with her religion once again; remorseful of the crimes she had committed. But Leech was unconvinced by the turnaround in her life. "She struck me as a very emotionless, very cold person - perhaps that's inevitable after 30 odd years in jail," he said. "But she was very adept at telling you what she thought you wanted to hear, if she thought it would bring her closer to release. I don't believe for a minute she actually meant what she said." Whether her words were self-seeking manipulations or the bald truth, Hindley's letters and conversations with people such as Mr Leech now provide the only insight into why she committed the crimes that so horrified a nation for 30 years and more. Perfect murder After that first dance with Brady, their relationship quickly deteriorated, Hindley said, into one characterised by sexual violence. She tried to leave him by joining the Naafi, but, when she did, he beat and anally raped her. Brady said he wanted to commit the "perfect murder"; Hindley aided him. She looked for children for Brady in her van as he followed behind on his motorbike. On July 12 1963 she pulled up alongside Pauline Reade - a friend of her sister's; a girl from her church congregation. She took her to Saddleworth moor, where Brady raped her before cutting her throat. "He led me to her body which I tried not to look at," she said. "He told me to look at her. I'll never be able to forget what I saw. I moved as far away from her as possible... I stood and looked at the dark outline of the rocks against the horizon of the dark sky and three people died that night: Pauline, my soul and God." It was, at best, a cold reaction to the immediate aftermath of a child's rape and brutal murder. Malcolm MacCulloch, a forensic psychiatrist, says it may have its roots in the way Hindley dispassionately dealt with the violence her father meted out on her mother. She simply did not have a normal reaction to violence. But, whatever the reason, after Pauline Reade, Hindley participated in the killings of four more children. She always claimed Brady coerced her; but even she had to concede that few women would have complied in the way she did. "I knew then and still know that there must be a callous streak in my nature, a cruel streak even," she said. The cruel streak was most evident in the murder of Lesley Ann Downey. The tape of the child begging for mercy, asking Hindley to let her go home as she in turn tells her to "shut up" - before Brady rapes and murders her - reflects as horrifically on Hindley as it does on Brady. Perhaps even more so. But, in her letters, Hindley never fully addressed the murder or the recording. Before she died, the 10-year-old's mother, Ann West, condemned Hindley's letters as a ploy. "She is just a born liar," Mrs West said. "I know she's a psychopath after the things she did to my child. That witch would say anything to get out of jail." Hindley was, indeed, famously intent on getting out of prison. She took to the courts in appeal after appeal. When the legal attempts failed she resorted to illegality and planned an escape; she had a year added to her sentence for her trouble. Hindley, self-educated in jail to degree level, knew that life outside prison walls would be all but impossible for her: if the tabloids didn't get her an assassin would. But, she said, she would rather "taste one week's freedom" than spend any more of her life behind bars. Plagued by the ill health - hardly helped by her chain smoking - which culminated in her death yesterday, she would never taste freedom again. What her life meant, however, remains a pressing question. In her most candid attempt at explaining her actions, Hindley wrote a 5,000 word article for the Guardian. She admitted to being "more culpable" than Ian Brady in the child killings; she said her actions were "evil and wicked". But she said the Myra Hindley writing from Durham jail was a very different woman to the 21-year-old who began luring children from the streets of Manchester for Ian Brady. For Hindley, her continued incarceration was evidence that society refused to believe in the power of redemption. "The truth of this continuing Gothic soap opera is that most people don't want to accept that people like myself can change," she wrote. "They prefer to keep me frozen in time together with that awful mugshot so that their attitudes, beliefs and perceptions can remain intact." But for the families of those she killed, their pain frozen in time too, and for successive home secretaries and the great majority of the British public, statements like this were merely words which continued to be submerged under the roar of Hindley's actions of so many years before.