Police investigating the death of a four-month-old baby in a fire are believed to have arrested the child's mother on suspicion of murder.Details of the arrest emerged as detectives appealed for help in tracing two men who were seen on CCTV footage.Danielle Wails's son, Alexander Gallon, died on Sunday night in the blaze at his home on the Cowgate estate, in Newcastle upon Tyne. She told police she had raised the alarm by using her tongue to call 999.The detail emerged during her account of an alleged raid by two masked men on the two-bedroom house, owned by a Catholic charity, where she had lived for only two weeks. The charity, St Cuthbert's Care, helps young single mothers with their parenting skills.Ms Wails, 21, had told detectives that the men, dressed in black, burst into the kitchen, assaulted her, tied her hands in front of her with a telephone cord and dragged her into the living room, where Alexander was asleep on a sofa. She said they then set fire to the room and fled without speaking.She told of being knocked unconscious and waking to find the house on fire, and being unable to reach her son, who was lying on the floor.Alerted by her screams, neighbours made desperate efforts to break down the front door. Firefighters eventually forced their way in and found Alexander, who had suffered serious injuries and was later declared dead at Newcastle General hospital.A police spokesman would not confirm the arrested woman's identity, saying only that she came from the city. Another woman in her 20s has already been questioned about the fire and released on bail.Preliminary results of a postmortem examination showed that Alexander died as a result of the fire, a police spokesman said. Further tests will be carried out by a Home Office pathologist, Dr James Sunter, and a paediatric pathologist, Dr Chris Wright.Ms Wails suffered bruises to her face, but had been allowed to leave hospital to be with her family.Alexander's father, Robert Gallon, also 21, had regular contact with his son, although he did not live with Ms Wails. He is said to be distraught at his son's death.At a press conference on Tuesday, Detective Superintendent Barbara Franklin said: "It is difficult to comprehend the wickedness of someone who could do such a thing and we appeal for the public to come forward and help us."This is a horrific incident which has left a baby dead and a young mum injured."She added that the attackers must have known from Alexander's crying that there was a baby in the house.Officers said yesterday that they had found CCTV images of two men in the area shortly before the fire broke out on Sunday night."We have footage that shows two men at the corner of Link Road and Whitehorn Crescent at 10.30pm on Sunday," the spokesman said. "We would ask for these two men to come forward and contact the incident room."On Tuesday, Ms Franklin said: "Someone must know these two men. If ever there was a crime the public were going to help in, it should be this one."Ms Wails's parents, David, 53, and Carol, 39, were said to be devastated by the death of their grandchild. Ms Wails has two sisters, Jemma, 18, and Jade, 15, and brothers Carl, 17, and 13-year-old Kyle.