Government plans to transfer responsibility for charging suspects from the police to the crown prosecution service should lead to more convictions, fewer discontinued cases, and more guilty pleas, according to the preliminary results of a pilot study published yesterday.Data from the first four months of the pilot, monitored by the independent consultants PA Consulting, show that conviction rates, previously 42% to 69% across the five pilot areas, had gone up to between 73% and 100%. More defendants pleaded guilty at the first court hearing: an overall average of 75%, compared with a previous range of between 25% and 75% in the pilot areas. In Colchester, for example, the guilty plea rate went up from 30% to 73%. Of 204 cases studied between February and June this year, only four were discontinued, a significant improvement, say the consultants. West Yorkshire at one stage discontinued 37% of cases, but the pilot saw the rate drop to 9%. More cases with evidential difficulties, which would previously have been dropped by police, are being prosecuted as a result of the lawyers' input. These include rape, domestic violence, and racially aggravated and homophobic crimes. The change, recommended by Lord Justice Auld in his review of the criminal courts last year, is expected to form part of the government's forthcoming criminal justice bill, which will make sweeping changes to the prosecution and trial process. In the five pilot areas - Avon and Somerset, Essex, Kent, North Wales, and West Yorkshire - police consult with CPS lawyers, usually based in the police station, before the suspect is charged. The lawyers also make suggestions concerning evidence needed - for instance, whether an identification parade should be held. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, said that the preliminary results were "hugely encouraging", though more time was needed to assess the full impact. He said: "Without robust, well prepared cases that get the charge right first time, and are supported by the right evidence, prosecutions may not even get to the court door. "The potential advantages of giving CPS responsibility for cases from the start are enormous. Well-prepared cases are less likely to be derailed or the subject of constant adjournments while sticking plaster remedies are applied. They can proceed quickly and effectively through the courts. "Defence counsel have less incentive to deploy the procedural arguments that can spell the end of a prosecution. Cases that should not proceed can be weeded out before they waste resources, with early legal advice allowing the police to focus their investigations." Police, initially sceptical, were enthusiastic on the move, according to the report. It quoted a custody sergeant: "I have found it a vast improvement on what we were doing before - I would not like to go back to where we were. "The CPS are spending about 30 minutes on average, for each and every face to face advice. That is 30 minutes speaking to the officer, reading the evidence, testing it, asking questions. "Officers still rush to charge when all the evidence has not been collected. Sometimes the case then gets kicked out in court when a little more care pre-charge could have saved it. Getting CPS advice pre-charge ensures this care is taken. "