Sir James Waddell, who has died aged 89, was a greatly respected civil servant who made a notable contribution in two great departments of state.Most significant was his work with the police, during an especially difficult time. In 1966 Waddell joined the Home Office and was put in charge of the department concerned with the police, public order and security. The police service was being drastically reorganised, including a sharp reduction in the number of separate forces, following the Police Act of 1964. There were also some special problems affecting the Metropolitan Police. A Times exposé had alleged widespread corruption, and some of the allegations turned out to be well justified. Waddell worked with the commissioners, first John Waldron and then Robert Mark, to clear up the mess. He also tried to get the Metropolitan Police to start taking black recruits, a proposition that was adopted with some vigour by Home Secretary Roy Jenkins. In addition, work began to devise a new system of dealing with complaints against the police. All this activity was against the background of a series of emergencies. These included the Torrey Canyon, an oil tanker that ran aground in the Scillies; demonstrations in Grosvenor Square against the Vietnam war; the spectacular rescue by the SAS at the Iranian embassy; a National Front disturbance in Southall; and the eviction of the Ugandan Asians by Idi Amin. There was, too, the beginning of the IRA campaign on the mainland, notably the Birmingham pub bombing in 1974 - events which raised in acute form the problem of balancing an effective response to a security threat against due regard for civil liberties. Waddell was born in Edinburgh, and educated at George Heriot's school and Edinburgh University, where he took a first-class honours degree in history. In 1936, he passed the civil service administrative exam, taking his first job in the Assistance Board. He was moved to the wartime Ministry of Information in 1940, and called up for military service in 1942, having set aside his pacifist scruples in the light of his experience in the London blitz. As a second lieutenant in the Reconnaissance Regiment, he landed in France just after D-day, but was soon badly wounded in the leg and repatriated to hospital. On his return to the civil service in 1946, he went to the Ministry of Housing and Local Government, where, with an interlude in the Cabinet Office, he stayed for 20 years. His wide experience over the years included helping Harold Macmillan to achieve his target of building 300,000 new houses a year; taking part in the planning and establishment of the postwar new towns; cooperating with schemes worked out by the water and sewage authorities; and masterminding complicated legislation about land use and planning. In 1963 he was promoted to the rank of deputy secretary. Throughout his career, Waddell maintained a high standard of judgment and clear analysis. He was imperturbable, loyal and of complete integrity. A little stiff and reserved in manner, somewhat austere and too modest always to volunteer his thinking, he came to be highly regarded, and his dry wit much appreciated, by ministers, his own staff and many of those with whom he had dealings. Reginald Maudling, when he was home secretary, thought that he ought to have been either a permanent secretary or head of MI5. Waddell himself drew some amusement from the fact that Peter Wright, the author of Spycatcher, criticised him for his insistence that MI5 should always act strictly within the law. After retirement in 1975, Waddell served for a few years as deputy chairman of the new Police Complaints Board, and chaired the board responsible for the Weald and Downland Open Air Museum at Singleton. He had been a keen sportsman in earlier days, and now greatly enjoyed sailing. He was made CB in 1960 and knighted in 1974. His wife, Dorothy, whom he married in 1940, died in 2001. He is survived by his son and daughter.· James Henderson Waddell, civil servant, born October 5 1914; died January 3 2004