Harold Shipman's surgery in a parade of shops in Hyde, Greater Manchester, was open for business six days a week. His waiting room was usually packed with patients seeking consultations on complaints from the mundane to the life-threatening.Those patients were shocked when their friendly, efficient and hard-working GP was arrested in September 1998. A surge of support engulfed him. Patients refused to believe he could be a murderer, paying tribute to his dedication and efficiency, his hard work and his friendliness. Well-wishers filled his surgery with cards urging him to "be strong" and "keep smiling". One patient remembered him as a lovely man "with twinkly eyes"; another with heart problems said simply: "He saved my life." Although some colleagues described him as arrogant, irascible and a man with a short fuse, most people who knew him could not be convinced that someone as ordinary as Harold Shipman could be Britain's biggest serial killer.But patients, relatives, and colleagues did not know the whole truth about him. Few knew he was a convicted drug addict who had fiddled prescriptions to get his fixes when a young GP in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, in the mid-1970s - an experience that he would draw on 25 years later to procure the morphine he needed for his murder spree. Nor was anyone told that, as a newly qualified GP, Shipman had supplied amphetamines to the young ravers of Todmorden for all-night dance sessions at Wigan Casino, nor that he handed out supplies of slimming pills to local girls desperate to keep their weight down. And certainly, none of his patients questioned his adherence to the Hippocratic Oath, pledging to do everything in his power to prolong and save life. Harold Shipman - always known as Fred - was born on January 14 1946 in Nottingham, the son of a lorry driver, and grew up on a council estate. After passing the 11-plus, he moved on to the city's High Pavement grammar school and it was while he was taking his A-levels there that his mother, Vera, died of cancer aged 42. He moved from Nottingham to Leeds university to study medicine. His fellow students have only hazy memories of him. Peter Costen said: "What I remember about Fred was that he was just so ordinary and that he got married very early on and they had a child within a year. We saw very little of him because he had a wife and family. The thing I remember as remarkable about Fred was that he was unremarkable." Christakis Varnavides, who also qualified with Shipman in 1970, said: "Most of us were single at that stage, so we didn't really mix. Although I didn't know him very well he certainly did not stand out in any way. He was just an average person." The 20-year-old medical student married 17-year-old window dresser Primrose Oxtoby, the daughter of a council worker from Wetherby, North Yorkshire, on November 5 1966 at Barkston Ash register office, a few miles south of Wetherby. Primrose was pregnant when they married and the couple's first child, Sarah Rosemary, was born the following year.  Conservatives After graduating from Leeds on July 13 1970, Shipman began his career at Pontefract general infirmary and received a diploma in child health in 1972, the year after the birth of his first son, Frederick Christopher. He decided to look for a job in general practice and moved to the Abraham Ormerod medical centre in Todmorden, where he soon impressed his colleagues and patients with his dedication, hard work and energy. "He was a smashing fella and a very good doctor," remembers Molly Dunkerly, a former receptionist. Michael Grieve, a doctor living in retirement in Todmorden, recalls Shipman teaching his colleagues how to fit inter-uterine devices, then coming into use. "He was was very good technically and very good clinically," he said. "He'd got all the right qualifications and worked well. He was brilliant and put a lot of work into the practice. Mothers thought the world of him. But he was good with everyone. There were chaps who thought he was absolutely fantastic." The Shipmans settled into small town life in a Pennine valley and joined the local Conservatives. Primrose also joined the local choral society and her husband rolled up his sleeves and, with Dr Grieve, helped dig out piles of silt during the restoration of the Rochdale canal. "I was quite pleased to have white collar people like him turning up to be a navvy," said Brian Holden, secretary of the Rochdale Canal Society. But what should have been a long and happy stay in Todmorden lasted only just over a year. In November 1975, Shipman was charged with three offences of obtaining a controlled drug by deception, three of unlawful possession of a controlled drug and two of forging declarations of exemption from prescription charges. He was addicted to pethedine and had been injecting himself for six months with large amounts of the drug, an analgesic and anaesthetic. Shipman was taking between 600 and 700 milligrams of pethedine a day to stave off depression. When the case came to court in February 1976, he pleaded guilty to the eight offences and asked for 75 others to be taken into consideration. He said he had taken to using the drug while suffering from depression caused by opposition to his ideas for improving the practice. His habit came to light after it became obvious that some patients were being prescribed large amounts of the drug. Halifax magistrates heard how he would prescribe pethedine for a patient but keep some for his own use. Sometimes none of the drug prescribed for patients would reach them. He was later to use the same methods to secure the morphine he needed for his killing spree. He was fined £600 and ordered to pay £57.78 to the NHS in compensation, although he escaped a General Medical Council disciplinary hearing and could still practise as a doctor. But he needed help and was treated for his addiction at a specialist hospital near York, where he saw a psychiatrist. He had resigned from the Todmorden practice the previous December. Out of a job and with a wife and two young children to support, he eventually found work in Co Durham, where he became a clinical medical officer at the now defunct South-west Durham health authority. But he was there for only three weeks before joining the Donnebrook House medical practice in Hyde in 1977, having come clean about his conviction. He and Primrose moved into the semi in nearby Mottram that remains the family home to this day. Their third child, David Julian, was born in 1979, and the family was completed by the arrival of Samuel James in 1982. The children attended local state schools and Shipman became a parent governor of one of them. Family holidays were often spent camping in France and Shipman served in the St John Ambulance Brigade from 1980 to 1988 as divisional surgeon, area surgeon and area commissioner in east Manchester. Shipman and his wife would occasionally go for lunch at the Dog and Partridge near their home and he celebrated his 50th birthday by throwing a party for about 100 guests at the Il Maestro Italian restaurant, just across the road from his surgery. But the couple were not known for their socialising. The family lived quietly. Shipman and his wife kept up their membership of the Rochdale Canal Society and played an active part in the parent-teacher association at Longdendale School. Shipman remained a member of the Donnebrook group practice until the end of 1991, winning the respect of his patients - although not always his colleagues. Ian Napier, senior partner at Donnebrook, said: "On the one hand he was charming, urbane and pleasant with patients, but he had another side to him and, if crossed, he was capable of making people's lives a misery. "Towards the end of his time here, he refused to speak to the practice manager and if he wanted to talk to her he would write her a letter; she was expected to do the same in response. Even though they worked in the same building and he had to walk past her every day, he would completely ignore her. "Although he was an excellent clinician, he could be volatile and bombastic; but when he was nice, he was very nice. He was very well read, but he liked people to know it. I remember on one occasion he reduced a drug company representative, who had only been in the job for two weeks, to tears. He was a funny sort of devil." One former member of staff said: "No one else was up to his standard. You could not tell him anything and he was never wrong." Every few months he would show signs of violent and irrational mood swings, which he would take out on staff. "He was not violent in any physical sense, it was almost like a childlike temper tantrum," said Dr Napier. "He would go completely over the top and it was as if he had no control over it. He didn't do it with any of the partners. He would only talk like that to his subordinates." Eager to work on his own, Shipman set up a one-man practice at Donnebrook on January 1 1992 and five months later moved out to his own premises at 21 Market Street, Hyde, and eventually built up a list of 3,100 patients. His wife, Primrose, worked in the surgery's reception. He installed expensive equipment and the computer system on which he would later forge the medical history of some of the patients he murdered. Three years after moving into Market Street in March 1995, he killed 81-year-old widow Marie West, the first of his victims, injecting her with a fatal dose of morphine as she sat in her own front room. Over the following three years, he repeated his actions, culminating in the death of Kathleen Grundy. Over the autumn of 1998, as Shipman was questioned, then charged, by police and the grisly business of exhuming a dozen bodies carried on, the people of Hyde began to realise that their town had harboured a serial killer. Memories stirred of Myra Hindley and Ian Brady, the Moors murderers who had preyed on children from a council house on the Hattersley estate less than three miles from Shipman's surgery and only a couple from his modest home. Charles Douglas, who met Shipman through the trans-Pennine branch of the Small Practices Association, went to see the Hyde GP after the police investigation began. "We spent a couple of hours talking. He was quite emotional on a number of occasions. He wouldn't have killed for money for himself or his family. That is not what drives him on. And he's too smart to do anything as crass as that." When Shipman was arrested, Dr Douglas took over his practice while a locum was sought. "One of the biggest problems I had working in Fred's practice was helping his patients through their obvious distress. They were absolutely devastated. He had a huge bedrock of support from his staff and patients. "Fred said to me, 'Usually you have to wait till you die to find out what your patients think about you. This has given an opportunity for many of my patients to talk to me and it has been very, very humbling.' He worked harder than any other GP I know in the NHS. He was an extraordinarily good GP." Shipman had also met Michael Taylor of Rochdale through the Small Practices Association and together they had greeted the then health secretary, Frank Dobson, when he attended the organisation's annual meeting at the Palace hotel in Manchester in June 1998, the month Kathleen Grundy was murdered. "Fred tended to be somewhat grumpy at times. He could offend people but he was also very prepared to help. I think it's fair to say that we respected him and those of us who have been to his practice recognised that it was one of high quality. He was very energetic, very meticulous. "I would regard him as a friend, but friendship comes in a variety of forms. It was friendship based on acquaintanceship and mutual respect, the need for information and the need to learn together. He is the not the sort of man I would seek out for a couple of jars." Like Dr Douglas, Dr Taylor spoke at length to Shipman after the police inquiries began.  Ritual "He told me the allegations were false and said it was very upsetting and disconcerting. He mentioned how he had been on his way back from the post office when a patient crossed the road to see him and support him. He had just burst into tears." Shipman's wife, Primrose, watched the four-month trial from her reserved seat in the public gallery at the back of the court. She could see little more than the back of her husband's head as he sat in the dock and took notes of the proceedings. She showed little emotion and retired to a private room during breaks in the hearing. She did not talk to journalists but did not go out of her way to avoid them in the court's lobby. She was accompanied most often by her youngest son, 17-year-old Samuel, but all the Shipman children have joined their mother at some stage to support their father. Various theories have been put forward to explain why Shipman turned to murder. Some suggest that he was avenging the death of his mother, who died when he was 17. Others offer the more charitable view that he injected old ladies with 60 milligrams of morphine as a way of easing the burdens on the national health service. As for the will, one theory is that he made an inept attempt at forgery because, sated with killing, he wanted the ritual of deaths to come to an end. But perhaps in the end he simply could not resist playing God, proving that he could take life as well as save it.