The husband of Nisha Patel-Nasri, the special constable who was stabbed to death on her third wedding anniversary, was today convicted of her murder.Fadi Nasri contracted hitmen to kill his wife so he could continue his affair with a Lithuanian prostitute and cash in on a £350,000 life insurance policy, the three-month trial heard.Nasri provided the killers with a John Lewis knife from his own kitchen and a set of keys to the house in Wembley, north-west London.Patel-Nasri, a hairdresser and special constable with the Metropolitan police, was upstairs preparing for bed on May 11 2006 when she heard the front door open. She grabbed a torch and went to confront the intruder.She was stabbed once in her left thigh, suffering a 13cm-deep wound that punctured a major artery. Neighbours found her screaming in her driveway shortly before midnight, bleeding to death.Nasri, 34, of Barnet, north London, brought in Rodger Leslie, a drug dealer, to arrange the killing, which was carried out by doorman Jason Jones. Leslie, 38, of Barnet, and Jones, 36, of Manor Park, east London, were also convicted of murder by the Old Bailey jury. The getaway driver, Tony Emmanuel, 42, of East Ham, east London, was found not guilty of murder.Leslie shook his head and muttered angrily as the verdicts were returned. He, Nasri and Jones were each found guilty by a majority of 10 to two after nearly six days of deliberations. They will be sentenced on June 20.The officer who led the investigation, Detective Chief Inspector Nick Scola, described Nasri's actions as "the final betrayal".He said the killers had "lied during both the investigation and the trial, to cover up that between them they plotted to enter Nisha's home and kill her out of greed"."Nisha was a hardworking and well-liked person whose life revolved around her family work and commitment to the community as a special constable," he said. "For her life to be ended in this way is a tragedy."When Patel-Nasri was killed, detectives first thought she had gone outside to investigate a disturbance. Nasri, who made a TV appeal for her killer to be found, was treated as a bereaved husband.But after months of investigation, it became clear that Nasri stood to benefit from her death and had been coordinating events with her killers on the night she died.The court heard Nasri, who once ran an escort agency, had been leading a "double life" in the period leading up to his wife's death, going on holiday with a Lithuanian woman, Laura Mockiene, who worked as a prostitute.The two travelled to Egypt, Greece and Lithuania together and visited Ascot. But when police asked about the three photographs of Mockiene on his mobile phone, Nasri denied knowing who she was. He later admitted lying. He sold the home he owned with his wife, and when he was arrested in his new flat, Mockiene was living there with him.Mobile phone records placed Emmanuel at the scene of the crime and linked the three killers with a series of calls. A CCTV camera recorded the getaway car stopping in a nearby street and the killer disposing of the murder weapon down a drain.Patel-Nasri was described in court as "bubbly, energetic and hardworking, with many friends". She became PC5116 when she joined the police, in December 2002. She quickly became a "valued member" of the Brent borough team. The prosecution said she had been thinking of divorcing her husband.The Old Bailey heard she had helped fund her husband's stretch limousine business, which was registered in her name, and had paid the deposit on their home. But suddenly she found herself in debt. Her husband had been "pestering her either to add his name to the business as a partner or transfer it to him", the jury was told. Nasri was the executor and sole beneficiary of her will.The victim's brother Katen Patel was in court as the verdicts were returned. "The attack they carried out on Nisha was barbaric, they showed her no mercy and have shown absolutely no remorse since," he said afterwards. "It is not a man but a coward who attacks a vulnerable woman with a knife. Nisha never stood a chance. She was alone and defenceless. "The fact that the man she loved was responsible for this makes it all the more surreal."Emmanuel's release from the Old Bailey was delayed when a computer check showed he had outstanding parking fines accumulated while he was in custody. He was freed after his solicitor paid the outstanding amount."Ever since December 2006, when I was first spoken to by the police, I have maintained my innocence," he said later. "I was never party to any plan to harm Nisha Patel-Nasri. Nor did I know of any such plan before she was so brutally killed. I would like to offer my sincerest condolences to the family."