Criminal records checks are a contemporary article of faith: if you have one, you are deemed an official "safe adult", allowed near other people's children; if you don't have one, you are immediately an object of suspicion. Yet our faith could be misplaced – with reports that the Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) last year made 1,570 mistakes reporting criminal records. Hundreds of people were wrongly branded criminals. Indeed, the CRB's annual number of errors has more than doubled, up from 680 mistakes the year before.The CRB is a classic late New Labour institution: flabby, inefficient and feeding on mistrust. It has doubled in size since 2002, growing from 1.4m checks a year to about 3.9m in 2008. With the new vetting database – which will include everyone who works or volunteers with children or "vulnerable people" – state intrusion will become even more pervasive. About 12 million adults will be kept on this continuously updated register.The ballooning of bureaucracy is fed by paranoia and suspicion. Anyone, apparently, could be a paedophile, even those grannies helping out at the nursery, and it is only through the cleansing hand of bureaucrats that we are declared clean and "safe". The less people are trusted, the more faith is placed in bureaucrats – and all their reassuring jargon about databases, "risk management procedures" and "approaches to safeguarding".The CRB boasts that 20,000 "unsuitable people" were kept out of a job because of its disclosures. And yet look at the breakdown: not one of these people was on List 99, the existing register of people banned from working with children. The Manifesto Club finds that the majority were denied their job because of past convictions for theft, graffiti or violence (pdf). Stuart Waiton, a Glasgow youth worker, comments that CRB checks mean "a huge raft of working class people will no longer be able to work with kids – because they had fights in the past, or took drugs". Still more ludicrous, one teacher was denied a job because a neighbour called the police after seeing him naked in his own house.The growth of the CRB is also down to buck-passing. Institutions may prefer a check, which declares someone "safe" or "not safe", rather than having to use their own judgment. Eileen Munro, a social policy academic at the LSE, argues:This is blame avoidance rather than child protection. People prefer a mechanical process like a CRB check because there is no judgment involved and so no risk of making a mistake for which they might be blamed ... However, if you are trying to help children, you need to be sensitive to the unique situation of the child.So when there are reports of CRB errors, we discover that bureaucrats are just human after all, and they make mistakes. Indeed, the more detached they are from social life, and the more they are the objects of blind faith, the more mistakes they are likely to make. Perhaps what we need is fewer checks, databases and procedures, and more adults on the ground, taking responsibility for children's welfare and happiness.