Britain must act to stop child offenders hardening into lifelong criminals or risk a legacy of "totally unmanageable juvenile crime", the former head of the family justice system in England and Wales, warns today.Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, who retired in April, has seen a lot in 35 years as a judge, from "14 or 15-year-old boys who raped their grandmother or someone else's grandmother", to the full horror of what 10-year-olds Robert Thompson and Jon Venables did to two-year-old James Bulger in a killing that shocked the nation. She now thinks too many child offenders are prosecuted and put on the path to a life of crime. In her first major interview since she retired as president of the high court's family division, she told the Guardian she believes that some youngsters who commit crimes should be treated as children at risk and dealt with through the care system, rather than prosecuted.The reality of child crime was brought home to her recently when, out shopping, she saw a boy of about five snatch a scarf from a display and hand it over to his waiting mother. "I've never seen anything quite so blatant. This child had been taught to steal by his mother."The child was well below the age of criminal responsibility, 10 in England and Wales, and could not be brought before the criminal courts - "thank goodness", she adds. But he illustrates her thesis that many children charged with crimes are really disadvantaged youngsters in need of care and protection by social services and the family courts.She believes in punishment, she insists, and accepts that some youngsters from supportive families need the "shock" of prosecution if they offend.But for offenders up to the age of 12, or possibly 14, who commit petty theft and other "moderate" crimes - including robbery - she thinks police and social services should cooperate to look into the child's background. If they find a problem family, they should invoke a section of the Children Act 1989 which allows the court to direct social services to carry out an assessment and consider whether to apply for a care or supervision order. Instead of prosecution, the child could be dealt with by the care system and the family helped.She stops short of suggesting that children who commit serious crimes such as murder should escape prosecution - but she believes some young robbers should, depending on their circumstances. "If the child at 12 has been the one who battered the old lady, the child goes through the ordinary court system. I'm not looking to be kind to or to protect children who behave wickedly."That's why, with some hesitation, I wouldn't interfere with the way we deal with the Mary Bells or Thompson and Venables although I think we would be wise to look at what's going on in places like Norway. [Mary Bell was sentenced to life in 1968 for strangling two boys when she was aged 11.] In Norway even Thompson and Venables would have been reintegrated into the community. They would not have been sent to the equivalent of prison. I don't think this country could do that; I don't think we're ready for it." Dame Elizabeth, 72, made a court order granting Thompson and Venables lifelong anonymity when they were freed in 2001. "They did the most appalling things to Jamie Bulger. The public didn't hear the half of it. It was so appalling that at the age of 10 there was something seriously wrong."Her views command respect because of her unrivalled experience in the family courts, where she was seen as a commonsense judge who was not soft on crime. From a Conservative family, she once stood unsuccessfully as a Tory parliamentary candidate. Last week she attracted headlines for a lecture accusing the government of doing too little to bolster marriage. Her experience chairing the inquiry into the Cleveland child sex abuse inquiry in 1987-88, and years overseeing such cases in the courts, have left her "not convinced that every child that's been the victim of sexual abuse has to be removed from home."She believes fathers or stepfathers can be helped in less serious cases. "My own experience as a judge has been that some parents have turned to children because they are unhappy with their marriage or at work or [experience] loss of self-esteem and they turn to people who aren't critical, who are loving and caring, and that turns even with young children into sexual abuse, which I think they slip into. Some abusers are like that whereas others are paedophiles. You can't typecast sexual abuse."In Cleveland, where 121 children were taken away from their families on suspicion of abuse, she found that things "went wrong" with the system, but has never revealed - until now - how many she thought were genuine cases. "The number of cases which in the family courts were found proved was probably about a third. I haven't any doubt that in at least a third of the cases the doctor and social worker got it wrong. I think in a third of the cases they got it right."In the middle was a grey area where the children weren't prepared to say anything had happened."The CVBorn 1933, daughter of high court judge Sir Cecil Havers, sister of Lord Havers, attorney general and lord chancellor.Married fellow barrister Joseph Butler-Sloss when she was 24. Three children, six grandchildren.Career Called to the bar 1955. Registrar of principal registry of family division 1970-79. High court family division judge 1979-1988. Chaired inquiry into child sex abuse in Cleveland 1987-88. First woman appeal court judge 1988. First woman president of family division 1999. Retired 2005.