Ian Huntley did not attempt to touch the schoolgirls he is accused of murdering in "any sexual way at all", he told a jury at the Old Bailey yesterday. The caretaker explained in detail how he had disposed of the bodies of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman on the night of August 4 last year, but maintained that they died accidentally in his bathroom.Mr Huntley's counsel, Stephen Coward QC, asked whether the girls' bodies had still been clothed when he dumped them in a remote ditch in Lakenheath, Suffolk. "Yes," Mr Huntley replied, denying that he had disturbed their clothing in any way. Mr Coward continued: "Did you touch either girl, or try to, in any sexual way at all?" He replied: "No, not at all." The caretaker said he had been too ashamed and frightened to tell people what had happened, and accepted he had questioned police about the search for the girls "to see if I had covered my tracks". But he had not planned how to dispose of the bodies, commenting: "The only thing I knew was that I had to get them into my car and get them out of the house." He described carrying first Jessica's and then Holly's body downstairs, rearranging Holly's before he opened his front door to ensure she could not be seen. Mr Huntley had already removed a mobile phone from Jessica's pocket, noting that it had been turned off. He said he later dumped it in a skip at Soham Village College, where he worked, because that was "just the closest thing to hand". The court has heard that the phone detached from its network at 6.46pm that evening. The caretaker said that he had checked that no one was passing by before placing the bodies in the boot of his car. Asked what was going through his mind, he replied: "I don't think anything was." He said that he had taken a petrol can with him "to destroy the evidence", but that when he set off, "I was just driving. I did not have a destination in mind." In the end he disposed of the girls' bodies in the first place he looked at, just by some tracks off the road to his father's old house near Lakenheath. "I opened the boot and picked up one of the girls - I'm not sure which one," Mr Huntley said. "The bank of the ditch was too steep for me to carry the girls down so I had to place her ... at the top of the ditch so she rolled down. I then returned to the car and did the same." He checked that the bodies were well-hidden from the track and removed their clothing with a pair of scissors which happened to be in the car, having decided that it would not burn and would carry carpet fibres from his home and car boot. He then poured petrol into the ditch and ignited it. Asked how long the fire lasted, he replied: "I do not know. I know it flared. I put the petrol can back in the front passenger side of the car and the clothing in the boot of the car and drove away as quickly as I could from there." The prosecution agrees that Mr Huntley disposed of the girls' bodies on the Sunday they were killed, but has suggested that he cut off their garments and set fire to their bodies three days later, when he visited his grandmother's nearby home. Mr Huntley denied ever returning to the ditch. "I never wanted to go there again," he said, adding that he had gone to his grandmother's house to "get away from the police and the press". The caretaker said that after leaving Lakenheath that night he returned to Soham and set fire to the girls' clothing in a bin on the college grounds, doing so out side to avoid setting off fire alarms. But after a few minutes he poured water over it to put it out. Asked why he had not ensured that they were so burnt that they were unrecognisable, he replied: "I do not think there was much in the way of rational thinking going on." He returned home and smoked several cigarettes, thinking "What have I done?", he told the jury. He added that later that evening he gave his dog a bath because she was still dirty, but she struggled and he had to get into the bath to keep her steady. When he went downstairs he noticed water dripping through the ceiling and realised he had put his foot through the bath. Mr Huntley also admitted that he had encountered people searching for Holly and Jessica, but had not told them what he knew. He added: "I had let things go too far. I did not know what I would say to people. I was frightened and ashamed of what I had done." He denied lying because he had murdered the girls, and said he "hadn't figured out what exactly I was going to say". He accepted he had lied in a witness statement given the day after the girls' deaths.