Asian businessman Amarjit Chohan is found floating off the coast of Bournemouth, murdered by a gangland hood suspected of having lured him into a financial deal he couldn't afford. At one time, such a case would have gone straight to the Met's murder squad, where a streetwise officer with forensic skills would scour East End gangs. Today, the police bring in white-collar teams to carry out their murder inquiries. The money trail is followed and accountants are brought in to open up bank accounts, explain business deals and introduce new leads. Meanwhile, in West Africa Lebanese operators approach local money men to use diamonds as collateral for cash loans. Alarm bells ring that there might be links with al-Qaeda and the bank's managers hold off on agreeing to the loan while an investigation begins. Two recent cases, two different parts of the world, one forensic phenomenon. The money trail is now obsessing police forces and their political bosses as they strive to deprive terrorists and organised criminals of their money. Cash is their oxygen, says a top policeman. Starve them of it and they wither away. The theory is nice, but there is little evidence that the money trail is of as much use in tracking terrorist money as government and regulators repeatedly assert. The problem is that terrorists use the financial system to move small amounts from one account to another. These are then withdrawn and spent on buying explosives or, as in the case of the 11 September terrorists, paying for flying lessons. Banks on the other hand are geared primarily to reporting complex and unusual transactions and these are much more likely to be used by the launderer who is putting a large amount of money through the system. Terrorists often use their own informal systems or simply acquire goods through smuggling or barter. This goes nowhere near banks and their bureaucracies. The banking system is most likely to catch not terrorists but tax evaders, says Dave Hartnett, deputy chairman of the Board of the Inland Revenue, and the greatest beneficiary is likely to be the Revenue. Investigations into sources of terrorist money are also making it harder to hide drugs money in the system. One US federal prosecutor has commented that professional launderers have doubled their charges for cleaning up drugs money since 11 September. The police know the power of the money trail in catching crooks with money to hide, but are running scared of bringing in their accountants to anything except the biggest or most high profile crime. Financially literate cops exposed the mobsters running the global bank BCCI (dubbed Bank of Crooks and Criminals International), the Polly Peck empire (Asil Nadir, remember him?), and even Barlow Clowes and Ernest Saunders' Guinness gang. But there are problems, such as the phenomenal cost, time and complexity of following the money round the world. They point to the National Policing Guidelines, where financial investigations merit barely a paragraph, and say their brownie points are earned by catching mobile phone thieves and child molesters, not high-powered financial crooks. Rosalind Wright, former director of the Serious Fraud Office (where investigations must deal with fraud of £1 million minimum), confirmed the point when she said: 'Chief constables say: "The Government is not prepared to prioritise fraud, why should we give it extra resources?" And if you ask people what sort of crime they are frightened of, they say muggings and burglaries, not international money-laundering.' There's a rich irony here. Police are receiving more financial information than ever, from banks, insurance companies, lawyers, and accountants and even tinpot bureaux de change. Fear of handling dirty money, especially if it has the slightest terrorist taint, means that the moment the financial intermediary suspects something they send in a report to the police. Goaded on by threats within the Proceeds of Crime Act, 2002, the number of reports is rising, from 18,408 in 2000, to 31,251 in 2001 and 60,000 in 2002. These cover the bank's back, but leave the police with a huge problem. They do not have the staff to investigate each report. So Suspicious Transaction Reports are piling up, their material largely unused. Tristram Hicks of the Metropolitan Police says: 'We don't initiate as many investigations as we would like. Our ability to do the necessary checks on these reports is suffering.'Fear of being found with terrorist money is only part of the problem for the banks. Another is fear of being investigated by the Financial Services Agency and found to have inadequate reporting mechanisms. The Royal Bank of Scotland was recently publicly humiliated and fined £750,000 for lacking systems to check their customers' identity. The FSA wants to crack the whip even harder on banks that don't comply, but they face the acute embarrassment that very few reports that banks make to the police produce investigations, let alone prosecutions. No more than 4 per cent of reports turn into investigations and there have been just 129 money-laundering prosecutions and 50 convictions over the past year. Finding justification for the millions banks spend on compliance with money-laundering procedures gets harder the more rickety the system looks. This has prompted a rash of outbursts against the police and the National Criminal Intelligence Service from usually moderate doyens of the compliance system. 'NCIS is being swamped,' says Carol Sergeant, managing director for regulatory processes at the risk directorate of the Financial Services Authority. 'They just take this information and analysis and shove it out at the other end. No one knows what happens to it when it goes out to the law enforcement agencies.' Adrian Coles, director-general of the Building Societies Association, says: 'We are very frustrated with the way the system works in that we do not get enough information back from the law enforcement agencies.' The Government has become so nervous that the fight against terrorism might be impaired if banks go slow on their money-laundering reports it has hired KPMG to investigate the system. The report, due this summer, is intended to take some of the steam out of the row. Police respond by accusing banks of wasting their time with pointless reports that are badly written by people who lack the policeman's suspicious mind. Hicks says: 'It is really difficult to train someone to recognise suspicion and then articulate why you are being suspicious. We find it quite difficult to train people to be police officers when for bank staff, it is only one part of their duty.' According to anti-money-laundering consultant Rowan Bosworth-Davies, 'The vast majority of disclosures are not worth the paper they are written on. But unless the police allow the disclosures to be analysed, the financial community won't know how well its anti-money- laundering controls are working.' But if banks think police are going to share matters of national security, they are being naïve, says an NCIS spokesman. 'If you report on something which turns out to be a terrorist transaction, you are not going to get feedback saying, "John, are you going to bring down this terrorist cell?" It is clearly impracticable.' Bosworth-Davies points out that claims based on national security carry diminishing weight in the financial community as it watches the Iraqi farrago. Where are those weapons of mass destruction? Banks are expected to shell out growing amounts on compliance while their confidence in the system's ability to catch routine money-launderers, let alone terrorists, reaches rock bottom.