David Cameron is now looking to former Los Angeles Police Department chief William Bratton for strategies to deal with gangs (Report, 12 August). I am curious as to what Bratton would have to tell him. Like in most US cities, Los Angeles's violent crime and gang activity largely decreased with the ageing of a large demographic cohort – not through police intervention. And much of the criminal activity based in Los Angeles has been merely pushed outside its political boundaries, meaning it's no longer the city's problem. Once a sleepy rural region, the Inland Empire just east of Los Angeles has seen a major increase in gang activity. Young people from across the UK look at David Cameron and his pedigree as a symbol of class privilege and power. Lessons from Bratton that encourage more invasive policing techniques will exacerbate underlying social inequities; although it may quiet things on the surface, the political unrest will occur again as in Los Angeles in 1992.Matthew IdesWilmington, North Carolina, US• For a country that held the image of bobbies and Beatles with nothing more than nightsticks and songs, Great Britain certainly has taken a turn for the worse. Now you can arrest 11-year-olds with surveillance footage à la Orwell. Congratulations, Great Britain, you have arrived at Clockwork Orange with 1984 sensibilities in 2011.Bill TylerNashville, Tennessee, US• This week's riots in England were not shocking to me, having grown up in the violent streets of Caracas. Venezuela still has a long way to go in reducing poverty and crime, but there is much England can learn from El Sistema, the classical music education programme that has saved hundreds of thousands of children from the cycle of poverty. I was delighted to find the British cellist Julian Lloyd Webber has been working for the past three years with a small but committed team to replicate El Sistema in England. The programme, called In Harmony Sistema England, has already achieved significant success with deprived children. But these social programmes should not just depend on the government's shrinking social budget. Local and central government involvement is essential, and businesses and communities must also offer support if they are serious about helping youths in England.Reynaldo TrombettaVenezuelan journalist and arts promoter• I agree with David Cameron about the UK's culture of violence. From Northern Ireland to Afghanistan, the UK has acquired the dubious reputation of being a violent culture. Indeed, where else do today's youth learn that violence can solve their problems?Deborah CookToronto, Ontario, Canada