Police investigating the murders by a suspected serial killer of three prostitutes in Ipswich, Suffolk, last night revealed that they were concerned for the safety of two other women.Annette Nicholls, 29, also a prostitute in the town, has not been seen for more than week. She was reported missing by her family yesterday afternoon.There was also confusion yesterday over the whereabouts of Paula Clennell, 24, another prostitute, who was last seen in the town's red light district on Saturday night. Police said last night that a friend had reported that Ms Clennell had been in contact late on Sunday, but officers said they were still concerned for her welfare and were urgently trying to locate her.Details of the missing women emerged as senior officers warned all women in the town not to go out at night alone. "We are coming up to the party season and up to Christmas," said assistant chief constable Jacqui Cheer. "There will be groups of women going out and I would say you have really got to look after each other, plan how you are going to get there and please, please come home together. Whatever happens on your night out, make sure you do not leave your friends alone."Detectives also urged women working as prostitutes not to tout for business while the killer is at large. One theory is that the killer picked up his victims while they solicited for business in the industrial streets scattered around the Portman Road football ground.A senior officer involved in the investigation said police are concerned the suspected serial killer could strike again soon. More than 100 officers were involved in the multiple murder inquiries last night, with dozens of officers on the streets searching for the two missing women.The naked bodies of three women have been found around the outskirts of the city. Gemma Adams, 25, and Tania Nicol, 19, were found dead in the same stream in the space of six days. The third body, of an unidentified woman believed to 24 years old, was found in a wooded area on Sunday by a passing motorist. It is believed she may have been dumped there within the previous 48 hours.Detective Chief Superintendent Stewart Gull said that, although it is not yet possible to formally link all three murders, "the facts speak for themselves"."All these women were prostitutes working in the same area. They were all found dead, naked."Asked if the women could have fallen victim to a serial killer, he replied: "Yes, that is a possibility. We are keeping an open mind. There may be one perpetrator, there may be more."Detectives are consulting psychologist profilers in an attempt to build a picture of a possible serial killer who does not appear to have had a sexual motive. Police believe he may have removed the women's clothes because he is "forensically aware" and does not want to risk leaving fibres from his own clothing, or hairs which could identify him.