They cannot escape him, even in death. In the public imagination, these five young women - Tania Nicol, Gemma Adams, Anneli Alderton, Annette Nicholls and Paula Clennell - will always be linked to Steve Wright, the stranger who gave them fame of a sort. Yesterday Wright was convicted of murder at Ipswich crown court and will be sentenced today. The dreadful details of the case provide extra urgency to the debate about the commercial sex industry, and how best to help young women whose lives are being lost - literally, in this instance - to hard drugs, poor health, homelessness and prostitution. But Wright's frantic killing spree, which lasted a mere six weeks until he was arrested in December 2006, renews questions about what drives men like him to act out their hatred of women.Wright is, to all appearances, an average-looking man. He is 49, a forklift-truck driver at the time of his arrest, and appeared washed-out and overweight in court. When he moved to a rented flat in London Road, Ipswich, on October 1 2006, he claimed not to have known that it was in the town's red light district. He was certainly not the only man who used his car to crawl through the industrial estate where 30 or 40 young women were selling sex to get money for drugs. But Wright had not lived there long when the first woman, 19-year-old Tania Nicol, went missing on October 30. The last, 24-year-old Paula Clennell, disappeared on December 10. There were immediate comparisons with Peter Sutcliffe, usually known as the Yorkshire Ripper, who was convicted of murdering 13 women and attacking seven others in 1981. The similarities between the two cases - and the differences - are instructive, shedding light on dramatic changes in the UK's commercial sex industry and public attitudes to it.Wright's defence - that forensic evidence linking him to the murders was no more than a series of unfortunate coincidences - did not trouble the jury for long; a forensic scientist told the court that Wright had had "prolonged physical contact" with three of the dead women and left behind "extensive" samples of his DNA. Denying responsibility to the end, Wright offered no explanation for his murderous attacks; he was controlled and quietly spoken in the witness box. The trial was low-key, in contrast to the feverish 10-day period 14 months ago when all the bodies were discovered; there were few surprises and no claims that he was on a mission to "clean up the streets" or heard voices, as there were in the Yorkshire Ripper trial. Wright did not even remain at large long enough to attract a nickname; when the disappearances of the first two women became a national story, the press inaccurately dubbed the putative killer a "Ripper" - it emerged at the trial that the victims had probably been strangled or asphyxiated - but the label was eclipsed by a row over the archaic language employed for his victims. To begin with, it seemed as though nothing had changed since the 70s when Sutcliffe's murders unleashed a torrent of insensitive headlines about the women he preyed on in the red light districts of Leeds, Bradford, Huddersfield and Manchester. The Sun's "Fears for vice girls" on November 16 2006 was followed the next day by the same paper's "Fears for hookers", while the Times joined in on December 5 with "Ripper murder strikes fear into vice girls". But public attitudes to women in the sex industry have changed, as the press quickly discovered. In Ipswich and elsewhere, people were outraged by TV and radio bulletins that baldly announced five "prostitutes" had been murdered in Suffolk. Many people are uncomfortable when the word is used in headlines as though it's no different from "teacher" or "dentist"; the dead women were daughters, mothers and girlfriends but their whole lives were being defined by something they had embarked on out of absolute desperation. "As soon as it became a national story, it became apparent that the language used to describe the women was inappropriate," says a journalist who went to Ipswich when the third body was found. "Everybody knew one of the victims or had been to school with one of them." There has been a huge expansion in the sex industry since the 70s, when both lap-dancing clubs and sex-trafficking from eastern Europe were unknown, and which means that many more people are touched, knowingly or otherwise, by its activities. Wright's partner, 61-year-old Pamela Wright, is typical of many women who are unaware of their husbands' or boyfriends' use of prostitutes. She discovered the extent of Wright's appetite for paid sex only when he was arrested for murder.Wright has been described as quiet and unassuming, inhabiting a world that - on the surface, at least - revolved around his local pub and golf course. He was "a good bloke", and the police were as surprised as anyone when his DNA led straight to him. There is a striking parallel here with the arrest of Sutcliffe on January 2 1981, when West Yorkshire detectives were astounded to discover that the man who had committed such a notorious series of murders seemed to be pretty ordinary. Sutcliffe was a working-class lorry driver who had married a woman from a middle-class Czech family and appeared to be a model family man. In fact, he had been leading a double life for years, turning up time and again in red light districts and leaving copious clues that should have led West Yorkshire police force to look at him very closely. But the Yorkshire Ripper inquiry was massively incompetent, with vital information left unfiled in shoe boxes; Sutcliffe was interviewed on nine occasions by police officers who accepted alibi evidence from his relatives and failed to search his house. He was eventually arrested by accident for a traffic offence. The detectives in charge of the Ipswich investigation, by contrast, were able to utilise the huge advances in forensic science since the 80s. In this instance, Wright's stupidity seems breathtaking; he was careless about leaving evidence on the bodies of his victims even though he knew his DNA was on file after an unrelated theft conviction in 2003. Wright admitted in court that he had been paying for sex for 25 years since working as a steward on cruise ships. He met his first wife at this time, but claimed it was commonplace for the crew to seek out prostitutes when the ship docked in a foreign port. When he left the merchant navy, Wright worked in the pub trade in East Anglia, London and Essex; in London, he began visiting massage parlours, the first time he paid for sex in Britain. He met Pamela Wright when they both worked in a bingo hall in Felixstowe in 2001 and said he was "very happy" with her, although that didn't stop him using prostitutes behind her back from 2004. Pamela Wright began working nights in a call centre in Ipswich at the beginning of 2006 and their sex life became "almost non-existent", according to Steve Wright. He claimed to have used prostitutes on 12 occasions after they moved to London Road, even bringing them back to their flat when his partner was at work. He had previously used massage parlours in the area but discovered that women on the streets were cheaper; he said he had to pay between £65 and £80 in massage parlours but was able to beat the street women down to between £20 and £40 for full sex.One of the most surprising features of the case is that Wright would drive his partner to work at the call centre and drop her off before going in his car to look for women - initially for sex, later to kill. Thirty years earlier, Sutcliffe took his own double life to extraordinary lengths, once driving his in-laws home from his house-warming party in Bradford and then heading to Manchester where he mutilated the body of 20-year-old Jean Jordan, a woman he had murdered a week earlier. To many people, this juxtaposition of regular family commitments and murder is barely believable, but they would probably be just as shocked if they knew about the secret lives of all men who habitually use prostitutes. After the Ipswich murders, a man admitted that he had picked up 25-year-old Gemma Adams, or a woman who looked like her, at 12.45am on the night she disappeared; they had finished their business by 1am, he said, and he went off to work. Women who have been rescued from sex-traffickers report that their "clients" are ordinary men, from every class and ethnic group, who sometimes pop into a massage parlour for sex in their lunch hour or on Christmas Day. This is a big change from the 70s. Anecdotal and other evidence suggests that many more British men today are paying for sex; one study showed that the number of punters doubled between 1995 and 2000, while an academic review published two years ago suggested that 11% of the male population aged 15 to 79 uses prostitutes. There are an estimated 80,000 women in the UK's sex industry and while many consider these figures an underestimate, it is undeniable that some of the stigma attached to using commercial sex has dissipated.What hasn't changed is the risk associated with prostitution. Women who sell sex in the UK have standardised mortality rates six times higher than the general population, the highest for any group of women; they are 18 times more likely to be murdered, according to the British Medical Journal. During Wright's trial, it emerged that his fourth victim, 29-year-old Annette Nicholls, had gone to the police a few months earlier to report a rape; even in Germany, which is often cited as a model by those campaigning for the decriminalisation of prostitution, 54% of women in the sex industry have suffered violence and 34% have been raped. Thirty years ago, when I was covering the Yorkshire Ripper murders, I talked to a woman in Manchester who was covered in barely healed cuts inflicted by a client who had attacked her with a wire coat hanger. Given the level of abuse women on the street were subjected to, I wasn't surprised to discover that several of Sutcliffe's victims drank heavily, if they were not actually alcoholics. The first woman he killed was a tragic example. In the early hours of October 30 1975, Sutcliffe was in his car in Leeds when he spotted Wilma McCann, a 28-year-old mother of four who sometimes sold sex for money. He had already attacked three women, none of them prostitutes and outside red light areas, but the attacks had been interrupted. This time he picked up McCann, agreed to pay her £5 for sex, killed her and mutilated her body. McCann was helpless, having drunk 12 to 14 measures of spirits, but there was little public sympathy when her body was found the next morning. It was only when Sutcliffe killed a 16-year-old shop assistant who was not involved in prostitution, Jayne MacDonald, in Leeds in 1977 that the press finally got the kind of victim it wanted; at an extraordinary press conference a couple of years later, a senior West Yorkshire detective made a melodramatic appeal to the killer and suggested that the Ripper was now killing "innocent" girls, a much more serious matter. "That indicates your mental state and that you are in urgent need of medical attention. You have made your point. Give yourself up before another innocent woman dies," declared acting assistant chief constable Jim Hobson.It was a pivotal moment, exposing double standards, and detectives were to be proved wrong about their insistence that they were looking for an unmarried man who probably lived with an elderly relative. The lonely man who pays for sex because he has no other choice is a myth; research shows that the typical user of prostitutes is 30, employed and married, a profile that Sutcliffe fitted almost exactly when he killed McCann. At 49, Wright is older but he shares with Sutcliffe an unsettled childhood background in which he may have witnessed domestic violence. Sutcliffe's father was a "monster", in the words of one of his brothers, and his children saw him beat his wife and cheat on her with other women. In this combative, misogynist atmosphere, Sutcliffe clung to his mother and his hatred of women seems to have been a projection of his loathing of the weak, feminine part of himself. Wright was born in Norfolk in 1958, the second of four children, and the family moved frequently with his father, who was in the RAF. Wright's father later claimed that his wife abandoned the family, leaving Wright in perpetual search of a mother figure, but his ex-wife says the marriage was violent and that Wright was afraid of his father. There is a long history in serial killer cases of blaming the mother but it seems just as likely that the relationship with the father is crucial. Men who become serial killers often have a distorted sense of masculinity, violent and insecure by turns, which expresses itself in an appetite for casual, abusive sex long before they turn to murder.Towards the end of Wright's excursions into the commercial sex industry, his real object had become murder. But if he was only pretending to want sex, it's clear that none of his victims really wanted to sell it either. In this respect, street prostitution has changed out of all recognition since the 70s, when one of Sutcliffe's victims, 42-year-old Emily Jackson, did the accounts for her husband's business by day and sold sex at night to make a bit of extra money. There is no doubt at all that street prostitution today is a desperate by-product of drug abuse, as study after study has shown. All five of Wright's victims were heavy users of illegal drugs and a pathologist, Dr Nat Cary, said they might have been too incapacitated by heroin and cocaine to fight off their attacker. "Economic need is the main factor in starting sex work," according to research carried out in Coventry and published by the Terence Higgins Trust in 2006. "Crack and heroin are a major problem for street-based sex workers, with all of them using drugs and three-quarters using crack or heroin every day," the study said. An earlier study in Swindon for Druglink found that women started to sell sex on the streets to fund a pre-existing drug habit. They spent an average of £40 to £60 a day, although more recent research suggests that the figure has risen to between £100 and £150. They regarded prostitution as a better option than robbery or burglary, a finding confirmed by a south London GP, Dr Brenda Mosdale. Writing in a medical journal last year, she observed: "All the women I met who were both sex workers and misused drugs told me clearly that the drugs had come first ... Sex work was often seen to be preferable to shoplifting or mugging to get money."These studies are illuminating in the context of the debate about whether selling sex is a genuine choice or driven by economic necessity. Despite the class difference between Wright's victims - at least two came from middle-class backgrounds - drug addiction was the common factor that brought women to that industrial estate in Ipswich. One of Wright's victims worked in a massage parlour but got the sack because of her drug habit; he admitted picking up Tania Nicol but claimed he was put off by her bad skin, a result of heroin use. Even if licensed brothels existed in this country, women such as Nicol would almost certainly end up in the illegal sex industry because they are too sick to get jobs elsewhere; what they need is an effective exit strategy from prostitution, especially as the vast majority of women who work on the street don't want to be there.Last month, three former government ministers tabled an amendment to the criminal justice bill that would have extended the powers local authorities already have against kerb crawlers, allowing them to ban the purchase of sex in designated areas. The government agreed to examine the idea and has already sent a Home Office minister to Sweden, where a similar law was implemented nine years ago. In Sweden, prostitution is no longer regarded as an acceptable transaction between equals but an industry that encourages men to act on abusive attitudes to women. In this country, the willingness of so many men in Ipswich to pay for sex with desperate young women provided a shocking insight into the demand side of prostitution, leading to the arrest of a couple of hundred kerb crawlers. The authorities also recognised the need to come up with a swift, effective exit strategy from prostitution, and 14 months later the situation has been transformed. The women have been offered as much methadone as they need and they've been given cash to cover essentials and rent flats, with the result that only one or two are still selling sex; the rest do not appear to have been displaced to other towns, with drug outreach teams confident that they know the whereabouts of almost all of them. There are lessons here for other parts of Britain, even though the intervention is too late for Tania Nicol, Gemma Adams, Anneli Alderton, Annette Nicholls and Paula Clennell. Thirty years after the Yorkshire Ripper murders, it seems there is still no shortage of men who hate women.