For most of last week, a combination of optimism and cynicism led me to believe that the idea of docking child benefit from truants' parents would be discreetly forgotten once the local elections were safely over.I had no doubt that, when he defended the notion, Tony Blair really believed that it was both principled and practical. His record in government suggests the sincere conviction that money - paid as a bonus for success and withheld as a penalty for failure - makes the world go round. But I assumed that the image-makers who had developed the idea from a focus group report would take him aside next week and say that, for all its merits, the scheme to make poor families even poorer was not practical. I am beginning to fear that I was wrong.Thanks to the municipal elections, I spent a good deal of last Thursday in the company of "on-message" Labour MPs - some of whom actually took instructions from their pagers during television broadcasts. They were unanimous in their enthusiasm for imposing financial penalties on truants' families. All of them supported the idea with anecdotes. One knew an old lady whose grandson stayed away from school to keep her company. Another shopped in a supermarket from which truants regularly pilfered. A third had been visited by a constituent whose mobile had been stolen during school hours by a boy who was obviously of school age. None of them offered any evidence to suggest that withholding child benefit would do more than appease the anger of the respectable majority. To them, that was the object of the initiative. They all had a theory by which they imagined the policy was justified. Naturally enough, they expressed it in a cliche. "Rights," they all repeated with impressive discipline, "have to be matched to responsibilities." I do not know if, having heard the words of the Great Leader, the microchips inside their brains had signalled, "Obey! Obey!" or if they had come independently to the wrong conclusion. In the good society, without a doubt, the existence of rights and the acceptance of obligations should go hand in hand. And one citizen's rights may be limited by another's social irresponsibility. General freedom depends on personal restraint. But the idea that rights are part of a bargain - which the state can make dependent on obedience to rules that it invents from time to time - is obvious nonsense. By definition, nothing that is conditional is a right. See John Locke. That is why the US constitution describes the basic freedoms as "inalienable". There is a legitimate argument about how rights are properly defined. Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness should, at least to social democrats, be only a beginning. In a prosperous society the right to a decent standard of living should not be in doubt. Child benefit was created to make that aspiration a reality. I am certainly prepared to include it in the income tax calculation - as long as the money saved by the clawback from prosperous parents is distributed among the disadvantaged and dispossessed. But to withhold it from the poor, for any reason, is immoral. The people who propose the family benefit sanction - the prime minister included - all seem to enjoy only a passing acquaintance with grinding poverty. I recall, from my constituency, families who were overwhelmed by their own inadequacy. Fathers who did not work and mothers who, in the language of the Birmingham social services department, "could not cope". If their children played truant, as sometimes they did, the withdrawal of family benefit would only have one result. Money would run out earlier and either the gas meter would not be fed or fewer groceries would be collected. I have long suspected the prime minister of believing in original sin. Somebody ought to tell him that it is not innate wickedness that makes little boys and girls prefer to sit under railway arches or on building sites rather than go to school. Nor is it the devil who makes them loiter in pinball arcades. It is the failure of society to understand their wants and meet their needs. Truancy is not a problem at Eton or Winchester. It is a disease of the poor - a product of a home life that does not encourage discipline and industry, and of a society that has not convinced them that either of those virtues will be rewarded. The idea that a reduction in family income will change their view of life is lunacy. It is also a lunacy that, if pursued, can do immense damage to the Labour party. For the first time in years, the morale of rank-and-file supporters is beginning to improve - largely as a result of the Budget's reassertion of proper Labour values. The prime minister should be warned. Apart from the clones, party members will not accept an assault on the principles of child benefit. Nor should they. comment@theguardian.com