The appeal court was urged yesterday to consider fresh evidence that might throw light on the state of mind of Jane Andrews, the former dresser of Sarah Ferguson, at the time she killed her partner, Thomas Cressman.Dubbed the "Fatal Attraction" killer, Andrews, 36, is serving a life sentence after an Old Bailey trial in May 2001 found her guilty of murdering the 39-year-old Cressman. It was suggested she hit her lover with a cricket bat and stabbed him through the chest in a jealous rage. She was described in court as a liar and gold digger who tried to destroy Cressman's reputation by detailing his interest in sadomasochistic sexual practices and claiming that, the morning he died, he tied her up, beat her and anally raped her. Andrews' defence team argued that the appeal court should allow fresh psychiatric evidence to be heard. Her barrister, Vera Baird QC, said this evidence, including allegations that as a child she was sexually abused by her elder brother, Mark, had only been "unlocked" after intensive psychotherapy in prison. But Bruce Houlder QC, for the crown, said the court should not allow Andrews "to jump on the psychiatric bandwagon", and it did not serve the interests of justice to allow Andrews another trial. Lord Justice Kennedy, Mr Justice Forbes and Mr Justice Aikens, are expected to give a decision this morning as to whether to allow the new evidence from two psychiatrists and a psychotherapist to go before the appeal court. Outlining the evidence, Ms Baird said that given Andrews' history of sexual abuse, she would have found Cressman's sexual interests and violent behaviour extremely difficult to cope with. Quoting from a report, she read out the words of its compiler, Fiona Mason, a doctor and expert on women's post-traumatic disorders: "At the time of the offence, Ms Andrews was suffering both from a depressive illness and post traumatic symptomatology, superimposed on her already abnormal personality." Andrews has been diagnosed as suffering from a borderline personality disorder by Dr Mason and by the prison's psychiatrist. Dr Mason concluded that Andrews' state of mind at the time of the killing satisfied the requirements for a defence of diminished responsibility. The issue of sexual abuse was only touched on during the original trial, and Andrews collapsed in the witness box when cross-examined over it. Ms Baird said that Dr Mason's report described Andrews' alleged childhood experiences as including oral sex and attempted penetration. Ms Baird said that Andrews' brother, who allegedly once chased the girl around the house prompting her to threaten him with a knife, had told his sister that the incident was a secret and that "bad girls" got sent away. At the time of the trial, added Ms Baird, Andrews' family had put extreme pressure on her not to disclose the abuse. She "had been afraid of tearing the family apart". After the conviction of her daughter, Andrews' mother, June, made a statement saying she did believe the abuse took place, the court heard. Mrs Andrews recounted an incident when her daughter told her that her brother was "doing things to me" and asked for a bedroom door lock. But Mr Houlder argued that Andrews had talked about her abuse with the psychiatrist who examined her for the defence at the time of the trial and that, rather than finding it difficult to talk about, she seemed to be "someone who wanted the world to know" the intimate details of her sexual relationships.