Usually we think of Gordon Brown's oft-told joke about there being two types of chancellor - those who fail, and those who get out in time - as referring to an economic crisis such as "Black Wednesday" in 1992, or a balance of payments crisis such as those that have so often done for previous Labour governments.But few give any thought to that other key role played by the chancellor - custodian of the nation's finances. And this could, however, be what turns into a full-blown crisis and could wreck Mr Brown's reputation for prudence, even as he approaches a full 10 years at No 11.I am talking here about the phenomenon known as "missing trader", or "carousel", VAT fraud. Over the past year, the amount of criminal activity in this area has shot up four or five-fold, according to the latest estimates from HM Revenue & Customs.We need to be clear here. This is not just a potential headache for HMRC, or the chancellor. This a problem for all of us. This is not tax avoidance. This is theft, on a grand scale, of billions of pounds of VAT receipts that you and I have paid on goods, or services.Lavish lifestylesAnd the money is being stolen by some of the hardest, most violent criminals operating in Britain today. We should all be worried that money that could be spent on schools and hospitals is now funding villas and lavish lifestyles in Dubai, Spain, Hong Kong and elsewhere.These people - HMRC estimates there are about 9,000 in the UK alone - work their scams as follows. They import high-value items - such as mobile phones - from another EU country free of VAT, sell them on to a trader but pocket the VAT instead of handing it over to HMRC. The goods are then re-exported and the VAT reclaimed. The items may flow round this circle many times, hence the term "carousel".Criminals have told the Guardian how they have developed "virtual carousels" - they use computer programmes to generate all the documents they need, and money transfers to create the impression that trading has taken place. One said he could spin a "carousel" in 10 minutes and generate £200,000 of VAT refunds.Organised crime, sensing the big money to be made, has moved on in a big way in the past year, swelling the amount of attempted fraud.The actual amounts being stolen are not clear, but they are large and growing. HMRC's latest estimates, released last week, showed there was approximately £10bn of fraudulent activity in the second quarter alone. That was up 50% from the first quarter, but meant there was nearly £17bn of attempted fraud in the first half of the year. If the levels remain the same, let alone increase, it will easily top £30bn this year.But activity is one thing, tax losses another. HMRC and the Treasury get cross when the Guardian tries to work out what the tax losses are. But the reason we do so, is because HMRC says it won't be able to figure out 2006's losses until the end of 2007.The last figures we have to go on are HMRC's, that they lost £1.1-£1.9bn in 2004/05 on activity of just £3bn. So if this looks set to rocket 10 times, they could, in theory, rise to £11-19bn. This is not rocket science. Let's hope it is nowhere near that high.Thwarting thievesHMRC and the Treasury insist they are getting on top of the problem and that new measures being introduced will thwart the criminals. We must all hope that is true. But if the amount of attempted crime is soaring, it is not unreasonable to suppose that at least some of it is successful.The graph spells out the impact. It shows cash VAT receipts that the Treasury has taken in over the past nine years. The average annual rise, up to 2004/05, was £3.2bn and, indeed, the chancellor, in last year's budget, pencilled in £3.5bn for 2005/06.In the event, though, receipts fell £170m, the first ever fall since VAT was introduced in 1973. Luckily for Mr Brown, though, income tax revenues were stronger than expected, so he was spared too much pain.Earlier this year, HMRC investigators admitted to the Guardian that they are losing the equivalent of two Tonbridge robberies a week. That is £100m, or £5bn over a year. That would build and equip a dozen hospitals or 300 secondary schools. And that number must be growing larger, if the increase in activity is anything to go by. So it is plausible to argue that tax losses in 2006/07 could well rise to £10bn or more - equivalent to 3p on the basic rate of tax.And this is at a time when the public finances are not looking good. Departmental spending is over-running and economists doubt that the chancellor will manage to narrow the budget deficit by £3-4bn this year, as he forecast in the budget. If VAT losses continue to grow, that could turn out to be wishful thinking indeed. Mr Brown also pencilled in, in the budget documents, that he would claw back about £500m in each of the next couple of years as a result of efforts to counter "carousel" fraud. But that is pretty small beer compared to the amounts flowing out.So what can be done? After all, these crimes are very difficult to detect and often, even if they are discovered, the fraudsters have already ridden off into the sunset, or, indeed, sunshine.And HMRC investigators, now 1,000-strong, have seen some of their tactics to clamp down on the fraud declared illegal by the European Court of Justice because some legitimate traders had their business disrupted. Some of these companies now plan to sue HMRC for damages.But HMRC has just won a potentially useful derogation from the European Commission allowing it to introduce a "reverse charge" system whereby VAT on mobile phones, or computer chips, will only be payable when the items are sold to an end-user like a retailer.That's all well and good, and may thwart some trading, but investigators say it is not a panacea because the crime is already "mutating" to other types of goods. The problem is that for HMRC to get a wider derogation to introduce a reverse charge on all goods, as Germany has tried and failed to do, would require unanimous approval by all other EU governments.Given Mr Brown's reluctance to cooperate with his EU partners in other areas of tax, this seems unlikely.A fundamental change to EU-wide VAT law is the only solution, according to EU tax commissioner Laszlo Kovacs, who says it is crucial to end the practice of refunding VAT whenever goods cross an EU border, a system which was introduced with the EU single market in 1993. This could be done either by introducing a reverse charge system everywhere, or making VAT payable once, at the point goods enter the EU or are produced within EU borders.The problem for Mr Brown is that this overhaul will take years, during which time the VAT losses will likely have mushroomed. Or, of course, he may get out in time, as he must be hoping.