The irony doesn't escape Michael Biggs that when his wife first moved to Britain from Brazil, she took a job with Royal Mail, the organisation from which her father-in-law had stolen £2.6m 42 years earlier, in the most infamous robbery in British criminal history.It is just one more way in which Ronnie Biggs's role in the Great Train Robbery has dominated the life of his son, now 36, since before he was born. The fact that Biggs's girlfriend, Raimunda, was pregnant with Michael enabled Ronnie to remain in Brazil when he was on the verge of being returned to a British prison in 1974 following his escape nine years earlier.Eight years ago, when his father insisted on returning to a British prison cell after 36 years on the run, Michael sacrificed his life in Brazil as a father, husband and highly successful musician who ran his own studio, and moved to a small rented flat in London. Separated from his young family, who didn't join him until three years later, he dedicated his life to freeing his father.Yesterday, Ronnie would have been released, had not the Justice Secretary, Jack Straw, refused him parole. Now Michael is again putting his own life as owner of an international football academy on hold to step up his struggle for his father to die a free man."I regret allowing my father to persuade me to bring him back every second of my life," Michael said yesterday, nervously sipping tea in a greasy spoon cafe near his home in Barnet, north London. Half an hour later, he was heading back up the A11 to Norwich, where his father was last weekend moved from jail to hospital after his health deteriorated."But I couldn't live with myself if the man who gave me everything asked me for help and I said no," he added. "When dad made up his mind to come home, he was in the depths of a depression that had already caused him to attempt suicide. When he couldn't speak and barely walk, all he did was beg me, on his alphabet board, to take him back to England. He said it so often and for so long that, in the end, I didn't have a choice. His last wish is to walk into a Margate pub as an Englishman and buy a pint of beer."It had also been Michael who came to Ronnie's rescue three decades earlier. When his father was kidnapped in 1981 and held for 40 days, the little boy went on television to plead for his return. Weeping, he told the cameras: "I know the Queen wants my Daddy, but I want him, too."The child's distress was so plain it apparently moved viewers to tears. But his desperation was understandable: father and son had been inseparable since Raimunda had walked out when Michael was just 11 months old, leaving the Great Train Robber to wash Michael's nappies, make up his bottles of milk and read his bedtime stories."He was my father, mother, friend, teacher," said Michael said. "We were, and are, very, very close."Michael's emotional TV appeal was spotted by the head of CBS Records in Brazil. Within months of Biggs's safe return, the boy was signed up for The Magic Balloon Gang, a children's pop group who had their own television show and sold huge numbers of records across South America.From the ages of six to 13, Michael toured with the group. "By 13, I had done everything a 17-year-old had done," said Michael. "My dad was very proud."By his early teens, however, the magic was gone and band dissolved. But instead of spiralling out of control, Michael and his father remained close. Together, they bought a house, a yacht, a restaurant, a disco - and even a private island. "They were great days," Michael said. "We were best mates. People always said, 'It's amazing, how can you be such good friends with your dad?' But we were."At 21, with the money gone, Michael opened three music studios and began building a new future. Then his father had the first of his two strokes."It was left up to me to finance the extremely expensive life we had been leading," said Michael. "I sold the studios and gave it up."Back on the road as a stage manager, Michael met his wife, Veronica. In January 2000, the couple had a daughter, Ingrid. Michael admits his father remains the key figure in his life. "When I came to England with dad, I almost lost my wife. I'm torn between my family and my father. But, ultimately, she understands."