I am not sure whether it is hypocrisy, ignorance or indifference that allows a large proportion of the British public to scream indignation at the death of Baby P on the one hand, while at the same time victimising the next generation (Britain in danger of demonising its children, claims Barnardo's, November 17). Working for 40 years in special education, children's homes and secure units, I saw many children who, unlike Baby P, survived a brutal upbringing. The scars of this early childhood would frequently leave them unable to trust adults and feel at war with society at large - effects reflected in their behaviour. It seems children have to die or receive serious physical injury to gain public sympathy - the manifestations of emotional and mental scars are dismissed as "animal behaviour".The blame for this public antagonism towards children must be shared by the actions of the media and successive governments. These include inadequate mental health services for children and adolescents; the lack of funding for public sector youth clubs because tax cuts are more important; voluntary youth work diminished through fears of overzealous reactions to false child protection accusations; reporting that seeks out the sensational; introduction of the asbo, age-discriminatory curfews and Mosquito devices. This amounts to the bullying of children and young people collectively by adult society; becoming increasingly oppressive will inevitably make the situation worse.The blame culture that seeks out scapegoats from those who make an effort is no solution; we are all to blame.Roy GrimwoodMarket Drayton, ShropshireYour headline (Eight in 10 seriously harmed children 'missed' by agencies, November 15) is a sensational interpretation of ambiguous data. It is equally possible to read the data very differently. The statistics quoted are equally consistent with a story that, of the many children on the child protection register, only a very few are killed or come to serious harm, thanks to the hard work of children's services staff across the country. At the same time the small minority of children at risk who are not on the register are extremely likely to be harmed. The story does not note that the number of children coming to harm in Britain, while still too many, is lower than in most comparable countries.The policy consequence of this reading would be the need to refine and improve the way in which children are identified to reduce the number of missed children still further. The consequence of the unsupported interpretation made in your story is to further inflame a febrile situation, undermine the work of children's services staff and thus put more children at risk.Mike CushmanDepartment of management, LSEIt seems to me that most debate on this subject is based on the misapprehension that the job that child protection agencies are doing is picking out a small number of risky, seriously dysfunctional families from a field of essentially "normal" families. This fundamental misunderstanding is what makes theses agencies' failure to identify lethal situations appear so crass. In fact this is not what they are doing. By and large that sifting process has already occurred before families are referred to social workers. Virtually all the families they hear about are seriously dysfunctional. They then have the more difficult task of trying to decide which families to focus their efforts on, given that their resources do not permit them to spend time on them all. In my previous career I was the manager of a children and families social work team, and part of my job was to go through new referrals and decide which ones to allocate for further work. Among the families I decided that we couldn't follow up on I could often see risk factors which, in the event of some terrible event happening in that family, someone in the future could point to as evidence of my ineptitude. But I could not allocate them all, because otherwise none would have received a meaningful service.If you remove a child from a parent before they are harmed, how can you be sure that they would have been harmed at all? After a tragic event, people clamour that such action should be taken. But if such action is taken before the event occurs, social work agencies may be vilified as heartless child-snatchers.Chris BeckettPrincipal lecturer in social work, Anglia Ruskin UniversitySimon Jenkins (Officialdom cannot hammer straight the crooked timber of mankind, November 14) is correct to point to the many problems inherent in current policy directions in child welfare. In particular, he is right to emphasise the importance of putting relationships at the heart of practice with families. A key aspect of such practice must be that of engaging with men. As researchers in this area, we have noted the unchallenged tendency of practitioners in both health and social care to focus their efforts on women and ignore the men who may be central to the difficulties a family experiences. This can mean that highly vulnerable women are being asked to take responsibility for protecting children from men who they have good reason to be afraid of themselves.Brid FeatherstoneProfessor of social work and social policyPhillip GilliganSenior lecturer in social work, University of BradfordIs the David Cameron who wants heads to roll over a lack of child protection in Haringey the same David Cameron whose conference speech mocked child protection checks for school exchanges? Perhaps the two Camerons should meet. They bring the same barely suppressed rage to their diverse causes.Chris SkillenNewcastle, County Down