A Scottish businesswoman who has been convicted for a series of frauds and armed robberies in Milan is to be extradited to Italy after losing a long-running battle to avoid serving nearly five years in prison.At a 90-second hearing at the appeal court in Edinburgh yesterday, Dorothy Fasola was told she was being handed over to Italian prosecutors to serve a sentence of four years and seven months for faking banknotes and stealing jewellery in the north Italian city. Until yesterday Fasola, 59, had spent more than seven years running a successful fish and seafood export business from Peterhead, Britain's largest fishing port, north of Aberdeen. But the apparently respectable businesswoman, the eldest daughter of a Scottish publican and mother of a law graduate, has also been named by Serbian prosecutors as the mastermind of an audacious raid on a jeweller's in Tokyo in 2004, when £20m worth of diamond jewellery was stolen. The theft - blamed on the notorious "Pink Panther" gang - included a necklace studded with 116 diamonds worth £17m, called the Comtesse de Vendome.Fasola has denied any involvement in that raid, and neither the Japanese nor Serbian authorities have sought her extradition or formally charged her. Three Serbians, allegedly her accomplices, have since been charged and tried in Belgrade for their part in the conspiracy.Her convictions and arrests in Italy include offences dating back more than 25 years, when she and her late husband Luigi Fasola were accused of peddling stolen jewellery on an Italian cable TV shopping channel in 1983. Two women alleged rings being sold on the show had been stolen from them.In 1989 Fasola was amongst 10 people arrested at a print works churning out fake $100 bills but she again escaped prosecution. However in 1991 she was arrested after orchestrating an armed raid on a jeweller's where 30kg of gold was stolen. According to two European arrest warrants issued by Italian prosecutors and upheld yesterday by the appeal court, she was tried and sentenced in 1998 to four years and two months in prison for the gold robbery. But Fasola was released pending an appeal and in 1999, while facing a further trial for allegedly using fake credit cards, Fasola fled Italy for Scotland.A court in Milan sentenced her to a further four years for her role in the money counterfeiting operation in 1989. Those jail terms have since been reduced.