On a quiet afternoon last month, Bournemouth police received a call from a woman who had heard gunfire from inside a neighbouring house. Within minutes an Armed Response Vehicle (ARV) was outside the building and an officer approached the door, concealing a high-powered carbine beneath his jacket. The door was opened by an old lady who apologised: she had no idea, she said, indoor fireworks could make such a noise.The incident contrasts with another in Greater Manchester last year. An off-duty detective spotted a suspicious Renault Clio and Rover on an M6 sliproad outside the city. Minutes later two unarmed constables in a patrol car pulled the Rover over. But when one approached the car, a man wearing a balaclava and brandishing a pistol leapt out. When the car roared off it left the constable, hit by a ricocheting bullet, writhing on the ground. He had interrupted a gang of armed robbers on their way to a 'job'. Both incidents go to the heart of one of the most sensi tive issues in British policing: should officers carry guns? In the incident in Bournemouth - in the second safest county in the country - the police appear to have over-reacted to a minor incident. In Manchester - one of the most violent areas in the UK - the police seem to have underestimated the situation. An Observer investigation reveals a frightening picture of police forces in disarray: firearms officers in each region are interpreting laws differently; new regulations hugely increase the chances of guns being deployed; and the police have been given no lead by the public or politicians on whether they support the police being armed. The investigation also reveals that, in many areas, police forces are resorting to firearms much more frequently. The figures show that the police are becoming increasingly anxious about gun crime. In response, forces are quietly arming themselves. A comparison of figures from the year to March 2000 with the previous year shows: • Fifty times as many incidents attended in Cleveland by officers carrying firearms. • In Dorset, seven times as many incidents attended by ARVs. • In Greater Manchester, nearly twice as many incidents attended by armed police. • In Cambridgeshire, Che-shire, Leicestershire and Lincolnshire, operations in which firearms were issued more than doubled. • In the West Midlands, the deployment of ARVs 19 times more frequently, and the authorisation of officers to draw arms on three times as many occasions. While a quiet area like Dorset does not hesitate to send a firearms vehicle, the Metropolitan Police, presid-ing over the largest, most volatile area in the country, has seen no increase in its use of firearms for several years. In some areas - including Thames Valley, Warwickshire, West Midlands and North Wales - the number of deployments has dropped. Experts and the police point out that gun crime is on the rise. Latest Home Office figures show 13,671 incidents recorded in 1998, a rise of 10 per cent on the previous year. Professor John Benyon, a leading criminologist, said The Observer 's findings were 'alarming'. 'The Government should ask some serious questions as to what this is doing to the public image of the unarmed bobby. Our unarmed police force is the envy of the world and one must ask if this rise is either effective or wanted.' One of the biggest increases has been in Cleveland. Officers there attribute the extraordinary rise to changes in their operational structure: since November 1999 armed officers may be asked to attend everything from a road traffic accident to a bank robbery. ARVs are part of routine patrols. This is why, they say, they deployed firearms 1,712 times last year. A clear sign of the gradual - and probably irreversible - arming of British police emerged in February this year in Operation Real Estate, in Nottinghamshire. Officers wearing Walther P990 pistols began patrolling the St Ann's and Meadows estates after a series of gang-related shootings. Six officers, operating in pairs, patrol in five-hour shifts from dusk until dawn. They receive support from two police vans, in which Heckler and Koch MP5 assault rifles are kept. Senior Nottinghamshire officers think that such patrols send a 'strong message' to criminals not to use firearms. But John Stalker, the former deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester, considered the move to be 'another step along the road to routinely arming police'. Either way, the presence of guns means that the stakes in police-criminal confrontation are being raised. The police have to follow strict guidelines laid down by the Association of Chief Police Officers. The guidelines are to be updated next month. No one doubts that gun use in the criminal world is spreading. Home Office statistics show that three million guns are held illegally in the UK, and that one in three criminals under the age of 25 have access to a firearm. A recent survey of robberies of retailers revealed that a third of attacks involve firearms. But there are other, more controversial reasons behind the readiness of the police to use weapons. Since April last year the Health and Safety Act has been applied to the police. Forces risk being found negligent if they allow their officers to stray unprotected into dangerous situations. For many forces the 'safety first' policy now involves a gun. But the argument that firearms use makes officers safer is by no means unquestioned. Don Walker, Associate Professor of Justice Studies at Kent State University in Ohio, said: 'If the police become armed, then the bad guys do, and then the store owners do. Criminals will know that they have to shoot first if they can. The moment you put a firearm on the hip of an officer you put him in danger.' The Government plays down the issue. Home Office minister Charles Clarke said he did not believe police firearm use was rising so acutely. 'We issue the figures annually on the basis of a proper statistical return, and early intelligence is that there is either no increase or a very slight increase indeed.' But in Cleveland and several other regions the reality is different. There are more armed officers on the streets than ever.  nick.walsh@observer.co.uk