I don't think you ever get over spending time in prison for a miscarriage of justice. If I had known then what I know now I would have refused to leave the court unless there was a safe place for me to go, with people who could help me with the blackest and darkest moments. People who could tell me what to do when I got severe and violent flashbacks, when I couldn't form relationships, when I couldn't talk, when I couldn't deal with people. After spending so much time behind bars you become so detached, so alienated from society, that you barely remember how it functions. Everything in your life is a huge problem, from getting a doctor to going to the shops. You suddenly find yourself without the routine that has controlled you for the greatest part of your life and you are lost. I tried to commit suicide several times. I started to medicate myself with drugs to black out the nightmares and the panic attacks. They helped at first, but then stopped working.When I left prison I was leaving people who had become my family, going back to a family that I didn't really have any more. I had better times in prison than I have ever had out here. Most people released after miscarriages of justice end up as recluses, their marriages fail, they aren't talking to their children, they become drug addicts and alcoholics, they die premature deaths.They have fewer friends out here then they did in there, and most of them long to go back. I've been out 20 years and that longing is still there. When you walk out of court a free man you think you are normal and strong, but you're not. It's like you have been in the middle of a hurricane and it hasn't touched you, but your brain has been storing up all the anger, all the hurt until you can deal with it. I think it's very unlikely [Hodgson] will ever lead a normal life. If he gets some support, he may lead a life that has little pleasures. But if they don't give him any help, it's like they are taking him out of limbo and throwing him into hell.