 Independent  Editorial, July 3 "In the past two years the number of Asians stopped by the police, often under powers granted by the 2000 Terrorism Act, has increased by some 300%, though admittedly from a low base. The harassment of innocent Muslims should come as no surprise given the tide of Islamophobia that has washed over us since September 11 2001. Islam is often portrayed in a negative light, and all Muslims as potential terrorists. In that sense the police are merely reflecting the climate ... "Those who are unconcerned by the malign social effects of stop and search argue that it plays a vital role in reducing crime. But only 13% of stop and searches have led to an arrest, exactly the same proportion as in 2001. It is also worth noting that none of those arrests has been for terrorism."  Daily Mail Editorial, July 3  "Is it surprising, given the nature of today's terrorism, that [the police] are active in the Asian community, just as they suspected many Irish people - equally innocent - during the Troubles? ... After this furore, such precautions are likely to be scaled down ... What happens then if - God forbid - some fanatic plants a bomb? Won't ... politicians round on the police for not doing more? We can't afford such posturing. "Yes, police must act sensitively in dealing with all those they stop and search. We believe that Asians in this country - the great majority of whom are decent and sensible - will understand that it isn't Islamophobic to protect the public, which includes their own community."  Jasper Gerard  Sunday Times, July 4 "The real surprise? That the increase isn't higher. Whites can be guilty of heinous crimes, but few are top al-Qaida operatives. Police method is to build a picture of a suspect, then find someone who matches it. They could, to be oh-so-even-handed, stop chalk-striped Charlies in Cheapside in case they are disciples of Osama bin Laden, but that really would be wasting police time. In days when we booked IRA terrorists rather than gave them book contracts, we scoured Belfast, not Bradford. The threat has moved; so, surely, must our search."It is crucial that Muslims are shown the utmost respect when questioned. Army heavy-handedness was the IRA's best recruiting sergeant."  Daily Mirror  Editorial, July 3  "Once the Irish in Britain were picked on. Then young blacks. Now it's Muslims. Of course, the war on terrorism must be fought with absolute commitment. But do the police honestly think they will pick up Bin Laden or his equivalent in a random stop and search in Birmingham or London? "Terrorists will only be beaten with brilliant inside information. But that won't come if the communities we need on the side of the law are alienated."  William Hague  News of the World, July 4 "If the police are going to be so smothered in bureaucracy and political correctness that they are reluctant to stop someone who might be engaged in terrorism then this ministerial panic will be very dangerous indeed. Stop and search powers are vital to effective policing ..."And the figures are not nearly as dramatic as you might think. Of 20,000 people stopped under the Terrorism Act in a year, 3,000 of them were of Asian origin. That works out at eight a day. Is that so surprising in the light of 9/11 and the Madrid train bombings?"