Just how risky can it be, going to buy a hosepipe from a garden centre on a Sunday morning? I suppose a bag of compost could topple off a shelf, or you could trip over a rake as you check out the lobelia. Anyway, for me it turned out the danger lay in the car park.As I emerged, hosepipe under the arm, two men were looking suspiciously at my car. I saw them circling it, then peering into its interior. Falteringly, I asked them what was the matter. It turned out these strangers had just tried in vain to stop an enormous 4X4 reversing into the back of my car, and then driving away at high speed.The good samaritans had then taken down the number plate and noted the damage, which was only a smashed light. Full of gratitude, I resolved to report it immediately. It could have been much worse, but it seemed to me that the other driver couldn't have known that at the time, and anyway, should have stopped. But telling the police about it turned out to be a much tougher task than it initially appeared. I rang the local control room who told me that I needed to go to Richmond police station in person, with a copy of my MOT, to give the details. Richmond used to have the kind of station featured in the original version of The Ladykillers, where the genteel character played by Katie Johnson totters in to have a friendly chat with the sergeant. Of course, it hasn't been like that for quite a while (probably about 70 years) thanks to the changing nature of its clientele. But it changed big-time five years ago, when they decided to downsize the station into a daytime only centre, by moving most of its work to Twickenham. Instead of having a front counter, the visitor is faced with a small room which can only be entered once a policeman has pressed a buzzer. There's a notice on the door, explaining that only one person at a time can be seen, and that each case will take a minimum of 20 minutes to report, and that you may face a fairly lengthy wait. You are then given the name of a website on which some crimes can be reported. I waited for 40 minutes, and then decided I had better get to work, and would come back the next day. I did so, and again, as there were three people ahead of me, I realised that I was due for at least a one-hour wait. Once in work, I tried to get onto the website but couldn't do so. By the time I finally came face to face with a policemen last Friday, my story of how my car was hit in the car park had taken on an epic quality in my mind. I could hear the noise of splintering glass, of the good neighbours peeping their horns to get the driver to stop. All of this was going to be related in detail to the officer. But no. He was young, kind and sympathetic but wanted only to give me a form to fill in, which I would then have to return at a later date, with my car insurance, MOT etc. 'So that's another hour-long wait,' I protested. 'Couldn't I post it to you?' Well, no, he explained, he had to see the accompanying documents. And this then had to go the traffic support unit, who would then take the right action but which might take 28 days to process. The opening sentence of the document begins: 'The purpose of this form is to reduce inconvenience to you.' I didn't feel this was entirely truthful, as the most convenient thing would have been to spend five minutes telling someone what had happened so they could then trace the driver. The form continued: 'Your co-operation also releases more officers for street patrol.' Far be it from me to tie up officers in pointless red tape, or take them off the streets of Richmond dealing with violent or aggressive drunks, but there had to be a more efficient system than this. It was such a little offence, so unimportant in the great scheme of things. There must be 100 crimes each day in my area which are far far more traumatic and disruptive, but it still didn't seem right that someone could go into your car and then drive off without taking any responsibility. MPs say the difficulties in reporting crime are a major concern and always take up a large part of discussions at local public meetings, but go completely unrecognised because so much of the argument at Westminster is about the policing of terrorism. Having faith in the police, like all public services, depends to a large extent on how you have found them in the past. A theft, criminal damage to a car, drunken behaviour on the street - all of these are police business just as much as the major crimes. And encouraging people to talk to officers is surely important. Another great public service, the NHS, has recently seen its patient satisfaction ratings start to climb, and it cannot be coincidence that the waits to see a GP, or a casualty doctor are far, far shorter than they were five years ago. Access to the professionals matters, it's what we find reassuring and, ultimately, it's why we retain our belief in citizenship.