 Daily Mail Editorial, July 16 "A vicious criminal swaggers into the dock, knowing that the jurors are too terrified to convict him ... In another court, a City fraudster's crime is so complex that even the most intelligent jurors are bemused and feel obliged to acquit. While such cases are relatively rare, the fact that they happen at all is a powerful argument for David Blunkett's plan to abolish juries in complicated trials, or when such intimidation is a factor. Many will share [the home secretary's] frustration with the House of Lords, which threw out the proposal [on Tuesday]. "That said, the peers were surely right. Once the right to a jury trial is lost - even in exceptional circumstances - we are on a slippery slope ... This is the third time this government has tried to dilute the right to jury trial and the third time it has lost. Mr Blunkett ... should accept defeat gracefully and seek other ways of ensuring justice is done."  Daily Mirror Editorial, July 16   "There is no doubt that justice would be served better in some cases if they didn't have a jury. But there are far more that need the judgment of 12 ordinary men and women. The ... plan to axe some jury trials may seem to have some advantages but it is open to abuse, particularly by unscrupulous police officers. More safeguards need to be introduced before the law is changed."  William Hartston Daily Express, July 16   "When I first walked into the jury room at Middlesex crown court, one immediate impression forced itself to the front of my thoughts: I would not want my future determined by these people ... I gained the strong impression that most of them would rather be somewhere else. I had read that juries consist mostly of members of the non-professional classes who do not have the wit or clout to get out of jury service ... This is no way to dispense justice, I thought. And I was absolutely, totally wrong. A fact not lost on the House of Lords, which was right to defeat the government in the vote ..."By the end of my period of jury service my faith in the system was not only restored but considerably enhanced. If the people currently advocating the abolition of jury trials were to sit on juries themselves, I suspect they would change their opinions, too ... Some things are too important to be left to lawyers."  Oliver Letwin Daily Telegraph, July 15   "The point about juries is precisely that they are amateur ... [That] is one of the guarantees against the state arbitrarily imprisoning an individual. Particularly when parliament, the independence of the judiciary and the operational independence of the chief constable are all under pressure, it is important to retain this fourth bulwark of liberty. "But the argument ... is also about participation in justice ... The fact that we are all liable to be part of juries is a continuing symbol of the participation of the citizen in the criminal justice system - and its removal will tend to alienate us further from that system. If the professionals take over from the amateurs, the establishment becomes more and more like 'them' and we become more and more like 'us'." · Oliver Letwin in the shadow home secretary  Sun Editorial, July 16   "[Mr Letwin] said of the government's new criminal justice bill: 'I don't think there is anything in this bill that is to the great benefit of mankind.' What about tougher sentences for child murderers and sex offenders? What about longer sentences on drivers who kill? What about five-year minimum sentences for gun crimes? Don't tell us they're not going to benefit mankind ... "Wanting to preserve trial by jury is a legitimate concern. But belittling important moves that have the total support of millions of people is not. It's no way to win the Tories votes."