Vincent Moss, foreman of the jury "Looking back, I am ashamed that I allowed myself to be coerced by the judge and prosecution to agree to a verdict of guilty of murder," Moss says. "A proper judgment would have been that they had behaved like confused, frightened and stupid children caught up in a situation they had created but could not deal with. The judge's pronouncement that they were 'evil' was just wrong - they didn't have the moral and intellectual capacity for this to be an accurate description." Moss, a book dealer, believes the trial should never have taken place. "They were children: not very intelligent, hardly educated - because they were persistent truants, and from a poor social background. For them, the trial was traumatic and largely incomprehensible. They knew that they had done something terribly wrong and were to be punished for it but could not understand why they were in court for day after day with adults who were using language and concepts which had no reality for them." In terms of the information that was available to the jury, this was limited by the fact that the trial system deals with closed questions. "The issue of moral awareness is a very complex one, but the psychiatrists were only able to answer yes or no. Consequently, their depth of understanding wasn't made available to the jury. The boys' home environment wasn't touched on either. The circumstances which might have given some context to their actions weren't brought out. "As a parent, I can in small part imagine the grief, anger and misery the killing of a child must cause," adds Moss. "But the way in which so much of the press has worked to inflame and continue the parents' and the public's hatred is quite the most cynical and irresponsible aspect of the whole affair." Dominic Lloyd, Robert Thompson's solicitor  "We were dealing with two children who were profoundly damaged, if by nothing else than their participation in the offence itself." Lloyd maintains that it was always an open question whether his client understood what was happening, and whether he was answering the question or telling him what he thought he wanted to hear. "I never knew whether Robert understood my role. It was completely out of his range of experience. I just remember how people looked at him." Lloyd is the only lawyer who has remained with the case from the start, and admits that it has been a strange and sometimes distracting experience to have become the de facto point of reference for all media queries about this and other related cases. "From an early stage the media had a huge investment in this case. But I have never happily answered for myself the question of why it became such a huge story on an international scale." Over the years, continual repetition of the details of the death of James Bulger has led to some aspects becoming twisted or exaggerated, he says. "There is a peculiar urge to make it worse. What happened was bad enough. But these are very hard errors to correct. It doesn't make comfortable reading for anybody." Lloyd insists that he does feel hopeful about his client's future prospects. "It's a real hope of mine that he can get on with doing what he wants to do, which is to live a useful and quiet life. A lot of rehabilitation work has been done with him and it would be a shame to see that go to waste." Laurence Lee, Jon Venables' original solicitor  It was by pure chance that Lee picked up the communal telephone in Liverpool crown court that day, to be summoned by the desk sergeant at Lower Lane police station. He presumed that he would be dealing with another truant. "He was a convincing little liar, very polite and respectable. It was only when I got home that evening and saw the footage on Crimewatch that I began to doubt his innocence." The following day, the police confronted his client with Thompson's contradictory account of their day together. "The screams were terrible: 'I never grabbed a kid Mum, never murdered a kid.' He'd jump out of his chair, and hug the officer: 'You've got to believe me.'" Before the trial, Lee and his junior counsel played hours of Tetris with Venables, attempting to eke some semblance of instructions from the boy. Venables bought him an Everton tie for his birthday, though he has never worn it. "The feeling of hatred was incredible. If they'd got their hands on them, I don't doubt they'd have been ripped to shreds. Time heals, but as soon as it's mentioned it sparks again." Venables may be at liberty now, he says, but he will never be free. "Life will be tough for him after spending his childhood institutionalised. And he's going to be looking over his shoulder for the rest of his life." David Turner QC, Robert Thompson's barrister  "I still believe that the English adversarial process was inappropriate for children of this age," says Turner. "In other countries, social and psychiatric experts would have become immediately involved, rather than lawyers. I have always felt that the misery for both accused children was that they were unable to tell anyone what had really happened - their mothers, their families or their lawyers. It must have been a dreadful experience for each of the boys." Turner and Venables' barrister, the late Brian Walsh QC, advanced "cut-throat" defences, each blaming the other boy. "It made the prosecution's task very easy but we had no option." He considered the trial process as barbaric. "The human rights act had not been passed. We had to abide by the law of the time and we could not argue: 'You can't try a child like this in this court.' That was the law then - you did try children for murder, in public, in a huge 19th-century court, with everybody wigged and robed, surrounded by the press. However, if the case was tried now with our present law, I believe the result would have been the same - convictions for murder." During the trial, Turner took his own children, one of whom was the same age as Thompson, along the route they had walked with Bulger. "They were so exhausted we had to get a taxi back. Thompson and Venables had left home at 8am and were on their feet walking round Liverpool until the murder occurred around 6pm. I don't think they took him with the intention of killing him, but they were with him for so long, and they were so tired finally that they just wanted to get rid of poor James." Turner notes the hatred that the people of Liverpool have sustained for the two boys. "They loathe them and I believe that if they ever came back to Merseyside their lives would be at risk. It is irrational but it goes right through society. There is no forgiveness for these children." Dr Eileen Vizard, psychiatrist  Dr Vizard found herself in an invidious position when, having been commissioned by Thompson's defence team to carry out a psychiatric assessment of their client, she was then subpoenaed by the crown to give evidence. She still feels angry that her time on the witness stand was so constrained. "I believe that the jury wanted more information about the boys and their background than they got. Arguably, all that the experts were put in the witness box for was to ascertain whether they knew the difference between right and wrong, but the laws of evidence are far too narrow. It's essential that expert witnesses be allowed to disclose the full nature of their assessment." The age of criminal responsibility is completely arbitrary, she argues, and 10 is far too young to be putting in a plea for any serious crime. "We have to stop dividing children so that those over 10 who commit crimes are monsters and those under 10 are tragic victims." As a child psychiatrist who has worked with young offenders and survivors of sexual abuse for the past 22 years, she says that she cannot accept as a proposition that some children are "born evil". "They may be born dreadfully disadvantaged, but isn't it our responsibility as a society to discuss how children can be rescued from a cycle of offending?" Vizard notes that over the past decade there have been some significant advances in the way we treat young offenders, many of them linked with the outcry after the Bulger case. As a result of sustained lobbying by the childcare charity, the Sieff Foundation, the government has recently agreed to commission a child defendants' pack for kids going into court. But the age of criminal responsibility remains too low, she says, and courts must learn to address children's welfare needs as well as their offending. "Obviously they need pre-trial therapy. It's a human rights issue." Dr Arnon Bentovim, psychiatrist  "There was something uniquely overwhelming about children being responsible for this level of violence," says Bentovim, who interviewed Venables for the defence, and later contributed to his case before the European court of human rights, which resulted in the landmark ruling that the extension of the boys' minimum sentence by the then home secretary had been unlawful. "That CCTV image of the two boys taking out this child played into people's worst fears. The case also became resonant because it was publicised to a level where people were confronted in detail with the nature of how he died, the train, the injuries. It was something people couldn't avoid, so in a way everyone was traumatised." He argues that, as a society, we have a propensity to define children as good or bad. "I explain to parents that a tantrum which they see as 'bad' may be because their child is anxious or frightened. Children don't have that many ways of expressing themselves - and it's hard to categorise children's behaviour on an adult basis." This is an indictment of our understanding of children, he believes, and at the core of why the case was dealt with as it was. It was utterly against children's rights, he insists, to consider the case in an adult court. "These were two very disturbed children, who acted as a gang, reinforcing each other. Quite a number of people saw them with this child, who must have been becoming increasingly distressed, but nobody intervened. And yet the children are condemned in an extreme way. Obviously they couldn't cope with a child of two. They dealt with him in the way that gangs deal with people they can't cope with. We know that the anger that young people display can be extreme because their capacity for self-control is limited. But none of those factors were considered."