A teenager killed an 18-year-old woman in a residential home supporting people with Asperger syndrome hours after she had told staff he was stalking her, a court heard.Jason Conroy, 19, strangled fellow resident Melissa Mathieson at the Alexandra House home in Bristol because he wanted to have sex with her, the jury was told on Thursday. After she passed out, Bristol crown court heard, Conroy began dragging her from her third floor bedroom to his room on the second floor but was thwarted when staff were alerted to a banging door.They found Mathieson lying on the stairs with red marks around her neck and Conroy appeared shortly afterwards looking “shaky and nervous”, the court heard. Conroy, who was also 18 at the time, was next seen on the roof of the home threatening to jump off and kill himself.The court was told that Conroy had previously strangled a teacher at a residential school until she passed out and later explained that he wanted to have sex with her. On the day of the attack at Alexandra House, staff member Elaine Coleman saw Conroy staring at Mathieson and told colleagues to keep an eye on the pair. Later, Mathieson told a member of staff: “He makes me feel really uncomfortable. It feels like he is lurking behind corners in the corridors and whenever I turn around, he’s around.” Mathieson told another staff member: “I’m feeling really scared. It feels like he’s stalking me.” Adam Vaitilingam QC, prosecuting, said: “Elaine Coleman went off shift but before she left she told two of the remaining support workers to be extra vigilant overnight and that when Jason and Melissa went upstairs to bed they were to be followed up and checked that they locked their doors.” But Conroy got into Mathieson’s room and attacked her before dragging her back to his room, the court heard. Vaitilingam told the jury: “The defendant had a history of disturbed behaviour, including the use of violence and sexually inappropriate behaviour.” He said that after being arrested, Conroy admitted to officers: “I am responsible.” While at the police station, the court heard, he told Alexandra House general manager Yvonne Hin it was “a repeat of what happened two years ago”. He said he thought that he had learned from last time but that obviously he had not. He added that “something comes over him and he cannot control himself”.The court heard that when aged 17 and at a residential school Conroy had grabbed a female teacher around the neck from behind and strangled her until she passed out. He told another teacher that he had been trying to kill her. Vaitilingam said: “He admitted to the assault and said he had been having sexual thoughts about her but he knew he was not allowed to have sex with her. He explained his assault on her by saying that if she was dead she would no longer be a staff member and therefore the rules would no longer be broken. “It was a very lucky escape for her but it was a chilling precursor of what was to happen to Melissa Mathieson just 16 months later when the defendant strangled her to death. “He has admitted to strangling her and he was to tell psychiatrists later that his intention in strangling her was so that he could take her back to his room to have sex with her.” A postmortem examination concluded that Mathieson had been strangled and had suffered a heart attack as a result. Conroy denies murder but admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility – a plea not accepted by the prosecution. Asperger syndrome is a form of autism, a disability that affects how a person makes sense of the world, processes information and relates to other people. According to the National Autistic Society, people with the condition often have difficulties in social communication and interaction. The trial continues.