Even Tony Blair sounded unconvinced by the slogan wrapped around yesterday's Queen's speech, "security in a changing world", a thin cover for a package that carried with it a strong sense of old strategies and unfinished business.The government announced a legislative programme that was neither a climax to the Blair era nor a clear introduction to the Brown one. Caught in an awkward interim position mostly of Mr Blair's making, the government has been left treading shallow water while it waits for a better moment to start pushing forward. The prime minister took his chance to pour scorn on David Cameron, and did so brilliantly in debate. But his bruising of the opposition could not hide the exhaustion of his own case, which after almost a decade in power suffers, rather than gains, from repetition.The wail of police sirens echoed off a programme led, once again, by legislation on security. The trick has worked before; capturing the issue was part of the making of New Labour. John Reid, like his predecessors, can portray tough action as part of a responsible agenda, protecting citizens as the state should. But the political strategy looks more transparent than ever. On probation and criminal justice Mr Reid will overturn reforms brought in by his Labour predecessors, with no specific purpose other than to create an atmosphere of action and authority. That was challenged yesterday by Mr Cameron, who said he spoke for hope over fear. The case may be made for some of the Home Office's proposals - even for familiar ones, rejected before, such as removing juries from some fraud trials. But it has not been made yet.Yesterday's announcements stopped short of the early anti-terror legislation that briefing had implied would be included. The hope is that the government has recognised the need to rationalise the law (described last week by Sir Ian Blair as covered in "barnacles") over time rather than use the issue of 90-day detention to bait opposition parties now. But the absence pointed to others: no proposals on public sector reform, or on the constitution. Both issues are waiting for a new prime minister to take the lead.Yet this is no bad thing. Yesterday's speech could have brought a last-ditch Blairite attempt to trap Mr Brown, which would only have resulted in a speech whose contents were soon abandoned. Instead, for all the rhetoric about addressing "the big issues that will affect generations to come", the transitional programme recognised that a new leader will have new priorities. Labour's handover may still turn out to be a rocky one. But the party's leaders at least appear to be talking again.That was clear in the two most important bills announced yesterday, on pensions and climate change. Both are serious pieces of legislation on important issues - and both are the product of negotiation. This is a reminder that, despite its difficulties, the government retains the ability to look forward. The climate change bill is also a healthy product of competition between parties. A combination of Liberal Democrats and Conservatives want annual targets for cutting emissions. Mr Blair made a good case against this as unenforcable yesterday. The scene has been set for parliament's first eco-rebellion, if Labour MPs decide to side with the opposition.Such rebelliousness matters: parliament, for all the pressures on it, is finding a new confidence. No minister can be sure that bills announced yesterday will pass without challenge. That is true even on pensions, where Lord Turner's proposals brought consensus between parties and, in the end, between the chancellor and the prime minister. Restoring the earnings link by 2012 and raising the retirement age are both welcome reforms. They stand in contrast to the largely dog-eared proposals offered up elsewhere in an interim programme waiting for change at the top.