Detectives investigating the murder of a 14-year-old boy in an apparent gang attack have arrested two more teenagers, also 14, Scotland Yard said yesterday. Paul Erhahon was stabbed to death in the lobby of a block of flats in Leytonstone, east London. A 15-year-old friend was also repeatedly stabbed in the attack and remains seriously ill in hospital.Officers are continuing to question two other teenagers, one 19 and the other 13.Police believe that the gang that cornered Paul and his friend may have numbered up to 15. Witnesses saw several youths fleeing the scene in Gean Court, just before 8pm on Friday.Although detectives are keeping an open mind about any possible links to gang crime, locals have spoken about tensions between rival gangs over "postcode" territories.Amateur rap videos posted on the internet - some of which feature Paul under his performance name MC Hell Reiser - appear to show boys threatening others who enter their territory. But Paul's rap songs also contain lyrics about his fear of being attacked and his despair at the random violence enacted against, and by, younger members of the community.Paul, whose murder is the seventh killing of a child under 16 since the end of January, attended Kingsford community school - the school attended by 15-year-old Adam Regis, who was stabbed to death last month.The headteacher described Paul as a "very polite boy". His parents had moved him to the school from another school in Waltham Forest, several miles away, after he was stabbed in an apparently unrelated quarrel last year.Another teenager was in a critical condition in hospital last night after being shot in east London. The 19-year-old Asian victim was shot in Upton Park, Plaistow, a few hundred metres from where Adam Regis was stabbed last month. Within an hour of the shooting a man was arrested and was last night undergoing questioning.The attacks come soon after the introduction of new laws to tackle gun and knife crime. Under the Violent Crime Reduction Act it is an offence to carry or hide a weapon for someone else. The maximum sentence for carrying knives has doubled to four years in jail. But Alan Gordon, vice-chairman of the Police Federation, said the tougher rules would not work for those who had little respect for life. "People that have such a scant regard for human life, I don't think are going to be dissuaded by new legislation," he said.