Unlike hundreds of others who have been on the sharp end of paramilitary intimidation in 2013, Tracey Coulter is refusing to flee her home.Despite an attempt by Ulster Defence Association members to burn her out of her house in the Lower Shankill area of Belfast last month, as well as repeated attacks and threats, Coulter says she and her four children will not be driven out."I don't believe that I have done anything wrong," she says in between constant mobile phone calls from family and victim-support organisations.Coulter's "crime" was to give evidence in court this autumn against one of the Shankill Road UDA's most infamous figures, William "Mo" Courtney. It was a courageous decision by Coulter given Courtney's violent reputation: he has been named as the killer of the Belfast solicitor Pat Finucane in 1989 and admitted manslaughter in the death of a UDA rival in an internal feud.He was found guilty of assaulting the mother of four after she confronted him in the summer following the death of a cousin from an overdose after what Coulter says was a campaign of intimidation and bullying by the UDA. The price she paid for confronting Courtney was a head-butt and several blows to the face."Why should I be driven out? What is the worst that I have done? I took Mo Courtney to court for assaulting me and he deserved to get what he did in court. The verdict was guilty and this is what came out of it. So, why should I go through this when I did the right thing in the eyes of the law?"Inside the property there is still a faint odour of smoke from the night the UDA smashed through tiles on Coulter's roof and tried to set the attic alight.The slim, chain-smoking blonde flicks through the channels of her flatscreen TV until it reveals the camera positions of the CCTV cameras constantly monitoring all entry points to the house. The sensation of being in a mini fortress under siege is bolstered by the bullet-proof windows and the heavily fortified doors.She admits that some of her older children have asked if it was now time they moved out of the Shankill."I have to say they have asked me that and to be honest I have to dress it up a bit and say 'we'll think about moving in our own time, whenever we can get a nicer area'. That is the way I have to explain it to them to keep their wee minds at ease."People can question my sanity for insisting on staying here and I do get that a lot, but the thing is groups like the UDA are the ones that are taking lives."The family was not at home when the blaze started in their attic and but for the vigilance of neighbours in calling out the fire service, the Coulters' house, and perhaps the entire terrace row, could have been burned down.She is scathing about the attitude of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, because, she says, they are reluctant to officially blame the UDA for the intimidation campaign."Regarding this situation, the police have all the information they need and know fine rightly who is doing this ongoing intimidation from July right up until they tried to burn our house."And once again the police still won't confirm that it was the UDA. They are saying they have got no evidence, but then again, they don't have evidence when they release statements blaming the dissident republicans for bomb attacks in the city centre or when shots are fired from Ardoyne at police lines."Like many victims of continuing paramilitary intimidation and retribution, Coulter believes that it is politically expedient to maintain the line that units of the UDA are not guilty of breaching ceasefires through the violence they visit on their own communities.Even though she was once a committed loyalist and friend of the UDA C company commander Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair, who was ousted in an internal loyalist feud and exiled to Scotland, Coulter admits her own traumas have made her now understand the suffering of victims from the Catholic-nationalist community.She says meeting them through victim-support organisations gave her a new perspective. "They [Catholic and nationalist victims] had devastating stories to tell and it left me feeling quite humble to hear what they actually went through. It's disgusting all around what people on both sides have suffered and are still suffering."Coulter has now incurred the wrath both of the UDA and, 13 years ago, of the rival Ulster Volunteer Force. Her father Jackie, a welfare worker for UDA prisoners, was shot dead in August 2000. The UVF targeted him after a vicious feud broke out with Adair's faction of the UDA on the Shankill Road. Coulter denounced the UVF and launched a campaign to bring her father's killers to justice, which in turn prompted the other loyalist terror group to break into her home and smash it to pieces in front of some of her children."There was collusion all the way, in my opinion, in my daddy's murder. It's 13 years since he was killed and I don't have much faith in the police even though it's still an active investigation. If they had evidence of who blew my daddy's brains out then clearly the murderer would have been arrested. Because he passes us quite frequently in the street, but should be behind bars."Pressed again on why she wants to defy the threats and the legacy of angering both loyalist paramilitary organisations, Coulter says: "I won't be bullied by gangsters. Real loyalism left this area very long ago."But as the bell rings on her intercom system alerting her that someone is calling at the front door, which she checks again with her remote control pointed at the TV screen-turned-security-monitoring system, Coulter makes a frank admission: "They [the UDA] are stronger than the police in this area. I expected this attack and without doubt they will try again. I don't think Mo going back to be sentenced will stop them. I do believe there will be more."