While driving from Washington, DC to Virginia yesterday - to the house of Cho Seung-hui, the Virginia Tech shooter - there was an unexpected and striking site to behold: The blue-glass headquarters of the National Rifle Association, looming over Route 66, with its flag at half-mast.It was a site to behold because, over the next few weeks, Americans are going to be hearing a lot about guns and gun control. It's a ritual that seems to follow every horrific trial-by-gunfire moment in American public life. When a gunman tried to take Ronald Reagan's life in 1981 and instead permanently disabled Press Secretary James Brady, Brady went on to become the leading gun-control advocate in the county. In 1996, Carolyn McCarthy was inspired to run for Congress on a platform weapons reform after the brutal death of her husband. And when two students stormed Columbine High School in 1999 and took the lives of 12 peers, it set off the most recent meditation on gun violence and American culture.The Virginia Tech shootings were certainly - if there's anything like a measure for these things - a horror among horrors. So expect a lot of noisy debate: Long-time gun control advocates will call for tighter background checks. Long-time gun advocates will denounce these as an unacceptable abridgement of personal freedom. Just don't expect anything to actually change.Why not? One reason is the 500-odd staffers who work in the blue-glass building on Route 66. The NRA is widely considered one of the most powerful lobbying groups on Capitol Hill, as well as an electoral force to be reckoned with. It has more than four million contributing members, and a budget of many millions more. When the Democrats lost Congress in 1994 - not to mention the presidency in 2000 - the NRA was front and centre. They thrashed the Democrats so thoroughly that the party is now almost totally uninterested in firearm reforms, and many southern Democrats seem not to leave home without a handgun or three. (Consider the curious case of Jim Webb.) If a Democrat wants to talk about the dangers of firearms, he won't be safe from the NRA.And so begins, in the wake of Virginia Tech, a predictable sequence of dance steps intended to scale back expectations. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid says we should "not speculate about future legislative battles that might lie ahead." Newsweek quotes one Democratic legislative aide as follows: "The NRA still has a lock on Congress." Says expert Larry Sabato: "The prospects of new legislation are zero, absolutely zero."Then there's the spin from the White House. Like a good second amendment automaton, some of press secretary Dana Perino's first words, when asked about the implications of the shooting, were that "the president believes that there is a right for people to bear arms, but that all laws must be followed." Well, duh. (All who support gun-toting lawbreakers, please stand.) The meaningful question isn't whether or not we should enforce the law; it's what laws we should be enforcing. And it's a question few Dana Perinos seem interested in answering.Instead, Perino conjures an alternate (if poll-friendly) universe in which Bush is deeply concerned about gun violence: "I would point you back to the fact that the president [recently hosted] a conference on school gun violence after the Amish school shooting and the other shootings that had happened." This is basically an outright lie - unless Perino's definition of a "a conference on school gun violence" would cover a conference in which no one actually mentions guns. (Bush hosted a conference on school violence, and was ridiculed for keeping firearms off the agenda.) Perino's sleight of hand is so brazen - she's using evidence that Bush isn't concerned about gun violence to prove that he is - that you almost want to salute her gutsiness. Almost.National tragedies have a way of bringing out the best in American emotion: It was hard to be in Virginia yesterday without being struck by the tenderness of the community in mourning, or without simply joining the outpouring of grief that gripped the state. But those same tragedies also bring out the worst in American politics. The careful positioning, political timidity and dishonesty - which we get more than enough of from a presidential campaign - can seem magnified by a tragic lens.It would be something of value if Monday's events led to a serious legislative discussion of firearms and gun purchasing. National unity born of grief can be a beautiful and inspiring thing. But it would add tragedy to tragedy if mourning and meaningful debate became mutually exclusive things.