Nearly one in 20 women in England and Wales - an estimated 754,000 victims - have been raped since they were 16, according to Home Office research.The official 2000 British crime survey also found that 61,000 women, aged between 16 and 59, had been raped in the previous 12 months - nearly 10 times the number of rapes recorded by the police. The Home Office research estimates that one in 10 women have experienced some form of sexual victimisation, including rape, since the age of 16, suggesting that the sexual abuse of women is a more widespread problem in Britain than has been officially acknowledged. The study explodes the "myth of the safe home" and the idea that "real rape" is committed by a stranger in a one-off, violent attack. It shows that most rapes take place in the victim's own home and that women are most likely to be attacked by their partner (45% of cases). Strangers were responsible for only 8% of rapes reported to the survey. "The results suggest that the traditional perception of rape as perpetrated by strangers in public places is a false one," says the report. A large proportion of rape and sexual victimisation occurs in domestic settings. "It is also apparent that sexual attacks by partners are more likely to result in physical injury and are more likely to be repeated than attacks by any other perpetrator. However, victims of sexual attacks by partners are least likely to view these as criminal." The British crime survey report shows the reluctance of many women to tell anybody about what has happened. About a third have never told anybody about what hap pened to them. Although there has been a greater willingness among victims to report rapes in recent years only about one in five rapes or sexual assaults come to the attention of the police. The researchers say that there is still a preoccupation with "real rape" in the British criminal justice system, and one in five of those who reported their rape to the police say they were dissatisfied with the way they dealt with the case. The latest official figures show that only 7% of cases reported to the police result in a conviction for rape or attempted rape. The study says that those most at risk are women aged between 16 and 24. Those facing higher than average risks of sexual attack are single women, students and women living in privately rented homes. The Home Office minister, John Denham, said last night that the government was determined to turn around the low reporting and conviction rates for rape. "This new research dispels some of the myths about rape and sexual victimisation, especially the stereotype of the majority of rapes being committed by strangers in public places," he said. He added that the government's "action plan" would give victims the confidence to report the rape and go through the trial process. Among the measures being considered are anonymity for the victims of domestic violence, allowing juries to be told information about previous convictions and conduct where relevant, and reforming the law on double jeopardy in cases where new evidence comes to light. The government has put together a package of measures including a network of specialist prosecutors to deal with rape cases; a "first response kit" for police officers to prevent the loss of vital forensic evidence in rape cases; and the requirement for a specialist "second opinion" before a decision is taken to drop a rape prosecution. The government "action plan" takes up recommendations from a critical report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and Her Majesty's Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate into the investigation and prosecution of rape allegations, which was published in April. The measures introduced by the Home Office will be reviewed every three months.