Prosecutors are to drop drug charges against the heir to the multibillion-pound Tetra Pak fortune and his wife. Hans Kristian Rausing, 45, and Eva Louise Rausing, 44, will instead be given a conditional caution for possession of class A drugs, a court was told yesterday.They were arrested in April after Eva Rausing allegedly tried to smuggle small amounts of crack cocaine and heroin into the US embassy in London. The couple's £5m house in Chelsea was searched and they were charged and released on bail.In a statement released before the hearing, the parents and siblings of Hans Kristian Rausing, who stands to inherit the £5.4bn packaging empire built by his Swedish father, also named Hans, said they were supporting the couple as they fight to overcome drug addiction. "The Rausing family are deeply saddened by Hans K's and Eva's situation," they said. "We hope with all our hearts that Hans K and Eva can overcome their addiction and we continue to do what we can to help." Martha Godwin, prosecuting, told a hearing at Westminster magistrates' court, which the Rausings did not attend: "Our position is that the defendants were excused attendance today and the Crown's position is that we would seek for this matter to be put off for two weeks for a conditional caution. "Since the charges were decided upon the prosecution have received further information which has come to light so it is my application for this matter to be put off. Arrangements will be made for these additional cautions to be administered as quickly as possible."Philip Smith, for the Rausings, said: "That is a course that is acceptable to them both. There has been a protracted course of correspondence from my office to the Crown Prosecution Service to enable them to make that very sensible decision."The charges will be formally discontinued at a hearing on August 12. According to court documents, Hans Kristian Rausing was charged with possessing small amounts of crack cocaine, heroin and cocaine at his home on April 8. Eva Rausing faced charges of possessing class A and class C drugs.