A jury today convicted a couple of killing a three-year-old boy left in their care. Ryan Lovell-Hancox died in hospital after what police said was an escalating month-long cycle of abuse that left him with more than 70 injuries.Christopher Taylor, 25, and Kayley Boleyn, 19, were found guilty of the infant's murder at their bedsit in Bilston, West Midlands, in December 2008. They were also convicted of child cruelty.Wolverhampton crown court heard that Ryan died on Christmas Eve from a brain injury, two days after paramedics were called to take him to hospital. Police believe the fatal injury was the result of a final, violent assault that followed weeks of abuse. Taylor and Boleyn insisted that the boy had slipped in the bath.The court was told that Ryan's mother, Amy Hancox, Boleyn's cousin, was paying the pair about £40 a week to look after her son while she spent a month redecorating her home. She was struggling to look after the boy and planned to see him every day, though sometimes did not for several days at a time.A day before Ryan was taken to hospital, Hancox called at the flat to collect him for Christmas and found a note on the door from Taylor and Boleyn saying they had taken the boy out for the day. Detectives presume this was an attempt to hide Ryan's injuries.Detective Inspector Graeme Squire from West Midlands police, who led the inquiry, said that only Taylor and Boleyn knew what had happened to Ryan or why they did it. However, detectives are certain that the pair carried out the assaults together over the month the toddler was in their care."The initial version of events from both was that he had fallen in the bath, hitting his head," Squire said. "We weren't convinced about that as a version of events because of the sheer number of injuries and the nature of the injuries."After Boleyn was shown photographs of the extensive bruising on Ryan's body she changed her account and blamed Taylor, the officer said. "It's my belief that the abuse escalated, certainly in the week prior to 22 December."The two people who know exactly what happened to Ryan are Christopher Taylor and Kayley Boleyn. I think it was just an incredibly bad combination of people. The word cruel sums them both up."The trial heard that Ryan was seen by housing officials at the bedsit on several occasions. Shortly before the final attack which is believed to have killed Ryan, one officer saw his legs sticking out from bedding and presumed he was asleep.Squire said that no action would be taken against Hancox for leaving her son in the care of Taylor and Boleyn. She had "no idea or comprehension" about what they might do, he said.Hancox, 21, told the trial she was "very close" to Boleyn and knew her well growing up. "My crime was naivety. Kayley is related to my family. She never showed any signs of nastiness," she said.She was happy when Boleyn offered to look after Ryan as she was "very anxious" about wanting to redecorate her home before Christmas.She added: "Whenever I saw Ryan at my house or at the flat he was always fine, no signs of anything wrong. Since 24 December 2008, I have suffered agonising depression, self-loathing, tremendous guilt and loneliness."