Scotland Yard has denied deploying a Taser to control youths at the scene of the fatal stabbing of a teenager in front of shoppers on Oxford Street during the Boxing Day sales.As the victim was named as Seydou Diarrassouba, 18, from Mitcham, south-west London, it was revealed that diplomatic protection officers were the first on the scene.Amateur video footage posted on YouTube shows police remonstrating with several angry youths as paramedics attempt to revive the teenager. Diarrassouba died from a single stab wound to the heart during a confrontation in the Foot Locker store at 1.45pm. He collapsed in the street outside, in front of horrified shoppers near Bond Street underground station.The footage appears to show an officer using a Taser on one of the youngsters, who is seen appearing to exchange shoves with police.But in a statement on Tuesday afternoon, Commander Steve Rodhouse said: "One of the first units to come across the incident were officers from the Met's diplomatic protection group, who were driving past … they were confronted by certain elements of the crowd who were extremely agitated, and officers had to protect the victim and those administering emergency first aid to him."Officers can be seen in the footage pushing the crowd back and one officer is shown to remove his Taser from its holster, although at no time was it ever deployed. Clearly, in those initial early stages, officers would have been unaware of what had occurred and where the suspect(s) might be, and their priority would have been to prevent further injury or loss of life."Another youth was stabbed in the leg at Oxford Circus underground station at 6.20pm. Detectives are investigating whether the two incidents are linked, and whether they are gang-related.Eleven people – one aged 16, three aged 17, five aged 19, and two aged 22 – were arrested at the scene and remain in custody at London police stations. Police found weapons near the first crime scene, thought to include a 3in (7cm) lock knife.Police said three men were arrested in connection with the second stabbing.Detective Superintendent John Sweeney, from homicide and serious crime command, said: "Our sympathy goes to the family of the victim at this time and we are appealing for witnesses … we know there were a number of people filming the incident inside Foot Locker and [they] may have captured the incident or its aftermath, and we are appealing for these people to contact us."Relatives at Diarrassouba's family home were reported to be too distressed to comment.Munawar Shaikh, 20, who went to school with Diarrassouba, described him as a "big personality" who always had a smile on his face. He said he heard about his friend's death on social networking sites.A Facebook page called RIP Seydou has been set up for friends to pay tribute to Diarrassouba. One message, posted by Justin Osei, said: "R.I.P man its not gonna be the same not seeing you around you were almost like a monument to mitcham, sad times."Kanyin Ifebogun said: "R.I.P Seydou, just the other day I was talking to you. Known from when we were little, wish you perfect peace in paradise. Gone but never forgotten hun. Will always remember our lil dancing moments in primary school and you always giving me joke. Sleep tight hunny."Inspector Bruce Middlemiss said police would conduct a review. The area around Foot Locker was cordoned off after the stabbing, and some stores closed, but the street opened again on Tuesday morning."There is a high police presence here – we have a number of operations in place already for the shopping times because we were aware of the amount of people who would be here," Middlemiss said on Monday. "We are going to go back and review the intelligence for both incidents and see if we need to increase the police presence here, but at the moment we are not concerned for ordinary members of the public who are shopping."Richard Dickinson, chief executive of the New West End Company, which represents retailers in the Oxford Street area, said the organisation was shocked by the stabbings and that such incidents were "extremely rare" in the area.He said the company had called for an early meeting with the deputy mayor of London, Kit Malthouse, and senior operational commanders, to ensure such incidences were not repeated.Dickinson said all shops had opened as normal on Oxford Street on Tuesday morning except for Foot Locker.