Last week, Ed Balls, Gordon Brown's man of affairs, assumed an attitude of avuncular reassurance as he sought to calm fears of crime. The murder of Rhys Jones told you next to nothing about modern Britain, he told the Guardian. In the Sixties, people worried about mods and rockers 'beating each other up with their bike chains'. In the Seventies, they panicked about the punks. 'Every generation has always had kids that get into trouble. I got into trouble at school from time to time, like everybody did. There are always going to be some kids that get into more serious trouble with the law, but we shouldn't demonise young people.' In his Yorkshire constituency, most were 'full of interest and commitment and understanding, excited by the opportunities they have before them'.Balls is an attractive politician: serious, hopeless at delivering soundbites and, above all, a Keynesian. He and Gordon Brown might have made many mistakes at the Treasury, but no one can doubt their admirable commitment to reducing unemployment.He could, however, do with going back to the old man's writings before he talks about crime again. For Keynes's attempts to explain why ideas seep through societies best describes how Balls and other politicians, academics and commentators can dismiss escalating violence.'The ideas of economists and political philosophers, both when they are right and when they are wrong, are more powerful than is commonly understood,' Keynes wrote in 1936. 'Indeed, the world is ruled by little else. Practical men, who believe themselves to be quite exempt from any intellectual influence, are usually the slaves of some defunct economist. Madmen in authority, who hear voices in the air, are distilling their frenzy from some academic scribbler of a few years back.'I don't think Balls is mad, but the academic whose voice he is hearing is Geoffrey Pearson, a sociologist who in 1983 published Hooligan: A History of Respectable Fears, the most influential study of crime of the last generation. Rereading it now is disconcerting. Pearson is clearly a man of the left. He attacks the frightened middle-classes of his day for thinking that the young were out of control and the country was going to the dogs. Didn't the dunces realise the middle classes have always thought that? Couldn't they see that they were looking back to a golden age that never existed?Before the panics about mods, rockers and punks, Pearson found magistrates in the Thirties who fretted about the 'relaxation of parental control, decay of religious influence and the transplantation of masses of young persons to housing estates where there is little scope for recreation and plenty for mischief'. He quoted absurd snobs from the Times of the 1890s who complained about working-class bicyclists 'dashing along quiet country roads and through peaceful villages with loud shouts and sulphurous language and reckless of life and limb'.Yet for all his apparently radical scoffing at panic-stricken stuffed shirts, Pearson and his many imitators were rather conservative in their way. There is no change for better or worse, they implied, and nothing new under the sun. Britain t'was ever thus and didn't need to combat crime with radical programmes from left or right to redistribute wealth or clampdown on lawlessness.Beyond the comfort of believing that we have nothing to fear but fear itself, this conservative view of crime appeals because in large parts of Britain it is true. I'm sure Ed Balls's constituents aren't running greater risks than their ancestors. If they think otherwise, they probably have fallen victim to a 'moral panic' whipped up by the media. But what's true in small towns and wealthy suburbs isn't true of the cities.At the same time as Balls was unconsciously repeating the theories of Eighties' academics, the impeccably liberal Centre for Crime and Justice Studies issued a grim report on homicide. The number of murders and the rate of murder have both doubled in the past 35 years, it said. Overwhelmingly, the victims and perpetrators lived in the modern equivalent of the slums.Richard Garside, the centre's director, was contemptuous of the notion that inner-city residents have been duped by the media or false memories of an imaginary golden age into barricading themselves into their homes. 'Commentators who live in prosperous areas don't understand that their fears aren't panic attacks but the result of objective experience,' he said.He might have gone further. With 300 or so more murders a year than in the late Seventies, the media can just as well be accused of ignoring crime as whipping up unnecessary fear. Many serious crimes are virtually unreported. The killing of Gerrard Mohammed Barry in Newham, east London, at the start of the month, for example, received only a few paragraphs in the Mail and Mirror and was then forgotten.The 17-year-old wasn't white and middle class, like Madeleine McCann, nor did he have an extended family to mourn him, like Rhys Jones. Before he was stabbed to death by a teenage gang, his parents had left him in council care and gone back to their home in Africa. No one knew much about him.But the capriciousness of the media and subtle race and class prejudices can't fully explain why his murder was barely mentioned. The main reason was that 18 other young people have been killed with guns and knives in London so far this year and there's a limit to how many cases the papers can cover.To its credit, the BBC showed recently that in his part of London, violence was an everyday experience rather than a phantom menace. It collected the video diaries of two Newham teenagers who described how their friends used knives, guns and CS gas to defend themselves as a matter of course.When I last went there, the local paper had a story about a company advertising stab-proof school uniforms made from the same fabric worn by British troops in Iraq. Should parents buy them? In most of Britain, a psychiatrist could certify them as clinically paranoid if they did, but not in all of it. Contrary to wishful thinkers, in inner London, Manchester and Glasgow, the country has changed - and not for the better.