The mother of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence today criticised a police disciplinary hearing as a "whitewash" after a senior detective was cleared of most of the charges.Detective Inspector Ben Bullock was cleared of 26 of the 28 elements of the internal disciplinary action brought after the bungled inquiry into the 1993 murder, according to the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation Glen Smyth. Mr Bullock, who was second-in-command of the investigation, was found to have failed to brief officers properly over the search of suspects' homes. He was also found to have failed to investigate adequately the source of an anonymous letter about the case received by police. Mr Bullock was acquitted of a third charge of neglect of duty today at the end of the two-and-a-half week tribunal. Four of seven neglect of duty charges against the 50-year-old officer were thrown out a week ago by the panel of three chaired by a senior Scotland Yard officer. The tribunal chairman, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Des Flanders, will now write a report recommending punishment which could range from dismissal to admonishment. But Stephen's mother, Doreen Lawrence, criticised the tribunal's decision claiming that nothing had changed since the family first pursued their complaints about the investigation. She said: "It's just a laugh. It's just a whitewash, the whole thing from the word go. "We knew nothing was ever going to come out of it. "It was police investigating police. The questions asked of the witnesses were never intensive enough to get to the truth properly." Mrs Lawrence, who was allowed into the closed hearing, said she spent two days hearing how information about her son's killer came out within 24 hours of his death but the details were just left on the system. She said: "I still haven't had what I wanted to know - what has happened and the reason why it took so long."Mrs Lawrence said: "I am surprised that the tribunal found Bullock guilty of anything. For me, this decision has to be seen in the context of the abject failure of this officer and many others in the Metropolitan Police Service to properly investigate the murder of my son. "It also has to be remembered that this man will face no real punishment for his wrongdoing, whereas my family and I have to live with the effect of this forever." The family's solicitor Imran Khan said: "I attended at the public inquiry and the Metropolitan Police disciplinary tribunal and it is shocking that a public inquiry which is open and under clear public scrutiny can make a finding of incompetence and negligence, and yet this disciplinary tribunal, which is held in private and is not accountable to the public in any way, only finds a limited level of incompetence. "This is a decision which is wholly against the finding of the public inquiry. It has to be remembered that in these tribunals the police prosecute the police. "It is clear to me from this decision that the method by which police officers are disciplined must be open to public scrutiny. It is equally clear that those who currently prosecute cannot continue to do so with the support of the public." Mr Khan said the family were considering their next step but added that today's outcome had strengthened their resolve to take action against the Metropolitan Police or any individual officers. Mr Bullock delayed his retirement to fight his case and a punishment hearing scheduled for July 22 is likely to end disciplinary proceedings against senior officers criticised for their role in the inquiry. The detective, now serving in the Met special operations department, is due to retire within a day or two of the punishment hearing on health grounds. He was the only officer still serving whom the PCA considered should face serious charges.Four other senior officers who would have faced charges had already retired. The result of the case puts further pressure on the Police Complaints Authority which supervised the hearing brought by the Metropolitan Police following strong criticisms of its independent watchdog duties by the Lawrences. But Mr Smyth said the hearing was scrupulous and fair to all parties. Speaking on Mr Bullock's behalf, Mr Smyth said: "I think that he feels that the tribunal has been scrupulously fair to all parties. In so far as the two charges he has been found guilty of, if you look at the overall weight of the evidence against him ... it was superficial." Mr Bullock has the right of appeal to the home secretary against the two guilty verdicts but Mr Smyth said: "Whether he can stand the strain of a further period of months or even a year ... frankly I don't think he can." 