You're a local bobby in London. A rock is thrown at the window of a takeaway. The owner points out the young girl who threw it. She angrily denies it. Swearing profusely, she insists he swore at her as she entered the shop.The owner is Iranian. The girl is black. Post-Macpherson, the law says you must treat any crime or event that the victim or anyone else says is racial as a racial incident. Here, neither victim nor alleged offender has said race is involved, but you know the area has plenty of racial tension. What would you do?Around the corner, a gang of Asian youth have staked out their turf, to the fury of local white kids who patrol their side of the road, preparing to fight. They complain bitterly to the camera how "Asians are taking over, leaving no space or jobs for us". Is this racism, or just the age-old battle of egos and testosterone? It takes experience and tact to handle such incidents, to satisfy all parties plus the performance measures demanded by the Home Office. For police in "chicken tikka Britain", such complex social and legal challenges are business as usual. Community safety officers in Camden Town and Nottinghamshire can be seen facing these vexed questions in the forthcoming Channel 4 film Not Black and White. They must sort out race from crime, settle disputes and gain the trust of disaffected ethnic groups. They are bemused that conflict in Britain is now "racialised". Whether the huge rise in recorded racial incidents means more racism or just better recording is still unclear. The only certainty is that it makes it much more difficult for police. These officers also deal with homophobia, hate crime and domestic violence crimes which reveal the dark side of what it means to be human. Most of us encounter such scenes on television or in print, not as the bread and butter work of our daily lives. It takes its toll: many police now find the aggravation not worth the pay. That's why glib political rhetoric promising thousands more officers is misguided, and misleading. In today's expensive and hedonistic climate, it's hard to find enough new people who want to join, especially from ethnic minorities. But even those modest numbers hide a false exchange: recruiting younger officers to keep up with the drain of experienced older ones does not replace like with like. David Phillips, chief constable of Kent, believes 21st-century policing needs a new breed of "supercop". Yet political pressure to make up the numbers quickly must force a drop in standards that had risen along with demands on officers. As age limits fall again, we risk enlisting men and women who will be unable to cope. The last manpower shortage was in the late 1970s; the Edmond Davies report produced higher pay to restore parity for police and attract new recruits. One superintendent told me: "We took anyone, if they had two arms and two legs. That brought an influx of aggres sive young men joining for money and excitement, not public service. They soon were embroiled in their own turf war; blue versus black on the streets of Bristol, Brixton and Toxteth." Most who stayed have matured with the years. They have absorbed the waves of new laws, and most have adapted to changes in police culture. Attention paid to the use of early retirement on full pension to avoid discipline has missed the real story. With pensions loom ing, good officers, dismayed by accumulating expectations from above and outside, are leaving in droves. Some transfer or quit after only three or four years. To keep their hard won experience, and avoid plunging new recruits into the deep end of policing, we must pay more attention to officers we already have: to pay and stress levels, and conflicting demands. Officers still wade through forests of paper - arresting a teenager for stealing £4 involves 38 forms. They are driven to measure easily countable things like response times and arrests, producing often meaningless statistics seized on by politicians. Meanwhile much valuable work goes unrecorded, from all-purpose beat bobbies handling excluded youth, com plex interracial tensions, or mental patients unhelped by "care in the community", whom no hospital will take. To judge who is racist, dangerous, or merely in a bad way, it helps to know them personally. This takes time, effort and mutual respect. But manpower shortages pull bobbies away from addressing local problems to join undermanned shifts, merely responding to calls. That's the worst of both worlds. It produces poorer service that feeds local cynicism, and a demoralised officer more likely to go sick or leave, making it harder for those who remain. It's a vicious circle. Both the public and the police deserve better. comment@theguardian.com Not Black and White is on Channel 4 Sunday at 8pm Interactive guideElection countdown: the key dates up to June 7Interactive quizzesCan you be bothered?Election? What election?Party manifestos  Labour party: part one (pdf file)  Labour party: part two (pdf file)  Liberal Democrat party Lib Dem manifesto: the main points Conservative party (pdf file)  Tory manifesto: the main pointsThe candidateSign up for our daily election emailWeblog election specialThe best election journalism on the netRelated articles16.05.2001: Labour launches 'ambitious' manifesto16.05.2001: Secret reform agenda revealed16.05.2001: Leaked report will annoy publicly and privately16.05.2001: Tories in scare tactics row16.05.2001: To the North to grease palms16.05.2001: Voters unmoved by Tory tax plans16.05.2001: Lib Dems target disaffected Tories16.05.2001: Pledge on raising tax for sake of public services16.05.2001: Britneygate: the emails16.05.2001: Figures, targets and not much elseVideoWatch the party broadcastsMy electionTara Palmer-Tomkinson Talk about it What do you think of Labour's manifesto?Is a big Labour win good for democracy?Should we kick the Tories while they're down? Which issues are being overlooked? Are the Liberal Democrats irrelevant?Picture gallery16.05.2001: On the campaign trailWho are my candidates? Ask AristotlePolls Latest pollsAudio16.05.2001: Michael White at the Labour manifesto launch (3mins 25)Party campaigns Labour campaign Conservative campaign Liberal Democrat campaign Other parties' campaignsMore election links Conservative party Labour party Liberal Democrats Plaid Cymru Scottish National party More political links Tactical voter.netBritish Democracy CampaignLight reliefWho do I vote for?Am I electable or not?My Little TonySpinOn.comYou are Tony BlairElection invaders