Police launched a manhunt for a 32-year-old suspect last night after a mother and her two teenage children were found bludgeoned to death at their home in Manchester.Detectives refused to say how long the bodies had been in the house or to name the three, who had serious head injuries. But neighbours identified them as Beverley Samuels, 35, and her children Fred, 13, and Kesha, 18, who appeared on a television talent show in 2004 and had just completed her A-levels.Last night Manchester police announced that they were looking for a man named Pierre Williams, described as black, 1.73 metres (5ft 8in) and of medium build. He has a tattoo on his right arm which reads "cream" and tattoos on his chest which read "Whatever", "Down For" and "Bout it Bout". Police said Mr Williams had connections in Manchester and Birmingham. Neighbours said Mr Williams was believed to have been Ms Samuels's boyfriend.Superintendent Paul Savill, of Manchester police, said: "Anyone who sees him should ring 999. You should not approach him."Police cordoned off the red-brick 30s semi in the Fallowfield district, south of the city centre, and erected a tent outside. They also brought in a mobile incident room as forensic science teams moved in to examine the scene. Police refused to be drawn on a possible motive for the attacks."They were a lovely family, a well-established family," said a neighbour. "They had been in the area for about 15 years."Family friend Janet Pelling, 46, a support worker at a hospital in Manchester, said Ms Samuels had separated from her husband, Fred, many years ago. "Fred is the father of both the children, but they split up when the kids were very young and Beverley moved to Thelwall Avenue [Fallowfield] on her own," she said. "She never went back with him, but he always played a big part in the children's lives. He always attended school sports days and parents' evenings. He was very good with them."Another neighbour said relatives gathered at the house late on Thursday after hearing of the killings. "I saw the children's dad pacing up and down the road outside the house," she said. "Other relatives would arrive and you could hear them cry out when they were told exactly what happened."Ms Samuels was a nurse at Manchester Royal Infirmary and her son, who is thought to have had learning problems, attended a special school in nearby Trafford.Kesha, who had finished her studies at Parrs Wood high school and hoped to study law at Manchester University, appeared on ITV's Stars in Their Eyes Kids as singer Toni Braxton when she was 15.On her Facebook site, she told friends she had been doing some "serious partying" since finishing her exams in English language, law and philosophy, and was in "chillax mode". She said she felt as though she was now "living life".At 16, Kesha joined the Guardian Angels netball team set up by the Guardian's advertising staff in Manchester."She was a bright spark and always enthusiastic," said a member of the team yesterday."We were rubbish but she was brilliant. We cannot believe what has happened and will miss her very much."Worried by her AS-level results, Kesha is thought to have buckled down to serious study because she was so keen to read law at university. Yesterday a friend offered her own tribute on Kesha's Facebook site: "Every1 is gonna miss you sooooo much ... whoever did this to you and your mother and brother will be judged by god almighty ... r.i.p. you are all in a better place now so all we can do is pray for you and keep our memories of you very very much alive! luv u."In her own entry, Kesha wrote that she loved her family, telling jokes and all types of music, and needed "to be saved from herself". She listed her activities as "being a recluse", playing netball with the Guardian Angels, swimming, Thai boxing, "runnin (away from reality)", badminton, dancing and singing.Kesha's brother, Fred, was well known on the narrow streets around his home. "Little Fred used to play with my grandson Sean all the time," said Margaret FitzGerald. "He was in and out of my house. I would give him biscuits and sweets and he was Manchester United mad. He was such a nice little fellow"