It's clear the release of Abdelbaset al-Megrahi has soured relations between Scotland and America. But perhaps, in the long run, the release decision will have a longer-lasting impact in the domestic arena, where the SNP wants to put clear blue policy water between itself and England.Kenny MacAskill's decision to choose the compassionate rather than the punitive option regarding Megrahi's release didn't come from nowhere.I was a member of the prisons commission that MacAskill set up on his appointment as justice secretary – charged with finding out why Scotland imprisons twice as many people as our neighbours Ireland and Norway. He accepted our recommendations in full and the controversial policy of a seismic shift towards community payback has already begun amid a hail of media brickbats suggesting the SNP has adopted a "thug's" charter.There are absolutely no votes in being "soft on crime"– as Labour politicians have styled SNP policy – but tackling Scotland's macho, punitive culture was postponed by Labour administrations for far too long. At the same time the justice secretary is aiming to introduce minimum pricing this autumn to curb the binge-drinking culture that lies behind so much violent crime. Despite more brickbats from the media, opposition politicians and the licensed trade, progressive policymakers across Europe are holding their collective breath to see if MacAskill's bold measure can possibly work.If these new policies to raise the price of alcohol and to halve the prison population go ahead, Scotland will have moved in a distinctly different policy direction from England.It's a big if.Hardly a week passes in Scotland without a call for MacAskill's resignation – and with violent prisoners absconding from jails in the midst of his prisons review there have been legitimate grounds. But he's still there. And still there largely with the backing of the people at the sharp end – doctors and alcohol experts, victim support, prisoner charities and the Scottish prisons service.Is it any surprise then, that a man prepared to fight two massively unpopular political battles at once didn't visibly falter over deciding the fate of the Lockerbie bomber? It appears that MacAskill simply held his nerve and decided not to deviate from normal practice despite the high political and diplomatic stakes involved. All but seven of the 30 appeals for compassionate release in Scotland since 2000 have been granted, and despite the fact Megrahi was found guilty of Britain's biggest terrorist incident with the murder of 270 people, the principles and criteria involved in making the Megrahi decision were the same as those involved in any other application.Perhaps MacAskill even reached a tiny ledge of moral high ground by deciding not to use the prisoner transfer arrangement agreed between the UK and Libya after American relatives of the bombing victims insisted that the British had agreed Megrahi would serve his time as a prisoner here in Scotland – not anywhere else. Hence the decision to use compassionate release not prisoner transfer.So is this a popular move in Scotland? Maybe not immediately. But some Scots doubt Megrahi is actually guilty – a view not shared by MacAskill, but backed by the extraordinarily compassionate and rational British relative, Jim Swire.Newspaper headlines talk of fury over the decision to release Megrahi – but that's hardly evident in conversation here. One leading Scottish Labour politician says he's even considering supporting MacAskill in Monday's recall debate in the Scottish parliament. If he and others have the courage to ignore the party line, Scottish Labour may finally abandon its knee-jerk opposition to the SNP's increasingly distinctive and Scandinavian stance on issues of justice and accept that Scotland is on a journey away from the incarceration-oriented American model still apparently favoured by Labour in England. The Scottish parliament could decide to defend the government's decision against all comers and realise that with the Megrahi decision, Scotland has finally emerged from the shadow of Britain as a punitive, wheeler-dealing, interventionist post-colonial state.Scots love nothing better than an underdog. And so far the SNP government has managed to look like the plucky little Braveheart of the piece – placing compassion above vengeance, and independent decision-making above kow-towing to the world's most powerful nation.Would David Miliband have decided otherwise? Who knows. But his moment of truth may yet arrive. Swire is determined to use human rights legislation to force an inquiry into the entire Lockerbie investigation. MacAskill has already kicked responsibility for such an inquiry into touch across the border – pointing out that thanks to the limitations of the devolution settlement, the Scottish government's jurisdiction doesn't allow it to embark on a task of such international dimensions.No matter how the Scottish parliament votes on Monday, the SNP's larger independence project may have taken a surprisingly large step forward as the international whirlwind around Megrahi starts to settle.