A 70-year-old man appeared in court yesterday charged with the murder of a teenager that took place nearly 50 years ago. The charge is the latest example of a growing number of "cold cases" being reinvestigated and brought to trial.Antony Hall, of no fixed abode, appeared at Birmingham magistrates court charged with the murder of Jacqueline Marie Thomas, 15, in August 1961. He spoke only to confirm his name and was remanded in custody by Judge Christopher Johnson to appear at Birmingham crown court on December 6.Thomas, who worked at the local Hughes biscuit factory and was one of eight sisters, was last seen at a funfair in Ward End, Birmingham, on August 18 1961. She had gone to the fair ground with a group of friends and was said to have been talking to a young man at about 10.30pm that night. Her body was found in an allotment in Bordesley Green a week later by a man walking his dog. She had been sexually assaulted and strangled.Police believe she had been killed on the spot where she was found and had been dead for at least four or five days.There was no sign of a struggle and she had no defensive injuries. Despite a big investigation at the time by West Midlands police, during which the teenager's workmates and people who had attended the funfair were interviewed, no one was brought to trial. An inquest returned a verdict of murder by person or persons unknown.West Midlands police said yesterday the case had never been closed. It is understood that a recent review of the case, by the West Midlands major crime review team, led to papers being passed to the Crown Prosecution Service, who then decided to press the charges.A police spokesman said: "West Midlands police regularly review unsolved murder cases. As part of any review we may revisit evidence and speak to witnesses from the original inquiry."While the case is remarkable for the length of time that has elapsed between crime and charge, it is one of a growing number of so-called "cold cases" that are being reinvestigated with a view to prosecution, some of them relying on forensic evidence made possible by the dramatic advances in DNA profiling. Earlier this month Ronald Castree was jailed for life at Bradford crown court for the murder of schoolgirl Lesley Molseed on Yorkshire moorland 32 years ago. He had been tracked down as a result of enhanced DNA techniques, which are being used in murder and rape cases to track down people who have initially eluded prosecution.Earlier this year two high-profile murders of young women, which took place more than 30 years ago in London, were linked by DNA evidence.The Metropolitan police's murder review group re-examined the case of Eve Stratford, 22, who was murdered in March 1975. Six months later Lynne Weedon, 16, was attacked on her way home and died from her injuries. Now DNA has linked the two murders.This summer, 40 years after the murder of Brighton schoolboy Keith Lyon on the Sussex Downs, police said they had DNA which could lead them to his killer. The sophistication of scientific methods of tracing suspects, the increased size of the DNA database and the possibility that, after years of escaping prosecution, perpetrators become careless are all potential factors in the cases being reviewed.