It's hard to describe, let alone explain, the dividing lines of race, class and education that cross the map of American cities. Rooted in a history of forced segregation in the past, and sometimes self-imposed today, they are drawn starkly here in Baltimore, Maryland.That's Baltimore - aka Bulletmore, Murderland, as one grim-witted local graffiti artist dubbed our hometown. Or was it Bodymore or Baltimorgue? Murderland or Murdaland?I don't know for sure. I've heard them all. But I've never actually seen the spray-painting. I rarely find myself in those parts of town, you see. And when I do, I'm just passing through.Recently though, this city, which most of my British friends have trouble finding on a map of the US, has become an unwilling national symbol for the deep divisions that plague urban America - causing my neighbours and me to shift our focus across zip codes. That's because of the launch earlier this month of the final season of a much-admired cable TV series, The Wire, shot on our own mean streets.The Wire has been called Dickensian for its unwavering focus on the underbelly of urban life. David Simon, the show's creator, has drawn comparisons between his work and Shakespeare's. Immodesty aside, the show has been extolled by critics as the best TV series ever. And in Simon's depiction of what is wrong with America, this scarred city is both backdrop and centre stage.All of which has made The Wire less popular among some city officials, who've blamed it for casting Baltimore in a bad light (and scaring away the tourists on whom formerly industrial cities like this one now rely). Earlier this month, when the final season of the show premiered at a local movie theatre, a group of perhaps a dozen placard-carrying protesters gathered on the pavement outside, objecting that it made African Americans look bad.The controversy centres on the issue that Simon himself addressed when he took the stage that night: that although The Wire is fiction, it is based - "affectionately," he said - on fact.And the facts about Baltimore aren't pretty: despite highly publicised efforts to make this a safer place to live, ours remains one of the deadliest of America's large cities. Detroit may leave us in the dust, but over the years, we've vied with Washington DC for the title of the nation's murder capital, we've outshone Los Angeles, beaten the gangsta-lands of Chicago, and wallowed alongside New Orleans in the shame of rising murder rates.In 2005, 269 people were murdered here. In 2006, the police department recorded 276 unjustified homicides. We rang in the New Year with a joyless toll: 282 murders in the 365 days of 2007. And although the cop sounded upbeat when I telephoned the police department to find out how many homicides there had been so far in 2008 - "Six, down from 16 last year," she said - it is a sorry statistic.On more days than not, a member of our population of 630,000 is gunned down, knifed or perhaps beaten to death. But you wouldn't know it where we live, in the prosperous northern pie-slice of the city.Oh, things happen in our neighbourhood, too. Last year, a woman was followed home from the shops and then raped and robbed in her own house. A couple of winter's ago, one of my neighbours' teenage sons was held up at gunpoint while getting out of his car in the early evening. Several years back, a body was dumped in the alley behind a friend's house by adolescent murderers who'd panicked after making their killing.But we're not exactly caught in the crossfire here in leafy Roland Park or dodging bullets on the manicured lawns of nearby Homeland. And when I suggested at a New Year's Eve party at a neighbour's house that the divisions here remind me more of the developing world than European cities, another guest stepped back in astonishment. "No?" she said. And in the dining rooms of our spacious clapboard houses, built more than a century ago as retreats from the city's sweltering summers, it is hard to think of Baltimore as anything but a very pleasant place to live.For the most part, the bad guys stay close to home - their homes.Now Simon has invited us into those homes, or at least to hang out on the corners with the drug dealers. A former crime reporter for the Baltimore Sun newspaper and the author of two non-fiction books - Homicide: A Year on the Killing Streets and The Corner: a Year in the Life of an Inner City Neighbourhood - Simon knows of what he writes. He uses reformed drug dealers as actors. He knows the detectives, and he shoots scenes on a landscape that is familiar to everyone who lives in Baltimore.Because although the divisions are profound, the distances are not great.The premiere of The Wire was shown at the Senator, Baltimore's only surviving single-screen movie theatre. An art deco curiosity, with names of film stars engraved on the pavement outside, the Senator sits on one of the city's original north-south arteries, just across from Belvedere Square where you can sample Italian antipasti or shop for something special at Lilac Bijoux and Cloud 9 Clothing. Down the road, though, beyond the Staples superstore and the Junior League charity shop, are boarded-up houses and abandoned sites, where young men loiter during working hours.They're not all drug dealers or users. Of that I'm certain. But I don't know what they do in that blighted part of town.It's time we stopped to ask.