A more or less ordinary day. The police are on the streets of Burnley trying to keep racial gangs apart; the chief constable of Sussex resigns after the shooting of an unarmed man in a drugs raid; the Met is accused of massive overspending by its own auditors. A policeman's lot is not a happy one; in fact it's a complete nightmare, an incendiary mix of crime-fighting, politics and hard cash.Multiply the problem (especially the drug problem) tenfold, add a few sticks of dynamite to the racial mix, throw in the fact that everyone - police and criminals - is carrying a gun, and you have the US, the toughest nut of all for any cop to crack. So it is a happy chance that America's top cop, John Timoney, has been in the UK this week, attending a conference at Windsor Castle conference centre on crime science. The man who began the process of cleaning up New York and is now doing the same in Philadelphia has a message for Burnley, Sussex and Scotland Yard: don't despair, things really can get better. When Timoney became chief of the New York Police Department in 1994, working alongside police commissioner William Bratton, crime in the city was out of control. Rudolph Giuliani had won the mayoralty in the wake of the riots that had rocked the city under David Dinkins and came in committed to cracking down on crime. Timoney, a one-star chief, was given an extra three pips and made head of department, leapfrogging several layers of bureaucracy. "I'd been a loudmouth braggart my whole career," he says, "and I always thought I was better than anybody else and knew all the answers. But I was a one-star chief in 1994 and there were 31 of those, plus plenty above me. Overnight I was made the four-star chief. 'OK, big mouth,' they said, 'you've been yelling, now do something about it.' "I didn't sleep much on the first two days. I stayed awake for two nights tossing and turning. All these people were my friends and mentors, people I looked up to, especially the six three-star chiefs. I was wondering who should stay and who should go, and then at about 4.30 in the morning I realised what the answer was - they all had to go. We had to start from scratch. They were all asked to submit their resignations. It was ugly, I felt bad, but in the long run it was probably the right thing to do." Timoney, now 52 and a New York cop since 1967, says the NYPD had lost the will to fight crime. Following the Serpico scandal of 1971, all that had mattered to the force was corruption. "People could lose their jobs if there was corruption; they could never lose it over crime," says Timoney, who was a commander in Little Italy. The result was inertia, an inward-looking department, and soaring crime rates. Homicides in the city numbered 2,300 a year in the early 90s. Today, they are a third of that. "Back in 1994, when we took over in New York," he says, "I stood up and said 'We have been doing it, I have been doing it, wrong for 27 years. We've got to do it right, we've got to fix this thing.'" That meant sacking the old guard; giving precinct commanders more responsibility; holding those commanders to account on a weekly basis for crime rates in their areas; identifying crime blackspots; and improving clear-up rates. With burglaries, the tradition was that if one of the culprits was arrested, that was it: case closed, even if it was known that, say, three people had committed the crime. Timoney is nicely scathing about that pragmatic approach. "We said, 'What do you think the other two guys are doing now? Do you think they have learned their lesson and are in church?' No, of course not. They're robbers, they're burglars, that's what they do. Now we go after the second and third guy. As well as chasing the burglars, we also started chasing the fences." The reformed NYPD put a greater emphasis on training. Timoney is scathing about the training he got back in 1967, when, fresh from high school, he joined the force. "I did a six-month course and must have spent at least four months of that delivering barricades to police who were trying to deal with race riots and anti-Vietnam protests. We were basically used as support staff. We had one day of training in how to shoot a gun - actually one evening, with the range lit by the headlights of trucks. It was extraordinary. Then we were shoved out into a war zone. You had a sense that this was the apocalypse." Timoney was born in Dublin and emigrated with his family at 13. His father died when he was 18 and his mother returned to Ireland, but he and his younger brother stayed on. In his 20s, he did evening classes to get a history degree, and the NYPD then allowed him time off to do two further degrees that prepared him for work in police administration. He says a police force can only function if its members are well educated and highly motivated: the old NYPD had lost its sense of mission and forgotten what it was for. He adopted the same approach when he became Philadelphia's police chief in 1998. "When I went to Philadelphia, every function was asked to justify itself. If their rationale for doing something was that they had always done it, they were immediately closed down." Timoney had left the NYPD two years before, following a spectacular falling out with Giuliani. The latter had overlooked Timoney when Bratton had stepped down as police commissioner, and appointed Howard Safir instead. Timoney called Safir a "lightweight" (for which he later apologised) and said the mayor was "screwed up" (a remark he did not withdraw). Even now the scars have barely healed, and Timoney - who has that New York habit of referring to himself in the third person - scarcely conceals his dislike for Giuliani, arguing that his obsession with meeting targets is undermining both police morale and race relations in the city. Setting aside all the management theory, Timoney's philosophy of policing can be reduced to two things: self-belief and honesty. In fact, that may just be one thing: the confidence to own up to your mistakes. "When I was sworn in in Philadelphia," he says, "I gave a talk - in English and Spanish, because there is a significant Spanish community - in which I said that we were going to do our best, but that every once in a while things were going to go wrong, and you've got to trust us. I promised that when things did go wrong there would be an investigation and nothing would be swept under the rug." That approach is the antithesis of the siege mentality of the old NYPD, which had lost the trust of minority groups and, worse, lost the ability to respond to legitimate grievances. "In the police force, things go wrong all the time: mistakes are made, some of them wilful, some just oversights," says Timoney. "In New York there was a belief within the force that the police could do no wrong, that you had to defend them no matter what, and that the public should be thanking us for what we were doing." Ultimately, it is not the error that destroys confidence - after all, policemen are human too - but the cover-up.