Police have launched a murder inquiry after a 90-year-old man who once drove for General Eisenhower during the second world war died after being mugged.The attacker escaped with £40 and a bus pass.Geoffrey Bacon broke his hip in the attack which took place on the doorstep of his flat in Camberwell, south London. He was hospitalised for 11 weeks but died on 5 August. A coroner ruled that he died as a result of the attack.Bacon's son, Philip and daughter-in-law, Jean, both 63, of Whitstable, Kent, said they were shocked anyone could target someone so frail. "He was attacked from behind and punched and kicked on the ground", said Philip Bacon. "He had bruising to his shoulder and a broken hip. How could anyone do that to a poor old chap? They went out and shut the door and just left him there. He hammered on the floor with his walking stick for 30 minutes and called out for help until a neighbour heard and called the police."If [the attacker] had asked my dad he would have given him the money, £30 or £40, whatever. There was no need to attack my dad, no need at all."Jean Bacon said: "Geoffrey joined the Territorial Army in 1937 and then was called up when the war started. He was a chauffeur in France for the American people during the war and he even had Eisenhower in his car. He was very proud but didn't like to talk about it very much."The couple said Bacon had cleaned and cooked for himself and spoke to them at least twice a day. But he was forced to have a hip replacement as a result of the attack and could not return home.Police are searching for a light-skinned black man, between the ages of 30-40 years, who is thought to have attacked a 66-year-old woman on the same estate around the time of Bacon's attack.The woman, who used a walking stick, was assaulted and the man stole her bag then used it to hit her around the head.Detective Inspector Richard Beadle said: "This is the sort of crime which touches a chord with people, it certainly touches a chord with those investigating it … This was a despicable robbery – we're talking about an extremely vulnerable elderly man attacked from behind. It is the worst you can possibly imagine and it has led to the worst possible outcome."We have an investigation that's four months old and has become a murder investigation. We need to progress it and we are offering a £20,000 reward."This attack ultimately killed Geoff Bacon and we will do everything in our power to find the person responsible."