Police want to interview every serial killer in the UK in an attempt to better understand how they operated and to identify how early arrests can be made in future cases with other killers, it emerged today.Scotland Yard said it ordered the research in response to the Washington sniper attacks in 2002 in which 10 people were murdered. The results will be shared with forces across the UK. A Metropolitan police spokesman said: "Following the case of the sniper who terrorised parts of the USA, consideration was given to the possibility of such a case occurring in the UK."He said there had been congruent cases in the UK, notably at Hungerford and Dunblane, but there was a limited availability of the kinds of powerful weaponry used by the Washington sniper. Therefore, "it was felt that a more worthwhile area for research was with serial killers", the Scotland Yard spokesman said. Even though some killers will refuse to help, detectives hope others will talk to them. It is felt that killers who have spent longer in prison may be most likely to talk. The other types of murder being analysed include honour killings, ritual murder, contract killings, homophobic murders, attacks on lone females, murders of pensioners and domestic violence killings.Keith Hellawell, a former police chief who interviewed Yorkshire Ripper Peter Sutcliffe, said information about how killers work must be of value. However, he said: "They tell you what they want you to know and to some of them, particularly I found with Sutcliffe, it was a game." Mr Hellawell also questioned the credibility of suggestions that the initiative could stop serial killers earlier. He told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "Once in a decade or twice in a decade we have one of these people who are serial killers out of 60 million [people] ... it is virtually like looking for a needle in a haystack. Many of them have no previous convictions and it is only when they murder once that you have some basis on which to operate."Early intervention in domestic violence cases "can have a major impact", Mr Hellawell went on. "Many of these murders are committed in people's homes and you can prevent them," he said. "It is in some of these fundamental areas that we can make a greater impact." This, he argued, could pay more dividends than "speaking to the bulk and majority of killers who will never, ever kill again and never ever thought they would kill in the first place".