Last night, the actor, writer and registered sex offender Chris Langham continued his rather dubious campaign of public rehabilitation with an appearance on More4's Shrink Rap, a series where celebrities engage in on-camera analysis. The award-winning star of BBC's political comedy The Thick of It discussed his conviction and imprisonment last year for downloading indecent images of children. He detailed unresolved feelings about his own boyhood sexual abuse, which he also spoke of at his trial, and his desire to "ventilate" the taboo via his comedy writing.Langham's internet activity was investigated under Operation Ore, Britain's longest-running crackdown on web-sourced child pornography. But in many ways his case is atypical. The attendant publicity gave a human and, some would argue, sympathetic face to an impulse that the majority find incomprehensible. Langham did not fit the popular profile of a paedophile. And few have recourse to his defence - the confrontation of past trauma, the writer's responsibility to research.It does not, however, answer questions about this specific area of offending: the viewing of indecent images where there is no evidence of hands-on abuse. What is the correlation between looking and doing? What role should the state take in policing private fantasies? Where does complicity in actual abuse begin and end, particularly when the images viewed are pseudo or artificial?Any discussion of this particular offence is dictated by the moral absolute that the sexual exploitation of children is abhorrent. This is at once utterly correct and utterly counterproductive, because that absolute position offers a place of cosy rectitude, rather than a baseline from which to embark upon more nuanced debate.Consideration of this area is further hampered by a lack of hard data. All looking fuels the market, but looking does not always lead to doing, and the limited research that exists shows wild variation. Nor are download offenders a homogenous group. For some, viewing will normalise antisocial desires and accelerate the progression to hands-on abuse. Others will find a "safe" threshold online and limit their fantasies to private consumption.A study published last spring by David Middleton, a visiting professor at De Montfort University, found those who download child pornography do share many psychological characteristics with those who commit contact offences against children. But he also notes that, while downloaders initially categorise their activities as far less serious than contact offences, once they recognise their contribution to the process they exhibit a much higher degree of victim empathy than hands-on abusers.An understanding of complicity is key. The wife of an offender told me how her husband had insisted: "But they're only pictures." Such minimisation is common, particularly among those who view lower level material, such as "model sites" featuring fully clothed children in non-provocative poses. But when those "models" turn up in a level 5 rape clip a year later, the continuum is evident.Still, there are those who query when knowledge of root damage is sufficient to criminalise. Likewise, how does looking at shots of consenting 18-year-olds dressed as schoolgirls, or computer-generated composites, render one responsible for actual abuse?This is getting caught up in the act of viewing itself, when it is the thinking leading to that act that matters. That thinking, be it transitional curiosity or habitual behaviour, is always based on a degree of sexual orientation towards children. And that orientation will always include the potential to mutate into something more dangerous.But an argument for zero tolerance of offending is not an argument against increased tolerance of offenders. Last night, Langham noted that child sexual abuse was more of a taboo than murder. This is a taboo that acts to silence perpetrators as much as it does victims.In the case of internet offenders, there is a clear opportunity not only to reduce the demand that fuels actual abuse, but to modify problematic behaviour before it escalates. Normalising discussion of sexual abuse is not the same as normalising the abuse itself.But shifting emphasis from getting caught to getting help is in everyone's interests. Those working with viewers find them highly responsive to early intervention. Take the success of Stop It Now!, a helpline offering risk management strategies to those worried about inappropriate sexual impulses. Or the Croga website, which sets out self-treatment programmes for those concerned about their internet activity.Such initiatives remain local, under-funded and poorly publicised. The potentially devastating consequences of exposure prevent many from seeking them out. It does not undermine the experience of victims to argue that we should treat this as any other public health issue. A massive education campaign is needed to inform all adults about the realities of viewing child pornography. As one offender told me: "You can find whatever you want on the internet, apart from the help you need."· Libby Brooks is chairing The New Sex Crimes at the ICA, London, this Saturday