"Having problems with crack cocaine?" asks a leaflet pinned on the packed advice noticeboard at the Barton community centre in the middle of one of Oxford's satellite council estates.Upstairs in the bar the home secretary, David Blunkett, is making clear to a packed local audience that the pressure on Britain's prisons will carry on growing until the "people who are behaving abominably" get the message that they will be dealt with toughly. He promises to clamp down on antisocial behaviour, class A drug-taking and organised crime before outlining his latest ideas for using satellite technology and lie detectors to keep track of released sex offenders. But he catches himself before he completes his short introduction to add: "At the same time we do need to develop a two-handed approach so we are involved in prevention as well. This is not just a total clampdown on people's behaviour." It is six months since Tony Blair launched Labour's pre-manifesto consultation exercise known as the Big Conversation, and more than 50 people are prepared to spend their Thursday evening crammed into this Oxfordshire community centre to discuss what should be done about crime. After his opening speech Mr Blunkett spends some time at each of the five tables of people discussing pre-set questions on specific topics. Each table, with 10 or more people, focuses on a different theme, from preventing crime through policing and sentencing to organised crime and terrorism. But it quickly becomes apparent that the invited audience, which includes police and probation officers, crime reduction managers, neighbourhood watch people and local residents, are not afraid to criticise or put forward their own ideas. Over the next hour Mr Blunkett is told that the public is far more civilised about sentencing than the media would have us believe; that it is not really a good idea to take away the welfare benefits of antisocial families; and that excluding unruly young people from school is detrimental to their interests. The groups are also keen on seeing a lot more "restorative justice" schemes where victims can get some sort of "closure" by meeting the offender; want an end to the short-term funding of youth and community workers, and would like to see more work in schools in laying down the boundaries of acceptable behaviour. There is also talk of the need for more community beat bobbies - some of them on bicycles - and giving more powers to street wardens to deal with antisocial behaviour, and suggestions for on the spot fines and more drug treatment places. There is also a strong feeling that it is time that sentencers in the courts demonstrated that they knew the victim of the crime was often present in court, "because it doesn't feel like that," as one man says. What appears to be absent from this gathering is any great thirst for more punitive crackdowns to deal with yob culture, nor much evidence that Labour's latest emphasis on tackling the "binge drinking culture" is that high on the list of priorities in Oxfordshire. After an hour of listening to detailed suggestions and comments about Labour's crime policies, the home secretary gets up to respond. He tells them they have interesting ideas but adds: "You are all a bit professional, you know, compared to a lot of the Big Conversation events I have been to around the country. I think you understood what a DTTO was, which is a drug testing and treatment order." He gives a detailed reply on many of the points that are raised and picks up on some issues around antisocial neighbours. Outside Mr Blunkett says the exercise has taught him just how much variation there is in crime problems around the country. In one small market town they were worried about the impact of their first licensed premises, while in South Wales he learned that a "drinking warehouse" had just opened that can accommodate 10,000 people standing up on its three floors. "I got a surprise tonight in that I did not hear that drink and drugs were quite so central to their problems," adds the home secretary.