The crime rate in England and Wales, which has been dropping since 1995, fell by a further 11% during 2004, with violent crime cut by a further 10%, according to the British Crime Survey.By contrast, the less reliable police recorded figures show a 5% fall in overall crime during 2004, despite a 9% rise in violent crime, including a sharp rise in figures for offences involving imitation firearms. The Home Office said the risk of being a victim of crime now stood at 24% - the lowest recorded level by the BCS since the survey started in 1981. The BCS, which measures people's experience of crime, shows falls in domestic burglary [down 15%], car crime [down 17%], and smaller falls in violent crime. The police figures show similar falls in domestic burglaries and car crime but an alarming 9% rise in violent crime overall. Ministers and criminologists yesterday said the discrepancy over the direction of violent crime was due to changes in police recording practices and greater reporting of some crimes, such as rape and domestic violence. Mike Hough, of the institute for criminal policy research at King's College London, said there were systematic pressures to present these statistics in the worst possible light, with no newspaper prepared to lead with headlines about falling violent crime and no opposition which could resist blaming the government for not getting to grips with violence. But he said the large increases in statistics on violent crime recorded by the police since 1999 were largely artificial, reflecting changes in recording procedures and police powers to levy on-the-spot fines. "Nevertheless, the statistics indicate that alcohol is becoming an increasingly obvious feature in violent incidents; incidents of this sort are not falling, and there is a clear possibility they are on the increase," said Professor Hough in a study on violent crime trends published yesterday. One violent crime area where the BCS and police figures agree is over the changing nature of Britain's gun culture. Both measures show gun crime involving real weapons is on the decline, with serious injury incidents down 12%. However, there has been an explosion in the use of imitation weapons, which have risen 66% from 1,965 incidents in 2003 to 3,268 last year. In total firearms offences are up from 10,080 to 11,082 out of 300,000 violent incidents. The long-term trend in the crime rate, according to the BCS, has shown a steady rise from 1981, reaching a peak in 1995, since when it has fallen each year. Police recorded crime figures show crime rose for most of the 1980s and peaked in 1992. Figures then fell until 1998-99, when Home Office counting rules changed, since when they have generally risen. The BCS also shows that anxiety about the main types of crime has actually fallen, but worries about anti-social behaviour remain the same.