Liberal scorn has been heaped upon Tony Blair and David Blunkett for their professed commitment to address "antisocial behaviour". The government is said to be "pandering to a Daily Mail agenda". Yet the public is insulted every day by obscenity and petty crime. A lot of people who are not of the right, but merely care about Britain's status as a civilised society, want something done.The other afternoon, I was a passenger on a crowded holiday train heading for the West Country. On the seats across from me sat a young man, maybe 20, with his girlfriend. He wore a sweatshirt bearing in large letters the proclamation: "I am a cunt."Some readers may think such an assertion perfectly reasonable in these enlightened times. I dissent. I was a good deal larger than him, so I said: "What do you think it's like for mothers and children who have to look at that? Is this really something you want to advertise?". To my mild surprise, he made no reply, but gazed out of the window while his girlfriend looked resentful. I got out at the next station, and have since thought a lot about that incident. I must have looked and sounded pretty pompous, delivering such a homily in my pinstripe suit. Yet I have no regrets. That young man should not have been allowed on to a train wearing that sweatshirt. No civilised society acquiesces in the publication of obscenities in public places, though British theatre and television set a vile example. The problem is: what to do about it, or about even uglier manifestations, which have stirred the government to promise action. Many aspects of antisocial behaviour are not susceptible to criminal law. No politician or media organisation should employ the word "crackdown" without irony. Any announcement of a government crackdown on drugs, dangerous dogs, litter or pollution presages mere huffing and puffing. Crackdown is a term abused by ministers when aspiring to win public approbation by promising undefined action to curb an ill which they know in their hearts is not susceptible to politically directed suppression. Antisocial behaviour, at the lighter end of which is the wearing of an obscene sweatshirt in a public place, can only be redressed by social forces. The perpetrator is most likely to desist if he or she is obliged to accept that a given course is unacceptable to schools, universities, employers, public services and his or her community. At present, there is no social pressure at all. Most people show themselves too indifferent - or too physically frightened - to protest about anything. My 91-year-old mother's purse was snatched by teenagers on a bus the other day, but nobody else moved a muscle. We know how serious is the problem of intimidation in schools and hospitals, and on the transport system. I remember a headteacher saying years ago: "It is unrealistic to imagine that a school can impose, during the hours in which it has custody of a child, values and behaviour quite at odds from those which prevail at home." When brooding about these things, I try to preserve a sense of historical context, recalling the yobbishness of some of the old ruling class. A hunt that flourished in mid-19th century Hertfordshire took pride in some splendid runs through the local market gardens. A thrusting peer complained jovially that he found the asparagus beds "damn heavy going". This was antisocial behaviour of a notably obnoxious kind, which exploited the social impotence of the market gardeners. The vandals had none of the excuses available to the modern underclass. Yet there came a time - around the beginning of the 20th century - when yobbish toffs had to stop behaving like that, less because they were threatened with legal sanctions than because society would no longer put up with it. Today, we place an excessive premium on the absolute merits of tolerance. The collapse of social deference towards what were once called one's betters is one of the most pleasing things to have happened to Britain in the past half-century. Yet a price has been paid, because with deference has vanished a lot of respect - not blind respect for "social superiors", but human respect for others among whom we live. The Sun has a lot to answer for. Yobbish behaviour has always existed, but was tacitly recognised even by some of those who practised it as beyond the pale. Rupert Murdoch has done more than any other single person to legitimise yobbery. The Sun might be described as the house organ of the antisocial classes. Like many young broadcasters, it regards with implicit or explicit disdain the most important manifestation of respect, manners. This is an unfashionable word. Anybody who urges a dissident pupil, or noisy fellow-traveller, to "show some manners" invites at best derision, at worst a punch in the face. Yet to address antisocial behaviour, what we need is not legislation or some spurious crackdown, but a revival of acknowledgement that without manners, we inhabit a jungle. An individual's right to self-expression is not absolute. Every citizen has a duty to consider how his or her actions will impact on others. The man in an open car who plays his radio at maximum volume pollutes the environment of everybody he passes. Reckless discarding of litter is a scourge. Dog-owners have been conditioned to use pooper-scoopers in urban park. Why should not soft drink consumers be persecuted until they put their cans in bins? Public transport seats are designated for the old and infirm, yet in rush hour they are almost always occupied by the young. Bystanders are not only entitled to make a fuss, it is their duty to do so. The intrepid Claire Tomalin recently reproached a large underground traveller for lighting a cigarette. Somewhat grudgingly, he put it out. The judge who recently ejected a juror from court for wearing an FCUK T-shirt was dead right. In a properly civilised society, any business which gave itself such a name would be boycotted. Only by protest, daily niggling, harassing protest, is antisocial behaviour likely to be diminished. In cases where noisy or drunken young men are involved, don't just cross the street, call the police. I am not proposing that the culprits should be immediately removed to the cells. The police are merely better equipped than the rest of us to rebuke potentially violent miscreants. Somebody has got to do it. If we continue to tolerate antisocial behaviour, it will increase and multiply. Some may shrug that I sound like a Home Counties magistrate, circa 1935. Maybe, but what would you do? Can we preserve the decencies if we acquiesce in the abuses of language and conduct great and small that each of us sees every day? Tony Blair and David Blunkett are right to think the public is fed up to the teeth with in-yer-face obscenities and wantonly selfish behaviour. The problem demands a social, not political response. We need perpetrators to be shown the red card day after day until they quit or go somewhere else. comment@theguardian.com