We do not know, and are unlikely ever to know, how many of his patients were killed in his 26 years practising medicine by the Greater Manchester doctor Harold Shipman, who was convicted last January of what then seemed the frightening total of 15 murders. Now the painstaking research of Professor Richard Baker of Leicester University has suggested that the number who died at this doctor's hands could be as many as 300, stretching back to his earliest days in a Yorkshire hospital and in general practice at Todmorden.There can be absolutely no certainty about the figures in Professor Baker's report. This is an actuarial type of calculation, based on comparisons between the fate of Shipman's patients and the survival rates of comparable doctors in comparable practices, with allowance made for age and social and economic conditions. But precision hardly matters. Whatever the toll, this is the most appalling case of serial murder. What drove him to it remains as mysterious as ever. The doctor himself remains silent. No legislation will ever be framed which can prevent a person with Shipman's freedom to elevate death over life from using that power as he did. But the chilling feature in all that has now emerged is that, almost until the end, nobody seemed to notice. In his last years in Hyde he practised alone, and one of the lessons at the time of his conviction seemed to be that group practices, where others might begin to suspect what a rogue colleague was up to, might be safer than singlehanded ones. Yet now it is clear that Shipman was killing patients even while working with colleagues. A public inquiry under the high court judge, Dame Janet Smith, has already been ordered. Maybe it will make sense of all this, maybe not. But one conclusion is clear. The evidence that Shipman's patients were dying where other doctors' patients survived was there from the start. It was simply not observed, assessed or explored. As at the Bristol children's hospital, it was only when a whistleblower appeared that serious suspicions surfaced. Yet now, in the age of computers, such evidence can be far more readily assessed and understood than ever before, both by doctors and those who supervise them and by coroners' courts. That may be no defence against a new Shipman. But it should make it far more likely that someone would smell something wrong, long before the killing reached such dimensions.