A teenager who killed a lorry driver by dropping a large breeze block from a bridge was sentenced to 40 months' detention yesterday.Laurence McCourt, 68, was killed instantly when the missile smashed through the cab of his lorry, although the vehicle careered on for half a mile before crashing into a barrier on the A45 at Wellingborough, Northamptonshire.Dean Ingram, 15, was sentenced after pleading guilty to the manslaughter of McCourt in July last year. A second 15-year-old, Jamie Winter, was sentenced to 12 months' detention after admitting causing danger to road users.Northampton crown court heard that Ingram, Winter and a third youth, who cannot be named, had been wandering the streets stealing bikes and milk bottles on the night that McCourt, from Sandwell in the West Midlands, was killed.Nicholas Dean QC, prosecuting, said they had thrown small stones and a bottles from the bridge before Ingram climbed over a safety barrier and urinated on the road below.Dean said that Winter then picked up a breeze block and dropped it on to the hard shoulder. After being goaded by Ingram, he returned with a second block and asked for help lifting it. The pair got it on to the barrier but, according to Ingram, he could not prevent it from toppling over. As he balanced the block, both the other youths said: "Don't, Dean, there is a lorry coming."The prosecutor said: "It was too late. Ingram pushed the breeze block off the rail and it fell to the road and impacted on McCourt's lorry. It hit the vehicle that was travelling at 56mph. It hit him to the left of the chest and the arm."Fergus Gow, defending Ingram, said the teenager had intended to drop the block on to a lorry trailer to see it "bounce off." Ingram was "bitterly remorseful" about what happened and at the time had been behaving in a feral way.For Winter, Steven Evans said his client had shouted to Ingram not to drop the block. He said all three youths had been living outside society.Judge Charles Wide said: "It is very important to dispel any idea that throwing objects from bridges on to roads and railway lines amounts to youthful pranks. The dangers of catastrophic consequences if things are thrown is obvious."Defending the decision to name the two defendants, he added: "I take into account the deterrent effect. The public has a right to know and justice should be open."Detective Inspector Neil McMahon of Northants police said: "Len lost his life through an act of stupidity that will have an impact not only on the people who knew him but also on the lives of the two boys involved."I only hope that other young people take a message from Len's death that throwing stones at passing traffic is extremely dangerous and can have a terrible cost."