What is a public inquiry? Is it an impartial investigation of past error or a lynch mob? Is it a prelude to an apology or a kangaroo court? Theresa May's two inquiries into child abuse are either "responding to reasonable concerns" or are pandering to media hysteria over anything to do with sex.Just two things are clear. One is that the abuse of minors is illegal and more steps are always needed to prevent it. The other is that 114 Home Office files are known to have been lost or destroyed (along with 36,000 others) over the past 30 years. From this has arisen a cacophony of gossip, rumour and innuendo, amplified in a salacious crescendo by a hint of sex in high places. Time is called only with the arrival of a home secretary with lawyers and sacks of fee cash.One of May's inquiries is a "review of reviews", occasioned by the loss of the files. This was investigated by the Home Office a year ago and found to be unsuspicious. The re-review is to be by the head of the NSPCC, which is curious, as that body has in the past also been accused of sleeping on its job. But an eight-week review is reasonable.The other inquiry is described by May as "overarching", into child sex abuse generally and the suggestion of institutional cover-up. What this means is obscure. In modern Whitehall any presumed mistake can be atoned for by the blood sport of public inquiry and retrospective damnation. British ministers may be bad at decisions but they are wondrous at making amends, usually for the mistakes of their predecessors.Thus to suggest the long inquiries into Bloody Sunday, Hillsborough, phone hacking and invading Iraq were a bit over the top is to risk being labelled a spoilsport or, worse, seeming to excuse the original evil. Objecting to the £195m spent on the Saville inquiry into Bloody Sunday might mean being "soft on a massacre", or objecting to Chilcot as being "soft on Blair". Who could not want a "judge-led inquiry" into anything? Who does not thrill to oaths and subpoenas, "total transparency" and "challenging the establishment"?On Monday, May clothed her second child sex inquiry in the ceremony of a Grand Inquisition. Its chairman, the former senior judge Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, will have "the fullest possible access". On parade will be witnesses, victims, panels, experts, investigators and a feast of whistleblowers. No institution should be considered safe – not the NHS, the BBC, the churches, political parties, police, local care homes, even public schools.If Hillsborough is, as May says, to be a template, then expense and longevity will be no object. Millions have already been spent by the BBC investigating Jimmy Savile's child molestation, to the point that the corporation seems almost guiltier than Savile. Faced with May's day of reckoning, many institutions will go into extreme self-defence. Lest anyone raise a libertarian finger, May will introduce "mandatory reporting of suspected abusers" by public officials. The use of the word "suspected" brings us closer to the nightmare of Dave Eggers' The Circle, where everyone can know who in any crowd is suspected of crimes or misdemeanours – and they can be hounded accordingly.Attitudes towards the abuse of children – as towards sexual abuse in general – have rightly toughened over the years. With greater understanding of the emotional damage it can cause has come more vigorous policing. But there has to be an equal respect for justice. Allegations are easy to make where the accuser can remain anonymous and the accused be named. Evidence is hard to assess in a way that is fair. Also hard to assess is the guilt of third parties and institutions, given the boom in "duty of care" and "institutional negligence".The result is a hyper-vigilant anxiety over relations between adults and children. A friend is reported to the police for photographing a crowd of children. To take a bruised child to A&E is to risk a visit from a detective. Labour demanded criminal records clearance for anyone on a school trip. There is no limit to the state's appetite for intrusion.The culture of paranoia is everywhere. I once dragged my reluctant four-year-old from a local bookshop to get him home. We struggled in the street outside, attracting a small crowd as he played to the gallery by crying, "I want a book." In Primrose Hill this was little short of a plea for sainthood. A menacing murmur duly arose. Who is this man? Why is he manhandling the child? Where is the mother? A posse actually followed me home.Public inquiries into such matters are taking on a life of their own. They are usually get-out-of-jail cards for harassed ministers, if not heavyhanded alternatives to the reform of public administration. Successive inquests into Bloody Sunday and Hillsborough have added little to evidence already in the public domain, but were rather lines of least political resistance. Money spent on legal fees might have better gone to victims. The extravagance of some inquiries look suspiciously like a legal ramp.That we still await "the truth" of Hillsborough a quarter of a century after the event is a scandal. The same goes for Chilcot on Iraq. They have nothing to do with retribution or redemption for those involved. They are retrospective navel-gazing, political events vaguely justified only on grounds of "lessons to be learned".People who abuse children are rarely criminals susceptible to deterrence. More often they are sick and tormented individuals. The case for finding new ways of detecting and treating them is overwhelming, as is the case for helping their victims. That is where the state's money should go. Yet we deal with sex crimes by licensing anonymous accusers and staging celebrity show trials, with lawyers in gladiatorial legal combat before juries. From the attendant publicity, no reputation survives. It is judicial barbarism.The drift of the May inquiries will divert attention from child abusers and their victims to the institutions among which they lived and worked. This can only diffuse guilt to a wider constituency, ultimately reducing it to that old cliche, "society as a whole".We then all wash our hands and sit back to await the next inquiry. Clunking paranoia is not the best path to penal reform.