The former champion jockey Kieren Fallon, a professional gambler and four others were yesterday cleared of race-fixing after the case against them collapsed at the Old Bailey.The decision by the judge, Mr Justice Forbes, to direct the jury to return not guilty verdicts brought an abrupt end to a two month long trial that is said to have cost £10m and had cast a dark shadow over the racing industry.Bans preventing the three jockeys involved - Fallon, Fergal Lynch and Darren Williams - from riding in the UK were immediately lifted by the British Horseracing Authority. The jockeys, along with Miles Rodgers, a professional gambler, Shaun Lynch, Fergal's brother, and Philip Sherkle, a barman, had faced charges of conspiracy to defraud. Rodgers had also been accused of concealing the proceeds of crime. All were acquitted.The prosecution failed to prove that they had attempted to lose a total of 27 flat races over the course of two years.Detectives alleged that Rodgers had placed a total of £2.12m on "lay" bets' - wagers that a horse would lose - on the suspect races using the internet betting exchange Betfair. Listening devices were even planted by detectives in Rodgers' car. But a lack of prima facie evidence that the horses had been deliberately stopped, the inadequacies of testimony offered by the prosecution's chief expert witness and the failure to connect Fallon closely to Rodgers undermined the trial.Throughout the hearing yesterday Fallon sat in court chewing gum, his hands intermittently clasped around one knee.As he left the Old Bailey, he was met with cheers by a small crowd of supporters. "I was of course relieved and delighted but also outraged," he said in a short statement. "There was never any evidence against me."He later added: "I have always said, I have never stopped a horse or fixed a race. The court has confirmed what we have always said - there was no evidence against me. I am devastated at having lost over a year's racing at the top level, at possibly the most important time in my career, and I have missed out on considerable income."Fergal Lynch declared: "I was arrested at 5am in a police operation [in 2004]. Since that time I have been under a cloud of suspicion of being involved in a conspiracy to stop horses. This allegation was untrue yet it has taken me over three years to clear my name. This has taken a large chunk out of my professional life."Mr Justice Forbes said the evidence given by Ray Murrihy, the senior Australian racing steward who was the prosecution's sole expert witness, contained "significant limitations and shortcomings".During the trial Mr Murrihy had said: "It was not incumbent that I verse myself in UK or other jurisdiction rules."The judge yesterday commented: "This is an extraordinary admission given that he was purporting to give evidence about 27 races run in the UK according to UK racing rules."The investigation, headed by the City of London Police, involved more than 500 interviews. It took more than 1,300 statements and provided nearly 40,000 pages of evidence to the Crown Prosecution Service.Fallon's solicitors, BCL Burton Copeland, called for two inquiries into the failed prosecution which they estimated cost £10m. One investigation, they said, should be into police testimony during the trial and the second into why the CPS proceeded with the case.The statement said: "Far from proving Kieren Fallon's guilt, the evidence called by the prosecution clearly established that Kieren Fallon had never been a party to the alleged conspiracy. A number of police forces had been asked to consider commencing an investigation relating to the allegations that were subsequently made against Kieren Fallon and others."Fallon's solicitors said they would also prepare a report on the investigation for the Independent Police Complaints Commission.Paul Struthers of the British Horseracing Authority said: "Irrespective of the outcome this has been a sad episode. The allegation in court that racing and punters were the victims of a conspiracy has been a cloud over the whole sport."