The debate on domestic violence (DV) statistics took a fascinating turn last week. Recent years have seen numerous surveys which suggest that incidents involving male victims and female perpetrators are more common than had previously been assumed. Men's charities have long argued that the official crime figures significantly under-represent the problem, because so few men report abuse to the authorities, and those that do are likely to be disbelieved, often to the extent of being arrested themselves when police arrive.Last week, the media reported a study by Professor Marianne Hester, which analysed a matched-pairs sample from the Northumbria police database of DV incidents over a six-year period. Hester's report actually tells us little that we didn't already know. The most eye-catching details, to me at least, are the findings that female perpetrators are more than twice as likely to use a weapon as their male equivalents, and that couples where both parties are prone to aggression have police call-outs about four times as often as those couples with only one regular aggressor. In that light, it is disappointing that the University of Bristol press release, which formed the basis of all the press reports, chose to lead with the revelation that women are three times more likely to be arrested as men when they commit such acts. That hardly fits with claims that police don't take male victims seriously. Can these competing claims be in any way reconciled? I think they can.Hester's study found that male perpetrators are arrested on average after one in 10 incidents, whereas with a female perpetrator it is one in three. When an incident of suspected DV is reported to Northumbria police, officers will always attend the scene. When they arrive they are expected to identify the "primary aggressor" and, according to ACPO guidelines, if there is any evidence of a crime having been committed or if someone is in danger, they should always make an arrest. Since the priority is to defuse the situation and ensure the victim's safety, they are instructed to make only one arrest where possible, and according to the data, dual arrests are indeed extremely rare. Officers will later enter a short description of the incident in the database.The statistics here tell us that even though police are required to make an arrest if there is any evidence of a crime having occurred, they usually do not – presumably because there are no grounds to do so. This is not surprising. In practice, officers will often arrive after a situation has pacified, with neither party wishing to make a formal complaint. Or they may find an ongoing, chaotic scene of anger, tears, accusations and counter-accusations, often involving people influenced by drink or drugs, but no actual violence evident and no coherent testimony. If it seems likely that the situation will escalate into violence again when police leave, an arrest will have to be made, usually on grounds of breach of the peace – by far the most common offence recorded in the study. When no arrest is made, it will usually be because the scene is relatively safe and/or ambiguous, with no clear perpetrator, victim or specific evidence of an offence. Nevertheless, for the purposes of the police DV database, officers are still required to identify a person whom they think is the "primary aggressor". That one little judgment may be the key to this mystery.What we have here is not the ratio of how many men/women are arrested against how often they have committed an offence, but the ratio of how many men/women are arrested against how often a police officer decides that, on the balance of probabilities, they might have been more at fault.If the men's groups' claims about the police are valid, these results are in fact exactly what we should expect to see. The assumption, in the vast majority of ambiguous cases, has been that the man is to blame. What initially looks like a clear case of discrimination against women may in fact be a product of prejudice against men.Of course, it could be that the police officers are entirely accurate in all their assessments, and the men are indeed the primary aggressors in the vast majority of those incidents. Or these data could be hiding a rash of violent attacks against men.Unfortunately, one needs to read Hester's paper very closely to unravel this explanation. Nowhere in the report does she consider the possibility that the data she is using may be corrupted by the underlying biases, assumptions or slapdash paperwork of overworked police officers.