A tough package of crime measures aimed at tackling serial offenders by giving them longer sentences is to be made the launch pad for Tony Blair's electoral appeal to Britain's middle ground. On Tuesday, hours before the election is called, Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, will say that people who repeatedly appear in court charged with the same offences can expect to spend more time in prison. He will also announce a reparations system whereby criminals will repay or repair the damage caused by their crimes. Victims will be allowed to suggest what the reparation should be, from financial compensation to community service orders. The crime review will be the last announcement the Government makes before the Prime Minister visits the Queen to ask for a dissolution of Parliament. The general election will be held on 7 June. Blair will start the campaign with an appeal to 'aspirational Britain', after fears were raised at the highest levels of the party that the Government had lost its vision ary element. The Prime Minister will use a keynote speech next Sunday to try to inject a degree of passion into the Labour campaign, which some of the party's most senior figures believe is in danger of losing its way. He has taken charge of a new introduction to the manifesto in which he will say Labour is the party for those who have ambitions to better the position of themselves and their family. He will also personally launch a 'pledge card' to put the improvement of secondary schools at the centre of Labour's campaign. It is likely to promise an increased ratio of staff to pupils in all of England and Wales's secondary schools. A new pledge on improving the health of the nation will replace the issue of hospital waiting lists. Pledges will also be made on crime and the economy. Writing in today's Observer, Peter Mandelson enters the campaign debate, by urging a more radical vision for the party and saying that the Government cannot simply get by on a record of competence. 'Britain needs more than competence from its Government,' Mandelson said. 'It needs a reforming New Labour administration with a range of coherent policies, rather than patchwork initiatives, that can both tackle the very worst social and economic problems and give every individual and family the chance to get on and realise their ambition. 'Ambition must be the New Labour compass for the second term and beyond. A second term Government cannot simply be about the completion of "work in progress". It is about inaugurating a new age of ambition in our country, a compelling vision of a different kind of society.' Yesterday the Prime Minister's official spokesman, Alastair Campbell, said that Blair would call an 'election Cabinet' tomorrow to put the finishing touches to the manifesto, the clearest indication yet that the election will be called on Tuesday. 'We have to fight this election as though it is on a knife-edge,' he said. 'We take nothing and nobody for granted.' He said the Prime Minister would tell the specially convened Cabinet he wanted to paint a new vision for Britain that will enthuse the public. In a bid to bolster the party's support among middle-income earners, Blair has told party staff Labour must send out the message that it will offer support to all those who want to get on in the world. During the campaign he will say that, far from distancing himself from the New Labour brand, he wants to govern under the banner he first launched before the last general election in 1997. Blair has told close allies he will promise to serve a full term as Prime Minister if it becomes an election issue. 'If he keeps being asked about it, then he will have to say something. We don't want it becoming a distraction,' said one senior aide. There have been reports that the Prime Minister would consider stepping down after three years of the next Government, particularly if Britain successfully joins the euro.