Two brothers aged 12 and 10 have admitted carrying out a sustained attack on two boys in parkland in South Yorkshire during which their victims were tortured, beaten, robbed and sexually assaulted.One of the victims, an 11-year-old boy, almost died when part of a bathroom sink was smashed against his head. He was only saved when local people went out searching after the other boy, aged nine, was found wandering a street in Edlington, on the edge of Doncaster, severely traumatised and covered in blood.During the assault on Saturday 4 April – details of which can only be revealed now – the brothers also used a noose, lighted cigarettes, bricks and sharp ends of sticks to torment their victims.At one point, the older victim, who was found with ligature marks around his neck, begged the brothers: "Leave me, I can't see. Leave me to die."Today the brothers pleaded guilty at Sheffield crown court to committing grievous bodily harm, robbery, and forcing the victims to perform sexual acts on each other. Prosecutors agreed not to pursue a more serious charge of attempted murder, which the brothers denied, to avoid the necessity of a full trial in which the victims would have had to give evidence. Sentencing will take place in November.The attack has echoes of the murder of two-year-old James Bulger in 1993 by two boys aged 10 at the time.Today it emerged that the brothers were both known to police and social services after earlier violent incidents. On the morning of the attack they had been due to answer questions at a local police station about a separate incident a week before in which another 11-year-old boy was assaulted.At today's hearing the brothers admitted committing actual bodily harm. Outside the court, police denied they could have prevented the later attack as it had taken several days to identify the brothers and arrange an interview, given their age. "I am quite satisfied that we dealt with it promptly," said Acting Superintendent Ian Bint from Doncaster police. "If there are lessons to be learned then we will learn them."The attackers, who cannot be named for legal reasons, had only been in Edlington, a former pit village, for about three weeks, living with foster parents aged in their 60s.The case marks yet another difficult moment for Doncaster's children's services department, which was taken over by a Westminster-appointed management team a month before the attack, following the deaths of seven babies and children in the area over a five-year period.Detective Superintendent Michael Mason, from South Yorkshire police, who led the investigation, said the case could very easily have been one of murder. "If it had not been for the members of the public on the night, it is quite likely that one of the boys would have died."Mason said he had visited both victims on Wednesday evening and had been "quite surprised" as to the extent of their recoveries. "They are still suffering, certainly mentally with trauma, and recovering from their physical wounds," he said.As with the eventual Bulger trial, the brothers' case was moved from the youth justice system to an adult crown court, with efforts made to make the experience more comprehensible and less intimidating.The two-day hearing took place in a small courtroom with the judge and barristers dressed in plain suits rather than robes and wigs. The brothers sat in the well of the court, flanked by solicitors.The judge, Mr Justice Keith, said he would speak so far as possible in plain language, explaining at one point that the prosecution was "the word we use for the people making the case against you".Glancing only occasionally at each other, the elder brother, dressed in a short-sleeved black shirt and dark tie, shifted in his seat and yawned during the hearing. His much smaller and slighter younger brother, wearing a white shirt and dark tie, appeared more focused.They only spoke when pleading to the nine charges, the 12-year-old answering "guilty" or "not guilty" in a clear voice, while his brother was more hesitant.Today's hearing did not hear full details of what happened on 4 April. However, details from an earlier hearing, a few days after the crime, can now be reported. Doncaster youth court was told that the victims were lured to Brick Ponds, a patch of semi-wild parkland, before being robbed of a mobile phone and cash and then beaten and tortured.The nine-year-old said his ear and eyelids were burned with cigarettes and his genitals and face were stamped on.His most serious injury, the court heard, came when one of the brothers stabbed him in the arm with a sharp stick, causing a wound down to the bone which was then burned with cigarettes. This required several operations, including plastic surgery.The older victim was discovered in a steep ravine naked from the waist down with such serious head injuries that an air ambulance crew took an hour to stabilise him before he was moved. He then spent two days on a hospital ventilator.