The hollow-point bullet, also known - although rarely, it seems, by serious shooters, the term in general being confined to the popular press and the more lurid end of the crime fiction market - as the dum-dum or manstopper, is favoured by law enforcement officers around the world because, in the dispassionate words of a Metropolitan police firearms adviser at the Old Bailey this week, it offers "a greater chance of immediate incapacitation". In other words, if you are hit with one, you are considerably less likely to be capable of doing anything afterwards than if you were hit with an ordinary bullet.Jean Charles de Menezes was hit with seven, in the head.In the late 19th century, the invention of smokeless cordite ammunition led to higher velocities and smaller, harder, lighter bullets. While far more accurate over a far greater distance, these new copper-jacketed lead rounds had an unfortunate tendency to "over-penetrate", or travel straight through their target, doing minimal damage. In fact, they did a much worse job of killing or maiming an enemy than the old, soft variety. So in about 1895, the British army (who else?) began producing rounds with jacket-less tips at its Dum Dum arsenal in Calcutta, India.These "soft-point" bullets, however, often jammed in the rifle barrel, and the design was gradually refined until, in 1899, the Mk V appeared. This had a full metal jacket but a hollow nose which, when it struck flesh, expanded dramatically outwards in an effect rather poetically known as mushrooming. The new hollow-points, known as JHPs (for jacketed hollow-points), proved so devastatingly effective, causing massive tissue damage and wounds many times larger than the bullet that caused them, that in that very same year the Hague Convention outlawed the use in warfare of any bullet which easily expands or flattens in the human body.The convention, sadly, did not mention law enforcement. According to the Met's anonymous firearms adviser, the point about the JHPs that killed De Menezes is that they "flatten on impact, and immediately incapacitate the target." This is "a more effective bullet", he added, "in the context of dealing with a suicide bomber."Just a shame that wasn't the context, really.