Rob Knox, an 18-year-old actor who appears in the latest Harry Potter film, was stabbed to death as he tried to protect his younger brother from a man who was "running amok", a court heard today.Knox's parents were in court to hear how their son went to the help of his brother Jamie, 17, last year. Knox was stabbed five times, receiving a fatal wound to the chest, outside the Metro bar in Sidcup, Kent, by Karl Bishop, an Old Bailey jury heard.Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, said: "Unfortunately, his courage and his sense of duty were to cost him his life."The killing followed a row at the same venue the previous week after which Bishop allegedly made a "chilling" prediction. "He was heard to say, 'I'm going to come back next week, and someone's going to die,'" Altman said.Bishop, 21, from Sidcup, denies murder and five charges of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm to five other youths. He claims he was acting in self-defence.The court heard that Rob had just finished filming the role of Marcus Belby in the forthcoming film Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince. It was the biggest role yet in his acting career and he was signed up for the next Harry Potter instalment.Altman told the court: "A few minutes after midnight on 24 May last year, Rob Knox was stabbed to death by this defendant, who was running amok outside the Metro bar. At the time, Bishop was armed with two quite ordinary but two quite lethal knives, which had come from his kitchen and with which he had quite deliberately armed himself. Tragically, in the melee, Rob Knox lost his life."In January, last year, he landed the part of Marcus Belby in the forthcoming film Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, due for release later this year. At the time of this event, he had just finished filming and was looking forward to being in the next Harry Potter film. He was a popular young man who would come to the help of others and was especially protective of Jamie, who thought the world of him."Rob was just one of a number of young people who over the past year or so have fallen victim to knife crime in London," Altman told the court. "He was particularly unfortunate because he fell victim to a young man who was not only an habitual knife carrier but also someone who would quite happily deploy and use knives as weapons – two, in this case – to settle scores. That is precisely what happened here."