The black teenager Anthony Walker was murdered with an axe for no other reason than the colour of his skin, a jury was told today.Mr Walker, an 18-year-old A-level student, was attacked in Huyton, Merseyside, in July this year while walking his girlfriend Louise Thompson to a bus stop with his cousin, Marcus Binns. Opening the case for the prosecution at the start of the trial of Michael Barton, prosecutor Neil Flewitt QC said Mr Walker and Mr Binns were attacked "for no reason other than the colour of their skin".Mr Barton, 17, appearing before Preston crown court sitting in Liverpool, denies murder and conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm.Another man, Paul Taylor, 20, admitted murdering Mr Walker yesterday when he changed his plea on what was due to be the first day of the trial. Mr Flewitt told the jury today: "Both Paul Taylor and Michael Barton are white, as is Louise Thompson. "Anthony Walker and Marcus Binns are black. It is the prosecution's case that on 29 July 2005 Paul Taylor, Michael Barton and others decided to pursue Anthony Walker and Marcus Binns for no reason other than the colour of their skin. "They pursued them from a bus stop opposite the Huyton Park public house and they pursued them to attack them with the intention of causing them grievous bodily harm." On the night of the attack, a local man saw Mr Walker with his arm around Ms Thompson and described him as being "his usual happy self". Mr Flewitt QC said: "After they had been at the bus stop for about five minutes, Louise and Marcus noticed a lad directly opposite them standing on the low wall outside the pub. "Their attention was drawn to this lad because he was shouting abuse in their direction. Louise recalls him using the words 'niggers' and 'coons'."He then turned to his friends on the car park and shouted, 'See how fast you can go'. "Marcus recalls the lad shouting at him 'Microphone head' and 'Michael Jackson'. At that time Marcus had a distinctive Afro hairstyle," Mr Flewitt said.The court was told that Mr Walker shouted back to the boy on the wall: "We're only waiting for the bus and then we're going." Mr Flewitt said: "The lad on the wall then shouted again towards Anthony, Louise and Marcus. This time he shouted, 'Walk nigger, walk'. "Sensing trouble, Anthony and his friends started to walk to the next bus stop." The prosecution claimed that both Taylor and Mr Barton were present during the racial abuse. As Mr Walker and his friends walked to the next stop, they were followed by a Peugeot car in which the prosecution claimed Mr Barton, Taylor and others were travelling. The three tried to escape by walking into McGoldrick Park, known locally as the flower park.Mr Flewitt said: "In McGoldrick Park, Paul Taylor, Michael Barton and others confronted Anthony Walker and Marcus Binns. "Although Marcus Binns and Louise Thompson were able to run away and escape their attackers, Anthony Walker was not so fortunate. "He was struck to the head and killed by a single blow from an ice axe. "It is the prosecution's case that the fatal blow was struck by Paul Taylor, but that the weapon was provided by Michael Barton." Mr Flewitt then held up the approximately 2ft-long axe in a clear plastic bag to show the jury.The prosecution claims this proves it was Mr Barton who provided the weapon used by Taylor to deliver the fatal blow. Taylor admits delivering the fatal blow with the axe. Mr Barton, the jury was told, admits wanting to fight with Mr Walker and Mr Binns but claims he did not intend to cause grievous bodily harm to either of them. He also denies being present when the fatal blow was struck and claims he was chasing Mr Binns at the time.