It took Rose more than 11 hours to escape from the squalid 14th-floor flat. Her rapist said he had a gun and that his was the last face she would ever see. She was so desperate to end the nightmare that she tried to force open a bedroom window and jump out.'It was stupid to agree to go a stranger's flat,' said Rose, who was 16 when the attack took place in 2003. 'But we had spent the afternoon together and he said he would walk me to the bus station if we went via his flat, so he could drop off a bag of toys for his son. 'I hadn't intended to go in, but he suddenly shoved me in and bolted the door. Then he changed into a completely different person,' added Rose, a tiny, doll-like woman who, once confident and vivacious, now chain-smokes to hide the way her hands shake with the multiple phobias she has developed since the attack. 'I have never been so terrified.' Eventually, at 4am, after raping Rose repeatedly, he left her alone long enough for her to unbolt the door and run to a nearby petrol station. As she cowered in a corner, shaking from her ordeal, an attendant called the police. 'I thought the nightmare was over when they arrived but in many ways the horror simply continued. It just took a different form.' With the highly publicised recruitment of sympathetic female officers to help victims, the opening of rape suites and other initiatives, the perception is that women who have been raped now find it much easier to get justice. However, an Observer investigation has found that, despite efforts by the police, the Crown Prosecution Service and the courts to overhaul the way victims are treated, Britain's rape crisis is becoming more, not less, acute. This newspaper has seen internal police communications and gained access to those working in the legal system. This has revealed that many myths about rape are still largely unchallenged. Even when new approaches are used they are often administered inappropriately, leading some victims to say they felt more traumatised by the legal process than by their attackers. Government figures published last month confirmed that rape convictions are at an all-time low, that this crime still goes largely unreported, and that, although both rape complaints and prose cutions have risen, the percentage resulting in convictions has fallen. This is proof that rape continues to be misunderstood. The fact that the number of unsuccessful prosecutions has risen brings with it another dangerous impact: an increase in the erroneous belief that there is a danger of women 'crying rape' out of malice. But the Observer investigation reveals that the truth is as it has always been: the vast majority of rapists are in no danger of prosecution. Rose's experience is instructive. The policemen who rescued her from the garage ignored her pleas to be taken to a safe house, and insisted that the traumatised teenager accompany them on a drive through the Newcastle council estate where her attacker lived to find his flat before he could flee. Only after Rose became hysterical was she taken to a police station. Even then she was left alone for three hours while a female officer was found. 'They ignored me until I tried to go to the toilet, when an officer came rushing into the cubicle and shouted in my face to stop, because I was destroying evidence,' she said. 'I was already so traumatised that it shocked me into physical paralysis. I had to be practically carried back to the waiting room.' After Rose had been interviewed she was taken to a safe house for an examination. Ten hours had passed since her escape from the flat and 21 hours since her attacker took her prisoner. She had not yet been allowed to sleep, wash or go to the toilet. 'I felt disgusted with myself and like I was going to shatter into pieces,' said Rose. 'I thought the woman at the safe house would be kind, but it was as though she didn't like me. She hurt me when collecting evidence and complained she couldn't get everything she wanted because I was too tense.' The Observer has spoken to other victims who suffered at the hands of the system. Zoe, 27, a researcher from south London, was dragged into an alley by a stranger and subjected to an attack that would have culminated in rape had not someone living near by heard her cries. 'My case was powerful, with clear-cut evidence and witnesses, but if I was less eloquent, had been in a more confused situation or had made an allegation of rape in the past, God knows how I would have been treated or whether I would have won my case,' said Zoe. 'The experience of the investigation and court process is not terribly dissimilar to the attack itself: there is the lack of control, the humiliation and the enforced submission. I needed far more counselling after I had gone through the police investigation and court case than I had after the attack itself.' The way rape cases are dealt with by the police and the courts has been overhauled in the past two years: the Sexual Offences Act 2003 clarified the law on consent, measures in the Criminal Justice Act 2003 aimed to rebalance the system in favour of victims, while under the 2002 police Rape Action Plan, all forces had to review their facilities for examining victims. Police and health services have been brought together in 13 Sexual Assault Referral Centres set up across England and Wales, with three due for expansion and six new ones in the pipeline. In 2001 the most comprehensive reforms of rape investigations undertaken by the police produced 32 London rape centres, known as Sapphire units. Specialist training is being developed for officers, and the Home Office, the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) and the CPS will jointly implement the action plan. The results will be examined later this year. So why do so many cases fall apart? Last week Jo Woodd, founding member of Victim Support in Lambeth, south London, prepared to retire after almost a quarter of a century fighting for a fairer deal for sexual abuse victims. Woodd admitted that, if her own daughter were raped tomorrow, she did not know whether she would encourage her to report it. 'Would I want my daughter to go through everything it takes to bring a case to court, given the minuscule chance that the rapist would end up being put away?' she said. 'Would I want to go through it myself? I don't know. To be honest, I question whether I would.' Woodd's cynicism is well founded: last month's Home Office report, A Gap or a Chasm?, revealed that the proportion of rape allegations resulting in a conviction has fallen to a record low - from 24 per cent in 1985 to 5.6 percent in 2002. The overall picture is even worse. In 2002, 11,676 rape cases reached court, but just 655 led to a conviction - and in 258 of those the rapists had pleaded guilty. This means the women were believed in only 3.4 per cent of contested cases. Yet the police have changed their methods 'out of all recognition', said Brian Paddick, Deputy Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, whose Sapphire units aim to focus on victims' needs. 'We have officers now who are incredibly sensitive to the situations women find themselves in nowadays, such as wanting to go so far during sex and no further. Not only are these officers empathetic to that but they will not tolerate any contrary view, even from senior officers in the team.' When the report, based on cases up to 2002, was published, the government, police and legal system all claimed the changes meant its findings were out of date. 'This research was based on data taken from 2001-2002, prior to the implementation of the action plan,' said Paddick's colleague John Yates, who is Deputy Assistant Commissioner for the Met's Specialist Crime Directorate and an Acpo rape expert.'We do not think this necessarily represents a balanced perspective of a victim's experience in the criminal justice system now, although there is still much work to be done.' But The Observer has spoken to other officers who say the report's findings still hold true and that serious issues have yet to be addressed. 'After being created in a blaze of glory, the Met's dedicated rape units have been left without the funding or manpower to do the job demanded of them,' said one of London's longest-serving Sapphire detectives, who asked not to be named. 'Night after night we spend at the office, snatching perhaps four hours of sleep, juggling up to 20 jobs at once. There are not enough hours in the day to do this job to a standard you would expect. We're struggling to not let victims down. 'The burden on detectives is horrendous. On a murder or serious crime squad, senior detectives will have a team of detectives to delegate to, but in rape investigations each detective works mostly alone, responsible for every decision and every detail. 'Stress is wrecking what were units of absolute excellence,' he said. 'Nobody wants to work on the rape units any more.' Even the trainees ordered in are not 'at the end of their training. They'll say they will not be in charge of investigations, but they are. I've seen them overwhelmed; good people, burnt out before their careers have even begun.' Under police rules, trainees do not have the minimum experience and training required for investigating officers on Sapphire units. The Observer obtained a private police document, Special Notice 11/02; A Policy for the Investigation of Rape and Serious Sexual Assaults, which says officers dealing with sexual assault cases 'must be substantive detective sergeants or substantive detective constables'. Paddick admits trainees are used but says an experienced officer is always on call to help. This is not the experience of one trainee to whom The Observer spoke. Bob began his two-year traineeship as a detective constable last year. Having previously only dealt with minor investigations, his first eight-month placement was on a busy inner-city rape unit where, within two months, he was ordered to take sole responsibility for complex rape investigations. 'I begged not to be put on the unit so early,' he said. Bob's request was ignored and he found himself one of two trainees in his unit. 'We had just started our training. We were told at first we would not be investigating rape on our own, but within two months that's exactly what we were doing.' Kate, a recently qualified sexual offences investigative technique officer responsible for the care and protection of raped women, often found herself struggling to cope alone with up to 15 victims, as she was left in charge of her unit with just one trainee. 'Often it was just the two of us. The trainees would get stressed, which meant they sometimes confused and alarmed the victim. They took things personally, which affected the way they briefed prosecution lawyers,' she said. Despite all this, attitudes in London are more advanced than elsewhere. The manager of a rape crisis centre in a part of northern England where there is no police specialist unit told The Observer: 'There are serious problems with entrenched attitudes outside London, with the biggest issue being that the police expect the majority of rape allegations to be false. We constantly have victims telling us the police tried to persuade them to drop their allegations.' There remain serious problems in the courts and the CPS. 'In the chain of those who deal with rape allegations, it is the court process I am least happy with,' said Paddick. 'I'm not convinced that in every case the courts are doing everything they can to minimise the trauma for the victim.' The 2003 Vulnerable Witnesses Bill removed the right of an accused to cross-examine rape victims and allowed evidence to be given behind a screen or on video. The No Witness, No Justice programme, a CPS and Acpo partnership backed by the government, provides support to victims and witnesses, while each of the 42 CPS areas now has specialist rape prosecutors and case co-ordinators. In addition, the Director of Public Prosecutions has promised that such cases will be handled only by experienced barristers. Two Home Office reports published last year say fear of going to court remains a reason for victims dropping cases. For those who go ahead, the majority say the experience is as traumatic as the rape. For Rose, the arrest of her attacker turned out to be simple after he rang her mobile phone and the police traced him. Yet the case took more than a year to come to court because the rapist, who had faced similar charges before, twice fired his barrister the day before the trial was to begin. 'He was deliberately torturing me,' said Rose. 'He knew all the legal loopholes. He even tried to cross-question me himself.' The judge ordered the case to be heard with no further delays, but Rose continued to find the court experience traumatic . 'My own barrister was so aggressive, it felt like he hated me and thought it was all my own fault,' Rose said. She was questioned for three hours by the defence and for two by the prosecution. Her only break came when she cried uncontrollably and had to be carried out of court. The case took five days, but the jury took only 10 minutes to return a guilty verdict. The judge handed down a sentence of eight years and put the rapist's name on the sex offenders' register for life. Yet for Rose this was cold comfort: 'The court experience had been so disturbing and brought the experience back in such clarity that, although I thought a successful judgment would give me closure, instead it triggered an even deeper despair. I could not imagine an end to the way I was feeling, and that left me suicidal.' Bridget Daly, witness service co-ordinator at Blackfriars Crown Court in London, has seen women go through the system for 20 years: 'It's a horrendous experience and no one can prepare them. 'There have been changes in the details, but the victim's experience of the criminal justice system has not changed in any significant way. The central problem is our adversarial system: barristers must try to prove the truth of one person's word against another. In rape cases, the defence is extremely likely to do this by asking unbelievably personal questions.' Other experts say the new protections the courts offer victims are hard to apply, because a woman's evidence is more powerful when given in person. 'The distress of the victim is almost integral to the success of their case,' said Kelly Rust, a senior co-ordinator at the Old Bailey witness protection service in London for 10 years. So what is the answer? Jo Lovett, co-author of the Gap or a Chasm? study believes it is time for a new discussion about rape. 'It is key that we change attitudes of society towards rape,' she said. 'We have to address the myths, such as that you can only really be raped by a violent stranger attacking you out of the blue. 'There has never been a public debate or education campaign on how to say no and negotiate relationships, because for a long time it was considered a private matter and [it is] still an embarrassing or messy topic,' she said. Back at Lambeth's Victim Support office, Woodd agrees. 'Changes to each link in the system are vital but we need to look at the whole chain,' she said. The chasm into which the Home Office report says victims of rape tumble might appear too immense to bridge, but it must be confronted, she said. 'I have read a lot about the efforts to help rape victims, but if what I got was the improved service I can't see how any victim in the past survived,' said Rose. 'Rape victims have gone through such hell that our lives and sanity are hanging by a thread. 'Every time we are treated without specialist care, that thread frays a little more, and it doesn't take much for that thread to snap.' · Some names have been changed to protect people's identities. Rape myths ... and the truth Women cry rape as revenge or to cover up consensual sex they later regret.  False or malicious rape claims account for just 3 per cent of allegations. One in four women have experienced rape or attempted rape, but only 57 per cent of those who are raped consider that what has happened is serious. This figure becomes even lower - at 31 per cent - when the perpetrator is a current or ex-partner. That most rape victims are attacked by a stranger. Women are most likely to be raped by current or former partners. Getting a case to - and through - court is easier. Between half and two-thirds of rape cases are dropped. Only 14 per cent reached trial in 2002. Where a trial took place, acquittal was likely. Rapists are now more likely to be convicted.  The conviction rate is an all-time low, 5.6 per cent, despite increasing reports of rape.