There is one clear lesson from earlier prison overcrowding crises. They cannot be resolved by a building programme. That approach has been tried by both Conservative and Labour administrations with disastrous results. Some 18,500 places - including 13 new prisons along with numerous extensions - were built between 1996 and 2003 at a cost of £1.5bn. And the result? By April 2004, prison governors reported the system was again at "bursting point". This week another bursting point has been reached, with 99.3% of cells filled, forcing the system in London and the West Midlands to use police cells to survive.Why? Look back to the 1990s. It took four decades for prison numbers to increase by 11,000 between 1951 and 1991. In the following decade they climbed by 25,000. There were three main drivers of this process. First, prison became a political football between the two major parties. Each tried - and still does - to sound tougher than the other. Criminologists have documented how tough political rhetoric at the top feeds down to sterner sentences from the bench. Second, a succession of ever more punitive criminal justice laws ratcheted up the numbers who were put away. Third, both politicians and the judiciary were egged on by feral tabloid press campaigns.The end result is that we now have more prisoners per head of population than some of the most repressive foreign regimes, such as Burma, China and Saudi Arabia. The most informed penal practitioners - chief inspectors, the directors-general of the system, prison governors - have complained about the multiplying numbers of inappropriate offenders locked up. All three groups have rightly wanted prison reserved for dangerous and violent offenders, with the non-violent being diverted to community programmes. The government's social exclusion unit showed how community programmes could help: some 50% have lower level reading skills than an 11-year-old; 70% suffer from at least two mental disorders. Prison only exacerbates these problems. It breaks the three key bonds that help people go straight: one-third lose their homes, two-fifths contact with their families, two-thirds their jobs.Earlier release using electronic tags will only provide interim relief. In the long term, as the Prison Reform Trust notes, the solution lies outside prison walls - in better drug treatment programmes, mental health care, and cuts to unnecessary remands and recalls to prison. Not until then will there be a chance of the home secretary creating his community prison plan.