It has been the staple diet of prisoners throughout history and is a byword for "doing time", but porridge is finally off the menu at many jails in England and Wales. Instead of being served a hot meal in the mornings most inmates are now getting a 27p "breakfast pack" the night before to eat in their cells next morning.An investigation by the national audit office, the Whitehall spending watchdog, was told that the breakfast packs were introduced "because cooked breakfasts are no longer part of contemporary eating habits in the wider community".But the auditors also report today that the packs were introduced so that some staff could be released from preparing and serving breakfast to concentrate on other duties, like supervising work.It has not been a popular decision. The auditors say that generally the breakfast packs are disliked, not only by the prisoners at the jails where they are issued (at 60% of the total), but also by catering staff because of the "perceived frugal content and nutritional value".Officially, the packs contain breakfast cereal, two slices of bread, jam or marmalade, margarine, tea bags, instant coffee and a small UHT milk cartoon. The inmates have to boil the water.Meal gapsOne prisoner said in a focus group at Leeds prison: "You get the breakfast pack the night before which is a packet of cereal with one little cup ... it's about that big, it's not big enough."The auditor's report on the diet and exercise of prisoners, entitled Serving Time and published today, opens by recalling a prison governor's words: "Food is one of the four things you must get right if you like having a roof on your prison."Sir John Bourn, the auditor-general, says the quality, range and choice of meals inside jail have improved since 1997. Prisoners are now asked about their food preferences, and governors say food complaints have declined in recent years. All the kitchens in the 16 prisons visited by the auditors were found to offer at least four choices at each main meal-time, with Halal dishes and at least one "healthy eating option" such as rice and bean-stuffed peppers and salad.Prison cooks are also told to be "vegan friendly", offering soya lasagne with a tomato instead of cheese sauce.But the auditors say there are still problems; many prisoners have not been getting a balanced diet because they also load up with chips and white bread. Some inmates turn down other vegetables in favour of chips and shun wholemeal bread. It has been difficult to persuade inmates used to eating burgers and pies at home to change their habits, says the report. Food is offered up cold, partly because of the long distance between the kitchens and serving points, and there are long gaps between meals, with often more than 14 hours between tea at 4pm and breakfast the next day.BudgetsBut the ability of prison kitchens to do better is constrained by the budgets. Only £1.87 on average is spent on three meals each day for each prisoner. This compares with £2 to £2.20 a day to feed a serving soldier, and £2.50 daily spent on feeding people in hospital. Less is spent on meals for primary school children but the prison service says youngsters need less food than adults.As one of the inmates at Leeds prison told the NAO inquiry: "Don't let people get confused because they see a 'menu' and you get a 'breakfast pack'; the breakfast pack is a cold meal, the evening meal is a cold meal, the only hot meal you're getting is [at] lunchtime - then you are waiting a full 24 hours before you receive another hot meal. So how do you explain that? I remember 20 years ago in prison ... you would get a lot more."