The murder of Ann Maguire was a tragic and brutal end to the life of a remarkable woman who had been an inspirational teacher and friend to generations of Leeds schoolchildren as well as to her large and loving family. The motives of her killer are extraordinarily chilling. Will Cornick was 15 at the time. Now he has his place in history as the first British teenager to murder his secondary teacher in class. This was no sudden outburst of adolescent rage but the long-planned and carefully deliberated decision of an intelligent young man who showed no remorse then or later.Both the length of the sentence and its indeterminate nature have been strongly criticised by organisations, like the Howard League and the Standing Committee for Youth Justice, concerned with children and the law. So has the decision of the trial judge, Mr Justice Coulson, to allow the boy to be named. These are departures from established norms, but it was a very extraordinary case. It was marked by long premeditation and then Cornick’s decision to go into school carrying a knife with the express intention of killing a teacher devoted to public service, and to commit the crime in front of a class of 15- and 16-year-olds whose lives will have been permanently changed by what they witnessed. The attack was violent in the extreme. Set against that chill litany was the expert evidence of Cornick’s mental state, his youth and his decision to plead guilty.Mr Justice Coulson’s decision to impose an indeterminate term with a minimum of 20 years on a boy who is still only 16 is at the top of the range. Even a marginally more generous reading of the guidelines would have resulted in a minimum sentence of 15 years. As it is, the judge said, Cornick will not be eligible for parole until 2034. Even though he appears to be a child with severe mental problems, he will now serve more years than he has lived so far in a penal system where, judged only on the evidence of the very high rates of reoffending among children, both therapy and rehabilitation are inadequate. He will be one more statistic in the grim record in England and Wales of sending more children to prison for longer than almost any other European country. A sentence is about more than punishment. It is partly the expression of society’s abhorrence of the crime. This sounds as if the court finds him a boy beyond redemption.The judge’s decision to lift anonymity, following an application from the Guardian and other news organisations, is also contentious. Critics warn that it could jeopardise Cornick’s chances of ever making good. The media case was that in the very particular circumstances, where the crime was so serious and the interest of open justice so important, anonymity should be forgone. The protection of Cornick’s identity would, in any event, have lapsed once he was 18. And, having committed the murder in front of his classmates, his identity was already widely available on Twitter and the internet. This was properly a question for the trial judge to weigh. In the end, he ruled that the balance was in favour of open justice.