'Remember Stephen Lawrence ', read the funeral cortege's only banner as hundreds gathered yesterday to mourn the black teenager stabbed to death in a racist attack in south east London two months ago. It was a solemn and dignified memorial to the 18-year-old who wanted to be an architect, but was beaten and stabbed to death by a gang of six white youths at 10.40pm on April 22 in Eltham. Stephen was the fourth black male to be murdered in the area in two years.  Nineteen people were injured during a demonstration over his death last month, and Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen, have pleaded with anti-racist organisations to leave them alone and not turn the murder into a political cause. Yesterday Mr and Mrs Lawrence's wishes were respected. About 700 people, both black and white, and including many children from local schools, followed the cortege from their home in Llanover Road as it moved in silence past closed shops on the way to Trinity Methodist Church.  The small church was packed to its 500 capacity, and those left outside heard the service relayed on speakers. It included soul music, selected by his best friend from Stephen's album collection. The Conservative MP for Eltham, Peter Bottomley, and Labour MPs Diane Abbott and Paul Boateng were among the congregation.  Mr and Mrs Lawrence, their faces creased in pain, followed their son's coffin into church accompanied by Stephen's brother Stuart, aged 16 and sister Georgina, 10, who clung to her mother's hand.  The Reverend David Cruise, a family friend, said the service would not be morbid because Stephen was not a morbid person. He described him as a popular boy full of enthusiasm and charm.  'As he grew older he began to respect his own blackness,' but he was never aggressive in this. 'He was just confident in who he was.'  His belief in people may have been his undoing. The night he was murdered he did not run or answer back when the racist taunts began. 'On that night in April this country witnessed one of the worst forms of human evil,' Mr Cruise said. 'Stephen just didn't believe that people were capable of doing the terrible deed that they did.'  The faith of many people in Britain as a place of trust and mutual respect was shaken that night. 'Many of us feel ashamed to be white,' Mr Cruise said, before going on to attack the British National Party, which has its headquarters in nearby Welling.  He said the country was in the gravest danger if it could do nothing about such organisations. He also spoke of the couple who comforted Stephen in his dying moments. 'Can I say, perhaps I shouldn't, thank God those people were white, because this division must go.'  Many wept as they filed past Stephen's open coffin at the end of the service. The family did not speak to the press, but Mr Lawrence issued a statement which read: 'We are finally able to put Stephen to rest. We, however, will not rest until all of Stephen's murderers are caught, convicted and punished appropriately.  'We will also continue to demand the closure of the BNP headquarters in Welling, and for a public inquiry into the number of racial attacks in the area. The racists must be told that the burial of Stephen is not the burial of our campaign for justice. It is only the beginning.'  Stephen's funeral was delayed by a second post mortem ordered by the defence counsel of an 18-year-old boy charged with his murder. His body will be flown out to Jamaica and buried in Kingston on July 4.