The daughter of the elderly couple whose murders are linked to the manhunt for Mark Hobson today made a public appeal for their killer to give himself up.Catherine Wilkins paid tribute to her parents, James and Joan Britton, who were found dead at their home near York on Sunday morning. "All I can say to whoever is responsible is give yourself up," she said.Police have launched a nationwide manhunt for 34-year-old Mr Hobson, who they want to question in connection with the murders of Mr and Mrs Britton and the killings of twin sisters Claire and Diane Sanderson, whose bodies were found on the same morning 25 miles away. Holding a picture of her parents at today's North Yorkshire police press conference in York, Ms Wilkins said: "This is how I want to remember them. No one can imagine the horror and distress that has been inflicted upon our family."The question that we keep asking is 'why'? Why would someone want to attack a lovely elderly couple who could harm no one? "Why would someone want to take their lives and the lives of two young women?"Our family has been rocked by the horror of all this, as I am sure has the family of Claire and Diane, at the senseless waste of human lives. "You must know the damage that you have inflicted, not only on your victims but also on their relatives, who will have to live with this memory for the rest of their lives."She said her parents "lived a very quiet life. They were gentle, kind and liked by everyone in the village who knew them. They didn't deserve to die like this". Former railway surveyor Mr Britton, 80, was found dead in the sitting room of his home at Strensall at 11.26am on Sunday. His 82-year-old wife's body was discovered in the hallway. Two hours earlier, the bodies of the 27-year-old Sanderson twins had been found at Mr Hobson's flat in the village of Camblesforth, near Selby, in Yorkshire. Police yesterday revealed that Claire, who had been Mr Hobson's girlfriend and was living with him at the flat, had died a number of days before her sister. Both bodies were naked, and Claire's was found wrapped in a bin liner, officers confirmed. Detectives have also said Mr Hobson was taken to York district hospital, only a few miles from the Brittons' home, by his mother early on Sunday morning. It appears he was at the hospital between the killings in Camblesforth and the murders in Strensall. Detective Superintendent Javad Ali, who is leading the two double murder inquiries, insisted his force was doing everything it could to find the killer.