These are confusing times for people who watch the criminal justice system closely. Nudging 78,000, the prison population is close to record levels. And we have a government that, ostensibly, is committed to imprisoning more people for longer; witness the Home Secretary's recently expressed desire for anyone caught carrying a knife to be given a custodial sentence. The Home Office's internal projections suggest that, within five years, the prison population could top 90,000.But as Judge Michael Findlay Baker QC notes on page 8 today, there are mixed messages coming from government. While ministers talk of being tough on crime, the reality is more complex. Early release schemes - with many offenders serving little more than half their custodial sentence - are increasingly used and serve to ease overcrowding. The application of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 has seen the average length of a custodial sentence for many crimes reduced by 15 per cent.No wonder people are confused. Serious crimes, such as that committed by Alan Webster, who raped a baby, receive what many believe are disproportionately light punishments (Webster's original six-year sentence was increased by the Court of Appeal last week but, to the outrage of many, only to eight years). In the same week, the Home Office informed its committee of experts that it would like to see a custodial sentence of up to 14 years for anyone caught in possession of enough cannabis to make 10 joints. If the government seriously intends to push through this dotty proposal, it would need to start building hundreds of thousands of new cells right now.Ultimately, these mixed messages erode confidence. Certainly, serious crimes deserve serious custodial sentences, but the flipside of this is that prison should be used sparingly. Too many offenders, many with alcohol or drug problems, are being recycled through the penal system without any support during the brief periods when they are not incarcerated.To its credit, this government has recognised the problem, pledging that every offender will receive supervision and support once released. This is due to be delivered under a new scheme, Custody Plus, in November. However, a lack of resources suggests this will be postponed. In the interim, the government must resolve the contradictions at the heart of its sentencing policy. 'Tough on crime' should not be interpreted as a blanket exhortation to 'lock them all up'. Britain's prisons simply can't cope.