To neighbours and friends, Heather Wardle seemed an excellent mother. Her two smallest boys were always neatly turned out, she was supportive of her teenage son, Daniel Kirby, and doted on her eldest boy, 21-year-old James Hughes.But behind the closed doors of the small council house she shared with her partner, Brian Kirby, there was chaos.Born with a rare genetic condition called ring 22 chromosome, which left him with the mental age of a toddler, Mr Hughes was more than a handful.He could not speak and had epilepsy. He wore nappies because he was doubly incontinent, tried to eat almost everything he could grab and often kept the whole household up all night creating havoc in his box room.When, in April, police found Mr Hughes's body crammed into a suitcase hidden in the garden, it weighed 28kg (4st 7lb) and was dressed only in a nappy. In his room, officers were confronted by vomit, urine and diarrhoea. Flies crawled over rotten food.It later emerged that Ms Wardle was facing huge problems. She was heavily in debt. Her relationship with Mr Kirby was collapsing. She was using antidepressants and had talked about suicide. She could not see a way of keeping her four sons together.There are many mysteries surrounding the case of Mr Hughes, even now. It is still not known how or when he died or why his body was hidden. Nobody has been charged with causing his death. The assumption is that Ms Wardle was either responsible for his death or for some reason did the wrong thing when he died of natural causes.But the biggest puzzle may be why Wardle did not get the help she clearly desperately needed. Things began to go badly wrong at the end of last year. Mr Hughes used to attend two care centres for a total of at least four days a week. He would spend some weekends away, too, to give his mother, his main carer, a break.But by November 2007 he had stopped attending both. That was the last time he was seen by a representative from any care agency. Whenever anyone phoned to ask where Mr Hughes was and why he was not coming to the centres there was an excuse: he was with his father, Paul Hughes, or he was ill, or once, he had a piece of popcorn stuck in his teeth.Still, there were chances to intervene. Before Mr Hughes stopped attending the centres, staff noticed he was losing weight dramatically and alerted social services. Social workers acted – but not decisively. Ms Wardle dodged them for months and by the time a social worker spoke face to face with her in April, Mr Hughes was almost certainly dead.Social services accept they should have done more to check Ms Wardle's stories about her son's whereabouts. Privately, some believe vulnerable adults like him ought to have a social worker assigned to them permanently and be subject to more frequent reviews of their care. Mr Hughes's case had not been reviewed since 2005. The arrangement with social workers was deliberately loose – a team of experts in adults with learning disabilities was "open" to him. But in practice it meant individual social workers knew little about him.A social services manager involved in the case has also accepted that they should have done more to check that Ms Wardle had enough support.A local doctor's surgery also accepts that Mr Hughes slipped through their net – they had not seen him for three years at the time of his death, though they continued to prescribe strong tablets for his epilepsy. The fault there was a computer error. When Mr Hughes' records were transferred from paper to computer, most of his details were lost.There is bound to be criticism of how health and social services ensure that vulnerable adults such as Mr Hughes remain safe and well. But there were others who might have spotted something was wrong.Though they lived under the same roof, neither Mr Hughes's stepfather, Brian Kirby, nor his half-brother, Daniel Kirby, can remember when they last saw him. Daniel said it was "probably" December. Brian thought he last saw him in January.Both were arrested on suspicion of Mr Hughes' murder but released without charge. They claimed they were working hard at the time and did not take much notice of whether Mr Hughes was around or not. They left the caring up to Ms Wardle.Neighbours say they always believed Ms Wardle's stories that he was away with a relative or at a care home – but nobody thought to make sure, even though a familiar local figure had suddenly vanished.Mr Hughes's father saw him just after Christmas. After then, he says, Ms Wardle continually fobbed him off when he tried to see his son, saying he was not well or was away at one of the centres. He says he had no reason to doubt Ms Wardle – she had always been a good mother.At some point between December last year and April, Mr Hughes died. Police, forensic scientists and pathologists have tried to find out why. It is likely nobody will ever know.