It took two hours, perhaps four, for the first people to start saying it, blaming "a lack of discipline in schools these days" for the recent riots in London and other cities. Predictable oversimplification.It is frontline workers such as teachers in urban areas who really understand these young people, and have an idea as to what should be done. We are the ones that, day in day out, work with poor families, building relationships with them. From this, we know that most families are good, most families are honest and most families aspire for better, but we also know that many are leading very challenging lives.It is clear to us that many young people in such situations grow up with an inherent anger, hatred, resentment and the feeling that the world is against them, coupled with a deep lack of self-esteem. These are environment-caused mental health problems on a mass scale. Even nursery-aged children can show the early signs.If a person suffers from such lack of self respect, why would they have any respect for authority or their community? It is easy to believe that increased discipline will work, if you yourself fear exclusion.So what should be done? Most importantly, there must be an end to ghettoisation of poorer communities and the schools within them. Living only with people who have the same problems as you breeds collective anger and mutual resentment of the better off – just as living only with people who are as well off as you breeds collective underestimation of your own privilege, and mutual negative assumptions of the poor. Truly integrated schools and communities need to be developed so people can begin to understand each other.This is of course an enormous and long-term task. But things that can be done immediately include ensuring that children in urban schools attend frequent school trips. Too many young people never leave the square mile around their home, therefore it is no wonder that they grow up without prospects – they have no ability or desire to travel elsewhere for work or study. Teachers might occasionally take a class to Trafalgar Square, and are stunned to have half of their London born and bred pupils say they have never been there before.As well as this, existing schools must work together more closely. Instead of only competing with each other in sport, they can ensure that sport, music, drama and other activities are enjoyed together. This builds mutual respect and understanding, and a sense of community.Furthermore, wraparound services provided by schools and children's centres must receive resources to continue. Mental health and emotional literacy must be a priority. Part-time, fully-funded nursery education from age two should be compulsory in identified areas. Parenting classes should be seen as a positive.Private tuition in primary schools for those underachieving must be brought back and extended to cover secondaries; this is essential to building self-respect. Youth services should be extended, not cut. And young people must be supported to stay in education or training until they are in work, and until they have developed self-esteem and a positive vision of their future.Until we deal with the complex issues involved and people's lives are changed for good, ensuring the next generation grow up in a different environment from their parents, the riots we have seen cannot be completely avoided. A less fractured society and a greater understanding of how to help vulnerable young people, not better school discipline, is what the teachers of the rioters know is needed now.• Emma Jones is a former teacher and resident of Tottenham, North London