It’s just more than a year since Lord Janner of Braunstone last voted in the House of Lords. But the 86-year-old peer is now suffering too severely from the Alzheimer’s disease he was diagnosed with in 2009 to be interviewed by the police, let alone stand trial.It’s extraordinary that you can continue to make law when you are unfit to face it. That is an anomaly that needs clearing up right way, before one even notes that it’s nearly a quarter of a century since Janner was first publicly accused of abusing a child, by children’s home director Frank Beck, who named Janner at his own trial for child abuse in 1991. The Crown Prosecution Service’s decision this week is one thing; its failure to reach this point in its deliberations many years ago is quite another.Since 1991, 25 people have alleged that Janner abused them as children. There have been four police investigations, including this latest one. Mike Creedon, chief constable of Derbyshire, says that when he was a detective constable in 1989, another investigation was blocked by senior officers. Janner has always maintained that there is no truth in the allegations, and he has always had cross-party support in doing so.Because of Janner’s illness, those 25 people won’t get their day in court. But they will have a chance to offer their testimony to the Home Office inquiry into the handling of child-abuse allegations by public institutions. I’m no Mystic Meg, but I daresay the eventual conclusion of that inquiry will be that victims have been failed – which will hardly be news to victims.Is it enough that these people will get the chance to tell their stories to a judge, Justice Lowell Goddard, who had to be brought all the way from New Zealand after two previous appointees were found to have close ties to the establishment milieu they were expected to scrutinise? It looks like it will have to be.There’s a chance that their evidence might help to prove conspiracy theorists correct in their allegations of an organised coverup of paedophile rings. But the idea of a corrupt, secret cabal is in some ways a cop-out, limiting the wrongdoing to a particularly sinister group at a particularly sinister time. It’s clear that abusers benefit from being part of any group that has a collective stake in protecting its own interests. Are public institutions such groups? Of course. Most groups are.And yet every time a new chapter in the ongoing child abuse scandal opens, plenty of people are willing to opine that this particular group or that has its own unique reasons for attracting and protecting child abusers. But this is inadequate. It’s not that these groups don’t have their own characteristics and their own communalities. They’d hardly be groups if they didn’t. It’s that all groups benefit abusers, because no group wants to be tainted with the idea that everyone in the group is more likely to be an abuser.When the wall of silence in the Catholic church came down, the idea was that the church was pretty much a club for men who had cause to distrust their sexuality. When widespread abuse in children’s homes was acknowledged, it was admitted that these would be useful places for paedophiles to have jobs. When Jimmy Savile was revealed as an abuser, fingers were pointed at the BBC’s liberal culture. When Asian gangs were again and again revealed as systematically abusing girls, that was because they were Muslims sheltering behind political correctness. With establishment figures, the prize is revealing the establishment as endemically self-serving and corrupt.But despite their local differences, all the abusers in all of these groups have one thing in common: they use their group’s commitment to self-preservation and self-promotion to their advantage, as a cover for their crimes. All paedophiles have to do is find people with common interests to defend, and a potential conspiracy is there to be exploited. The more he exploits it, the more the group is drawn into protecting him. Survive one allegation and the group has an even larger stake in assisting you in surviving the next. And the one after that.In this respect, this inquiry is fundamentally flawed from the start. “Public institutions” may be a large group, but it is still a group, with a vested interest in minimising damage to individuals within it, because that damages everyone by association. No matter how hard victims of abuse try to get a fair hearing – and they are right to try – they won’t quite succeed.But if their testimony contributes to an understanding of how abusers groom the groups they shelter in, as well as the people they target, then much will have been learned. Justice for individuals must always be pursued when possible. But we must also understand that the more powerful a group’s ability to defend itself is, then the more attractive it is to criminals whose crimes are hard to prove. Anyone whose defence against allegations is of the “Don’t you know who I am?” variety is relying on very dubious evidence that calls on all those who share in his privileges to come to his defence. It’s clear that this technique works very well.When the Wanless report into missing documents pertaining to Geoffrey Dickens’s 1983 dossier on child abuse at Westminster came out last year, it said that there was no way of knowing why those documents had gone. David Cameron seized on a conclusion that was essentially, “We don’t know and there’s no way we can know,” and presented it as: “It is important that it says that there wasn’t a cover-up.” It’s typical of someone so eager to absolve his group that he is willing to draw conclusion from lack of conclusion. He and everyone in the political classes – with a few honourable exceptions – need to start being a bit more vigilant about their bias. Self-congratulatory wishful thinking in a group that wants respect is a big part of every child-abuse scandal this country has created.