Superintendent Ali Dizaei walked free from the Old Bailey yesterday and in so doing he defied the laws of probability. For four-and-a-half years, the Metropolitan police officer was the focus of a corruption investigation which at various points involved a crack team of detectives, a deputy commissioner, satellite navigation experts (who tracked him 24 hours a day), the home secretary, the FBI, the Canadian Mounties, the police national computer, Ofsted and the Daily Mail. And yet he emerged, as judges say, without a stain on his character.So Supt Dizaei is left to pick up what's left of his life and everyone else must start considering the repercussions of another police debacle. According to some estimates, the botched prosecution has cost the public more than £7m, but what will impact much more grievously is the effect it will have on the relationship between Britain's police forces, the black officers who work for them and the communities they are trying to police.Supt Dizaei was not an ordinary police officer. He had been tipped as the person most likely to become the first black chief constable, or even a future commissioner of the Met. A law graduate, he was legal adviser to the National Black Police Association. The allegations, publicised so readily in the Daily Mail with the connivance of elements at Scotland Yard, have all turned to dust but they have effectively spelled the end of his career. Watching this with a mixture of anger and incredulity have been Supt Dizaei's black colleagues up and down the country. They have heard the last two home secretaries speak of the need for more minorities to join the police, they have seen the glitzy recruitment campaigns. And then, post-Stephen Lawrence, post-Macpherson, they heard Sir Ian Blair, the deputy commissioner, promise that the Met was now going to take seriously complaints from its minority staff that they faced as much discrimination at work as ordinary black people did on the streets.  But what has happened in the three years since that promise? There has been the case of Gurpal Virdi, the west London PC, fired after being falsely accused of sending hate mail to other officers. After years under a cloud, he went to an employment tribunal, won damages, his job back and a grovelling apology. We know now that during the Dizaei investigation, detectives broke off to chase spurious allegations they had unearthed relating to another black officer - Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, chairman of the Metropolitan Black Police Association. He was accused of fiddling his expenses but six months later the allegation was found to be false. And Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur was targeted for surveillance. Inquiries were initiated against other BPA officers, then dropped. Recently in Northumbria two black police officers were hauled before the courts on serious charges but in both instances the cases were dismissed. In Humberside, Shakil Siddiqui was cleared of assaulting a white officer. The judge said it should never have been brought to court. We also know that, according to research conducted by the Black Police Association, minority officers and civilians are five times more likely to face disciplinary proceedings than their white colleagues and have far less chance of being promoted. Just last week, Chief Inspector Dal Babu, a Muslim officer, won his employment tribunal against the Met after proving that he had been unfairly treated when he applied for promotion and was discriminated against because of his faith. Police forces were given targets for the number of black police officers they must recruit by 2009. Most must achieve 7%; in the Met it is 25%. None will come close, and the areas with most minorities are the poorest performers. If black officers refuse to take part in recruitment campaigns, things can only get worse. This goes beyond the issue of fairness at work. The failure of our police authorities to run fair and equitable organisations has a direct effect on the extent to which they are able to protect the public. We are in the midst of an inner-city crimewave. Street attacks and robberies are a massive concern, as is the proliferation of crack and gun crime which disfigures black communities. Police chiefs know they cannot begin to tackle these problems unless their forces make a genuine connection with the black communities they police. But then, through sins of omission and sometimes of commission, they allow those same communities to witness black police staff being dragged through the courts or tribunals on charges that range from the flimsy to the trumped-up. Each case has its own corrosive effect. Black officers become more demoralised. Young black men are confirmed in their belief that those who join the police must be fools. No one wants corrupt or incompetent police officers of any race or origin, but chief constables would do well to dispel the notion that their minority employees have become a hunted species. hugh.muir@theguardian.com