It was a decade ago that the retail industry first fell under the spell of data-mining technology, when stories began spreading of a lucrative discovery at Walmart in the US. A direct correlation had been spotted between sales of beer and nappies on Friday afternoons - indicative of fathers leaving work early and picking up supplies on the way home.Armed with this information, Walmart was able to position promotions to encourage more of this cross-selling, making more money and retaining more customers. Retailers across the world rushed out to invest in data mining.Fast forward to today, and similar innovations are emerging - but this time more in keeping with the current economic reality, where minding the pennies and the pounds, not just encouraging sales, is a high priority. Data mining is coming into its own in the fight against crime, helping retailers dissect the who, how, what, where and why of in-store theft.Shrinking marginThe statistics driving this trend are alarming. KPMG's 2009 Global Retail Loss Prevention Survey suggests shrinkage (stock loss through theft, loss, damage or breakage) can account for up to 3% of a retailer's sales, a hit few can continue to afford if they want to keep prices competitive while retaining a profit.Shoplifting is the biggest problem, followed by employee theft - this is where technology companies have been honing their offerings.One such is Hicom, whose National Information Business System connects town-based crime reduction partnerships, allowing them to share information about known gangs of shoplifters. Hicom also sells Arena, a hosted software for retailers that uses trendspotting techniques to help reduce in-store theft.Richard Paterson, Hicom's business development manager, joined the company from the police, where he wrote a dissertation on the "preventative process" for combating crime. Arena has helped supermarkets home in on common thefts, such as batteries, razor blades and clothing, which Paterson says has seen a 20% rise in thefts over the past year, presumably as families strive to maintain their standard of living.The software takes a full-spectrum approach to the risk, identifying suspicious behaviour and common modus operandi such as concealing bottles of alcohol in the trolley and then "forgetting" to pay for them."Retailers have to be careful here. This may be someone who's spending £150 a week in the store. Accusing them of stealing without a lot of evidence could be seen as heavy-handed, and retailers don't want to deter these customers too much. That's why the preventative approach is best. For the retailer, it's all about protecting against risk, so they can determine how best to display the goods around the store." So, if batteries are found to be easy pickings, the store might position them under CCTV, tag them, or put them behind the checkout.Ask the retailers how effective such measures are and they clam up, flatly refusing to discuss their strategies. Asda, for example, is thought to be among the more proactive stores for theft monitoring, but has a policy of not disclosing anything in this area, keen not to give away its advantage or tip off would-be criminals.Another innovation being exploited by retailers is IP-based CCTV systems, which allow stores and shopping centres to examine the run-up to incidents, via a pre-buffer feature. This can retrieve footage taken up to 60 seconds before an event.The technology has other useful crime-prevention applications. The Douglas Court shopping centre in Cork, Ireland, uses it to combat bogus "slip and fall" insurance claims, where a customer may spill a drink before apparently slipping and hurting themselves, and then blaming it on the store.Phil Doyle, managing director of Axis Communications, which specialises in CCTV using internet connections, says many of its systems are used with data mining. "One technology solution in isolation rarely works," he explains. "First, you need to understand why a particular crime has been possible. Once you know that, you can combine a range of technologies so they cover all the gaps."Common thefts identified by Axis range from the high-value, easy-to-resell items such as DVD/Blu-ray box sets and alcohol, to nappies, cosmetics and pregnancy testing kits. Thefts of meat, cheese and other foods are also on the rise.And then there are employee thefts. These including "sweethearting", where staff and customers collude to pass items unscanned through the checkout, and the exploitation of gift and loyalty cards."Gift cards were a phenomenal innovation, but they are very easy to exploit fraudulently," says Kevin Eley, head of business development at Sysrepublic, which specialises in employee-based crime detection. Examples include staff "refunding" money on to a gift card - and then pocketing it.Lights, camera, actionSysrepublic's Secure hosted software can be used to analyse voids along with scanned data from point-of-sale systems, to spot behavioural patterns. It then flags suspicious transactions and other worrying findings to a retailer's loss prevention team as prioritised "actions"."If you've got lots of employees, how can you have eyes everywhere?" Eley asks. "Even with CCTV it is going to be hard to notice if a cashier is scanning bottles of Budweiser while putting champagne in bags."With echoes of Hicom's initiatives, Sysrepublic is fostering collaboration through its Secure Alliance, encouraging retailers to share their findings. Its members so far include loss-prevention professionals from Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's, Marks & Spencer and HMV.So is business booming? Apparently so. Despite concerns that retailers are cutting their security budgets, Sysrepublic has seen sales of its solutions grow by 35% over the past year, and a rush of new interest. "It's simple - loss prevention is one of the easiest ways for retailers to save money," Eley concludes.