The home secretary, David Blunkett, has told prison governors he wants the home detention curfew scheme expanded by more than 60%, with a further 1,000 inmates released early using tags to cope with a sudden rise in prison numbers. The jail population in England and Wales has hit a record high of 68,181, with a further 1,636 short term inmates being released early with tags. Mr Blunkett has privately told prison governors that he believes there is "scope for significantly more releases" with a rigorous individual risk assessment. Inmates serving between three months and four years can be released up to three months early but are confined to their homes at night under a curfew enforced by an electronic tag. The prison population has risen by more than 2,000 in the five months since Mr Blunkett took over at the Home Office after three years during which it had stabilised at around 66,000. The number of women in prison has risen to more than 4,000 for the first time. Although the early release scheme has been the target of repeated Conservative attacks during the three years it has been running, it has only had a 5% failure rate with more than 37,000 inmates finishing their sentence at home. Some 1,800 have been recalled to prison, mostly for breaching the curfew rather than committing new crimes. While Ann Widdecombe, the former shadow home secretary, called for it to be abandoned, others claimed it was being used too cautiously. Mr Blunkett has told prison governors that if increased use of the curfew meant the failure rate rose to 7% or 8%, he would defend them from any political fallout. Martin Narey, the prison service's director general, told governors in a circular this week detailing the changes that he wanted them to meet quickly Mr Blunkett's call for more use of home detention curfew. "I will stand by governors who increase their use of HDC within the guidelines even if this leads to more failures. I know the home secretary will too," he said. The scheme had helped resettle inmates and "to manage an ever-growing prison population". Only inmates serving short term sentences are eligible for the home detention curfew scheme. They face a rigorous risk assessment test and only about 30% of those eligible have so far been released with some prisons making greater use of the scheme than others. Mr Blunkett has warned governors to remain cautious about letting out inmates with histories of violent or sexual offences. Sex offenders are banned from the scheme. David Roddan of the Prison Governors' Association said: "We will continue to make careful judgments about who is released on licence but we do appreciate the home secretary's concern to reduce the prison population and his confidence governors will play their professional part in that."