Scotland Yard is stepping up the scope and depth of its investigation into the "loans for peerages" scandal after seizing a paper trail of more than 1,000 documents, files and emails from Whitehall departments and agencies.The Commons public administration committee yesterday agreed to halt its own investigation into the affair until July after police told MPs that they could prejudice a criminal investigation.Tony Wright, the Labour chairman, told journalists yesterday: "These are big, important, public issues, but I want to be responsible and above all I don't want it to be said at any point that we compromised police action."MPs had been planning to interview Lord Levy, Tony Blair's chief fundraiser, next week. They also planned to call the four would-be peers, Chai Patel, Sir David Garrard, Sir Gulam Noon and Barry Townsley, who pulled out of the prime minister's honours list after it became clear that the House of Lords appointments commission had recommended that they should not be ennobled. All four have been interviewed, without cautions, by police investigating the affair. The police have indicated that they could be called as witnesses should charges under the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act be brought.Scotland Yard's deputy assistant commissioner John Yates has told MPs that the inquiry is investigating not only "loans for peerages" but also whether any of the political parties had breached electoral law since 2001 by not declaring all their non-commercial loans to the Electoral Commission.Yesterday the Yard said: "To clarify speculation regarding the length of the police investigation ... we are aiming to get a preliminary submission to the Crown Prosecution Service by September, but this is not to suggest that the investigation will have concluded by this date."Mr Wright insisted that he had not offered the police "a blank cheque" and would resume his inquiry in July if the police appeared to have made no progress. But he added: "I was sceptical about the investigation. I am now convinced the police are taking it very seriously."Earlier the committee had heard evidence from Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, Lord Stevenson, chairman of the Lords appointments commission, and Douglas Hurd, former foreign secretary and Tory member of the committee.Lord Stevenson admitted that the committee knew nothing about the loans until newspapers leaked the list and the fact that at least one person on the list had made a secret loan to Labour. He told MPs: "When did we become aware of the saliency of loans in the most recent list? When we read that a particularly large loan had been made by one of the nominees. We moved very fast and got round all three political parties."He was now tightening up on future nominees, saying they must disclose "anything that could conceivably be thought to affect a peerage".Sir Gus defended Tony Blair recommending people who had funded city academies for peerages, which is another part of the investigation. He said it was "perfectly reasonable" for supporters of the controversial academies to be considered. Mr Blair would not rule out people who had donated to the academies programme, but he would be "absolutely clear" that peerages are awarded for "what they have achieved", he said.The Scottish Nationalist MP who initiated the police investigation, Angus MacNeil, welcomed the news that MPs will suspend the inquiry."With such a lengthy inquiry under way by the police it is vitally important they undertake their work unhindered by anything that could prejudice it," he said.Sir Gus also told MPs that it was highly unlikely that any civil servant would be sacked over the mistaken release of 1,000 foreign prisoners. He said: "I'm not clear that there was sufficient direct accountability [to civil servants] for that to be appropriate. This would have been assessed by line managers along the way and people will be looking at what lessons to learn and what staff changes are necessary."Sir Gus promised that the running of the Home Office would be investigated and the review's findings would be published. "Certainly, from the civil servants' side mistakes were made, and we need to learn from that."At a separate hearing Sir Hayden Phillips, a former permanent secretary appointed by the prime minister to undertake an inquiry into the funding of political parties, said he had set up a website to canvass the public's views. He told the Commons constitutional affairs committee there appeared to be a consensus among the main parties on increased state funding and a drop in individual donations.