Senior MPs last night used the debate on the 42-day detention plan to warn that it would diminish ancient British freedoms that would be difficult to win back.Sir Menzies Campbell used his first parliamentary speech since resigning as the Liberal Democrat leader to issue a rallying call to MPs to accept that their duty to protect freedom "transcends all of our other responsibilities". Campbell said he would vote against the plan "not because I'm soft on terror or because I fail to recognise the seriousness of the threat". He added: "I will vote against the government because any time any government seeks to diminish any freedoms which are the cornerstone of our system, it is our duty collectively and individually to hold that government to account. That duty transcends all of our other responsibilities."Campbell warned that the "natural acquisitiveness" of the executive was to "take power to itself as often as it can". He added: "If we give that power back, how difficult will it be to restore the freedoms and the personal liberty which we regard as being so important?"Keith Vaz, Labour chairman of the Commons home affairs select committee, which said in December that the government had not made a "convincing case" for the change, explained why he had changed his mind. He praised the government for putting forward safeguards that will give parliament a decisive say in any decision to invoke the new powers."The procedure to my mind is a very simple procedure: it is a procedure that will allow the house to make the decision as to whether or not to endorse what the home secretary is proposing and that is good enough for me."Vaz cited the director general of MI5, Jonathan Evans, who warned that at least 2,000 individuals are believed to be a direct threat. "I believe very firmly that the home secretary has conducted this matter in a proper way giving MPs the opportunity to put their concerns forward."Diane Abbott, Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington, said the government's plans would make Britain less safe. Abbott, who heard the 1996 IRA bombing of Canary Wharf from her kitchen, said: "I won't take lectures from ministers about not taking terrorism seriously. I do not believe, as ministers continue to insist, that there is some sort of trade off between our liberties and the safety of the realm. I believe that what makes us free is what makes us safe and what makes us safe is what will make us free."Abbott, a veteran rebel, said the government was attempting to expose the Conservatives for appearing soft on terrorism. "This is about positioning, this is about putting the Conservative party in the wrong place on terrorism. We shouldn't play ducks and drakes with our civil liberties in order to get a few months advantage in opinion polls."Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, said the change was necessary to protect national security. "The government believes that such a reserve power should be available for use, if necessary, to protect our national security and, most importantly, our people, against the threat that we face from terrorism."