The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday August 14 2006The article below quoted a recent Youth Justice Board survey showing that 36% of schoolchildren who had been a victim of crime had "taken a weapon to school to defend themselves". The survey had intended to refer to "children who currently attend a mainstream school", not those who specifically carry a knife to school, which is a very small proportion of the young people surveyed.There has been a surge in knife crime over the past year including a 60% rise - 15,000 extra cases - in robberies in which a blade was used, according to a study out yesterday. The jump in the 12 months to April will alarm the home secretary, John Reid, as he struggles to restore credibility to the government's drive against crime.Analysis of the latest British Crime Survey also shows use of knives in muggings was up 72% to 42,020 attacks. Assaults by strangers rose 55% to 51,780.In total, knife crime rose to 169,400 incidents in 2005-06 - a 25% increase at a time when crime generally has fallen.The author of the report, Chris Eades of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College, London, said government strategy for dealing with knife crime was incoherent and irrational, and the effectiveness of measures such as Dr Reid's proposed four-year minimum sentence for carrying a knife was unproven."There is insufficient evidence that knife amnesty or increasing sentence length for carrying knives will decrease the level of knife use and carrying. Due to the easy availability of knives there will always be opportunities to commit knife offences," Mr Eades said. "They are merely a tool used in violent crime. Success will only come in dealing with the underlying causes of violence, fear and insecurity."The report says 28% of schoolchildren have carried some kind of weapon in the past year - even if it is only a "legal" penknife. The proportion carrying a weapon rises to 57% of all children excluded from school. A recent Youth Justice Board survey showed that 36% of schoolchildren who had been a victim of crime had "taken a weapon to school to defend themselves" compared with 18% who had not been victims.The study stresses that although there has been "a significant jump" in some types of knife crime the long-term trend still shows a sustained drop, matching the fall in violent crime.Violence involving knives hit a peak of 340,480 attacks in 1995 but was almost halved by 2001-02, before going back up to 224,160 in 2002-03. This increase triggered Tony Blair's street crime initiative, after which the figure fell to 135,650 two years ago before climbing again.Domestic violence and "acquaintance violence" - involving someone known to the victim - where a knife was used continued to fall over the past year.Stabbing murders have fallen as a proportion in the past decade. In 1995, 231 out of the 632 homicides in England and Wales involved a knife. In 2004-05 there were 820 murders, but the number using a sharp instrument was steady at 236.Mr Eades said the increase in the past 12 months was significant and showed the government needed to tackle the root causes of knife crime. Amnesties would have little impact as long as unsliced bread existed, he said.A Home Office spokeswoman said the summer amnesty had collected 90,000 knives in England and Wales and young people were being taught that rather than keeping them safe, carrying a knife made them more at risk because of the danger of having it turned on them.