The wistful, sad-eyed young woman with neat short hair and a single strand of pearls in the sepia-tinged photo could have been snipped from the pages of Country Life. No one seeing that face framed on the mantelpiece of a pensioner's bungalow near Woking would identify her as Ruth Ellis, the cool platinum blonde from the postwar London nightclub demimonde who shot her lover dead and won enduring fame as the last woman to hang in Britain.For Muriel Jakubait, now 83, that picture of her sister, Ruth, taken just five years before her execution at the age of 28, merits a prominent place in a sitting room stuffed with family mementoes. The last of Ruth's family, she has been fighting for nearly 50 years to overturn her sister's conviction. For the past six years, since her brother died, she has carried on the fight alone. Next Tuesday, nearly 50 years after Ellis walked to the gallows, Jakubait will be at the royal courts of justice in London to see the court of appeal re-open her sister's case. At the time of her trial, the case against Ellis, a nightclub hostess and manager, seemed overwhelming. She shot her lover, David Blakely, outside the Magdala pub in Hampstead on the night of Easter Sunday, 1955, felling him with one bullet and pumping four more into him before an off-duty policeman removed the revolver from her hand. She offered no resistance. At her trial, her hair freshly dyed platinum and wearing a well-cut black suit with astrakhan collar and cuffs, she seemed unnaturally cool. When the prosecuting counsel asked her: "When you fired that revolver at close range into the body of David Blakely, what did you intend to do?", she sealed her fate by responding: "It is obvious that when I shot him I intended to kill him." Her counsel, Melford Stevenson, had wanted to argue provocation as a defence. He told the jury that she had been "driven to a frenzy which for the time being unseated her understanding". If that had succeeded, she would have been found guilty of manslaughter and spared the gallows. But the judge, Sir Cecil Havers, ruled it out. He said there was no evidence on which a jury could possibly conclude that it was a case of provocation, and left the jury no choice but to convict her of murder. Justice worked quickly in those days. The trial in June, only two months after the shooting, lasted just over a day. The jury took less than half an hour to reach a unanimous verdict of guilty. Jakubait and her mother visited Ellis on the eve of her execution. Jakubait remembers no mention of her sister's imminent death, only small talk. "She was very calm. My mum said, 'Don't ask any questions and let Ruth do the talking.' I'd just had a new baby and she said what was he like, and she said she liked the dress I had on. I believe she thought that at the last minute they'd say, 'You'll go to prison instead.'" Ellis had two young children but, despite huge public sympathy and newspaper campaigns for a reprieve, she was hanged on July 13 1955, only 13 weeks after she shot Blakely dead and three weeks after the trial. Her son, Andy, then nearly 10, killed himself in his 20s. Her daughter, Georgina, then a toddler, child of her estranged husband, George Ellis, an alcoholic dentist, was adopted and died, aged 50, of cancer. But there was more to the story than came out at the trial. More than 17 books and the 1985 film Dance with a Stranger have looked at the events leading up to Ellis's execution, but answers to some of the puzzles that remained unsolved have emerged only in the past few years. She claimed at the time to have been given the gun by an American serviceman as security for a nightclub debt, and to have taken a taxi to the pub. Much later it emerged that her friend and "sugar daddy", Desmond Cussen, an accountant with whom she had had a brief sexual liaison, had driven her to the pub and provided the gun. Home Office documents released only in 1999 reveal that Ellis made a dramatic death-cell revelation on the morning before her execution to a prominent solicitor, Victor Mishcon. She told him that she was not the lone, cold-blooded killer she had seemed at her trial. On the weekend she killed Blakely, she had been making frantic attempts to contact him at the home of friends. He was avoiding her and his friends denied he was there. She went round to the flat on Good Friday and made a scene, only leaving when he phoned the police. On Easter Sunday, she told Mishcon, she had been drinking Pernod for many hours with Cussen, who had handed her the loaded gun and driven her to the scene of the murder. According to a Home Office note, Ellis told Mishcon: "I didn't say anything about it up to now because it seemed traitorous, absolutely traitorous." Jakubait believes that her sister protected him during the trial because he had promised to look after her family. Mishcon rushed to the Home Office and the permanent secretary, Sir Frank Newsam, was tannoyed at Ascot races. Scotland Yard were ordered to search for Cussen, but he was not at home and they gave up after an hour. A prison officer who had sat in on the interview confirmed Mishcon's account but added that Ellis had said she asked Cussen for the gun, a detail that was to prove crucial to the Home Secretary's decision to let her hang. The authorities considered prosecuting Cussen, who later died in Australia, as an accessory, but decided it would be impossible without Ellis as a witness. Two decades later, in the 70s, according to Bernard de Maid, the solicitor handling the appeal, Ellis's solicitor, John Bickford, a friend of Cussen, wrote to Scotland Yard admitting that he had concealed from the jury that "Cussen had driven her to Hampstead, provided the gun, and had goaded her into shooting Blakely to remove a love-rival from the scene." Two days before the hanging, Ellis's lawyers had submitted evidence, including the testimony of witnesses that Blakely had inflicted repeated beatings on her and that she believed he had caused the miscarriage she suffered just 10 days before the shooting with a punch to the stomach. But it was not enough to save her, although nine out of 10 women sentenced to death in the 20th century have been reprieved and served jail terms instead. A week before she died, a reprieve was granted to a 40-year-old woman who had battered her 86-year-old neighbour to death with a shovel after a long-running feud. Newsam advised the home secretary: "It would be a bad day for this country if we adopted the doctrine of crime passionelle This was a deliberately planned and cold-bloodedly executed murder." At the time of the trial, provocation was narrowly interpreted, applying only to killers who reacted "in hot blood" to something happening immediately before the killing. In the 90s, however, judges softened the law on provocation, opening it up to battered women and others whose self-control was affected by despair or depression. Ellis, her lawyers argue with backing from a leading forensic psychiatrist, was suffering from post-miscarriage depression. As well as provocation, they claim she suffered from diminished responsibility, another partial defence that can reduce a murder charge to manslaughter. It was not a defence in 1955 but was enacted two years later, largely as a result of Ellis's case. Jakubait revealed only four years ago that their father had raped her at the age of 14, producing a son who was brought up as her brother, and had abused Ellis as well. That abuse and the beatings and other harsh treatment by Blakely and her husband, George Ellis, will also form part of her case for the appeal court. Jakubait could be in line for compensation - awards are discretionary - as could her niece Georgina's six children. Although she survives on the state pension, she insists that she hasn't persevered all these years for the money, "though if there is any money, I don't see why I shouldn't get my share". Determination is what has kept her going, she says. "I kept pushing it and pushing it and pushing it. I used to think Ruth was behind me doing it."