The hysteria over knife crime is taking place in a social and moral void, as though the problem sprang without warning from no one knows where. Has the incidence of knife crime increased? Or is it another overblown media scare? Is the toll of dead and wounded children evidence of a new readiness of young people to wound one another?Actually it is none of these things. It is a yet another twist in the ideology of fear, that most serviceable form of social control. As long as people are frightened, they remain infinitely suggestible, ready to underwrite the most illiberal policies, the most repressive values. The rhetoric around knives quickly becomes a lament for absconding fathers, poor parenting, the lack of positive role-models for young men and the urgency of yet another "crackdown". David Cameron's version of a "broken society" is plausible, but to the question: "Who broke it?", there is no answer.Kids who carry knives – interviewed by journalists who treat them as oracles – say they carry a weapon for protection or self-defence.The argument then falls into authoritarian calls for deterrence, new laws and maybe the appointment of a "knife tsar"; and then lapses into a fatalistic acceptance that young people are prey to gratuitous violence and being set upon as they go about their blameless business of getting an education and having fun.If so many young people now carry a knife for self-protection, this is no sudden development. How we, as a society, came to feel threatened by strangers has a long history; for a new generation, it has reached an intensity close to pathological. For half a century, we have bewailed the breakdown of community, the destruction of neighbourhoods, people deserting public spaces in a way impossible for a generation whose existence was shadowed by streets clustered around mills, mines or factories, chapels and street-corner pubs. This lasting regret at the disintegration of an intelligible rootedness has been accompanied by a constant praise of progress, rising standards of living, a celebration of the money in our pockets. The advantages of all this are so self-evident that they have drowned out the melancholy background music of loss, which is dismissed as sentimental nostalgia, that destructive enemy of progress.Yet the terms on which the better life was granted did involve the undermining of collective communal values. The growth of the market was at the expense of society. If the market has favoured individuals, it may also have injured society, even "broken" it, as Conservatives claim. How is the connection to be traced between perpetual economic growth and the social fracturing everyone deplores? It seems the social cost of things does not appear at the point of purchase, but manifests itself slowly, insidiously, over time. In order to sell more and more to people in the 1950s and 60s, inner, psychic spaces had to be cleared so that we would be receptive to whatever was on offer. This required the dismantling of older ways of answering need, which involved dependency upon others. Networks of kinship and neighbourhood had to be swept away in order to create markets; just as in the colonial era, "undiscovered" lands had to be "opened up", so that "natives" might learn the value of a handful of coloured beads in exchange for the ruin of their cultural traditions. From the 1950s onwards, as the world was flooded with things that evoked our wonder and desire, the familiar urban landscapes also became the habitation of a different kind of humanity: no longer peopled by workmates, family, friends and kin, but by a growing demonology which saw others as a threat to our well-being.How was the humanity that characterised the struggle against poverty transformed into a perception of others as rivals, competitors, participants in a rat-race no one chose? How would we have been drawn so irresistibly to marketed goods, services and sensations, if we had continued to draw sustenance from one another? The numbers of young people who go out armed with a knife - or a gun - suggest the sense of threat from others has become institutionalised, ritualised almost. Since they have no memory of what went before, and little sense of their own history, they have only the faintest conception of influences that have shaped them and created the insecurities which torment them.  Pity those who inherit this culture of forgetting. No wonder they want to escape from it. In the inner twilight, blinded by the radiance of the market, is it surprising that the blade in the belt, the knife in the shoe are ready to answer any insult or disrespect; a stab in the dark, blood on the pavement and the waste of another young life.