The government has deliberately misled parliament over secret plans to privatise part of the police force, including a new detention officer empowered to carry out intimate body searches.A leaked briefing paper prepared by Home Office civil servants instructs the Home Office minister Lord Rooker not to tell his fellow peers of plans to contract out detention officers to the private sector. The leaked paper - prepared for the report stage of the Police Reform Bill in the Lords on April 16 - states: "On no account read out the following paragraph. At the moment the bill does not allow for detention officers to be contracted out to the private sector, but we are hoping to be able to put forward amendments in the Commons to enable that."Provided they are properly trained, there is no obvious reason why such privately employed staff should not be able to conduct intimate searches." Lord Dholakia, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, responded angrily last night: "We are already opposed to detention officers being given powers to conduct intimate body searches, but I think it's even worse if this power is handed out to private contractors, such as Group 4. "I find it truly shocking if a minister knowingly withheld this plan from his fellow peers. It undermines the whole purpose of democratic debate and is a shaming indictment of the government." He pointed out that the issue of body searches in police stations had in the past sparked severe race tension in Britain's inner cities. A Home Office spokesman defended the move, saying: "The government has not made a final decision, or reached complete agreement, to seek these powers. There is consideration of whether we should do so, and that is why Lord Rooker was reminded for his private information while the debate on other areas of these powers were going ahead." The bill returns to the Lords for its third reading today when Lord Rooker is bound to be fiercely cross-examined about the privatisation plans. The minister, who is highly regarded by fellow peers, will also be challenged to explain why he carried out the instruction in his civil service brief to hold back the privatisation plans, even though the government had been closely cross-examined by peers on whether organisations such as Group 4 would be allowed to conduct intimate body searches on behalf of the state. An intimate search is defined as "a search that consists of the physical examination of a person's body orifices other than the mouth". The bill will also enable the detention officer to take samples and fingerprints without the suspect's permission, photograph suspects and require certain categories of people to attend police stations for finger printing. An alliance of Liberal Democrat and Tory peers was in any case planning to defeat the government today over plans to give a new community support officer powers to hold suspects for half an hour. Typically, when the two parties combine forces they can defeat the government in the Lords since Labour is in a minority. The community support officer will have powers to detain the suspect until a uniformed police officer arrived on the scene.They will also be empowered to ask for a name and address. The officer will normally be intervening in cases of alcohol-induced public disorder or antisocial behaviour.Ministers desperately want to introduce these new civilian officers as part of a bid to place more officers on the beat. Recent Home Office research shows that police officers spend almost half their time stuck in police stations carrying out paperwork.Without revealing its plans to privatise the role of detention officers, the government has defended their introduction on the grounds that their powers will be severely circumscribed by a code of practice set out in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act.