A former prisoner who tried to smuggle in the largest haul of drink, drugs and other contraband ever seized at a London jail is alleging systematic collusion between prison officers and inmates.Robert Palmer, 58, tried to smuggle around 750 grams of cannabis resin, six bottles filled with vodka and two camera phones into Wandsworth prison. He made his attempt after being given home leave in June 2003 as he neared the end of a five-year sentence for armed robbery.Mr Palmer claims two inmates had asked him to hand the goods to a corrupt officer, and says he had operated the same scam on numerous occasions after hospital visits. "I had three weeks to do before parole," he said. "No one in their right mind would try to take that amount of gear into the nick unless they had a screw onside. I thought I did, but I was met by the wrong screw."The Home Office has confirmed that Mr Palmer was caught with the contraband but was not disciplined. The Crown Prosecution Service did not proceed with drugs charges.Mr Palmer says he is speaking out because "the same staff who take the money also abuse prisoners". There were lots of honest officers in Wandsworth, he said, "but a small proportion of them are brutal and bent and they should get rid of them". He added: "If you've got the money you can buy anything in Wandsworth - drugs, mobile phones, choice of prison, anything."He alleges that after the contraband was seized, he told prison officials he had kept a diary recording details of corrupt staff who were bringing in drugs for prisoners. The diary was handed to the prison authorities.In July 2003, when he was questioned by police about the smuggling, his solicitor read out a prepared statement in which he said he had given prison staff the names of four corrupt officers. The Guardian has seen a copy of the statement. Mr Palmer claims none of the names was passed by the Prison Service to the police and that no officers have been investigated.On the day of his release he was arrested and charged with being in possession of cannabis with intent to supply. Last August, the CPS said it was not in the public interest for the case to proceed and the charges were dropped.The allegations against staff at Wandsworth come at a time when the jail, the biggest in England and Wales, was thought to have shaken off its bad reputation. Last year it began a radio station run by prisoners and launched by Cherie Booth, who described Wandsworth as "one of London's toughest jails". Ian Mulholland, seen as a reformer, is now in charge of the prison.A television documentary to be broadcast by Channel Five tonight, Inside Wandsworth Prison: A Macintyre Investigation, also highlights staff abuse at the jail. In 2004, the Prison Service paid £23,000 to former prisoner Steven Graham, who claimed to have been assaulted by two officers. The service admitted liability only after one of the officers was dismissed for assaulting another prisoner.The CPS gave several reasons, including Mr Palmer's age and ill-health and the length of time between the offence and a court appearance, to explain why charges had been dropped. A spokesman said the governor did not wish to press charges and Mr Palmer's smuggling attempt had resulted in his being refused parole.A spokesman for the Prison Service said Mr Palmer had not been disciplined for bringing the alcohol and mobile phones into the jail because charges were not put to him within the required period of two days after the offence.The service said that his allegations about corrupt staff "were not specific enough to be investigated".· Additional research by Fiona Hatton