Police will be given powers to seal crack houses permanently and wayward parents will be compelled to go on residential parenting courses, David Blunkett, the home secretary, said yesterday.Persistent young offenders are to be taken away from their families and placed with specially trained foster parents to give them a stable family environment. Mr Blunkett was speaking ahead of today's controversial anti-social behaviour white paper, which assembles a wide-ranging set of measures to restore order and mutual respect on Britain's blighted estates. It is not often that governments try to legislate to build trust, respect, order and security. But the white paper will draw on the home secretary's roots in a working class community in an attempt to do just that. Speaking to the Guardian yesterday he argued that world insecurity was creating a thirst for security at home. "Britain has never been at a more insecure moment," he says. "I think my job is to provide some stability and order. Anti-social behaviour is actually at the foundation and root of insecurity." The solution, the white paper argues, is early intervention. "Yobbishness changes the nature and culture of our society. It creates instability and insecurity that leads to other law-abiding people changing their attitudes, losing trust. "We will dramatically change the power of the police to deal with crack houses so that instead of raiding them, and then people just reoccupying, they will be able to close them down and seal them within 48 hours," Mr Blunkett said. He will introduce £40-£80 fixed penalty fines as well as injunctions for a wide array of anti-social offences, including nuisance by neighbours. "Unless there is fast track punishment people will despair and think that nothing works. There has been a terrific 'we cannot really do this' culture." The police would be encouraged to overcome this. The option of docking housing benefit from anti-social tenants will feature, but the government will look at a greater use of injunctions to evict, as well as losses of assured tenancies. Environmental health officers will be be given extended powers to fine noisy neighbours. Mr Blunkett said he would also be backing a private member's bill tabled by Bill Tynan, Labour MP for Hamilton South, restricting the use and sale of fireworks. Police will be given powers to close clubs and pubs which were persistently out of hand, he said. The home secretary disagreed with those who believe he is giving councils and police draconian powers to punish the poorest and most marginalised strata of society. "I just do not agree with the idea that because you are poor, your kids are out of control, that your family is dysfunctional, you can do nothing about it," he said. "This is an anti-poverty agenda, as well as an anti-crime agenda. If you don't enforce respect, then disorder magnifies. "Opinion formers are able to pull other people in because they are no longer scared of the police and the other enforcement agencies." Mr Blunkett said: "These are issues that have exercised me ever since I was leader of Sheffield city council. This is my bread and butter. This is where I come in." He makes few bones that the drive could help Labour through the difficult local elections in May. "If we can show the disillusioned we are on their side, they may come out to vote." But he insists he is not just making a pitch for support from the poor. Mr Blunkett is aware that his proposals must confront reality. The 1998 Crime and Disorder Act - on which the white paper and bill will build - has been criticised for proposing tough remedies which few agencies have used."We are going to propose a whole range of new and more flexible enforcement powers," he said. Fines, injunctions and interim orders are key. Mr Blunkett argues that the state has a legitimate role in addressing dysfunctional families. "From time to time we all have difficulty as parents, but everybody has seen people at one point or another on a tube train, a bus or even a beach who totally ignore the behaviour of their children as if it is nothing to do with them. "We need to say to them, 'I am terribly sorry, but on behalf of a civilised society you are going to have to do something'." He said parenting orders, introduced in 1998, would be recast. Parents would be given options including potential residential support, as tried in Scandinavia. Mr Blunkett also promised action to deal with "neighbours from hell". "Such people create mayhem for others," he said. The government will keep open the option of withdrawing housing benefit from anti-social neighbours. But Mr Blunkett's advisers have been studying Manchester city council, which has won almost 3,000 legal actions including injunctions, evictions and anti-social behaviour orders - equal to the combined total of all other councils across the country.