Charles Darwin once believed bears could turn into whales. In the first edition of On the Origin of Species, he saw 'no difficulty' about a tribe of grizzlies getting more aquatic and bigger-mouthed. Eventually, they would be 'monstrous' creatures designed along the lines of Moby Dick.This suspect evolutionary theory also applies at the Home Office, where interior ministers must mutate to survive. Thus the ultra-liberal Roy Jenkins imposed draconian prison security after a series of jailbreaks; Willie Whitelaw overrode his inner Santa Claus and brought in boot camps for teenagers.It does not take a lot to trigger a conversion. Media reports suggesting that practically the entire infant population was being eaten by rottweilers drove Kenneth Baker to produce his ludicrous Dangerous Dogs Act. If only, Charles Clarke must think, the worst threat to national life was antisocial pit-bulls.Instead, he has returned to a mixed in-tray. Leaders, always seeking magical solutions, expect Home Secretaries to play Debbie to their Paul Daniels. Mr Blair's latest means of conjuring up a virtuous society involves parenting orders handed out to anyone whose children might be thinking of misbehaving. Meanwhile, the tube suicide bomber, Mohammad Sidique Khan, warns in his posthumous mission statement of further attacks on Britain.Prisons are in crisis, judges are mutinous and drunks are allegedly running amok in crime-blitzed high streets. Zainab Kalokoh, a community worker, is shot dead at a London christening with a baby in her arms. Rory Blackhall, aged 11, is murdered, possibly by a suspected sex offender. Such a combination should turn the mildest Home Secretary into Caligula.Except that, all summer, there have been murmurs that Clarke is not jumping through the right evolutionary hoops. The tensions first surfaced after it emerged that Louise Casey, the Home Office's indiscreet Asbologist-in-chief, was reporting directly to the Prime Minister. She has just been made Respect Tsar, in a promotion unlikely to thrill Clarkeites.Whispers of friction intensified last Sunday, when an article by Blair's biographer, Anthony Seldon, quoted an 'insider' as saying that the Prime Minister found Clarke 'too tame'. Clarke, in the insider's opinion, was 'more sceptical about the value of prisons and not as keen as Blair on locking people up for antisocial behaviour'.In a furious rebuttal, a Downing Street spokesman said reports that Clarke might be sacked were 'plain wrong' and sought to undermine Seldon's sources. Seldon, for his part, is 'rather embarrassed'. He admires Clarke's stance much more than that of Blair, whom he thinks 'probably the most illiberal Prime Minister in Labour history'. But, mostly, Seldon is puzzled. He never asserted that Clarke was going to be reshuffled and is certain no such thing will happen. 'So why come back so strongly on something I didn't say?' he asks.Maybe because he touched a nerve. Clarke is not a soft touch. He is not even a liberal, or so he keeps saying. But nor has he genuflected to unthinking get-tough agendas in the same way as his predecessors. The left-leaning Jack Straw was soon busy demonising 'aggressive beggars, winos and squeegee merchants', and you could barely have slid a dispersal order between some policies of David Blunkett and Michael Howard.Clarke spent many months dealing with Blunkett's unfinished business: first ID cards, then control orders after the Law Lords ruled that holding foreign terror suspects without trial did not comply with the Human Rights Act. Soon afterwards, he was faced with terrorist attacks.Finally, he is about to offer his vision. This week, in a speech to the European parliament, he will call for international co-operation on asylum, immigration and counterterrorism. In a fortnight, he will give the Prison Reform Trust lecture. Clarke has spent many months considering what custody is for. His conclusions should be interesting.Though he might put it differently, he knows prisons are the black hole of his policy empire. He is thought to be disturbed at the futility of regimes that leave people just as sick and ill-educated as before and almost as prone to reoffend.Such details do not often trouble Home Secretaries. That is why the prison population, now at a record 77,000, is set to rise to 90,000 by 2010. It is why suicides have escalated to around 95 a year, and why prisons are becoming unsafe, inhumane hellholes where the desperate, children included, suffer and die regularly to little remark. Our penal system is not redeeming bad lives or making society safe. Only the clamour for retribution masks a national scandal.The solution is obvious. Punish the non-dangerous some other way. As organisations such as Smart Justice stress endlessly, locking up mentally ill women shoplifters is as pointless as it is cruel. Children who may never see their mothers again are groomed to repeat the lives in which the deprived get mistaken for the wicked and punished accordingly. Hundreds of children have been jailed so far for breaching Asbos.Mr Blunkett visited Holloway Prison. I know he registered the sadness of the aimless women with the lattice of slash marks on their arms, because I was with him. Nothing much happened, though, in policy terms. Nor will it, until a Home Secretary finally defies right-wing doom-mongers and says that community penalties, made as tough and as visible (short of Hazel Blears's chaingang chic) as necessary, are the only way forward.There are hopes that Clarke will take this route. Acknowledging that mercy, pragmatism and policies that work are much more useful than shroud-waving would confirm him as the best Home Secretary for many decades. That is not to say that he is always right, particularly on terrorism.It is appalling that people who face no criminal charge have been interned again. Clarke's initial bonding sessions with the judiciary have produced so little rapport that Home Office sources say the judges are proving very difficult to work with. In other words, they are, quite rightly, not disposed to bend the Human Rights Act to deport people to regimes that practise torture.Even so, the Home Secretary has somehow kept the trust of liberals. He did not panic when London was attacked. After much agonising, he took his holiday, which was doubly wise. The country needed time to calm down and he needed a break before a punishing stint ahead.Though the Home Office and Number 10 will not wish to show the slightest discord, a philosophical chasm lies between them. At issue is the value of fear. Blair thrives on alarmism, and Clarke abhors it. I would guess that he sees, as Blair does not, that bad children, crime, immigration, and even terror, are, in part, a decoy. The histrionics woven around them are the real breeding ground for hatred and dissent.However the frustrations play out, Clarke can afford to be brave. He is, most probably, too formidable to be shifted against his will. That makes him stronger than he may think. Blair might have wished for a whale. Providing that he acts on prisons, the Home Secretary will remain reassuringly bear-shaped.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk