A headmistress failed to turn up at court yesterday to be sentenced for embezzling up to £500,000 of school funds to pay for a lavish lifestyle while her pupils shared books.Colleen McCabe, convicted of theft and deception in July, was thought to have skipped bail. It later emerged she was in hospital for a suspected heart attack. Yesterday morning at Southwark crown court in south London, judge Christopher Elwen issued an arrest warrant after being told McCabe was missing and there was a risk she might harm herself. At lunchtime, paramedics were called to her home in Sidcup in Kent, and took her to hospital complaining of chest pains. Her trial had been told how McCabe, 50, ruthlessly stripped the budget of St John Rigby college in West Wickham, south London. While library shelves at the state-funded Catholic school were half empty, the shopaholic former nun splashed out on the school's Barclaycard. Her wardrobe was packed with designer outfits and a collection of shoes that would have "made Imelda Marcos proud". Former staff said her extravagance had gone unchecked for so long because it was underpinned by a "reign of terror". A former colleague likened her to "Saddam Hussein in a skirt". On Thursday McCabe had been due to meet her lawyers but instead attended a hospital to be treated for chest pains. She discharged herself before the results of tests were known, but did not tell her solicitor of her whereabouts. He tried phoning her home yesterday morning but got no answer, the court heard. Her barrister, Paul Lewis, said he was concerned over the results of a pre-sentence psychiatric report. And prosecutor Andrew Wilcken told the court: "The sooner Miss McCabe is tracked down the better, not just in the interests of justice but clearly in her own interests as well." Yesterday afternoon, however, she was spotted getting into an ambulance outside her home. Scotland Yard said later that officers were at the hospital where she was being treated, and she would be taken into custody when well enough to be released. More than 30 former pupils and teachers of St John Rigby attended court to see McCabe sentenced, and spoke of their frustration yesterday. One former teacher, who asked not to be named, said: "It is very upsetting that she is not here, but I am not surprised. "She should never have been given bail. She is a coward and I hope they catch her." Former pupil Natasha Cobley, 17, said: "I wanted to see her go to jail. In a way she's making it worse for herself, she'll get justice in the end." Miss Cobley described how McCabe would arrive at school in a Lexus sports car while pupils endured her penny-pinching measures. "We would clean classrooms after school, and there weren't enough text books - it was one between three, and at times we had to pay for our exercise books. There was a knock-on effect, though. It made us do well in our exams so we could get out." The trial heard of pupils shivering one winter because the boiler was broken, and of rats jumping from cupboards, while McCabe "milked" the school's £3m annual budget over the course of five years. She bought holidays, theatre tickets, and fashion wear - spending £7,000 on shoes, £12,000 on Gucci jewellery, and £11,000 on cosmetics - plus £400 on dog treats. In two visits to a "favourite watering hole", the Monte Carlo restaurant in Sevenoaks, Kent, she spent £1,500. She gave her mother a £2,000 bracelet, and took the college chaplain, Father Richard Plunkett, on holidays to Malta. It was only the school being taken back into local authority control in 1999 that stopped her profligacy. Despite an exhaustive investigation, the extent of her dishonesty is not known - but the prosecution suggested she cheated the school of £500,000. In July, McCabe was told she faced a lengthy jail sentence. As the guilty verdicts were returned, she gasped in the dock. A nun for 15 years before turning to teaching, McCabe came to St John Rigby in 1989 and was appointed principal two years later.