Former school caretaker Ian Huntley today admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice following the deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, but denied murdering the two 10-year-olds.During a hearing at the Old Bailey in London, the 29-year-old former caretaker at Soham Village college, in Soham, Cambridgeshire, pleaded guilty to conspiring with his then girlfriend Maxine Carr to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, 26, a former teaching assistant in Holly and Jessica's class at St Andrew's primary school, Soham, denied three charges: two of assisting an offender and one of conspiring with Mr Huntley to pervert the course of justice.It was the first time that Mr Huntley and Ms Carr had stood in the dock together since they were charged with offences relating to the deaths of Holly and Jessica in August 2002. Mr Huntley and Ms Carr spoke only to confirm their personal details and to answer the charges put to them by the court clerk. Mr Huntley, who entered the court first and was dressed in a white shirt and grey tie, glanced occasionally at Ms Carr. Ms Carr, who was dressed in a pale blue blouse and blue jacket, looked ahead during the hearing, occasionally glancing down at the floor. Sitting in the public gallery a few yards away from the dock were Holly's parents Kevin, 39 and Nicola, 36, and Jessica's parents Leslie, 52, and Sharon, 43. Jessica's sisters Rebecca and Alison, who are both in their mid-teens, were also present. The defendants were led into and out of the dock separately. They were separated by a dock officer and both stared ahead showing little expression during the hearing before Mr Justice Moses, which lasted about an hour. Mr and Mrs Wells looked intently towards the dock as Mr Huntley and Ms Carr entered their pleas. Mr and Mrs Chapman and their daughters looked straight ahead, with Mr Chapman glancing at the dock occasionally.The judge rose after the two defendants had entered their plea to allow lawyers time to discuss the case. That first part of the hearing lasted for around 10 minutes. Members of the girls' families left the court at that point and did not return for the second part of the hearing when administrative details about the case were discussed by the judge and prosecuting and defending lawyers. The girls' relatives had sat with police family liaison officers and senior detectives, including Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson, who is heading the investigation. Court one of the Old Bailey was packed with journalists and around 50 people were sitting in the public gallery. Mr Justice Moses imposed no restrictions on the reporting of the pleas entered by the two defendants. Both parents left the court a short time later. The trial of Mr Huntley and Ms Carr is expected to start in October. Holly and Jessica vanished shortly after being seen walking near their homes in Soham in the early evening of August 4. Their bodies were found 17 miles from the village, in woodland near Lakenheath, Suffolk, on August 17.More than 441 police officers from 23 forces were involved in what became the biggest manhunt in British criminal history, and 3,000 witnesses were interviewed.Mr Huntley and Ms Carr were originally due to stand trial at Norwich crown court but in November the case was transferred to London after the judge ruled there was "a real risk" a jury from East Anglia might have some connection with the massive police investigation.