The government's criminal justice bill suffered a fresh defeat in the House of Lords last night when a cross-party coalition of peers voted by 182 votes to 111 to restrict the use of a defendant's previous criminal record in court proceedings.In achieving a 71 vote majority, Conservatives, Liberal Democrats and crossbench peers combined forces to replace the government's proposal to allow "bad character" to be included in a trial - subject to the judge's discretion - with the independent Law Commission's more restricted draft reform. Instead of jurors being informed of past convictions - a rarity as the law now stands - the Lords amendment would only allow it where it is specifically permitted. That would allow previous convictions, PCs in police jargon, to be used for instance when it would provide an important explanation when charges are related to earlier convictions of a similar nature, or by mutual agreement. The current procedure whereby PCs are revealed when an accused has made allegations of police misconduct would be extended to other witnesses. Barrister and Home Office minister Lady Scotland insisted that defendants would not be "damned by their past" because safeguards have been built into the bill to place the onus of proof on the prosecution. But the former Tory MEP, Christopher Prout, now Lord Kingsland, warned it represented "an ocean-going departure" from existing practice. In the looming parliamentary "ping pong" between the Lords and the Commons it may not matter, as the Home Office is determined to reverse the series of defeats it has sustained on the bill. Last night the Lib Dems forced a doomed vote on the ending of the historic double jeopardy rule which prevented an acquitted defendant being tried twice, but new forensic technologies have undermined. The Lib Dems wanted it restricted to murder and rape cases where DNA testing and other innovations can be crucial in clearing up cases that are decades-old. Instead, ministers have said they will drop some of the less serious offences, including hijacking of a Channel tunnel train. Ministers have offered a mixture of conciliation, concession and defiance in the face of running defeats in the upper house on David Blunkett's flagship crime legislation. But the Tory peers are also aware, as is their leader-in-waiting, the former home secretary, Michael Howard, that Mr Blunkett and Tony Blair are keen to paint them as "soft on crime". They see the issue as one of civil liberty, but it is sometimes a fine line. The Tories have withdrawn their opposition to letting parliament set mandatory sentences for murder. But they have voted with other peers to reinstate the right to trial by jury in complex fraud cases and where intimidation of jurors is suspected. Ministers intend to reverse that vote when the bill returns to the Commons. Another contentious proposal which the Lords defeated was the right to retain DNA samples - and fingerprints - taken from suspects at police stations. The opposition want the samples retained only if a conviction follows. Peers are also insisting that the new right to appeal given to the prosecution in cases which collapse should only be allowed if the defence counsel also has enhanced right of appeal. Ministers argue that the defence can already appeal against conviction and sentence, which is why they want such a right too.