A 20-year-old man convicted for his part in the racist murder of a 15-year-old schoolboy was jailed for life yesterday.Daanish Zahid was told he must serve 17 years in prison for the "callous, brutal and shocking" killing of 15-year-old Kriss Donald before he can apply for parole. The Glasgow teenager died after being abducted, repeatedly stabbed and then set alight in a murder that horrified Scotland. Zahid, of Shields Road, Glasgow, was earlier unanimously convicted of the racially aggravated murder of Kriss by a jury after eight days of evidence. He was also found guilty of racially aggravated assault on a friend of the dead youth and attempting to defeat the ends of justice by burning the car used in the abduction. During his trial the court heard it was not Zahid who plunged a knife 13 times into the stomach, back and arm of the teenager. Nor did he set the youth on fire after he was doused with petrol. But Zahid had helped in the abduction of Kriss, stayed with him on a 200-mile drive from Pollokshields in Glasgow, to Motherwell, to Dundee and then back to his home city where he met his death. Zahid had also bought the petrol and disposed of the weapons. The court had heard that Zahid had been part of a group who snatched Kriss from near his home as he walked with a friend. They had been looking for revenge after one of them had been struck by a bottle thrown by a white teenager in a nightclub the previous night. Kriss had shouted "Why me? I'm only 15," as he was bundled into a car. His mutilated body was found the next day in the east end of the city. At the high court in Edinburgh yesterday, the judge, Lord Philip, told Zahid: "The public have a right to remain shocked and horrified by the callous, brutal and shocking nature of these crimes and the sickening ordeal which your victim had to go through." He added that Zahid appeared to show no remorse for his participation in the crime, or concern for his victim. Zahid was also told that although he did not strike the fatal blow he was still guilty of murder. Zahid's co-accused, Zahid Mohammed, who was cleared of the murder but admitted abducting Kriss, was jailed for five years. He will be kept under supervision for a further five years. Three other individuals are still wanted by the police in connection with the teenager's death. The court heard that Zahid's family have been the target of race hate mail. His defence counsel, Ian Duguid QC, said Zahid had "genuine remorse" for the fate of the victim.