Magistrates who have just realised that they will lose the power to send people to prison for less than six months when the Criminal Justice Act 2003 comes into force are calling for short prison sentences to be retained for some cases.The change - which magistrates argue will prevent them sending drink drivers to prison - is due to be implemented in 2005 for young offenders and in 2006 for over 21s. But the drafting of the act is so obscure that many magistrates are only now waking up to its implications. One effect is that judges and magistrates who now give short jail terms to some types of offenders, including drink drivers, will have to impose community sentences instead. They have been confused by the new "custody plus" sentence, introduced by the act, which provides for a mixed sentence of a short jail term followed by a time on licence in the community. The minimum time in custody under the new sentence is two weeks, followed by a minimum licence period of 26 weeks, for an overall minimum of 28 weeks. But what many failed to realise was that the sentence covers only those cases where the offence is thought serious enough to merit a 28-week sentence. That leaves no option but a community sentence for those crimes thought to deserve only two or three months in custody. Justice of the Peace, the magistrates' journal, admits in an editorial today that the change was "hitherto not widely appreciated". Bryan Gibson, barrister, legal adviser to the Magistrates' Association sentencing committee and author of books on the criminal justice system, said he discovered it only when researching a book on the 2003 act, published today. "Today, people convicted of theft, criminal damage, drink driving or even some assaults could go to prison for, say, a month, two months or three. In future, they will have to be dealt with in the community," he said. "If it had been specifically raised in parliament in hard terms that these powers were going to be abolished, there might well have been greater discussion." At present, offenders sentenced to less than 12 months in custody are simply released, with no monitoring or requirement to undergo rehabilitative work after release. Re-offending rates are high. The new regime is designed to remedy that by allowing conditions such as curfews, exclusion orders, drug rehabilitation or alcohol treatment, to be attached to the licence. The editorial says this ignores the cases where retribution or deterrence requires a short custodial sentence but there is little risk of re-offending. It cites drink driving and welfare benefit deceptions where the offender has no criminal record. The effect, it argues, will be to prevent magistrates sending drink drivers to prison, unless there is substantial "ratcheting up" of sentences - which Mr Gibson points out is unlawful. Drink driving carries a minimum 26 weeks sentence, while under the new sentencing regime the minimum sentence which can include a period of custody is 28 weeks. The editorial predicts that it may prove difficult to "sell" the idea that a new community sentence is an adequate substitute for a short time in custody. "There is a clear risk of ratcheting up to ensure that some time is spent in custody, even at the expense of intellectual honesty as to what the offence really deserves," it concludes. Paul Cavadino, chief executive of the crime reduction charity Nacro, said he had been unaware magistrates would lose their powers to pass short custodial sentences. But he would favour removing magistrates' powers to pass custodial sentences and require them to send more serious cases to crown court.