Police hunting for up to four attackers of Stephen Lawrence who are still at large have appealed for the owner of a bag strap found near the murder scene to come forward.The leather strap was found near to where Lawrence, 18, fell after being beaten and stabbed by a racist gang in Eltham, south-east London in 1993.The bag strap contains the DNA of a female who police wish to identify. Metropolitan police detectives believe it may be significant, but sources with close knowledge of the case say it may not be.The Guardian understands none of the major witnesses has ever said a female was part of the group of up to six people who attacked Lawrence.Two people have been convicted of the murder after forensics showed they were part of the group.Scotland Yard would not say how the bag strap and discovery of a female’s DNA on it may help the murder inquiry, but they hope the publicity of the appeal they are making will lead to new witnesses. Several people in the area on the night of the murder are believed to have not come forward in the decades since the attack.Police say the black, leather bag strap measures 66cm in length and 1.7cm in width. Detectives first identified it as being of potential interest some years ago when they went through stored exhibits in 2007. The strap was discarded on the road beside where Lawrence was attacked in Dickson Road, by its junction with Well Hall Road. It is consistent with coming from a woman’s handbag. None of the six prime suspects are believed to have been carrying a bag when the attack happened, shortly after 10.30pm on 22 April, 1993.One source said: “It could have been there a minute before the attack, a month, a year. It is an opportunity ... to regenerate impetus into the investigation.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Police also appeal for a man seen wearing a jacket with a distinctive ‘V’ emblem to come forward. Photograph: Metropolitan Police/PASuccess in catching the killers would help Scotland Yard ease the reputational damage caused by its racism in the case, which helped the black teenager’s killers escape justice for so long.Incompetence, prejudice among some investigators and possibly even corruption blighted the hunt for Lawrence’s murderers, who were named within hours by locals.DCI Chris Le Pere, the senior investigator in the case, said: “Since January 2016, officers have been carrying out screenings to eliminate witnesses from previous lines of enquiry. So far we have been unable to identify the owner of the bag strap.“While there is no evidence that a woman was at the scene of the attack, I need to establish who this bag belonged to, and why it was at the spot where Stephen was attacked.”Stephen Lawrence: new criminal inquiry into claims police shielded killers Police have spoken to more than 110 people to try to identify who the bag strap belonged to and asked them for DNA samples. Fifty people volunteered samples, 46 declined, 12 failed to respond to police requests and the rest were eliminated for medical reasons.It took more than 18 years before two of Lawrence’s killers – Gary Dobson and David Norris – were brought to justice. The pair were jailed for life in January 2012 for their role in the attack. The Metropolitan police said they would continue to pursue others involved.Police will use Monday night’s Crimewatch programme on BBC1 to appeal for a man seen wearing a jacket with a distinctive V emblem in an off licence two hours before the murder, and some 100 yards from where Stephen was attacked, to come forward. A man was seen wearing a similar jacket around the time of the attack.Le Pere said: “Detectives continue to pro-actively pursue all lines of enquiry in relation to Stephen’s death. I am hoping that tonight’s Crimewatch reconstruction, and the passing of time, will encourage people to come forward and assist us in determining the full circumstances of his death.“Tomorrow would have been Stephen’s 42nd birthday; as another year passes, the Met will continue to explore all avenues to seek justice for his tragic death.”Three other suspects remain free. Neil and Jamie Acourt and Luke Knight deny involvement in the murder.The 1998 Macpherson inquiry into the police handling of the original murder investigation found evidence of institutional racism within the Met.An independent review, led by Mark Ellison QC, who led the prosecution that resulted in the conviction of Dobson and Norris, was published in March 2014 and prompted the then home secretary Theresa May to appoint a senior judge to lead another public inquiry, this time to examine a wide range of allegations surrounding the conduct of undercover police officers since 1968.The latest inquiry, led by Lord Justice Pitchford, is to hold public hearings into the police’s covert infiltration of hundreds of political groups.This article was amended on 12 September 2016. An earlier version referred to “allegations of police racism” in the case. As stated later in the article, the Macpherson report found there was evidence of institutional racism in the Met police. The reference to allegations was introduced at the editing stage and has been removed.