Detectives have said it is increasingly likely two men involved in an alleged attempt to kidnap an RAF serviceman last week were part of a larger team.The serviceman, who is in his late 20s, was jogging near RAF Marham, in Norfolk, on Wednesday, when two men described as being “Middle Eastern” in appearance sprang from a dark-coloured Ford Galaxy and tried to drag him into the vehicle at knifepoint.As the investigation enters its fourth day, Norfolk police said they believe there could have been more than two people in the Galaxy and have urged motorists to come forward.Police consider terrorism motive behind RAF abduction attempt Det Supt Paul Durham, from the Norfolk and Suffolk major investigation team, said: “While the victim only witnessed two attackers, there may have been more than two people in the vehicle and given the nature of the attack, it is likely they were part of a larger team. “This is important because I do not want to deter any potential witnesses from coming forward – it is the vehicle we are interested in, regardless of the number of people seen inside.”Durham said dashboard camera footage recorded by drivers in Marham or King’s Lynn area could be useful and urged motorists to review any video. The police cordon round the scene of the attempted abduction on Squires Hill was lifted on Friday and the road has now reopened.Police have appealed to shoppers at a nearby Costcutter store to come forward after CCTV revealed a number of people used the store around the time of the botched kidnapping.Detectives said they could not rule out terrorism as a motive and launched dedicated hotlines for anyone with information.One of the alleged assailants jumped out of the vehicle and tried to drag the unarmed serviceman towards the vehicle as he was going for a run near the barracks on Wednesday afternoon. He fought back and knocked the attacker to the floor, at which point the second man allegedly climbed out of the car wielding a 3in blade. As he went to help his companion, the victim ran away.At a press conference in Wymondham, Norfolk, on Thursday, Durham said the victim believed the first assailant shouted but as he had been listening to music he was unable to confirm what was said. Durham said it appeared to be a planned attack, but it was too early to be certain. “[The victim is] naturally very shaken by his ordeal, as you would expect,” he said.RAF Marham is home to four Tornado squadrons that have played a key role in the bombing campaign in Iraq and Syria. From 2018, the base will also house the F-35 Lightning II jet.Police released descriptions of the suspects. The first man was between 20 and 30, approximately 6ft tall, of athletic but stocky build, with dark hair which was long on top, and had a well-groomed beard. He was of Middle Eastern origin in appearance with a dark skin tone and wore dark casual clothing.The second was between 20 and 30 years old, but younger than the first suspect and of a slimmer build. He was approximately 5ft 10in, clean shaven with short dark hair. He was also of Middle Eastern origin in appearance and wore a white T-shirt and dark shorts.