You could almost have set your watch by it. Barely 25 minutes after Southend's pubs started calling time on Friday's shift of revellers, the first shout came over the police radio: youths were reported trying to break into a shop. Squads of lads had had just enough time to swill down the remains of their fizzy Carlsbergs, wipe the dribbles off the front of their carefully untucked shirts and stagger off along the seafront in search of drunken sustenance. Now it was time for lager-fuelled high jinks.The Ford Mondeo driven by PC Mick Taylor reached the shop, a half-mile from the town centre, in a couple of minutes, joining three other patrol cars which had raced to the scene. The four lads in question, all in their early twenties, were not only still there, but very drunk and unhappy with the sudden and dramatic attention. For a moment it looked as if though things would turn ugly, but after a few minutes of quiet questioning from Taylor, the tension was replaced by joking as it became clear that the youths had not been trying to burgle the unlikely target of an 'everything for £1' shop. 'We were just waiting on our pizza and we started having a larking-around fight,' explained Neil, the mouthiest of the group. 'We were rolling about making a racket, and we maybe banged into the shop doors a couple of times. Then, the next thing we are surrounded by four cop cars.' It was the sort of minor incident played out in every town centre in Britain every Friday and Saturday night. In this case, it ended with matey handshakes all round before the lads were left to their pizza. But if Tony Blair has his way, the likes of Neil and his mates could find themselves being marched off to the cash machine at the nearest bank for money to pay a £100 on-the-spot fine for their loutish behaviour. In a speech to 1,000 students in the German town of Tübingen last week, the Prime Minister announced this latest idea to crack down on the tide of anti-social behaviour, usually drink-related, which causes 'offence and misery in too many towns and cities on too many Friday and Saturday nights'. 'A thug,' he said, 'might think twice about kicking in your gate, throwing traffic cones around your street or hurling abuse into the night sky if he thought he might get picked up by the police, taken to a cashpoint and asked to pay an on-the-spot fine.' Blair believes it is perverse that hard-pushed front line police officers should have the power to fine people who park illegally, but can deal with loutish drunks only through a 'long, expensive process through the police station, courts and beyond'. If the idea was meant to be the answer to the Government's sensitivities on law and order, it immediately backfired. Senior police officers and lawyers were puzzled about why he chose to drop what is being widely dismissed as a gimmick into a highbrow speech on community ethics and the value of religious faith in modern society. The most obvious theory is that Blair is desperate to be seen to be taking the initiative on law and order ahead of the publication on 18 July of new crime figures which are expected to be bad. While burglary and car crime will show another fall, violence against the person is expected to show a double-figure increase. The political logic is simple: behind the twitching curtains of suburban Britain, the feeling is that yobbery is on the march, unchecked by a lily-livered Government. So what better, or cheaper, way to reclaim the law and order initiative agenda than by tossing the tabloids the juicy bone of summary justice? It is not difficult to understand Ministers' reluctance to unleash more gloomy results on a public which already suspects that new Labour is starting to lose its grip on crime. The Government was startled by the row over rural crime sparked by the case of Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer convicted of the murder of a 16-year-old intruder. Then came the ugly antics of England football hooligans in Belgium for Euro 2000.Blair's choice of Germany to air his plan shows how keen he is to re-establish his Government's damaged reputation with the British public and of his European partners. The reality on the ground is more complicated, and adds weight to complaints that he is pandering to little more than an unsubstantiated fear of thuggery stalking the country. No separate figures are available for loutish behaviour, whether caused by drink or not, so it is impossible to tell the scale of the problem. The one area which Blair seems to have in mind, and for which statistics are available, is criminal damage. Yet even there, the evidence runs against his argument. The last crime figures, released last October, show a 3.2 per cent fall for this offence. Only 11 per cent of the 879,600 incidents in the 12 months up to March 1999 involved damage to objects such as bus shelters and telephone kiosks. But it is places such as Southend that are the true test. The Essex resort is famous for two things: its pier and its louts. With more than 400 licenced premises attracting a heady mix of locals and day-trippers every weekend, trouble is likely any weekend. 'We have pubs chucking out from 11pm and the clubs going through until 2am,' said Inspector Howard Laverack, the officer in charge of Friday's night shift. 'That means we get problems with people having too much to drink or being under the influence of drugs, which can affect their behaviour. Some Friday and Saturday nights can be bloody horrendous.' Even here, however, Blair can count on little support. 'I can see where he's coming from,' said Laverack. 'But I can't see how we could give an on-the spot fine to somebody misbehaving because they are drunk or on drugs, or both, because they are impossible to deal with, especially if they offer violence. It not just police who are unimpressed. Friday night in Southend was quiet, but the atmosphere was still tense. Trouble never seemed far away, especially when the clubs started emptying drink- and often drug-filled customers into the street. Lee Phypes, head doorman at Papillon's bar on the seafront for eight years, expects trouble every weekend. A few weeks ago, a drunk came at him with an ashtray and on a few memorable occasions in the past, huge mass fights have erupted between members of drunken coach parties. Even he sees little point in giving police the new power. 'It would be a waste of time. We deal with the stuff that happens inside, they deal with it when it's outside. They would never use fines because it would be more hassle.' Papillon's punters agreed. 'You get trouble down here quite a lot,' said Paul Horwood, 18, who was in town for a night out with three mates from east London. 'Some people come looking for trouble but usually they're just pissed up, and they are not going to be thinking about fines or anything.' A little before 2am and PC Taylor and his partner, Gary Watts, have made their third tour round the near-deserted town centre streets. As they cruised past Tots, a gleaming, neon-spangled nightclub above the seafront, a drunken young woman spotted the car and unleashed a loud barrage of abuse. The officers shook their heads and drove on. 'That's a classic example of why this idea won't work,' said Taylor. 'We could have stopped her but that could have been like sending up a rocket so what would be the point of trying to fine her? We already have the powers we need, it just comes down to practical policing and how we use our judgment.' Watts agreed: 'If you asked the British public what they wanted the police to sort out first, I would say burglary was a bigger priority.' Just then, another emergency call came over the radio. A member of the public had reported seeing a handgun in a black Jaguar driven by four young men on the seafront. As the officers joined the operation to stop it, Taylor remarked wryly: 'Now that's a bit more serious than somebody chucking a traffic cone around and shouting.' stuart.millar@observer.co.uk