The ringleader of a gang whose multimillion-dollar operation selling fake golf clubs on eBay is believed to be the biggest ever fraud on the auction website, has been jailed for four years.The five-year scam, described by prosecutors as "a conspiracy of a truly global nature", came to light only after a British woman complained to a local trading standards team about two golf clubs she bought which were fake. Most of the counterfeit clubs were made in China then sold through an international network of criminals, Snaresbrook crown court, in east London, was told.The court also heard that between June 2003 and March 2008 the conspirators sold tens of thousands of items of golf equipment, bringing more than $3m (£2m) into their PayPal accounts.Gary Bellchambers, 46, masterminded the scam, recruiting his sister, Sharron Williams, 49, his former business partner Roy Cottee, 66, and two others to help.The prosecution was brought by Havering council, east London, after one customer, Christine Manz, told them about two fake Acushnet golf clubs she bought from Bellchambers on eBay. She and her husband were unhappy about the quality of the clubs and tried to get a refund.The fraudsters usually returned money instantly to avoid attracting attention from the authorities, but Manz's letters went unanswered because Bellchambers was away in Thailand. The council then launched an investigation, codenamed Operation Augusta.Bellchambers, of Rainham, Essex, pleaded guilty to involvement in the conspiracy along with Keith Thomas, 50, also from Rainham, and Chris Moughton, 56, from Blackpool.Bellchambers also admitted the unauthorised use of trademarks in relation to other counterfeit items: Qantas business class lounge invitation cards and Sony memory sticks. He was jailed for four years and three months.Thomas was sentenced to 16 months in jail and Moughton received a 19-week sentence, suspended for a year. Four others, including Williams and Cottee, had earlier been found guilty of conspiring to sell or distribute counterfeit golf clubs, clothing and accessories.Judge Jacqueline Beech described the fraud as "a highly sophisticated and profitable operation", adding that such counterfeiting was "a serious problem which must be deterred".Bill Adams, Havering council's principal trading standards officer, said: "We are pleased that this gang has got what it deserved. It made millions of pounds selling fake clubs to people all over the world. Each customer was ripped off by up to £100 per club. I'd never heard of such a massive counterfeiting operation."The auction site eBay, which worked with trading standards to build the case, welcomed the sentencing. The company's UK managing director, Mark Lewis, said: "Trust is at the heart of everything we do and so when that trust is abused by a small minority, we work tirelessly to ensure that they will not get away with it. It's over 10 years since we launched our first anti-counterfeit measures and during that time we have developed innovative solutions to help prevent the sale of counterfeit goods on our site."