The former flatmate of Amanda Knox yesterday told a court trying the American student for murder that she was bewildered by the woman's behaviour on the morning that the crime was discovered.Blonde, bespectacled Filomena Romanelli also posed a string of problems for the defence. She said that when she returned to the house they shared on 2 November 2007 the washing machine was warm. She later identified most of the clothes inside as those of the victim, Meredith Kercher, a student at Leeds University.Romanelli also raised an important question mark over a defence claim - that there was a break-in on the night of the killing. And she contradicted Knox on whether Kercher was in the habit of locking herself in her room.The legal assistant, who spent the night of 1-2 November with her boyfriend, said she and a friend had decided to go to a market in the morning. They were about to arrive there when she received a call from Knox. "There's something strange at the house," she quoted the young American as saying. "I go, 'Ciao, Amanda. What's happened? In what sense?' [She said,] 'I arrived and the door was open.' " Knox explained to Romanelli that she was going back to the flat of her Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito. She quoted Knox as saying: "I've taken a shower. Then at Raffaele's place I'll get him to come over. There's blood there, I think." Romanelli replied: "But Amanda. I don't understand. Explain to me, because there's something odd. The door's open. You take a shower. There's blood. But where's Meredith?""Eh, I don't know," she recalled Knox as saying. Romanelli told her to check the house again and call her back. Then she rang her boyfriend, who could get to the house quickly, and he and a friend went round.Replying to the judge later in her testimony, Romanelli said: "The door's open. I go in. There's blood. I take a shower. I don't know about you, but I really don't think that that's normal." After Romanelli reached the house, her boyfriend kicked in the door to Kercher's bedroom, where her body was found on the floor in a pool of blood. Other witnesses have testified that Knox earlier told those present that it was not unusual for Kercher to lock her room. But Romanelli said: "Meredith always left her door unlocked." She said that, knowing by then that the window of her bedroom had been smashed, her first instinct on returning to the flat had been to go to her room. What she saw was "a disaster". Her clothes were on the floor and her cupboard was open. But none of her jewellery was missing, nor her designer sunglasses and handbags. Her laptop was among the clothes. She said there was glass on top of the pile of clothes: "I remember that in lifting the computer I realised that I was picking up bits of glass because there were bits of glass on top and it was all covered with glass."The prosecution maintains that Knox and her boyfriend faked a burglary. If the glass was on top of the clothes, it suggests the window was broken after the room was rifled.But Romanelli also reinforced the defence case. She said a police officer entered Kercher's room after the door was broken down. That could mean he left footprints the prosecution have maintained belonged to Sollecito, who is standing trial alongside Knox for the murder.Kercher died after her throat was slashed. A young drifter, Ivory Coast-born Rudy Guede, has already been convicted of her murder. Last October he was given a 30-year sentence after opting for a fast-track trial. But the prosecution maintains that Knox and Sollecito took part in the killing.