Crime Wave UK! shrieked this week's News of the World. It got its attack in first before the release of tomorrow's annual crime figures. Nothing but lies, damned lies, can be expected from most of the press and all the Tories.With a weary sigh those compiling the statistics will don their battered flak jackets and put up with the annual deluge of newsprint mendacity. They are well-used to headline shockers bearing no relation to fact. They are glum that the figures always appear at the worst time of year - at the frayed end of the summer parliamentary term when all news is bad news.If this was just the government getting another drubbing, it would only be a harmless part of the rough and tumble of politics. A government so dominant in the polls, with not a whiff of opposition in the wind (outside its own party), can expect a daily mauling from a press three-quarters Tory, frustrated beyond endurance at having no credible party to promote. But the damage done is more serious. Crime panic terrorises people into staying indoors, avoiding public spaces or public transport, and it turns children into couch potato captives. A quarter of the population says it is "very frightened" of violence. Beyond that, it damages the national psyche, souring general happiness and wellbeing in a western world grown ever safer and, for most, richer than ever before. But watch the Tory press (and some not Tory who should know better) do all they can to make their readers think things always get worse, on a slippery slope to perdition surrounded by perverts and muggers in a state of gross moral decline.The real figures most newspaper readers may never get to see, tucked away if they appear at all, are likely to show a slight decrease in overall crime. The British Crime Survey will probably yet again show there is less chance of being a victim of crime than ever. Burglary is now lower than ever recorded (with a chance of being burgled once every 50 years) - despite the reporting of it rising as a wealthier nation insures more of its goods. Mobile phone thefts are more recorded than previous street crimes because they are insured. Car crime has already had a huge drop, mostly due to manufacturers' better security systems. Violence is only around 2% of crime and last year it fell, but you would never have guessed it. Figures look set to be broadly stable this year, maybe up a bit with more affluent young men drinking and hitting each other a bit more outside bars. But don't expect to see a description of what most "violent" crime is: 40% involves zero injury and in two-thirds of cases the injury was too mild to require any medical help. Gun crime - terrifying but still rare - will almost certainly rise, but figures emerge in January: murder has barely changed. These basic facts are not difficult to believe, because they largely track the state of crime across Europe and America. There is little point in Labour boasting, since it is unclear to what extent any government can claim credit for this widespread fall (though programmes such as security locks on 2 million council homes must have helped burglary rates). Governments can never sound complacent: there will always be horror stories and crimes that should be prevented. Most crime is inflicted on the poor, hidden away in places others never venture - yet the middle classes are never told how safe they are. The press will probably not headline the alarming domestic violence rate: newsrooms still don't think it counts, not really. For the third and thankfully the last year, crime figures will be confusing as the government shifts the method of recording it to a more honest system that includes many crimes previously omitted. (If one old lady mugs three men separately, it used to be recorded as one crime, but now it's counted as three.) So malicious reporters can compare this year's new figures (with extra crimes added) with last year's old figures (fewer crimes). The truth is simple to understand, reporters are mostly astute and each of them has had a personal briefing from the Home Office research department. But when they get back to their newsroom, watch what happens. Oliver Letwin is no fool, but watch him find ways, as he did last year, to pretend the perplexing figures are fiddled. Professor Maurice Line writing in the letters page yesterday, questions Nick Davies' claim that there has been no fall in crime. There is no doubt crime has always been grossly under-recorded. Official reporting fluctuates according to all manner of things - police priority, personal insurance rates or social change urging women to report rape or domestic violence. But the British Crime Survey, with a sample 40 times larger than ordinary opinion polls, has always monitored the same thing - how many people have been the victims of crime in the last year. Like any other figures it may have its omissions, but it is about as accurate and consistent a picture of crime trends as anyone will ever get. And the national trend is downwards. One category which is rising dangerously is class A drug trafficking and possession. Drugs fuel a vast amount of property crime as desperate addicts feed their habit, but this is something European governments could prevent. Nine recent pilot schemes testing people in custody for car crime and burglary found 66% were class A users in the highest area with 36% drug-related, even in Torquay. Much of that could be prevented almost overnight if the government would declare an end to the US-imposed "war on drugs". To decriminalise drugs would take the trade out of criminal hands. Labour has started a tentative small programme of heroin prescribing, currently being rolled out by the Department of Health, but it is too cautious for fear of bad publicity: there are relatively few addicts compared with the mountain of crime they commit. Letting those who cannot give it up continue taking it legally, establishing an orderly lifestyle with secure supply might not reduce addiction - but what most people care about is reducing the damage addicts do. If tomorrow's media blast yet again warps public opinion on crime, it will do damage again to the home secretary's sense of proportion. He may know the real figures well enough, but headlines too often intimidate him. Why else are his prisons bursting, pumped up by his populist calls for more or longer sentences, while crime has fallen? (Though one good piece of news yesterday was the youth justice board's report that 10% fewer young offenders were sent to jail last year, diverted into the new intensive supervision and surveillance programme in the community.) So pause by the newsstand tomorrow morning, peruse the press and consider how much the culture and contentment of the country is harmed by this daily distortion of the way we live now. p.toynbee@theguardian.com