Asbo ambassadors are only the latest in a long line of remedies aimed at bolstering a faltering ideal.Introduced by the then home secretary, Jack Straw, in the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, antisocial behaviour orders were meant to be the government's main tool in tackling "yob culture"; an issue that filled MPs' postbags.Asbos, which came into effect in April 1999, are civil injunctions which councils and police forces can apply against anyone over 10 years old who has been causing harassment, alarm or distress in a neighbourhood. Breaching the order is a criminal offence and carries a maximum penalty of five years in jail.Originally intended to tackle noisy neighbours and vandalism, they were later extended to take in such offences as public drunkenness and dropping litter.However, early take-up of the new powers was disappointing and patchy. By the end of 2000, only 140 Asbos had been issued, despite repeated pleas from ministers for councils to make more use of them.A year later, the total had risen to 466 orders - more than half of them issued by just seven of the 42 police force areas across the country. Some areas issued no Asbos at all.Councils and police forces complained that the process was too cumbersome and bureaucratic. A Home Office report found that it took an average of 66 days to get an order granted and nearly six out of 10 cases required three or more court hearings. The average Asbo was costing more than £5,000.Stung by the failure, the government announced a review. The result was the Police Reform Act, which came into force at the end of December 2002. It greatly simplified the process of applying for asbos and introduced interim asbos which allowed police to take immediate steps against antisocial behaviour before the court process had begun. The scope of organisations able to issue the orders was widened to include housing associations.The Antisocial Behaviour Unit was established in 2003 to draw up new plans and fund 10 trailblazer areas to pilot new ways of using the orders more aggressively. Eventually the hard work began to pay off. By the middle of 2003, more than 1,300 Asbos had been issued. But still the government was not satisfied.Councils, landlords and the police were given further powers to disperse young people who gathered in antisocial hotspots under the Antisocial Behaviour Act, which came into force at the beginning of this year.In the summer, the government announced an extension in the issuing of Asbos to community groups. Petitions, public meetings and highly-localised referendums can be used to impose the orders, which will be rubber-stamped by councils or the police.Other ideas have included awarding up to £5,000 for those brave enough to testify against nuisance neighbours in court; launching a helpline to advise frontline staff on dealing successfully with antisocial behaviour; and appointing 12 specialist prosecutors.This summer's five-year crime plan announced further measures: new antisocial behaviour response courts; a streamlining of legal aid to avoid late guilty pleas; and the waiving of anonymity to under-16s who breach Asbos.The flurry of activity is likely to continue while asbos fail to live up to their promise.