Victims of nuisance neighbours who give evidence against the people who make their lives a misery are to be given the same protection as witnesses in high-profile organised crime or rape trials.The latest move in the drive against antisocial behaviour will allow members of the public to give evidence from behind screens in court or by video link seen only by magistrates. Ministers are concerned that people being terrorised by their neighbours are often too frightened to come forward due to fear of retribution. It will be the first time such witness protection measures have ever been used in civil rather than criminal proceedings. Antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) handed out by magistrates are not criminal convictions but can lead to a prison sentence of up to five years if they are breached. They are used to stop persistently noisy neighbours, aggressive teenagers and petty criminals. Civil rights groups have complained that the burden of proof is lower than in the criminal courts. The new antisocial behaviour measures, to be announced by the Lord Chancellor, Lord Falconer, today, will be accompanied by the expansion of a network of antisocial behaviour courts, run by specialist prosecutors, from 12 to more than 40 by the end of next month. Falconer is expected to say: 'We must do all we can to give people the confidence to tackle antisocial behaviour in their communities. I am not prepared to see law-abiding citizens intimidated from giving evidence.' But ministers were accused last night of scaremongering by civil rights organisation Liberty. Spokesman Barry Hugill said: 'If there is a genuine need, witnesses need to be protected. But this is part of the hysteria being whipped up by the government, who would have us believe that we are being swept by a wave of young criminals making it unsafe to walk the streets. This is simply not true.' The news comes as Manchester City Council provoked outrage among homelessness campaigners last night by applying for anti-social behaviour orders to sweep Christian charity soup kitchens off the streets. Manchester - dubbed 'The 'Asbo Capital of Britain' after it applied for 300 Asbos - has decided to target beggars and street sleepers because of the litter left after the mobile soup runs. Manchester City Centre Management Company and the city council now want to put the soup kitchens into permanent buildings. Trevor Lee, of the Christian charity The Mustard Tree, said: 'They are targeting people that they believe come to the city for the soup runs. But we are committed to going where the poor are. The council wants Manchester to be a trouble-free zone. But it will always be a problem while we have the poor.' The move is the latest by the council to increase the use of Asbos. One order prohibited Peter Broadbent from sleeping rough after he was found lying among needles in the street. Leonard Hockey, a beggar with a crack and heroin habit, was banned from asking for money in the city. He later died in prison after breaching the order. The Asbo crackdown has also targeted prostitutes. One woman accused of accosting men and making a nuisance of herself was prohibited from carrying condoms in the area she worked. She is now in prison for breaching the order after a drug clinic provided her with condoms as part of its harm reduction strategy As The Observer first reported in July, new legislation will also give new powers to local communities to 'trigger' Asbos, which presently need to be initiated by the police and local authorities. Petitions, public meetings or even highly localised referendums will be used to identify serious local feeling. More than 1,600 orders have now been issued across the country and they are now seen as a key to a Labour victory in next year's election.