It's 4am and you're a burglar standing in front of two houses. One of them has a burglar alarm box and security light on the wall and the other one doesn't. Which one would you choose?More than three years ago, the Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP) Centre, part of the UK police, developed a very simple way for children and young people to stay safe on the internet. It doesn't involve any kind of surveillance, blocking or filtering or deploying of hundreds of police officers across the myriad of chat rooms, social networking environments and forums in which children and young people congregate.The CEOP report button was developed so that any user can press it whenever they need advice, help and support about online safety, or to make a report to specially trained officers at CEOP. People are in prison now because children have pressed this button – that's a terrific deterrent.The button signposts users to different sources of help and advice according to their specific need. Some of these, like Childline, can be engaged anonymously. Children can also access Beatbullying or a range of other agencies made accessible through the button. If they decide they'd rather speak to a community police officer in their town, they can submit their postcode and the names and contact numbers of those officers will come up. People who are being groomed online or who have concerns about child sexual abuse can submit a report to CEOP, where it will be received by specialist intelligence officers.Uniquely, the reporting form also enables a child to cut and paste content from instant messenger conversations, from emails or from anywhere else where they may have been targeted by someone who wishes to harm them. That's a huge deterrent for offenders because they have no idea whether the child they're grooming has already told us about them. We've had cases in which the local force has been knocking on someone's door an hour after grooming offences have been committed. During the course of a year, CEOP handles about 5,000 reports requiring some level of investigation; on average, around four reports a day indicate that a child is at risk or may be at risk of sexual abuse.The action AOL Bebo has taken should be applauded because it has recognised that something as small and simple as the CEOP report button will have huge implications for the safety of its young users. It has also thrown down a marker for other major social networking sites – Facebook and Myspace, in particular – and Bebo has shown that there are no valid reasons not to do this. These children are their customers – advertisers are attracted to them specifically because of their presence on those sites.I recognise that the button has potential beyond what's been talked about. Other vulnerable children – those who have run away from home, who are missing or even abducted, are one click away from getting help, getting in touch or contacting sometimes desperate parents.Some media have termed CEOP report a "panic button", but really it's a "don't panic" button: a "one-stop shop" to online safety which is now at the fingertips of millions of young people.We believe there is no good reason why every social networking site should not have this feature if they claim to have their young users' welfare at heart.