"There are two systems of justice: one for the rich, one for the rest of us" is a standard refrain one hears in discussions about courts and prisons. Usually, this two-tiered justice system plays out in the courts, with the rich hiring top attorneys and paying for the testimony of an array of experts. That's the OJ Simpson version of justice. It's unpleasant, but it's still technically about playing within the rules of the game.If, despite the attorneys and the experts, a jury still brings in a guilty verdict, on the whole the stewards of the system at that point are pretty careful to give the impression of impartiality. Hence the spectacle of Martha Stewart behind bars, of the Enron chiefs receiving long jail terms, of Scooter Libby getting a 30 month sentence.For any system of justice to function, there has to be at least the appearance that the laws apply to all equally.Thus extraordinary doesn't even begin to capture the LA sheriff Lee Baca's decision to release Paris Hilton after only three nights in jail, because of an undefined medical emergency. There was nothing subtle about the release, no attempt to make it look anything other than favoritism for the rich and famous: the judge wasn't informed ahead of time and the prosecutors read about the release in news reports. And now Paris needs to head back to court.Baca's decision was so far outside the rules of the game that it's almost as if the sheriff has invented an entirely new tier of non-justice just for Paris.Sheriff Baca made a big to-do about how just because Hilton was famous she shouldn't be treated worse than any other jail inmate. Following his line of reasoning, one might think that all a regular inmate had to do was sneeze a couple times and the cell doors would magically open and he would be sent on his way. Suffering from stress? Don't worry, we'll have you out of here in no time. Panicking because of being confined in a bleak little room about the size of a small bathroom? No problem, we'll simply snap an electronic bracelet on your ankle and have you on your way.Come to think of it, perhaps Baca's stumbled upon a possible method of reducing the size of America's jail and prison population - standing at about 2.2 million at last count and still growing.How's that? Well, let's see... Ah yes, there are upwards of half a million seriously mentally ill people behind bars in America, many of whom, like Paris, end up serving their sentences in isolation - a phenomenon which, as the party girl apparently found out, helps drive already sick people over the edge into despair and, oftentimes, psychosis. (Of course, in reality, a mentally ill inmate is more likely to be left naked and smeared in their own feces, or put into four- or five-point restraints, rather than being let out of isolation.)About 80% of America's incarcerated are either alcoholics or drug addicts, which by almost any definition has to qualify as a sickness.There's a vast, and growing, epidemic of Hepatitis C among prisoners - surely, on Baca's reasoning, grounds for compassionate release.And, because of laws like Three Strikes and You're Out, as well as an array of other habitual offender statutes, many states are finding that an increasing number of their inmates are geriatric. Some states have even gone so far as to open geriatric-facilities within their prison, there to dole out extraordinarily expensive medical care to inmates so sick they can barely walk and talk. (It costs upwards of $100,000 to house and provide medical care to an elderly, sick inmate; which raises the rather obvious question as to whether taxpayers are really getting bang for their buck by keeping these men and women behind bars).A couple years back, I went to a prison hospice in Louisiana and interviewed several dying men. One had advanced lung cancer, weighed under one hundred pounds, and had a large oxygen tank attached to him. Another was in a wheelchair, his body shattered by diabetes. A three striker named Billy Ochoa, whom I wrote about in my book Hard Time Blues a few years back, suffered from serious liver failure and ultimately died behind prison walls, in his early sixties.Presumably, since justice is blind, Baca is now going to go on tour to advocate compassionate early release for these hundreds of thousands of men and women. Of course, if they're going to be sent home early, it might not be a bad idea to make sure they actually have homes to go to. Sure, Hilton has a multi-million dollar mansion in which she can serve out her time, but all too many released prisoners end up homeless and living in cardboard boxes.Perhaps some of granddaddy's hotel rooms - those hotel rooms that generated the family fortune that, of course, had absolutely nothing to do with Paris's early release - could be converted into way-stations for the released, helping them reintegrate into society, and saving taxpayers a bundle of cash that would otherwise be spent keeping the chronically sick behind bars. Hmm, yes I do believe Baca might be onto something.