The council of the London borough in which Baby P died, at the hands of his mother and two men, yesterday apologised and expressed "deep sadness" for the tragedy. The apology came as a fresh inquiry into the role of social workers in the case, the fourth review so far, was announced yesterday, as inspectors opened the investigation ordered by the children's secretary, Ed Balls.Liz Santry, Haringey council cabinet member for children and young people, promised complete cooperation. She said: "On behalf of Haringey council I would like to say how deeply saddened I am about the death of Baby P ... There has been a huge amount of anguish, and endless discussion about what more we might have done. I have to say that we are truly sorry that we did not do more."Baby P's mother, her boyfriend, and another man, Jason Owen, were convicted at the Old Bailey this week of allowing, or causing the death, of the 17-month-old boy. They were cleared of murder and will be sentenced on December 15. The trial heard that the child had been used as a punchbag during a period of regular visits from health and social workers.Lynne Featherstone, a Liberal Democrat MP whose constituency includes Haringey, said the apology was "very late in coming" and demanded the resignation of the council's leader and lead councillor for children's services, Sharon Shoesmith, Haringey's head of children's services, had refused to apologise following the trial.It was reported last night that lawyers for a former Haringey social worker had warned ministers in February 2007 that the local authority's officials were failing to protect children. Nevres Kemal said that children from a 2004 case were returned to a home where they had been abused. Whitehall officials confirmed last night that there had been correspondence between the Department of Health, the Department for Children, Schools and Families (DCSF), and the commission for social care inspectorate over the case.The initial letter had been sent to the then health secretary, Patricia Hewitt, and two other health ministers, but these letters were then passed to the DCSF just before the 2007 election. The local MP David Lamy was also contacted.The DCSF then passed this letter that child abuse claims were still likely in Haringey "to the relevant Inspectorate the Commission for Social Care Inspection, to take appropriate action" .