What is ANPR?The acronym stands for 'automatic numberplate recognition'. CCTV cameras equipped with ANPR software take pictures of vehicles as they travel on roads and motorways. The numbers on the photos are then electronically cross-referred to databases used by the police - notably, the Police National Computer.If the owner of the vehicle is wanted by the police, the ANPR system registers a "hit" - and informs the police force in question almost instantaneously. Police can intercept and stop a vehicle, check it for evidence and, where necessary, make arrests. There are countless CCTV cameras across the country. But a comparatively small number are equipped with ANPR technology. Most of them are controlled by the police.How many cameras are there in the ANPR network?Exact figures are hard to come by. The police don't like revealing them. Neither does the Home Office. In 2006, the government approved a scheme to instal 2,000 ANPR cameras around the UK. Three years ago, in a response to a Freedom of Information request, the Home Office said there were about 4,000 ANPR cameras in operation. The Guardian has been told that figure has doubled to more than 8,000.Is ANPR useful for tackling crime?The police love ANPR. They insist the network helps to "detect, deter and disrupt criminality … including tackling traveling criminals, organised crime groups and terrorists." They argue the cameras "make the public feel safer and more confident in the police service."Is the system foolproof?No. Confidence in ANPR has been knocked in recent years, says the Independent Police Complaints Commission. The IPCC was particularly concerned about the murder of the teenager Ashleigh Hall in 2009. The girl was abducted by a known sex offender and chances to catch him were missed, even though ANPR had identified his car as one the police needed to stop. The IPCC suggested the police were overusing ANPR for minor offences, rather than concentrating on more serious cases. The IPCC noted that it is "not feasible to monitor and respond to every hit from all databases … it would be unmanageable for a force to do this as resources and budgets are not unlimited."The IPCC also suggested the quality and accuracy of the information on the database was not consistent. "If the information contained within the database is constantly found to be inaccurate or not specific action is required to a hit, then this does not instil confidence in the ANPR system."Will the ANPR network expand?More than likely. Technology is advancing, making the cameras more powerful and accurate; storage is getting easier and cheaper. Police have started to equip cars with ANPR. But the Home Office doesn't like to talk about these issues. There is a fear that greater public knowledge of ANPR will reduce its effectiveness. But police now recognise they have to be more transparent if they are to allay fears about excessive intrusiveness.