Nine female prison officers who ran a regime of sexual bullying and intimidation of younger staff at Holloway's women's prison in north London have been transferred to other duties, the prison service said yesterday.Martin Narey, the service's director general, said he had also removed the top five managers who had failed to assert proper control. At least four of the nine face disciplinary inquiries. Mr Narey's vigorous action follows a five-month inquiry into allegations that a hard core of seven women officers, all of them lesbian, among the 338 staff, sexually harassed new female recruits and intimidated male officers. They used the social club as their power base. This was closed down yesterday. Martin Narey said: "The findings of the investigation report into bullying and intimidation of staff at Holloway have deeply concerned me. The findings reveal that sexual harassment, bullying and intimidation of staff have taken place, and have not, until now, been properly challenged. "Behaviour of this kind will not be tolerated in the prison service. Management should be tough. It should be robust. But it should never be intimidating. Bullying and sexual harassment are totally unacceptable." Speaking to the London Evening Standard, Mr Narey said: "These staff who have been there some time effectively established themselves as an alternative management structure." Their behaviour was of the sort "which we wouldn't dream of tolerating between men and women. They turned Holloway into an unhealthy place in which to be going to work". Of the five managers he said: "We need a clean sweep. Some are very good people who will do well elsewhere, but we need to assert proper managerial control." Holloway has long been a troubled prison with three out of four of the 500-plus inmates suffering from mental health problems and almost half are drug addicts. The first action was taken just before Christmas when a new governor, Ed Willetts, was appointed. The previous governor, David Lancaster, was moved to head another prison. The inquiry found that the seven ringleaders would indulge in "intrusive and offensive" sexual harassment of new female staff to make them adopt lesbian practices. The recruits would also be "paired" with a girlfriend on the staff, although these relationships were not always consensual. The unpublished report said new male colleagues were victimised "against a background of contempt for men". The women would encourage the rest of the staff to ignore them in a campaign of mental abuse. The inquiry found no evidence of similar treatment of inmates. Similar allegations of abuse at Holloway had been made to prison service chiefs since 1989, Andy Darken, national chairman of the Prison Officers Association claimed. "It seems management were too frightened to take action when we demanded it as far back as 1989," he said.