The family of murdered student Sally Geeson were 'emotionally and physically shattered' last night after police confirmed that a body found close to a military cemetery near Cambridge was that of the missing girl.In a statement read out by police officers close to the spot where her body had been found, Sally's parents, Sue and Laurence, her brother John and sisters Nicola and Julie paid tribute: 'Our beautiful daughter has been taken from us and words cannot begin to express our heartache. Sally was a wonderful and loving daughter, sister and friend and we are simply devastated.' The man leading the murder hunt, Detective Superintendent Garry Swain, confirmed the body had been formally identified by her father yesterday afternoon. 'A post mortem examination has shown that Sally died as a result of asphyxia,' he said. 'Further forensic tests are being carried out to establish whether she was sexually assaulted. Forensic teams remain at the site where her body was found.' Sally, 22, who was in her final year as a forensic science student at Anglia Polytechnic University, was found naked by a member of the public out walking near the Second World War American Military Cemetery at Madingley. Police are unsure as to whether her killer had a sexual motive, or could have been influenced by media coverage of the murder of Amy Williams, the heavily pregnant 14-year-old whose body was found in a cemetery near Telford in Shropshire last week. Amy was found naked apart from a pair of pink socks. There was no sign of sexual assault and detectives believe her killer may have removed her clothes in a bid to eliminate the evidence. Detectives in white forensic science suits spent most of the day carrying out a fingertip search of the dense woodland where Sally's body was found. The search was made more difficult by high winds and heavy rain in the area. Detectives believe they may have wasted many valuable hours in the hunt for the killer after taxi driver Colin English wrongly reported that he had picked up a girl matching Sally's description and taken her to a nightclub. English later retracted his statement, admitting he could not be sure of the time or the identity of his passenger.