A van driver is still being questioned by police over the murder of his son Ryan Hawkins, four, who died at his home near Huddersfield at the weekend during an attack in which the van driver's teenaged daughter suffered serious injuries.Christopher Hawkins, 47, was arrested on suspicion of murdering his son and injuring his 14-year-old daughter, Donna, at his home in Slaithwaite, Huddersfield, on Sunday afternoon.A 30-year-old man who was arrested in connection with the death has been released without charge by West Yorkshire police.George Fellows, the children's great-uncle, said the family were in shock. "We're a close family and we're devastated," he said. "We just can't believe it." His daughter-in-law, Tracy Fellows, added: "It's just senseless." Mr Fellows said Valerie Hawkins, Mr Hawkins' estranged wife, was receiving counselling.Last night Detective Superintendent Tim Forber of West Yorkshire police said: "Tragically Ryan had just celebrated his fourth birthday. As you can imagine, his family are absolutely devastated by what has happened and they are being supported by specially trained family liaison officers."There is a team of dedicated detectives working on this and we are in the process of speaking to a number of witnesses. Forensic and house-to-house inquiries are ongoing."It's absolutely tragic that a four-year-old boy has died in such circumstances and we would appeal to anyone who may have information as to what happened to contact us."This has been a very serious incident which has seen the life of a four-year-old boy having been brought to a tragic end and left a 14-year-old girl in hospital with serious stab wounds. The incident is not being treated as a random attack."Paul O'Shea, a neighbour of the dead boy on Royd Street, said: "We are very shocked. It happened right across the road from us."Seven or eight houses have been blocked off and the residents are not being allowed out. The first we heard about anything was when the police arrived. It's a terrible thing to happen."The couple once ran the Silent Woman pub, where Mr Hawkins was arrested by police. Ryan had recently started at the Two Gates nursery school and his sisters were both pupils at Colne Valley high school. His elder sister, 15, was away camping for the weekend and returned to be told of the tragedy.