A self-made businessman who wrecked his carefully built-up bus company by stealing almost £500,000 and lavishing it on a prostitute was jailed for three years yesterday.More than 150 jobs were lost at Durham Travel Services after Peter Lee, 51, siphoned the money from the company, whose earlier success led to him being invited to advise the government on transport policy for the disabled. Durham crown court was told that Lee, married and the father of two children, became obsessed with a London prostitute, Antoinette Cato, paying her £1,000 a night and giving her jewellery, a BMW convertible, and a holiday in Bali. During his visits to London he combined attempts to win new bus routes with payments to Ms Cato of £493,000 over three years. Passing sentence on Lee, who had admitted forgery, theft and false accounting at an earlier hearing, Judge John Walford said he had already drastically punished himself. "You have thrown away a lifetime of hard work and brought shame not only on yourself but on your family. Your reputation is in tatters and your future is obviously a difficult one." Lee has been living on £72.15 incapacity benefit since his obsessive fraud was exposed when employees checked the company accounts while he was on holiday. They found regular computerised payments to Ms Cato, who worked under the name Tia, made from Lee's office in Seaham, County Durham, between February 1999 and June 2002 A London friend of Cato, Faye Tarter, was paid £60,000, and a third woman, Susan Stewart of Bishop Auckland with whom Lee had a son, received just under £38,000. Neither was a prostitute. Stephen Duffield, prosecuting, told the court that Lee's company ran into financial problems during his secret liaisons and had problems buying fuel for its buses and transport lorries on credit. Lee falsified the accounts to stave off the crisis, but his thefts meant that money to sort things out was not there. Lee went on the run when office staff challenged him, but he was found a week later in Kendal, Cumbria, where he had tried to take an overdose. The bus company was liquidated within two months, after an audit of its books revealed what Mr Duffield called "the startling state of affairs". Paul Cleasby said in mitigation that Lee had admitted his frauds to the police immediately and had never been in trouble before. He had been a voluntary adviser to the disabled persons transport advisory committee, and a member of the Confederation of Passenger Transport. Judge Walford told Lee, whom he also gave a concurrent one-year sentence for false accounting: "You treated company money as if it was your own and spent it on these three women. You were trusted to act properly in accordance with your director's duties and you betrayed that trust." Peter Bowerbank, Lee's co-director for 14 years, who now works for another bus company, said after the hearing: "Peter Lee has cheated on his family, his employees, his business and his colleagues. "I couldn't believe someone in his position could jeopardise the future of his employees, business colleagues, associates and family through his own dishonesty, greed and selfishness." Detective Constable Mick Moses, of Northumbria police, said: "People like Lee take the first amount [and] think they can cover it up, but it spirals out of control. It is the manner in which the money has been spent that makes this case so unusual."