Policeman Brian Stevens was accused yesterday of crying "imaginary tears" over the Soham murders in order to gain a jury's sympathy.Stevens, 43, acted as family liaison officer for the parents of Jessica Chapman, murdered with Holly Wells by Ian Huntley. The police officer and his friend, Louise Austin, 32, a Crown Prosecution Service case worker, deny perverting the course of justice by concocting a false alibi when he was accused of accessing pornography on his computer. The internet porn charges were dropped last year, for reasons unconnected with the alibi. But Stevens and Austin were then arrested for perversion of justice. The case is unrelated to Soham. But Peter Joyce QC, prosecuting, summing up yesterday, accused Stevens of inflating his Soham role to curry favour with the Old Bailey jury. Mr Joyce said Stevens wept in the witness box as he falsely claimed he had had the dreadful task of informing the Chapmans their daughter had been murdered, when, in fact, this was done by another police officer. The QC said: "When asked if he was the one who told the Chapmans their daughter was dead, he [Stevens] said 'Yes, it was the worst moment of my life' as he wiped away an imaginary tear. What a sham, What humbug. Trying to get you [jury] to feel sorry for him, trading on the grief and despair of others. How could he?" Mr Joyce said Stevens, and Austin, who initially claimed to police he spent the night at her house without his laptop when porn was allegedly downloaded in the early hours of June 9, 2002, were liars who tried to manipulate the legal system. She then changed her story to say she had mistaken the date. But Mr Joyce said she earlier pinpointed that date as a few days after three significant events - splitting with her boyfriend, her brother's birthday and the anniversary of a traumatic court case. But George Carey QC, for Stevens, said Mr Joyce was using the "Soham factor" to paint his client in an unfair light. While another officer informed the Chapmans their daughter's body had been found, it was Stevens who told them when the hunt for the two missing girls turned into a murder inquiry. He said police left Stevens "to rot" after suspending him over the porn allegations when he suffered "inner wretchedness" and "total public ignominy" because of his high profile Soham role. Mr Carey claimed that by the time Austin gave her statement, Stevens did not even need an alibi because his defence was convinced the internet porn case was "going nowhere." He said Stevens never claimed to remember the specific date he stayed overnight at Austin's home, merely that he spent one night at her house during his stay, from May 31 to June 10, at a police convalescence home in Goring-upon-Thames. He said the crown could not prove Stevens didn't stay at Austin's home earlier that week, and his petrol purchases supported the claim that he made the 220-mile round-trip to her Cambridgeshire home. Nor, said Mr Carey, did Stevens have any idea of the relevance of June 9 when Austin first gave her statement, because police did not put to him the times - 2.01am, 2.05am and 2.13am on that date - when he was supposed to have accessed porn. Christopher Sallon QC, for Austin, also claimed his client did not know the relevance of the date when she provided the alibi. He claimed the three things which fixed the period in her mind were equally applicable to earlier that week. Mr Sallon accused West Midlands police, who arrested Stevens and Austin for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice three weeks after the porn charges were dropped, of maliciously briefing against the pair. "Bad losers?" he said, referring to Stevens' alleged comment when the porn charge was dropped. "The conduct of the police thereafter was nothing short of disgraceful."