The police marksman who shot Mark Duggan said the suspect threatened him twice with a gun, but after the officer opened fire twice the gun had disappeared.The marksman, referred to as V53, was testifying at the inquest into Duggan's death. The shooting on 4 August 2011 sparked riots across England over the following days.V53 told the jury he was part of an operation that aimed to stop Duggan after intelligence suggested he had acquired a gun and was a major player in a violent north London gang.Undercover officers followed Duggan as he travelled in a cab, supposedly to collect the weapon, and continued the pursuit as the vehicle headed back to Tottenham, north London.V53 was in an unmarked police car when the order – "strike, strike, strike" – was given to force the cab to stop in Ferry Lane, Tottenham.V53 said: "The minicab door opened and Mark Duggan jumped out at pace." He said he was convinced that Duggan was trying to escape.He said warnings of "armed police" and "stand still" were shouted at Duggan as he was surrounded by officers with guns. The officers were wearing baseball caps that identifed them as police. V53 had an MP5 carbine weapon slung over his shoulder.V53 said the suspect moved towards another officer, and then he saw Duggan pivot 180 degrees towards him: "It's like a freeze-frame moment," he said. "The only thing I was focusing on is the gun."At first he assessed Duggan posed no imminent threat: "I'm hoping he's going to drop it," the marksman told the jury.V53 said he was sure than in Duggan's hands was a gun. It was in a sock, but he could make out the gun's barrel, handle and trigger guard. He said Duggan was holding it in his right arm across his stomach.V53 said he was now facing Duggan broadly square on: "The next thing he does, he starts to move the gun away from his body."He's raised the weapon, moved it a couple of inches away from his body."That, the jury heard, gave V53 "an honest belief" that Duggan was going to shoot.Duggan had now crossed "a line in the sand" and V53 said he decided he must open fire: "I'm aiming for the central body mass because I'm looking to shoot to stop."He said the first shot struck Duggan in the right of his chest, causing him to flinch.V53 said this caused Duggan's alleged gun to now be pointing directly at him, so he fired a second time, hitting Duggan in the right bicep. He said Duggan fell backwards and other armed officers converged on the suspect."My focus is glued on the gun," the officer told the jury. He said he reassessed the situation after the second shot and could no longer see it.The coroner, Judge Keith Cutler, asked: "Suddenly the gun disappears?" V53 replied: "Yes."Police say they found a gun 10ft to 20ft from where Duggan fell, on the other side of a fence. Duggan is alleged to have collected the BBM Bruni model 92 handgun 15 minutes before he was shot dead.V53 denied conferring with colleagues in the immediate aftermath.He said of the mass disorder that broke out after the shooting: "The Duggan family didn't start the riots, I didn't start the riots, but you can't ignore the fact that London and the country's burning, to a certain degree because of what's happened."Leslie Thomas, acting for the Duggan family, pressed the officer over scientific evidence which the family says contradicts parts of his account.Thomas said it would show that the first shot was in fact to the arm, and may have disabled Duggan, and thus there was no need for the second shot, which killed Duggan after striking him in the chest.V53 said after the second shot he saw no jerking movement or Duggan's arm go into the air, which could have tossed the gun to where it was later found.The officer, who has 14 years experience as a marksman, said it was "complete rubbish" to say Duggan did not have a gun in his hands: "It's 804 days since this happened and I'm 100% sure he was in possession of a gun on shot one and shot two."Counsel to the inquiry, Ashley Underwood QC, asked V53 about a mistake the officer and his colleagues made in their accounts. The cab Duggan was in was silver. V53 said it was gold in colour, with other colleagues saying it was bronze, in statements made on 7 August 2011. Underwood asked if this error was because of a police briefing three days after Duggan was shot, given by their team leader, who was referred to as V59.During the briefing flip charts used by V59 described the cab as gold in colour.V53 said it was "wrong" to say he and other officers had copied the colour of the cab from their boss's flip chart as opposed to their own recollection of events.V53 said he followed the rules and co-operated with an Independent Police Complaints Commission inquiry into the shooting. He accepted he had refused to answer oral questions, instead answering questions in writing because he felt he could give a better account that way.The inquest continues.