Nine o'clock at the end of the worst week in the history of the Metropolitan Police and hundreds of uniformed and plainclothes officers pour out of New Scotland Yard and into Feathers bar in St James's.Huddled around chipped wooden tables they suck hard on Silk Cut and sup pints of lager with whisky chasers. They have been talking about one thing all week - the Stephen Lawrence inquiry - and by Friday night tempers are fraying.'It's so effing unfair,' said one officer who had read Sir William Macpherson's report on the Internet. 'Sure it was a tragedy but it was just one guy. I mean how many other families have lost a son or a daughter? Why do we have to be damned by the whole world just because we made a few mistakes in one case?' A detective constable nods. 'It's just because he was black. Don't get me wrong. That's not a racist thing to say, it's a fact. Everyone - cops, politicians, lawyers - makes mistakes. We have let down white families but no one makes a fuss. I am not saying I don't feel sorry for the Lawrences. I do. But it's all got out of hand. We made one mistake and suddenly we are all evil racists.' A policewoman drinking a dry white wine spritzer with crushed ice nods. 'The police are part of society and we have the same problems. Why do we have to be singled out like this just because we get something wrong? 'OK, there is a problem with the number of black bobbies and some get a hard time in the canteen, but no one talks about the good things - the good relations we have created. They are only interested in the racist Met.' A superintendent shakes his head. 'Sure, but we did get it wrong. I mean we cocked up. We didn't handle the investigation or the Lawrences properly and then we tried to cover it all up by doing what we always do when people complain - holding an inquiry which we know will be a whitewash. Well, this time we got caught out. And I am glad about that.' 'I don't mind admitting that I feel ashamed by what has happened and I absolutely accept what the report says. We were racist and some of us still are. We did not treat Lawrence as a victim and the way we dealt with his family was appalling. I don't want to sound like some kind of creep but we all need to look more closely at ourselves. It's like a family with a guilty secret that no one wants to admit. Well, the cat's out of the bag now and we cannot change that.' 'What a week,' says one constable who joins the table and orders a Bloody Mary 'with everything in it'. 'What's up?' one woman asks. 'It's bloody turmoil out there,' he replies, shrugging his shoulders. 'I have just been on the beat in Tooting and I can see the way people are looking at me. It's different. Most of us make a big effort to get on with all communities we police but now the atmosphere has changed. In the station we're all walking on eggshells. People are terrified. No one knows who is in the firing line and what will happen next. 'This week it's race but they could use anything to have a go at us. Women, gay men, lesbians - any group. After this disaster what happens when there is a problem with an investigation into the death of a gay person? Are we all going to be accused of being queer-bashers? We are not and never have been but that could easily happen.'