"The rule that determined the balance of the judicial system hitherto was this: it was worse for an innocent person to be convicted than for a guilty person to go free. Now that has been reversed. What drives the Blunkett white paper is a demand for more convictions, no matter what collateral damage may be done to people who are not guilty"-Hugo Young, The Guardian"The home secretary has still not secured funds from the Treasury for his community programmes that will lift the inadequates out of the prison system. This is economic madness: Labour has already built 11,000 cells at a cost of £500m. It is time a different approach was tried" -The Guardian, leader"Mr Blunkett deserves a fair wind for his far-reaching White Paper. But this is only one step forward in the long, bitter struggle against rising crime and - please note, Mr Blair - the causes of crime" -Daily Mail , leader"The disclosure of previous convictions risks prejudicing a defendant's chance to a fair trial... The police may be tempted to round up the usual suspects whose modus operandi happens to match the crime and hope that the revelation of their past convictions will be enough to make up for the lack of evidence... The single greatest cause for dissatisfaction with the criminal justice system, as flawed cases from the Birmingham Six through Stephen Lawrence to Damilola Taylor prove, is the failure of the police to mount proper investigations and the failure of the CPS to prepare adequate prosecutions. The Home Secretary's White Paper, far from forcing these bodies to raise their game, lets two guilty parties off the hook"-The Times, leader"This paper shares the belief that it is better to let 100 guilty men go free than to convict one innocent man... There may be a limited number of celebrated cases in which compelling evidence points to the guilt of an acquitted defendant. But any political advantage gained from a second prosecution, even in such a high-profile case as the murder of Stephen Lawrence, would be short-lived and at the expense of an ancient principle of justice upon which our criminal justice system has been so soundly built" - The Independent , leader"The apparently illiberal measures [Mr Blunkett] promised yesterday have come on to the agenda precisely because so many of the Government's policies have helped fuel criminality. If there was an element of desperation in yesterday's package, it was well justified... It needs to be seen in the context of a society in which criminality has been encouraged, most recently in the relaxation of the cannabis laws. It needs to be seen, too, in the context of the Government's progressive destruction of the authority of parents and its encouragement of single parent families" -Simon Heffer , commentary in Daily Mail"The home secretary is persevering with proposals that would increase the conviction rate but are likely to lead to miscarriages of justice. Allowing previous convictions to be disclosed before the verdict is one. Everyone should be innocent until proved guilty, even if they have a record. Disclosure is currently allowed in a narrow range of special cases and should not be extended... The task for government is to balance the system in favour of justice. Tilting it too far towards he victim could, in the end, be counterproductive" -Financial Times , leader"David Blunkett had a tough day yesterday. There he was, reforming the entire justice system of the land. Meanwhile, the lads at South Yorkshire Police (Motto: Justice with Courage) lose his operational security plan at a pub. Operation Decorator fell into the right hands - good news for the Home Secretary, who is a top terrorist target. A Sun reader found the document in Sheffield. He immediately called us and we handed it back. When the chips are down, you can rely on The Sun" -The Sun , leader, 18 July"Any proposal to adjust the rules on double jeopardy... raises difficult questions about the right to a fair trial and the rights of the State over the individual. Proposals that tamper with trial by jury - the ancient right to be judged by your peers - raise serious questions about the whole nature of the criminal justice system. For the same reason, any release of information about previous convictions should carry safeguards to protect the innocent" -Oliver Letwin, commentary in Daily Express