One of the UK's most notorious criminals, timeshare fraudster John "Goldfinger" Palmer, has been allowed to keep his £33m spoils after a blunder by appeal court judges, it was ruled yesterday.Palmer, 53, of Bath, was jailed for eight years at the Old Bailey in May 2001 for conspiracy to defraud in one of the biggest timeshare frauds ever uncovered. A £33,243, 812 confiscation order was imposed against him in April last year, but it was overturned by the appeal court in July on the basis there had been crucial flaws in the procedure followed. Yesterday the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolf, was sitting with four other appeal court judges in a highly unusual move. He ruled that the court had misunderstood and misapplied the law and Palmer's case had been wrongly decided. Lord Woolf's decision will not make any practical difference to Palmer, who will be still allowed to keep the money as the original decision to quash the confiscation order cannot now be overturned. Appeal court judges last November blocked an attempt by the director of public prosecutions to take the case to the House of Lords - the only court with the power to quash the ruling. Lord Woolf said the issues raised were of broad importance, which was why the unusual step had been taken of constituting a five-judge court. "The court considers the law was misunderstood and misapplied in Palmer," he said. The decision to overturn the confiscation order had caused panic in prosecution circles and there had been at least 10 test cases on the same issue. Lord Woolf said he hoped the decision would put an end to the "string of appeals" against conviction orders, sparked by the Palmer case. The original confiscation order required Palmer to pay £20m within two years. Around 360 victims of his frauds were due to get a share of £2m. But £33m was earmarked to go to the Treasury. During another hearing last November, Palmer lost his appeal against his eight-year sen tence. Dismissing the appeal, Judge Findlay Baker told him: "Those who enter into complex international conspiracies should not expect sympathy when the process of being called to account turns out to be burdensome." Palmer defended himself throughout his fraud trial and claimed he was a legitimate businessman,not involved in anything fraudulent. He maintains he has been persecuted by the police after a jury acquitted him of handling gold from the 1983 £26m Brink's-Mat bullion robbery at Heathrow airport. The case earned him notoriety and the nickname Goldfinger. He moved to Tenerife to set up his timeshare business in the 1980s. Palmer's lover Christine Ketley, of Brentwood, Essex, was also convicted of conspiracy to defraud. In 2001, Palmer was ranked alongside the Queen in 105th slot in the Sunday Times Rich List, with an estimated fortune of £300m. He slipped to 129th position last year as £30m was wiped off his fortune to reflect his timeshare fraud. Palmer, born into a poor family in Solihull, went from selling paraffin to dealing in cars before becoming a jewellery dealer. He sold his chain of shops in the 1980s as he set up his timeshare business, which operated close to Playa de las Americas.