A man described as "the brother from hell" who battered a gay college lecturer to death then dismembered his body was jailed for life yesterday.A jury at Birmingham crown court took less than an hour on Thursday to convict Robert Scobie McMahon, 24, of the murder of Mark Green. McMahon repeatedly beat his 31-year-old victim with a 20lb (9kg) gas canister and used household implements to cut off his head and legs. During the three-week trial, the court was told McMahon had removed one of his victim's ears to keep as a trophy and had talked to the severed head. He then asked his younger brother, James McMahon, 21, to come over and persuaded him, at knifepoint, to help dispose of the remains. The brothers packed the body parts into suitcases - delivered to the flat by their mother - and transported them to James's home in Coventry, where they were found buried in his back garden in June 2002. James confessed to the police five months later. He was found guilty of assisting his brother and sentenced to two years in prison. Robert McMahon's defence of diminished responsibility due to mental illness was rejected by the jury. Sentencing the older McMahon, Mr Justice McKinnon said: "Precisely how you murdered an entirely innocent member of the public may never be known. "It may indeed have been a homosexual killing." Mr Justice McKinnon recommended Robert McMahon serve at least 18 years before being considered for parole and that he remain on licence for life if released. He said: "It is obvious that you have the potential to be an extremely dangerous man." In sentencing James McMahon, the judge said: "I am entirely clear you were recruited by your brother completely by chance. You were faced with the brother from hell. "But I am worried by your own very extreme views which, it is clear, you share with Robert. "There's an exceedingly unattractive undercurrent to your Nazi sympathies and homophobic views." Detective Superintendent Matt Sawers, from West Midlands police murder unit, said Mr Green's family were satisfied with the verdict. He added: "The violence used on Mark's body, the horrific nature in which his body was abused afterwards, is, by its own definition, extreme."