The best friend of the murdered black student Stephen Lawrence yesterday won a court battle to sue the police for failings in the way they treated him.Duwayne Brooks, 27, survived the attack by a white gang in April 1993. Ever since he has been locked in a series of battles with the Metropolitan police. He says he was treated as a suspect instead of a victim by officers who racially stereotyped him. Yesterday the court of appeal reversed the decision of a lower court that Mr Brooks could not sue the Met commissioner for false imprisonment and negligence and 13 police officers for breaching the Race Relations Act. Mr Brooks's solicitor, Jane Deighton, hailed the ruling as groundbreaking, saying that for the first time police had a legal duty of care to the victims of and witnesses to crime. Lord Justice Kennedy, giving the ruling, said Mr Brooks and Mr Lawrence were 18 when they were attacked by a gang of white youths in Eltham, south-east London. Mr Brooks telephoned for an ambulance after his friend was fatally injured and the police were notified. The judge said: "As is well known, there have been many complaints about the way in which the matter was handled by the Metropolitan police, and in 1997 Sir William Macpherson was appointed by the home secretary to hold an inquiry." Mr Brooks took civil action in April 1999 over the way he was treated by police. A judge at central London county court threw out key parts of his claim last year. Mr Brooks claims a police officer at the scene who spoke to him did not take his account seriously or act upon it. She was alleged to have failed to ask for descriptions of the attackers, or try to establish if Mr Brooks had been attacked himself or to offer him any support or check he was all right. She did not appreciate that he was distraught and frightened as a result of the attack and the condition of his friend lying on the pavement, it was claimed. Other officers at the scene being sued were alleged to have failed to remedy any of these faults. They also failed to pursue the attackers after Mr Brooks showed the direction they had fled in. Mr Brooks also claims that after being taken to hospital he was given no choice but to go to the police station to make a statement and during four hours there no one asked about his welfare or whether he would prefer to make the statement at home. It is also alleged that the Met commissioner, who at the time was Sir Paul Condon, failed to conduct the investigation into the murder with reasonable diligence, resulting in the perpetrators remaining at large. Mr Brooks suffered post traumatic stress disorder after the attack and says the way the police treated him worsened his condition. After yesterday's ruling he said: "The police treated me like a suspect, not a victim. It was belittling and blinkered their inquiries. The only way the police are going to improve their behaviour is when they are held responsible and have to account for themselves in court. Now for the first time they will." He said the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, "hit the headlines earlier this month attacking the criminal justice system for failing victims of crime". At the same time "he was spending hundreds of police hours and hundreds of thousands of pounds defending the claim". A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the force would consider whether to appeal to the House of Lords. If it does not appeal, Mr Brooks's claims will be heard at a county court next year.