For the past four days, it has been at the centre of the investigation into the UK's biggest cash robbery. Yesterday, it appeared that a sprawling farm 12 miles from the Tonbridge Securitas depot from where raiders escaped with £53m had given up some of its secrets.Neighbours of a businessman who owns the £1.5m manor house at Elderden farm claimed police had found a "substantial amount" of cash buried under bracken and branches in an orchard on the property.Kent police have refused to confirm that the massive security operation at the farm - owned by car dealer John Fowler - is anything to do with the robbery or that any money has been found there. But as search operations continued under floodlights last night, privately they are said to be happy with the fast pace of the investigation.Friends described Mr Fowler, 60, who is thought to have another house in Spain, as a "hard-working wheeler dealer" and self-made man who enjoyed the good life. But neighbours said they had not seen him since he visited the pub with his wife, Linda, and children last weekend.Police sources confirmed that the couple were among six people who were being questioned last night, after they were arrested in connection with the robbery on Sunday.Three other men and a woman are also being questioned. Seven further people have been arrested and bailed in the seven-day investigation.Dozens of police officers, forensic experts and sniffer dogs have been poring over the property and outbuildings for three days, conducting fingertip searches of surrounding fields. Police divers have searched a well and a nearby lake, and several cars have been towed away for tests.It is also believed that detectives suspect the isolated farm, with several surrounding barns and cottages, might be where the robbers initially took the Securitas depot manager, Colin Dixon, and his wife, Lynn, and young son, Craig, who were held hostage to force Mr Dixon to cooperate with the raid. Police were yesterday examining a white Renault Midlum lorry they think the robbers used to take the £53m away. It was discovered on Tuesday about 10 miles from the farm.Locals on Chart Hill Road, where Elderden farm is situated, have not seen Mr Fowler since Friday when he and his family visited the Lord Raglan, the pub at the end of their driveway.Andrew Hutchison, who owns the Lord Raglan, said Mr Fowler was a regular customer. "He has lived at Elderden for at least 15 years and often popped in for meals with his family or a few friends," he told the Guardian."He wasn't one to stand and chat at the bar, he kept himself to himself. He was wealthy and lived a good lifestyle. He had a big party at the house last year for his 60th birthday."He was last in early on Friday evening with his family for a meal. I didn't see much of him as I was in the kitchen cooking most of the night but there was nothing unusual. He paid by credit card and left fairly early. We haven't seen him or any of the family since."Mr Hutchison first spotted police cars at the Fowler farm on Sunday night but activity was stepped up on Monday, with the arrival of dozens of cars and officers. Police activity was scaled back yesterday with only a handful of officers roaming the grounds. But the estate was still blocked off by police vehicles and tape.The home of Lea Rusha, a kickboxing expert, in nearby Southborough has also been searched by police.