In the film that launched Justice on trial, John Kamara, who was wrongly convicted in 1981 of the murder of John Suffield, a young Liverpudlian bookmaker, spoke about his ordeal. But what happened to his co-defendant, Raymond ­Gilbert, who was also convicted?A number of prominent campaigners, led by Bruce Kent, the former chair of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, and including Suffield's father, believe that Gilbert, too, could be innocent.In a submission to the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), Kent argues that there is evidence for Gilbert's case also to be referred back to the court of appeal. Kent said this week that he hopes the case will finally be reheard. A key factor in Gilbert's case was an initial confession."Why would a man given a 15-year tariff, who could have been released from prison years ago, had he been a model prisoner, taken the necessary anger management courses, and admitted his guilt, nevertheless go on claiming that he did not commit the crime?" asked Kent in his submission."He has now done almost more than twice his tariff and even if all goes well with parole hearings it will still be several years before he gets out."When Kamara's case was reconsidered, Gilbert's was ignored, not least because the second man had made a guilty plea at the trial."Does the guilty plea mean the end of the story?" said Kent. "Not at all. The fact that false admissions are made is now a well known legal phenomenon. Within a few months, he again claimed innocence as he has since done consistently for nearly 30 years … this whole story has much more than a lurking doubt attached to it. I believe, as do many others, that, at the very least, the court of appeal ought to have the right to decide on Gilbert's case."Efforts are now being made to find out if any physical evidence remains which might carry DNA on it. If Gilbert's DNA is not present, then it would be unlikely that he was present. If there is other DNA, apart from that of the murdered man, then that could, even now, lead to the identification of the real killers, argued Kent.For the background to Gilbert's case, see Eamonn O'Neill's August 2007 Guardian article.