Political debate in Britain is often weird, but is there anything weirder than the current panic and obsession among all political parties about violent crime, while all the figures show that crime is falling? As the Guardian reports today, violence against the person is down 8%; gun crime deaths down 11% and overall crime down by 9%, compared with the same period last year. Yet this week in parliament the most furious exchanges, the most blatant snitching of opponents' policies and the most boastful claim have all been about violent crime.If David Cameron is going to be tough on crime, then Gordon Brown will be tougher. Less bureaucracy for the police, greater powers to stop and search, more and bigger prisons - both Labour and the Conservatives have been falling over themselves to prove their tough credentials.Perhaps this is not, despite the crime figures, completely irrational. For while the actual crime figures are falling, people's fear of crime seems to be rising. The issue is constantly right up there, alongside the economy, as one of the key concerns of voters. There are two possible explanations for this: the first is that while official figures show crime is falling, people are so cynical about the chances of any action by the police that they fail to report a large percentage of crime - so the actual figures are really much worse.More likely is that a combination of media scare stories and anecdotal evidence is much more vivid to the average voter than tables of statistics. I was struck by my own reaction on receiving a press release from the London mayor a few weeks ago, setting out the heartening figures in the capital. Murder is down by a whopping 28% since 2003; rape is down by 25% since 2002; grievous bodily harm fell by 12% last year, knife crime has fallen by 18% since 2004. And yet I, like many Londoners, feel less safe.This is undoubtedly because of the number of knifings and shootings that constitute the daily diet of local newspapers, but also because my family has suffered two muggings, two violent attacks, one knifing and various minor burglaries in the last couple of years. So telling me that crime is falling doesn't really help, and yet statistically, I am clearly safer than I was a few years ago.The bad news for politicians is that no amount of good news on crime is going to change minds. The answer, presumably, is to offer more of what people say they want - police on the streets, patrols on public transport and the like, even if research shows that police strolling about the streets in not the most efficient way of tackling crime. In some ways, this is a counsel of despair: the political challenge is surely to finally get round to dealing with those causes of crime that Tony Blair used to talk about so much, instead of just being tough on crime. Sadly, with the debate on crime stuck in a sensationalist rut, that seems further away than ever.