Gary Dobson, one of the prime suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder, went on live radio today to protest his innocence and criticise last week's Granada documentary in which all five suspects were interviewed. Speaking a week before the sixth anniversary of Stephen's death, Dobson spent two hours answering questions from the public in a live broadcast on Talk Radio.  He told interviewer David Banks: "I look you in the eye now and I swear to you on my mother's life that I am not guilty of this crime.  "I have always vehemently denied any involvement in this crime and if that is what it takes for the British public to start believing me then I will sit here and I will look you in the eye and I will say to you on my mother's life I am innocent of this crime. We are all innocent."  But offered the chance to take an on air lie detector test on whether he killed or knew who killed Stephen, Dobson refused.  Asked why he would not take the test he replied: "What did it do for Colin Stagg? He took a lie detector test, everyone still presumes him as being guilty. They don't prove a thing. If you pass a lie detector test no-one believes it, if you don't pass a lie detector test everyone believes it."  Dobson, who was one of three of the five suspects acquitted of Stephen's murder at the Old Bailey in 1996, answered questions from callers including a black man who went to school with him and who directly accused him of being "an undercover racist". The man, who gave his name as Jermaine, said he was good friends with Dobson for six years and also knew Stephen Lawrence for twelve years. He accused Dobson and Neil and Jamie Acourt of attacking a boy called Kevin London in a racist incident involving a knife two weeks before Stephen's murder.  The schoolfriend said he "knew for a fact" Dobson didn't kill Stephen but was equally sure he did know who killed the black teenager.  Jermaine said: "Gary Dobson is a follower and he will follow the crowd."  Dobson also said the five had not sued the Daily Mail for branding them killers in a front page headline on the advice of their lawyers.  He said: "We went to see a representative of a top solicitors firm in this country who categorically stated to us "on the grounds of the evidence you will go through on flying colours but on the grounds of public belief you will not win.  "Even if you did win you would not be guaranteed to receive the costs that would cover the costs of your lawyers fees."  Dobson also attacked last week's Tonight show in which he claimed the five were "turned over" by interviewer Martin Bashir.  He said: "He completely turned us over and he completely falsified his stories to us."  Dobson also revealed he has considered bringing out a book. He said we would give some of the proceeds to charity but did not directly say he would give any money to the Lawrence family. Asked by a caller if he would give any of the proceeds to Stephen's parents he answered: "It is something I have thought about and there is a charity I would give the proceeds towards.  "I am not saying I wouldn't donate any money to the Lawrence family, or nothing, but there have been discussions about me wanting to do a book and there has been a charity organisation that has come forward which I am not at liberty to say."  Outside the interview, more than 60 protesters from the Anti-Nazi League tried to storm the station today to stop the live interview.  Security guards at commercial station Talk Radio prevented demonstrators from rushing into the building after hearing that Gary Dobson had already arrived at 6am - an hour before they had got there.  For more than two hours a variety of speakers from the organisation using a powerful loudhailer condemned Talk Radio for making a quick buck out of the one hour live interview and showing disdain for the wishes of Doreen Lawrence, who asked for the show not to go ahead.  "This is a man that fought to get an injunction in the High Court so that he did not have to answer questions at a public inquiry, said Anti-Nazi League spokesperson, Claire Dissington.  "Talk Radio is making money and journalists are being manipulated. If Gary Dobson wants to say something why doesn't he go and tell the police?" 