Can an absent gene explain a crook? Scientists at King's College, London, have been looking at the good behaviour gene - the one that produces the enzyme that makes all the difference. The monamine oxidase A (MAOA) enzyme breaks down brain chemicals linked to aggression. And - looking at 442 men born in Dunedin, New Zealand, in 1972 - they've produced a theory to explain the sociopath."Those to whom evil is done/Do evil in return". Auden's poetic truth is also a sociological fact. Being badly treated as a baby or child increases by 50% your risk of turning into a criminal. But most individuals don't respond in this way. For some, that's an argument for the basic decency of human nature. And the more genetic version of that optimism is that the enzyme is wired into our bodies and promotes the cooperative virtues.But what if lying, stealing, bullying and fighting are the result of the gene that produces MAOA being a low-active one? Can we still use the categories of guilt and responsibility? Were such boys and men just doing what came naturally? The Dunedin study shows the link between childhood abuse and anti-social behaviour might be chemical. Of those who were both abused and had a MAOA deficiency, 85% became delinquent. They were nine times more likely to become society's enemies than boys with the more active gene which pumped out the enzyme in the necessary amounts. So, doctor, what can it all mean in the surgery of society? There are drugs to lower cholesterol levels, and so reduce the risk of heart disease. Shall we have a new generation of men with criminal tendencies kept from the brink by drugs which promote the friendly enzyme's discharge? Will a chemist's inconvenient hours be used as a plea in mitigation if it all goes wrong and the pills are not there when needed most? Science is a hunt for order, explanation and regularity. It explains the anomalous by reference to the law it seeks to establish. Which is why there is always a quality of the search for the holy grail about it. Historians looking at evidence run away from any idea of a law to be established. There is no such thing as a general theory to explain why revolutions happen when they do. But behind all the empiricism, the statistics and the sense, there lies a kind of faith in a discoverable key. And the key leads to the universal law. Where the hunt for the universal rhythms of life becomes problematic is when science strides into the social. For here there is often a naive jump from the specific to the general. In this case, from Dunedin to everywhere (and, therefore, to nowhere). Only 12% of the Dunedin 442 had the low-active gene and a history of child abuse. They were the ones who committed 44% of the violent crimes attributable within the group. Even with these men we are still in the territory of the predisposition - and the hypothesis. No court should treat them less leniently than those who committed the other 56% of crimes. The problem lies with the probability game - something that turns into a natural law all too easily. Men are supposedly "naturally" more aggressive. More men than women play rugby, climb mountains and serve as soldiers. But that is not to say that women who do these things are "unnatural". The Williams sisters show that the volcanic serve, once a genetic prerogative of male tennis, is gender-transferable. Perhaps women, with two X-chromosomes, are doubly blessed. Men have one. And that is the one that carries the gene that produces the pacific enzyme. But western legal codes are meant to be sex-blind. The female criminal does not incur a special penalty because of her sex. Perhaps her possession of two X-chromosomes ought to make her specially culpable? She should know better - perhaps - with all those special enzymes in the bloodstream. But it is the act that matters. No sane counsel would advise a male to enter the single chromosome argument as an argument for diminished responsibility. A gene can never supply a motive or a cause. Behind acts good and bad lie passions and capacities. Take two people who do brave things. One is naturally courageous, or perhaps unimaginative, and has little understanding of danger. The other has a history of fear. Perhaps it's the naturally timorous who shows the greater courage - since the battle fought was against the inner self as well as outer circumstances? The other can take no real credit for what comes naturally. Again, what counts as good is the consequence. The best kind of courage saves others rather than advertising its prowess. The enzyme is a bodily mechanism to cope with stress. Dunedin man, though, threatens to leap from the lab and into the law courts. We should beware this latest version of Mr Angry - the prisoner of his own body. taliesin.hywel@virgin.net