Harold Shipman's constituency MP last night called on the lord chancellor to investigate the man who claimed to be the mass murderer's lawyer.James Purnell, the Labour MP for Stalybridge and Hyde, has written to Lord Falconer, urging him to investigate Giovanni Di Stefano, a convicted conman who is the subject of separate inquiries by the Law Society and the police. Mr Di Stefano gave several television interviews on Tuesday, the day Shipman hanged himself in prison, saying that he had been preparing an appeal against the serial killer's conviction. But the Guardian revealed yesterday that Mr Di Stefano is not entitled to practise law in the UK as he has not provided the authorities with evidence of his qualifications. Moreover, he was convicted of fraud in 1986, and a 1990 solicitors' disciplinary tribunal hearing barred UK solicitors from employing him in any capacity without permission from the Law Society. Yesterday, Mr Purnell told the Guardian: "I was certainly surprised to see Mr Di Stefano on television on the day of Dr Shipman's suicide, and I know the families of some of Dr Shipman's victims were upset by the comments he made. "I have written to the lord chancellor to ask him to investigate this man. If it turns out he isn't even qualified as a lawyer, then it makes his appearance even more insensitive at this time." The Department of Constitutional Affairs, which oversees the legal system, commissioned a wide-ranging independent review of the regulation of legal services last year. David Clementi, the former deputy governor of the Bank of England, who is carrying out the review, is due to report by December. Among the issues he is looking at are unregulated providers, and regulatory gaps. But the department said yesterday that the Di Stefano issue was a matter for the Law Society and the police. However, Mr Purnell said: "If there is a suspicion someone is jumping on the bandwagon and getting lots of publicity, claiming to be a lawyer for Dr Shipman, then that's an outrageous state of affairs." The Di Stefano case also brought calls for the European parliament to introduce a system of identity cards for lawyers working in EU countries. Stephen Jakobi, director of the EU civil rights group Fair Trials Abroad, has written to several MEPs and EU commissioners after the Guardian's exposure of Mr Di Stefano. "The whole foundation of not only our mission, but also judicial confidence in the ethics of defence lawyers, rests on a quick and easy method of checking an advocate's home qualifications before permitting them to act at a criminal trial in European legal space," said Mr Jakobi. Last year, Mr Di Stefano was involved in the controversial property tycoon Nicholas Van Hoogstraten's successful appeal against his conviction for the manslaughter of a business rival, Mohammed Raja, in 1999. He also claims to represent the M25 road-rage killer Kenneth Noye, and John "Goldfinger" Palmer, the £35m timeshare trickster.