The news that two children aged 10 and 11 have been charged with the attempted murder of two other boys is deeply depressing, for reasons separate from the circumstances of the violent assault that took place in a quarry near Doncaster. I have no opinion about their guilt or innocence, but I dread the possibility that children of that age will be forced to undergo a full-blooded public trial as if they were adults. It is impossible not to have in mind the trial of the killers of James Bulger, who were both 10 at the time of the crime. Thank goodness no one has died as a result of the Doncaster assault, but even to contemplate another trial of primary school kids, under the cruel glare of the British media, should provoke shame at our system of dealing with young children accused of serious crime.In England and Wales, the age of criminal responsibility begins at 10. (In Scotland it's eight, though the proposal is to change it to 12.) Provided the child realises that what he has done was seriously wrong (as distinct from naughty), he becomes liable to full membership of our criminal justice process. This Victorian test of being able to tell right from wrong is misleading and inappropriate, as virtually everyone with any experience of children, whether as psychologist or parent, will confirm - as would anyone who has read the transcripts of interviews with the Bulger killers, or who was at their trial. Treating these confused little boys under the same process as that applied to grand criminals verged on the surreal.Young children may be able to tell right from wrong at one simple level, but that doesn't mean they can properly appreciate the nature and consequences of their deeds. At that age, their brains are not yet fully developed, and one of the elements missing is mature judgment.Almost all European states realise that difficult, violent or criminal pre-teen children cannot be treated as if they were small adults. These countries tend to have ages of responsibility ranging from 14 to 18, and deal with younger problem children through the specialist social agencies, yet their young children commit fewer serious crimes than ours. That is what we too should be doing, instead of labelling our children evil and forcing them down the counter-productive path of punishment. I'm puzzled by the new law described as giving parents with children aged 17 or under the "right" to ask their employers to allow them to work flexible hours. That suggests parents until now had been banned from making such a request. This is not so, of course; we have not yet turned into a state so totalitarian as to prohibit people from asking questions about their conditions of employment. Parents have always been entitled, without any law to help them, to seek to change their timetables to suit their parental responsibilities - and their bosses were entitled to say yes or no. The new law says that an employer has to consider any request seriously - which good bosses would do anyway, and bad ones with no intention of agreeing could easily fake - and that he or she can only refuse for good business reasons. Small businesses have understandably pointed to their current trading and financial difficulties; they will no doubt be able to refuse parents' entreaties with impunity. Disappointed parents will then be able to challenge such refusals, which would entail showing that the employer's business wouldn't suffer if he or she agreed to flexibility. A tough call. I don't quite see the point or necessity for these new provisions; I don't particularly object to them, but let's not pretend that an important new right has been created. If you believe Sainsbury's, their customers are a strange bunch, apparently too embarrassed to buy the fish known as pollack. They prefer to pay far more for similar fish that taste no better, and are not easier to cook, but the name of which cannot be confused with any mildly rude word. My disbelief is compounded by the fact that most Sainsbury's fish is pre-packaged; the customer need never say pollack out loud. Is it being suggested that the embarrassment is caused by fear of a checkout assistant being driven to uncontrollable sniggering as she notices that a customer has bought it? Or is it the embarrassment of the middle classes caught in the unforgivable sin of buying cheap? Sainsbury's jumped into a further mire of silliness by deciding in future to call pollack by its alleged French name, colin. That would surely subject their ultra-fragile customers to further embarrassment as they fail to pronounce the word properly - it's neither as Firth nor Powell. But anyway, I'd always thought that colin was the French for hake, which is indeed correct. So what is the true translation of pollack, which is not a hake? It's not that simple, because some English-French dictionaries offer, wrongly, colin for pollack. I think the right answer is "lieu jaune" on the ground that its Latin name is the same as the pollack's - pollachius pollachius. The trouble is that pronouncing "lieu jaune" in a certain way could result in "loo John", surely too embarrassing for the delicate Sainsbury's shopper to countenance. So the supermarket took a decision to deal with a nonsensical problem by using a difficult-to-pronounce foreign word that is wrongly translated from the English.• This week Marcel went to the Barbican for a performance of Bach's St Matthew Passion by the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra: "The most sublime work of religious music, exquisitely performed. Memorable." He saw three films: Gran Torino, The Class and Il Divo: "Seen on the same day, all of them intelligent, well-acted and directed, and thought-provoking."