The public inquiry into the murder of an Asian youth by his white racist cellmate reopens today.The three-month inquiry is expected to hear evidence from more than 70 witnesses as part of an investigation into the murder of Zahid Mubarek at Feltham young offenders' institution in March 2000.The inquiry officially opened in May, but was adjourned until now while more information was gathered. It will begin with statements from the chairman, Mr Justice Keith, and the counsel to the inquiry, Nigel Giffin QC. Counsel for the interested parties will make their opening statements on Friday, with the first witnesses to be called on Monday.The inquiry will investigate the events leading up to Mubarek's murder, and recommend how to prevent such attacks in the future. Mubarek, 19, of Walthamstow, east London, was bludgeoned to death in March 2000 by his cellmate Robert Stewart, of Hattersley, near Hyde, Greater Manchester.Skinhead Stewart, now 24, battered Mubarek at least seven times with a table leg. He had RIP tattooed on his forehead and revered murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence's killers.Stewart, now serving a life sentence, is known to have been involved in events leading to the killing of a fellow inmate by another prisoner at a different young offenders' institute in 1998.Mubarek was serving a three-month sentence for theft. Shortly before his murder, inmates allege that Feltham officers found a weapon in their cell, but did not act upon it, the inquiry has already been told.Another theory is that Mubarek's murder may have been ordered by another inmate. Mr Justice Keith is expected to call more than 70 witnesses over the coming three months, including the former director of the Prison Service, Martin Narey, and his successor, Phil Wheatley. He has asked more than 120 people to provide statements relating to the death and some 14,500 documents have been collected. It is also expected to visit Feltham to see the scene of the murder. Closing submissions are expected in March, with Mr Justice Keith's findings and recommendations to the home secretary coming at a later date.