  Photograph: Graham Turner for the GuardianLooking forward to 2012? Not a typo, but a clue to what's happening in Ken Livingstone's head. The next mayoral election is 16 months away but the Labour candidate's campaign to remove Boris Johnson from City Hall is well and truly launched this morning as the current Mayor's latest public transport fare rises come into effect. Ken will be telling commuters at West Hampstead Underground station all about the wickedness of "the Conservative Mayor" - as he's always at pains to label Boris these days - in shoving prices up by more than the rate of inflation for the second year in a row, and linking this decision to the Conservative chancellor's slashing of Transport for London's budget. It's those wicked Tories costing you money, see? Ken also has a handy riposte available should any passenger be disobliging enough to ask him how he'd have pegged fares any lower than Boris has, given the squeeze on TfL funds. Today is also the first day that the newly-halved congestion charge zone, reversing a Livingstone policy, comes into operation following the Christmas and New Year break. This will reduce TfL's income by £55 million a year at the same time as the latest bus fare rises will increase it by £60 million. Both figures have been provided by City Hall. You do the maths. Ken has. Boris would like us to know that musicians will be performing pieces by Mozart at Tube stations this morning "to brighten up the daily commute." Before too long he might have to do better than that.On a far bleaker note the shooting of a 17-year-old in Peckham last Wednesday brought the number of teenagers murdered in London in 2010 to 19. That's less than the 2008 figure of 29, but up a little on 2009's toll of 15. Lucy Cope, founder of Mothers Against Guns, has said that government cuts can only worsen the conditions in which such violence thrives. Kit Malthouse, Boris' man in the chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority, has acknowledged that there is much work to be done. He's right, and also sensible enough to know that effective policing can only ever be one part of solving the grim and persistent social problem of youth violence. The trouble is that being sensible about crime, especially in public, rarely does politicians any good. Boris could even find that being stupid about it - talking "tough", is the usual scoundrel's refuge for nervous vote-seekers - might not do him much good either if Cope's prediction of an "era or terror" begins to look horribly accurate in the capital. What advice will Boris's campaign manager Lynton Crosby, so adept at exploiting anxiety about crime, give him on that subject? What might Livingstone have to offer that's more convincing? We won't find that out this week, but we might not have to wait all that long. Remember, 2012 is only just around the corner.