Detectives investigating an alleged fraud in which at least 170 British investors were conned into parting with $55m (£30m) have arrested a man in London in connection with a scheme to make money from the war on terrorism.American authorities have also seized the assets of three men from New Jersey who have been accused of conning investors. Their assets include a $2m yacht, two Mercedes cars and several bank accounts. Scotland Yard said last night a man had been arrested in London in connection with the scam. The three men arrested in the US, who ran the company Clover Management Group, based in Fort Lee, New Jersey, marketed investments in the defence industry, which they said was booming because of the Iraq war and heightened security fears. They offered guaranteed strong returns while at the same time suggesting that investors would be supporting coalition troops in Iraq if they handed over money. They allegedly claimed to be selling shares in defence and aerospace contractors or in companies which invested in those industries. Instead, in many cases, they issued share certificates in so-called "shell" companies - worthless firms with no assets - and made grand promises about their future prospects. A civil fraud complaint filed by the New Jersey attorney general said they targeted Britons because they would not be familiar with US securities laws. They also sought to capitalise on Britain's support for the US in the Iraq war. "These defendants preyed on British investors by appealing to their patriotism and their fears regarding terrorism," he said. The three men, Hebert Mario Figueroa, of Old Tappan, who founded Clover, and Carmine Russo and Thomas Russo, both of Hackensack, are understood to be cooperating with authorities. In London, Scotland Yard said: "The company, which purports to supply defence equipment to the US government, is not a bona fide organisation." The man arrested in London was bailed to return to a police station but no bail return date had been set, as inquiries con tinue, the spokesman said. Scotland Yard said the investors were allegedly targeted using consumer mailing lists and cold-called at their homes or businesses. Criminal investigations into the sting are continuing. A receiver has been appointed to sort through the assets of the firm but it is not yet known how much will be recovered. According to the New Jersey attorney general, the scheme dated back to 2001. The joint investigation, including officers from the FBI and the Metropolitan police, began after a tip-off from a former Clover employee. Anyone who thinks they have been a victim is asked to call the Metropolitan police's economic and specialist crime unit on 0207 2301 247.