A convicted forger has admitted that he killed the Irish student Karen Buckley, whose body was found on a farm on the outskirts of Glasgow.Alexander Pacteau, 21, who has a previous conviction for printing counterfeit £20 notes, now faces a mandatory life sentence after pleading guilty to strangling and repeatedly hitting Buckley on her head and body after he had given her a lift home from a nightclub in Glasgow.Her father, John Buckley, described Pacteau as “truly evil” and said he hoped he would spend the rest of his life in prison. In a statement released by the police after the hearing, Buckley said the family was devastated and heartbroken at the thought of his daughter’s final moments. “What a waste of a young life. It all seemed unreal,” he said. Thanking the people of Glasgow and Ireland, Buckley added: “We miss her terribly.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   John Buckley described Pacteau as “truly evil” and said he hoped he would “spend the rest of his life behind bars”“We will never see Karen again in this life,” he said. “Never see her smiling face, hear her laugh and hear her voice. There are no words to describe our loss. We know even though she is gone from this life, she is still very close to us. She will always be in our broken hearts wherever we go. We talk to her, pray to her and we know that she will help us.”Ms Buckley’s disappearance early on Sunday 12 April sparked a major search and public appeals for sightings. Her flatmates told the police it was completely out of character for her not to tell them where she was and when she would be home.Buckley, 24, from Cork in Ireland, had moved to Glasgow to study for a masters degree in occupational health therapy at Glasgow Caledonian University, and was last seen on CCTV leaving the Sanctuary nightclub early that Sunday morning. The footage recorded her talking to a man as they walked along Dumbarton Road.Police Scotland said they were treating her disappearance as a high-risk missing person inquiry, leading her parents, John and Marian, to fly over from Ireland as the search quickly attracted a huge public response. A Facebook page urging people to look out for her soon gathered tens of thousands of followers and shares.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Karen Buckley. Photograph: Police Scotland/PAWhen Pacteau appeared in court charged with her murder four days after her disappearance, around 300 people gathered in George Square near Glasgow city chambers for a memorial vigil, where a piper played and others sang Scottish and Irish songs before a minute’s silence. Wellwishers brought flowers, candles, cards and messages, sharing their grief with the Buckleys, who arrived with two of her brothers to look at the tributes. Outgoing and a keen traveller, she was described as someone who had “thoroughly enjoyed life”.The following evening, 1,000 candles were lit as around 150 neighbours near her flat in Garnethill in central Glasgow gathered for a silent vigil. In Ireland, prayers were offered at church services near the family home in Mourneabbey, north Cork, and the nearby town of Mallow. At her old university in Limerick, where Buckley had studied nursing, a mass was held and a small memorial built, while an online fundraising drive organised by former classmates for her family raised about £50,000, more than 10 times the original target.After leaving a job in Essex to take up the masters course in January, Buckley had gone out with her flatmates to try out the Sanctuary in the city’s west end.An hour after they arrived there at 11.45pm on Saturday night, she decided to leave on her own. She is thought to have told friends she was going to the toilet but failed to return, leaving her jacket behind. In the days following her disappearance, detectives disclosed they had spoken to the man seen talking to her outside the club. It soon emerged that the man was Pacteau, who denied any knowledge of her whereabouts and claimed she travelled with him to his flat a few miles away in Dorchester Avenue in Kelvindale before leaving some hours later.Police Scotland issued an appeal for eyewitnesses who may have seen a grey car, which had been spotted on roads between Milngavie and Drymen on the outskirts of Glasgow that Sunday.Buckley’s handbag was found by a member of the public in a park near to Pacteau’s flat. The police focused their hunt in both neighbourhoods and after a four-day search, her body was found at High Craigton farm near Milngavie.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   High Craigton farm, where Karen Buckley’s body was found in a barrel behind the double doors. Photograph: Crown Office/PAScotland’s chief prosecutor, lord advocate Frank Mulholland QC, told the high court in Glasgow on Tuesday that Buckley’s final journey in Pacteau’s car had been largely tracked by CCTV, while Pacteau’s mobile phone records and receipts from nearby shops enabled detectives to uncover his plans to dispose of Buckley’s body. “No words of mine can express the effect this terrible murder has had on the family,” the lord advocate told the court, as Pacteau sat in the dock, his head bowed. The court heard that Buckley had spoken to Pacteau outside the nightclub and had gone in his car with him to Kelvin Way, a quiet avenue in Kelvingrove park. His silver Ford Focus was parked there for 12 minutes, as Pacteau murdered her by grabbing her neck and hitting her 12 or 13 times with the spanner. She had tried to fight back. Mulholland revealed that Pacteau then drove her body to his flat, taking it to his room. At 8am he used his mobile phone to search for the properties of sodium hydroxide, or caustic soda. After locking his bedroom door, he travelled to a branch of B&Q where he bought six litres of the chemical, masks and gloves. He then went to a Poundstretcher store near his flat and bought more of the chemical. After texting his flatmate to make sure he was out for the day, Pacteau then returned to the flat and left Buckley’s body in the bath. His flatmate returned home at 8pm to find Pacteau cleaning the hall and stairwell. He had moved her body, wrapped in a duvet, into his locked bedroom again, the court heard.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pacteau’s bedroom, where he kept the body of Karen Buckley immediately after he killed her. Photograph: Crown Office/PAMulholland told the court that Pacteau threw the spanner into the nearby Forth and Clyde canal early the next morning, before buying a cleaning fluid able to remove blood from a mattress. He drove on to High Craigton farm, where he had rented a storage unit during a previous job selling fireworks, stopping off at a supermarket on the way to buy white spirit and a lighter.After burning some clothing there, he went home to order a large blue barrel in which he put Buckley’s body. He then drove the mattress in his car up to the farm to be burned with other incriminating evidence, before returning to his flat and taking the barrel to his car.He stopped off en route to buy padlocks before returning to the farm to rent two storage units for a week. He put the barrel in one unit, disguising it with a sheet, placing a bike wheel and paper shredder on top. He then drove his car to be valeted, where he drafted an advert to sell the car on his phone.The police arrived at his flat that day, to be greeted by a strong smell of bleach. Pacteau had already devised his cover story, claiming they had had consensual sex but Buckley had fallen, injuring herself on the bedframe, before leaving for home.After Pacteau’s defence lawyer, John Scullion QC, told the court his client took full responsibility for his “despicable” actions – for which he could offer no rational explanation – Judge Lady Rae deferred Pacteau’s sentencing until 8 September. She told him: “This crime is a very shocking and disturbing case. You killed a young woman who was a stranger to you in what appears to be a motiveless, senseless, brutal attack.” 