Police have broken up a Day of the Jackal-style gang which has been creating passports using the identities of dead children.Identity theft, once limited to the pages of Frederick Forsyth's thriller, is on the rise across Britain. Merseyside police said it had made four arrests - two in the UK and two abroad - as part of its investigation. The four have been bailed over charges of obtaining a passport by deception. Police hope to make further arrests. Identity theft involves criminals scouring cemeteries for children's graves or searching death notices in local newspapers. Children are targeted because it is nigh on impossible for them to have a criminal background. The gangs then build up enough paperwork to apply for a passport. Passports found in the Merseyside investigation had been sent to Amsterdam, where they were sold for around £20,000. Detective Inspector Chris Hughes of Merseyside police said: "The criminal networks are very sophisticated. These passports are not fakes - we class them as non-genuine as they have been properly applied for. "Dead children are the targets for taking an identity as they have usually not applied for a passport and have no real records to speak of." A Cabinet Office report last summer highlighted the burgeoning area of identity theft. It concluded: "Identity theft is a harrowing experience for the individuals whose identity is taken over or stolen. And identity fraud and theft have many and increasing links to organised crime." Gareth Jones, of Experian, Britain's largest credit reference agency, said: "Statistics show in the last two years there has been a huge growth in impersonation of other people's identities to create false identities." Between April 2000 and March 2001, the passport agency detected 1,484 fraudulent applications. Of these, 301 used the identities of the deceased and 1,003 used stolen identities of the living. Michael Levi, a professor of criminology at Cardiff university, said that criminals were exploiting a very long-standing weakness in the system. He said measures to prevent identity fraud were not in place, as the agencies who could prevent it did not have to bear the cost of the crime themselves. A Home Office spokesman said that a number of measures were being introduced to combat identity fraud, including access to registers of information on deceased infants. A facial recognition system would also be introduced on passports by 2005-06.