Detectives investigating the stabbing of Abigail Witchalls have received more than 200 telephone calls from the public, Surrey police said today.The number of calls about last week's attack was boosted by yesterday's appeal in which detectives gave a description of the man who stabbed the 26-year-old in the neck while she was pushing her 21-month-old son Joseph in a buggy down a quiet country lane.Despite being paralysed and unable to speak, Mrs Witchalls was able to give a description of her attacker during two days of interviews with police in which she communicated by blinking and facial expressions. Police said the attack was even more horrific than they had first thought and it was revealed yesterday that she had been forced to walk towards her attacker as he held a knife to Joseph's throat. Mrs Witchalls has insisted that officers return to her bedside at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London so she can try and give more details, but Surrey police said they had no plans to visit her today and that she would spend a quiet day with her family. "We are leaving Abigail alone today. We are taking a step back to consolidate the information we have received," a spokeswoman for Surrey police said, adding that the investigation team had 210 calls from the public to work through.Mrs Witchalls was left for dead with a three-inch stab wound to the back of her neck after the attack, which is being treated as attempted murder, in a narrow country lane close to her home in the village of Little Bookham, Surrey, last Wednesday. She has described her attacker, who is still at large, as aged 20-35, with short, dark, wavy or scruffy hair, between 5ft 10in and 6ft 4in tall, with a long, thin face and prominent cheekbones. He was wearing looped silver earrings, had a deep voice with a Cockney or southern accent, and may have been under the influence of drink or drugs.Officers are considering whether to put together a computer-generated image of the attacker based on Mrs Witchalls description, and may make an appeal via the BBC's Crimewatch programme. Mrs Witchalls, whose spine was damaged in the attack, told detectives she left a mother and toddler group with Joseph at around 3.30pm. She first saw her attacker in a blue, five-door "older style" estate car around 15 minutes later on a lane in the village. Based on her account, police say Mrs Witchalls became nervous when their eyes met as he drove past, and she tried to run away. As she started to head home along the lane, she saw that the car had been parked and that the man was coming towards her, and she started to run with Joseph in his buggy. She reached a gate leading on to another lane but could not open it. She then heard the man say she had dropped her purse, and she turned to see that he had grabbed Joseph and was holding a knife to his throat. He then summoned her towards him, pulled her into the muddy ground and stabbed her once in the back of the neck. The attacker then pushed the buggy with Joseph still in it on top of her and ran away. Police said the "extremely dangerous" attacker is "capable of anything" and have warned the public not to approach him but to call 999 immediately. Officers are considering whether they might speak to Joseph. Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper revealed yesterday that the toddler was "starting to act out" some of what happened to him. It has also emerged that Mrs Witchalls was pregnant with her second child when she was attacked. It has not been revealed whether the unborn child has survived. While her condition is improving, her father, Martin Hollins, has said she faces long-term disability.