A 16-year-old has been arrested after the latest teenage stabbing in London.Frederick Moody, an 18-year-old Kingston College student, became the 21st teenager to die in a violent attack this year.He was found by police with a blade wound to his stomach in Guildford Road, south Lambeth, after officers were called to an assault in progress just after 7pm last night.He was pronounced dead in hospital at 8.15pm.Police say up to eight men wearing hooded tops, some with bikes, were involved in the attack. It is rumoured a play water fight in the street may have led to a row that sparked the stabbing.A postmortem examination will take place later today at Greenwich mortuary.Residents in Guildford Road, where Moody lived with his parents, Mary and Kofi, and three-year-old sister Tamara, said he had a "bright future ahead of him".Vida Oblitey, 52, described 'Freddy' as like a son to her and said she had been with his mother when he died in hospital last night. She said: "Freddy was a very handsome boy, a lovely boy - and whoever has done this has taken the only son away from a very happy family."Keith Bayley, who lives directly opposite Moody's home, said he saw the teenager lying in pools of blood. He said: "One of our neighbours came and knocked on our door and told our son there was a body lying on the street. "There were a lot of paramedics trying to revive him - he was there for about 20 minutes, I think. Then they took him away in an ambulance, but until then he was just lying there on the road, fighting for his life." Bayley said he now feared for the safety of his own 14-year-old son.Flowers have been left at the scene by friends and wellwishers. One note said: "Another young man taken away so early in life. You are now one of God's angels. Rest in Peace, Maria."The 16-year-old suspect was arrested earlier this morning at his home in nearby Brixton. Police are still combing the area for evidence and are investigating whether Moody's attacker called at his house first. Neighbours reported hearing an argument.The funeral of another London teenage stab victim, 16-year-old Ben Kinsella, is taking place today.The aspiring actor's death in Islington, north London, prompted a spontaneous protest against youth violence in the capital. Kinsella's family, including his sister, the former EastEnders actress Brooke Kinsella, have called for an end to the killings.Catholics in London will join a vigil today praying for an end to the "epidemic" of gun and knife crime in the capital.