Police have released CCTV footage showing the last images of a university lecturer who was killed a week ago in Morden, south London.Daniel Young was stabbed in Kendor Gardens on 19 January. The short clip shows the 30-year-old wearing a suit and carrying his laptop and a bag over his shoulder. He is seen walking along the far side of Dorset Road towards the entrance to Kendor Gardens at around 8am.Minutes later Young was stabbed. The first call to the emergency services was made at 8.07am. He received treatment from paramedics and air ambulance medics but died at the scene.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Daniel Young moments before he was stabbedOriginally from Torquay, Devon, Young had been on his way to work during the first week of his job as a teaching fellow at Coventry University’s London campus.Det Ch Insp Cliff Lyons, who is leading the investigation, said: “Exactly a week ago today, Daniel left home to go to work. He had no reason to suspect he was going to be attacked and there is still no clear motive, or reason, for what appears to be the senseless murder of a brilliant young man.“I believe his attacker left the park immediately after he attacked him and did so via the Dorset Road entrance. I am appealing for anyone who was nearby and saw something, however insignificant it may seem, to contact the incident room.”A 26-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday on suspicion of wasting police time and subsequently arrested on suspicion of murder. He was released on bail to return in early March pending further inquiries. On Thursday, a 35-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder. He was taken to a south London police station and bailed to return in late February.“The investigation has continued to move at a fast pace, and there have been a number of arrests,” Lyons said. “My detectives continue to review many hours of CCTV and have already spoken to and taken a large amount of witness statements. However I again reiterate appeals to anyone with information to come forward.”Lyons said the response from the public so far had been helpful, but police needed anyone who was in the vicinity of Kendor Gardens and Dorset Road, at that time of day to get in touch.“I would also be interested in speaking to anyone in the area who has a recording device, perhaps on their car, cycling helmet, or private CCTV, we have not yet seen,” he said. “It is possible they could have captured something of interest to me.”Police were also investigating an earlier incident on the same day in nearby Lewis Road, where a 23-year-old man was stabbed in his buttocks. Detectives were working to establish if there was any evidence that the same person committed both attacks.Anyone with information can call police on 020 8721 4961 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.