Burglary, sexual assault, heroin dealing, mugging, smoking cannabis, vehicle theft, assault. Which should be the highest priority for police? Too difficult to pick just one? OK, pick three. When researchers asked this question to over 1,600 people a few years ago, less than half of 1% said cannabis use should be in the top three.This week the government released the latest figures on drug use and misuse in England and Wales. What's striking is how little has changed in the last year, but there is an important story lurking beyond press reports focusing on the rise of mephedrone use among young people.The latest figures confirm that levels of drug use have fallen substantially in England and Wales over the last 15 years and are currently at their lowest since recording began in the mid-1990s. This downward trend has been driven primarily by falling rates of cannabis use, especially by young people. Surprising, then, that the number of stop searches for drugs has doubled in the last 10-years and that cannabis possession still accounts for 70% of all drug offences recorded by the police. Drugs are by far and away the most common target for police-initiated encounters, accounting for as much as half of all stop searches.Before stop and search is hailed as the solution to the drug problem, it is worth noting that drug use started to fall before the increase in drug-related stop and search activity. The concentration on low-level drug possession is even odder when we consider what is happening with burglary. Stop and search for stolen property has halved in the last 10 years, while the latest figures from the British Crime Survey indicate that burglary has increased by 14% in the last year.The real question that this week's figures raise is why are so many resources being spent combatting low-level drug use when other, more harmful, forms of crime are on the increase. Administering more than 130,000 cannabis warnings each year across England and Wales does little to combat serious harms to communities, while consuming vast amounts of police time and resources.Officially, the national drug strategy calls for policing to focus on drugs that cause the most harm. When cannabis was moved to class C in 2004, enabling the police to issue a cannabis warning instead of having to issue an official caution or arrest offenders found in possession of small amounts of cannabis, this was hailed as an opportunity to "reduce the amount of time devoted to policing the possession of a drug which is undoubtedly harmful to individual health, but does not cause harm to the community on the scale of crack cocaine, cocaine or heroin". Instead what we've seen is the police spending more time on low-level cannabis possession offences. Even the government admits: "The number of drug offences recorded by the police is greatly dependent on police activities and priorities and doesn't give a reliable indication of trends in level of drug offending." Research regularly shows that the police racking up scores of possession offences does little, if anything, to affect drug availability or price.Government cuts mean up to 34,000 police personnel might lose their jobs, and while we don't want to see the number of frontline officers being cut, we should use the harsh economic climate to ask what it is that we're doing with the forces we still have available. What are our priorities as a society? Policing minister Nick Herbert was right when he said: "What matters is how well money is spent and how effectively officers are deployed." Should we really be sending officers out to find small amounts of cannabis, or should we ask them to focus on providing safe streets, responding to robberies, and supporting communities suffering from repeat victimisation? If government cuts mean fewer police being put on the streets, then careful thought should be given to what they're being asked to do.• Join the debate, as both authors will be available to answer questions in the thread