Few civil servants are prepared to tell the prime minister and the head of the home civil service to their face that they are completely "pissed off" with Whitehall. But Louise Casey, the no-holds-barred head of the government's Anti-Social Behaviour Unit, does not do circumlocutory.To use her own words, she "just likes to get the bloody issue sorted". One of Mr Blair's favoured new breed of delivery-focused civil servants, she is infuriated by more traditional colleagues who leisurely draft elegant policy papers such as Towards a Strategy on Fly Tipping, or spend a year squabbling over which department is in charge of abandoned cars. A former deputy director of Shelter, leader of the Rough Sleepers Unit and "self-confessed paid-up member of the Guardian readers' club", she is now a crusader on the inside. Running a small unit in the Home Office, she aims to improve blighted communities by overcoming what she sees as Whitehall obstructionism and public caution about challenging the status quo. The prime minister is one ally. The two regularly meet in one-to-one sessions, a privilege not often awarded to mid- ranking bureaucrats. Mr Blair this week launched a strong attack on an outdated system dominated by what he called "the talented amateur". Ms Casey puts the point more sharply. Public servants, she believes, "have got locked into this let's-assess-it mentality". "Some central areas in big towns have got prostitutes' cards in phoneboxes. What is the response of one area I was in? To pay for someone to audit the number of cards. "This is the sort of thing that sends me over the edge. I have to control myself in meetings, still look calm and smile afterwards with a cup of tea and not go, 'Are you crazy, have you lost your mind?' By all means count them, but take the effing things down at the same time. "I am clear. There is absolutely no point in more legislation in this field, or extra money. We just need to bloody enforce things." Her unit has been in place a year and next week will start making 3,000 local public servants into what she describes as a "leaner, tougher and more confrontational team". Ms Casey argues that progress in fighting anti-social behaviour means listening to the majority now suffering in silence. "If we see this as another policing issue, we won't win," she says, adding: "We need people to help us with the evidence." She even praises the group of tube passengers who refused to get off a rerouted train. Asked if this is incredibly un-British, she laughs. "Therein lies my problem. We hate confrontation, we hate challenging. We think that is all a bit difficult. We support the underdog ... I love that about us. "But on the other side, the balance in society has tipped at present. There are a few families on a few estates making life a misery, and our Britishness is getting in the way of saying to them enough, enough." "How do you deal with the neighbourhood from hell or a filthy back alley? We have the powers, but we now need to get out there and do it." She insists she is not after a massive increase in anti-social behaviour orders. "Go for the ringleaders, don't go for an entire estate," she urges. "They are fairly easy to get and not very costly." On Friday, for instance, one of the last pieces of the eclectic Anti-social Behaviour Act comes into force, empowering local education authorities and headteachers to impose fixed-penalty fines on the parents of persistent truants. She admits she had not initially been an advocate of parenting orders, fixed-penalty fines for parents of truants or compulsory residential parenting courses, fearing it was "legislation to crack a culture". But she is now "sold on them". "What has been missing is clear bound aries. Yes, there are bored teenagers and they need help, but there are some who don't realise that we as a community find gobbing at old ladies unacceptable." She admits: "I do worry and have moments when I think, how can we unravel all this? ... "I'm not a social scientist or academic, so maybe this is about family breakup, church, loss of spiritualism. And then I go to an oversubscribed meeting of 250 people who want the majority of decent people to be able to lead decent lives. It just makes me think we have got to try."