England's top judge, Lord Woolf, yesterday signalled a clash between the judges and the home secretary over who should have the right to decide how long murderers serve in jail.David Blunkett is determined to keep his power to set the tariffs or minimum terms adult murderers must serve before they can be considered for release. He is particularly reluctant to relinquish the right to set and maintain "whole life" tariffs for the most notorious killers, including the moors murderers Myra Hindley and Ian Brady and serial killers Rosemary West and Harold Shipman. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, said: "Slowly but surely the role of the home secretary in relation to life tariffs is being reduced. "My own view is that the question of setting and recommending minimum terms in the case of life prisoners is a role which should really be performed by the judiciary." The home secretary's role in setting tariffs is to be challenged in a House of Lords appeal which was scheduled for this week but which has now been put back to October because QCs briefed to argue the case were unavailable. The home secretary has already lost the right to set tariffs for discretionary lifers - those serving life for crimes other than murder - and for juvenile murderers. In May the European court of human rights in Strasbourg stripped him of the power to keep murderers in jail once the parole board has recommended their release. Launching the annual review of the court of appeal criminal division at the royal courts of justice in London, Lord Woolf said there was a strong argument for scrapping the mandatory life sentence for murder. "Why I am saying that is because murders differ immensely," he said. "They could so easily be a much more minor offence. Things go wrong and they turn out to be murder." He gave the examples of "someone inflicting something they know could cause grievous bodily harm and it turns out to cause murder" or the mercy killing of a terminally-ill loved one. "On the other hand, you could have a paid assassin hired to kill someone. "There is an argument that to have life sentences for all different kinds of murder is inappropriate. This is, however, a subject which is highly sensitive and highly political and one where parliament should have a very significant say." Lord Woolf said lack of funding of the courts and the rest of the criminal justice system was threatening public confidence in the administration of justice. "I'm afraid we're in a situation where, so far as the criminal justice system is concerned, we are facing the same problems as the health service, the education system and the transport system. We have been underresourced." Unless the probation service was properly funded, he said, it would not be able to oversee community punishments so as to ensure public confidence. At the same time, the service's funding problems meant there were difficulties in producing sentencing reports for judges. He reiterated his recent call for a dramatic reduction in the prison population, which he would like to see fall to 40,000 from 71,000. A Home Office spokeswoman said Mr Blunkett was determined to keep his powers to set tariffs for adult murderers.