As the political dust settles from last week's reshuffle what are the challenges faced by the incoming legal supremo, Charlie Falconer? The new secretary of state for constitutional affairs is already getting flak in equal amounts from reformers who wanted a ministry of justice and traditionalists who wanted to retain the lord chancellor. All his legendary charm will be needed to persuade the reformers that they have got some of what they wanted and convince traditionalists that some reform was inevitable and that it could have been worse.Falconer inherits four issues that need to be sorted out and two major challenges. The items on his "must be sorted out" list are the creation of a supreme court, reform of the system for appointing judges, abolition of the Queen's Counsel system and modernising court garb for judges and lawyers. The major challenges are criminal justice reform and what to do about legal costs in civil cases.The supreme court is fairly straightforward. Only scholars of the legal system understand that our highest court in the land is not a court at all and does not even sit in a courtroom. It's called the appellate committee of the House of Lords, which is technically part of parliament. A supreme court with its own building will give our senior judges the decent legal and technical support they lack today, and make the appeal system easier for the public to understand. The biggest battle may be with the Treasury for the funds for this modest and sensible reform. Although he will be the last lord chancellor, Falconer won't sit as a judge and the senior judges will no longer speak and vote in the House of Lords. Both are necessary to untangle the judiciary and the legislature. This should make our judges more independent, not less. Setting up a judicial appointments commission is likely to be a sensitive and delicate issue. We have already heard fears that political correctness will dominate or that the government will interfere with judicial appointments by packing the commission with Labour place-people. Taking the longer view, the greater danger is that the commission will be packed with traditionally-minded lawyers who will want the next generation of judges to mirror those now sitting, creating a self-appointing judicial oligarchy. UK judges are generally of high calibre but they are not representative of the society they serve, or even of the wider legal profession. The existing appointments system is skewed towards the bar and against solicitors, towards the top London sets of chambers and in favour of white, male, public-school educated candidates. There is not much independence about a system that keeps appointing the same types of people. Scotland already has a judicial appointments commission, chaired by a lay person, not a lawyer or a judge. We need the same for England and Wales. Its independence in selecting candidates will not be compromised if the commission works to a framework approved by parliament. I suspect parliament will instruct the commission to select the best judges for tomorrow, not just the cream of today's barristers. The judicial and legal worlds will no doubt be represented on the commission, but if it is to think beyond the narrow confines of the inns of court, perhaps lay people who have experience of selecting and monitoring top job-holders in other spheres should have a majority. Although he is a QC himself, the new minister won't take long to realise that the QC system is dead as a dodo and the sooner it is put out of its misery the better. Why should the state participate in a system of patronage for senior barristers, granting the top 10% a licence to charge higher fees? Sorting out the extent to which wigs and gowns should survive should not detain him for long either. The law lords somehow manage to dispense high-quality justice in ordinary suits. What's good enough for their lordships should be good enough for the rest of us. If barristers want to carry on dressing up in wigs and gowns, they can do it in private or take part in amateur dramatics, the only place where 17th century dress fits. The toughest item in Falconer's in-tray is likely to be further reform of the criminal justice system. Passionate views are held on both sides, with opposition to reform coming from an unholy alliance of libertarian, anti- establishment defence lawyers and traditionalist Tories. In contrast, the experience of those who daily come face to face with the victims of crime is that the criminal justice system is still a slow lottery. Witnesses are treated badly and victims' rights are trampled upon, all in favour of so-called historic freedoms of the defendant. Smaller cases get thrown out because a witness fails to turn up or for a procedural error. In larger cases, highly-trained barristers are allowed by the judges to turn cases into a judicial review of the police investigation and conduct, to intimidate witnesses and mount spurious challenges to police evidence. No one wants to sidestep the genuine rights of the defendant, but getting a guilty defendant acquitted on a technicality is not one of those rights. What the police, victims and Downing Street want is for criminal trials to be seriously rebalanced so they focus on the real issues. The criminal law tradition of one side keeping as quiet as possible and taking pot-shots at any exposed part of the prosecution case to secure an acquittal probably seems as absurd and unfair to the new minister as it does to the public. Civil trials, the world in which Falconer worked as a lawyer, have full disclosure on both sides, with each side under a duty to explain its case on the facts in advance of the trial. The duties of defence disclosure and the duty to explain the defence case in criminal trials today remain a joke, with half of all defence statements simply saying the defendant is "not guilty". It's no secret that the government, in particular Downing Street, is impatient for radical change in this area, although it's just the sort of change the unholy legal alliance so strongly opposes. But why should a criminal entrepreneur who imports millions of pounds worth of drugs not have to give a comprehensive account of his actions in a criminal trial? Why should the defence be allowed to go on a fishing expedition, playing "hunt the informer", to get the prosecution to stop the trial? There is a strong mood in the country that the criminal justice system ought to be there to acquit the innocent and convict the guilty, not give the guilty a sporting chance of finding a procedural defect in the prosecution case to avoid punishment. The Home Office was seen to be driving these changes. Responsibility for criminal justice policy has stayed with it, but by a deft stroke of political cunning, the Home Office minister responsible for criminal justice policy, Charlie Falconer, has been put in charge of the courts and the criminal trial process. So the Home Office approach to criminal justice policy, promoting the rights of victims and law enforcement, is now embedded in the former ministry for the lawyers. Is this a case of putting the fox in charge of the hen-house? Some lawyers will doubtless cry foul, but in the clash of world views between the lawyers and Downing Street, it doesn't take a genius to see which way the new minister will lean. The final major item in Falconer's in-tray is sorting out costs in the civil justice system. There is unfinished business here from the civil justice reforms initiated by Lord Woolf before he became lord chief justice, but the vested interests are colossal. Lawyers complained that the "no-win, no-fee" deals introduced under the last lord chancellor, Derry Irvine, would not work because injured claimants wouldn't be able to get a lawyer to act for them. Business and motorists, faced with soaring insurance premiums, say "no-win no-fee" is working far too well. Giving compensation to the few who get injured is the price we all pay for the freedom to drive our cars, but far too much premium income gets absorbed in the middle by legal costs before the money reaches the victim. The challenge is how to reduce the transaction costs for the compensation system. That may mean reducing lawyers' incomes - another area where the new minister will face the wrath of the legal profession. · David Lock is chairman of the service authorities to the national criminal intelligence service and the national crime squad. He was a minister in the lord chancellor's department from 1999 to 2001.