Harold Shipman, the GP charged with 15 counts of murder, duped two of his patients into providing signatures that enabled him to forge the will of his final victim, a court heard yesterday.One of the patients later challenged Shipman as to why he had asked her to sign the will and was told that he believed he may have been a beneficiary - and was therefore ineligible to sign it himself. The jury at Preston crown court also heard that one of Shipman's fingerprints was found on the forged will, and that one of the signatures on the document was a "crude forgery". Shipman, 53, is alleged to have murdered Kathleen Grundy, 81, in June 1988 and forged her will so that he would be the sole beneficiary of her £386,402 estate. Shipman denies all the charges. Claire Huchinson, a logistics executive, told the court that on the June 9, 1998, two weeks before Mrs Grundy's death, she attended Shipman's surgery in Hyde, Greater Manchester, for a routine appointment. While she was waiting Shipman asked if she would witness something for him, but he did not specify what. Mrs Hutchinson went into the examination room with Shipman and signed a document on his desk. "I think I saw last will and testament on the top and that is why I rememerbed feeling that's okay to sign," she told the court. Also present was Paul Spencer, another of Shipman's patients, and Mrs Grundy. In July 1998, following Mrs Grundy's death, her daughter, Angela Woodruff, contacted Mrs Hutchinson to express concern about her mother's will. After this meeting Mrs Hutchinson went to see Shipman to find out exactly what she had signed. "Dr Shipman apologised and said that he was very sorry that we had been bothered at home." Dr Shipman told her that he would have signed the will himself, but that this was impossible because Mrs Grundy intended to leave him a small bequest. "He said he was ineligble to sign the will so he asked two strangers." Shipman told Mrs Hutchinson that he had known Mrs Grundy a long time, but that she was seldom at the surgery because she was very rarely ill. On a later visit to the surgery, Shipman left Mrs Hutchinson "uncomfortable" when he joked: "Have you heard the latest? She's left it all to Age Concern." . The second signatory to the allegedly forged will, Mr Spencer, said that Dr Shipman also asked him to sign a document on the same afternoon. "He asked me if I would not mind witnessing a signature. I obliged." A fingerprint expert with Greater Manchester police, Andrew Watson, said that he had identified a print matching the little finger of Shipman's left hand on the allegedly forged will and on a portable typewriter on which Shipman is alleged to have composed the faked will. Michael Allen, a forensic document examiner and handwriting expert, said Mrs Grundy's signature had been forged."They are poor, crude simulations, forgeries of her signature written by some other person." The trial continues on Monday.