Observer: Why do you think that the police - who say they have modernised the way they operate - need to be thoroughly reformed?David Blunkett: I think what I want to try and do - and obviously you will make of it what you will in normal journalistic terms - is to set the Police Reform White Paper in the context of the broader modernisation and reform by the Government generally of public services. But also in the context of social justice.Because I have had to deal with the Anti-Terrorist Bill there has been an assumption that that means that I'm slightly, well, conservative on human rights issues, and I want to just put the record straight. Though I happen to have a particular concept of human rights which is rooted in a constituency where people are deeply deprived, where the rights they expect, never mind the rights they get, are very minimal, and where we need to restore hope to them that they can get those basic rights achieved.So, when John Wadham came in to see me from Liberty, I said to him that I am wholly on board with what you are doing, it's quite right that you should ensure that we protect the rights of the individual against the State, but I also think that it is very important that at some point Liberty should be able to join one of my advice bureaus and set up in a constituency like mine, not just a constituency based on the metropolitan view of what rights are about, so that we blend the two together. In July, when we published the Halliday report and I put out my material on sentencing, I was asked by a member of the audience about my attitude on this. I said at the time that the one thing which I don't want is to juxtapose, is to have human rights in terms of the big picture being set against the people I represent whose rights are fundamental in terms of being protected from anti-social behaviour, thuggery, the right to walk about and to live in reasonable peace and security. I want those two things to be seen as being coherent with each other. That is what I really want to talk about. In the White Paper, we are making a big show, in a way that has not been the case before, in relation to rooting what we are doing in and with the community, with people living in the most disadvantaged areas, coming from the most challenged backgrounds. We are asking the question: what can we do to overcome that terrible syndrome where everybody says that nothing can be done, or you will have to go and see someone else about this. That means tackling anti-social behaviour and disorder, but it also means trying to root into the community how we can build that civil renewal agenda so that the community is part of the solution. I have been very struck by examples across the country where the community has joined with not just the police, but those involved in the local authority arena with the schools, with those who are engaged with environmental health programmes, to actually say "how can we do this together? How can we actually be part of the overcoming of the difficulties?"The statistics illustrate why I am so concerned about those who are most badly off. It just happens that, before I came into the Home Office, a research project, funded by the Home Office, by the criminology department at the University of Sheffield, looked at the levels of crime in particular areas of the city. Sheffield is a very divided city - it is split down the middle in terms of historic affluence and one part of it is one of the most affluent parts of the whole of the North of England. The North East of the city that I represent is in the bottom 5% in Britain in terms of deprivation. The researchers looked at one small patch, just a neighbourhood, where the personal and household victimisation - namely burglary and street robbery - had a rate which was 76 times worse than in the best part of the city. They researched that area over a six-year period, so it wasn't just a one-off result. So you have got an absolutely vivid picture of the difference between one part and another. And that is replicated in surveys across the country.We have also found that half of all personal and household crime - again burglary and street crime - is undertaken to repeat victims. So you have got a terrible incidence of the same people being attacked and burgled over and over again. What we are going to do is actually focus the new codes of practice on trying to develop best practice in targeting repeat victims and therefore repeat offenders. Because the two go hand in hand. Our survey on persistent offenders also came up with statisitics that are absolutely stark in illustrating that the same offenders are tackling the same victims over and over again. In terms of social make up, persistent offenders share a very common profile. Half are under 21, nearly three quarters started offending between 13 and 15, the peak age is 22-24, and nearly two thirds of them are hard drugs users which is a really staggering figure. More than a third - I think this is one of the most shattering figures - of those had been children in care. And, to pick up a theme from my old job, half of them have no qualifications at all.So there is a major social policy agenda here as well as reforming the police. Now that is why we think that actually getting back into community policing really matters. And we want not only to get people on the beat, but actually what might be described as a more sophisticated modern beat. There is no point in having someone who goes round the same road pattern, at the same time of day, PC49 style for the very old Observer readers like Alan Watkin. If people know that then there's not much point. It's got to be genuine community policing where people are engaged in that community. And that is why we want to develop the wider policy family, so that the development of Neighbourhood Wardens, of what we are going to call Community Support Officers - which is what the Met call Auxiliaries (I don't like the term "auxiliary", the Health Service got rid of the term a long time ago) - and an increase in Specials who are after all volunteers from within the community. That combination can provide a real back-up so that you have not just got one or two people policing a community, learning about the community, developing intelligence from the community, but you have also got a neighbourhood commitment with eyes and ears, with support systems, in a way that can relate to the particular needs of that community. That can involve the new Offender Behaviour Contracts, and we want to develop those. The added factor is that we want to do something more with the follow through of the Anti-Social Behaviour Orders. There have been about 450 issued and successfully put through the courts so far. We want to try and slim those down. There are really good examples of of the way in which a community can be part of the solution. We have an example where there was a group of women in the community who were absolutely fed up to the teeth with what was happening in terms of the behaviour of just a small number of families and what they were doing to the rest of the neighbourhood, they were literally dragging it down. So they got together and they worked out a pack and a process for fast-tracking and dealing with Anti-Social Behaviour Orders. They were so fed up with others not doing it, with the professionals saying it was too difficult and they couldn't do it, and they put together a programme that they are now delivering to other areas. So they are saying that for a small consideration they will actually help them put it through and other people are buying them in as a consultancy. So that is the community helping itself.Now the reason I am so fanatical about all this is because I think there has been a big missing factor on the broad liberal-left and that is that we have forgotten crime and disorder and the misery that this brings as part of our social renewal agenda. We have often quite rightly talked about education, about health, about income, about jobs, about minimum wage, we have talked about unemployment. All of which are absolutely crucial to what I am doing. But we haven't said that the thing that really bedevils people in the most disadvantaged areas most of all is crime, and the statistics back that up. So it is those living in the disadvantaged communities who cop it worst and all the statistics bear that out. The result of which tends to be that women are frightened to go out the house, the children are unable to play, that they are always afraid of drug pushers and people actually committing petty crime to feed the drugs habit. Because one of the big problems we face with drugs is the pyramid selling - where you hook someone else in order to feed your habit. And we have really got to break that cycle. This development of the community policing role and the broader police family is part of that. Obs: Do you know what numbers, David, you might be talking about in Community Support Officers and Special Constables? Also some reports suggested that you would be considering salaries for Special Constables, or for some of this police family. Is that correct?DB: We have agreed with the Treasury that we will have to negotiate this as part of the SR2000 deal but I am very keen indeed to find a way of providing an incentive to getting people in. Not least because they are part of the community, but also because what has happened in terms of the drop of Specials is that quite a large percentage of them have gone into the full-time police force. Obviously if you can get people from the most disadvantaged areas into the force, you get a spin off in terms of ethnicity, in terms of socio-economic make up, in terms of trust within the community. It has all sorts of beneficial impacts as a route to broadening the intake to the police force - which obviously then provides reassurance particularly in areas where there are large ethnic minorities and where people have felt that the police force didn't mirror their particular socio-economic make up.Obs: And numbers, have you had any thoughts about what the number of this wider police family might be?DB: Well for the police family as a whole I have got great expectations because working with the Neighbourhood Renewal Unit and the ability to get resources through the regeneration programme, we can actually see the crime and disorder partnerships really kicking in very hard. The message here is that this isn't dependent solely on the police budget, this is dependent on people recognising that to resolve other problems you need that neighbourhood approach. So the Neighbourhood Warden, the souped-up Traffic Warden, the Specials, the Community Support Officers who are full-time trained technicians are all backing up the fully trained police officer. All of that comes together to add up to a really good message.Now on the uniformed police service, on the full-time police service, I am going to announce next week that we are toughening the targets, so we are going to go for 130,000 by the Spring of 2003 instead of 2004. And for next Spring we are going to see if we can reach the all-time record of around 128,300. Which mean that we will have passed any other high-point in our history, which if I can manage that will provide reassurance both for the public and for the police service. Because they are saying, you know, we are not against the broader police family, but are they going to be used instead of uniformed officers? The answer to that is no they are not. They are going to be used as well as uniformed officers. And our indication of good faith is precisely to speed up that target and try and do that.Obs: Do you have any sense of what the actual number of this wider police family may eventually be?DB: Not in numerical terms I don't, but we are beginning to make some moves at the moment in terms of the warden scheme. They haven't actually started yet, but the DTLR and the Neighbourhood Renewal Unit have agreed an initial tranche.Obs: David, obviously you spoke in your Superintendents' speech about poice-style powers of detention being given to traffic wardens, and making the jailers in prisons civilians rather than police staff. Can you flesh that out a little bit what you are trying to do there?DB: Over the next day or two we are going to put the finishing touches to how that might work. What we have agreed is that they would have to be accredited so that the Chief Constable and the - it's usually the Local Authority Chief Executive, but it's the lead officer for the Crime and Disorder Reduction Partnership - would have a dual key. They would sign off that they would want to give accreditation to particular groups who were then formally drawn in and given the necessary support, and became part of that broader police family rather than just saying everybody who calls themselves this will suddenly receive new powers because we realise that there needs to be a menu at local level so that there is some flexibility. Because they have got different names. I mean one of the nightmares is that Street Wardens in one place are Neighbourhood Wardens in another, and Neighbourhood Wardens in one place are actually more like caretakers or social services than they are the broader, if you like, Community Support Workers.So we are going to put a menu into the White Paper of those who can be accredited and we are currently putting the touches to what powers each layer, if you like, would have. So it wouldn't be one set of people have got no powers and one set of people have got all the powers. There might be two or three layers where depending on, for instance, the Special Constables will have powers equivalent to the police force. The Community Support Officers, because they are trained and are full time and are within the police service, would have a greater range of powers than it was possible to give to Street Wardens or Traffic Wardens. And we are in the process of putting the details together of that, so that's the best I can do for you at this stage. But it will be in layers with a menu so that at the local level there would be coherence, so that everybody knew that the person who was badged, who was accredited, had to display that badge and had been properly agreed by the two main parties involved, by the police themselves and the Crime and Disorder Reduction Partnership. Obs: You said in your speech that the public do not have a choice when it comes to policing. Obviously the Standards Unit and HMIC are going to have a key role in ensuring that all police forces across the country, England and Wales, give the public the same service. Do you think at the moment the public is not getting an adequate service from some police forces and how do you tackle that? DB: It's incredibly varied. It is as varied as the medical absenteeism and the medical early retirement. And we are going to publish next week some material on the variation between Basic Command Units and between forces because we want to tackle the force variation, but there are 43 police forces and we are mindful that for most people it's the Command Unit, it's the local police station that really makes the difference. And we have been talking to the Superintendents' Association about enhancing the status of the Super and the importance of the Basic Command Unit because we think that devolving and decentralising, so that people can see where the accountability lies. They need to feel that they have got the status and the clout to be able to do it, but they are the ones who will be dealing with the police family and the Neighbourhood and Street Wardens and recruiting the Specials, and ensuring that they can use more effectively those who are currently are caught up in the cycle of bureaucracy. I also wanted to talk to you about how we our going to follow through our survey of police diaries. I mean 43% of time is spent on average in the police station. We desperately need to improve that so that we can actually get people not only out into the community, but also reflecting the immediate challenges like the terrible Friay night and Saturday night community policing where it really is tough. And we need to get more people out to be able to do that which means more civilians, including those doing duties like the supervision of those who are taken into custody. There is no reason at all why police, a uniformed officer, should be responsible for feeding and watering someone who is being held in custody. There is no reason at all why the follow up to things like car crime and following the insurance claims shouldn't be done by someone who is trained to do it, and is good at taking down details and making sure that they are rapidly processed. We just need to make sure that that is supervised and is part of the jigsaw for the police service as a whole, so that they are working to them. So we will be able to do a lot by accelerating that in the immediate future. But the whole package is about getting people to say what is wrong at the moment and what can we do about it, and why can't we do it together.Obs: Why do you think there are such variations between different forces? Is it a management issue which you need to tackle?DB: Well leadership and management will be a very big part of the solution. We need to ensure that management and leadership training is consistent, that it is made available to the point when people are moving up their career so that they can actually gain that experience. We need to ensure that those to whom it is delegated, and often the management of people is delegated to the level of sergeant, that we give much more training to those at that supervisory level than has been possible in the past, and that we spread best practice. One of the things that the inspectorate does is to collect a wide range of information about what isn't working and what is. The Standards Unit needs to use that to target their work very heavily indeed. And one of the things that we will be doing is firstly decentralising to Basic Commande Unit level and therefore targeting the Standards Unit work on backing up that Command Unit area, so that they will be working directly with them. Secondly within the Command Unit to pick out police priority areas which are not going to be zones like Action Zones or Employment Zones, but will be flexible, fluid, neighbourhood areas where there are multiple problems at a particular moment. And they may be targeted just for six or nine months, not for a long period, where a whole range of initiatives could be brought together on tackling drug dealing, on neighbourhood repeat offending of victimisation that I was talking to you about at the beginning. Where they could tackle a particular range of anti-social behaviour, like perhaps bringing in mobile cameras, by putting a number of people on that group of streets regularly so that there is a presence either of uniformed officers or of Neighbourhood Wardens actually on those streets, visible, reporting back, with the modern equipment - because we are going to start the process of expanding the Airwave initiative. This is the new communications technology that has been piloted in Lancashire and is working very well, and we want to spread that as fast as possible. And we want to make sure that that is available so that you are using the best techniques that you have got available to actually ensure that you can call people in when you need them, but that people can see the accredited police and accredited family of the police on the beat. Obs: Some concern has been raised, from Chief Constables I have spoken to about this reserve powers issue and whether or not you will actually have the power yourself to be able to remove Chief Constables, or intervene in failing areas. How far do you want to go on that?DB: Well we are refining that now and I need to talk to the President of the Association of Chief Police Officers and the representatives of the Superintendents before I finalise that, before we publish next Wednesday. I will happily give you - he says mischievously - paragraph 100 of the previous pronouncement. On the grounds that it was rather a tragic day when I made it on 11 September. But that spelt out where we have been at and we are moving towards a sensible solution on this which I am not going to pronounce on to you or anyone else between now and next Wednesday.Obs: My final question is that when you were making such widespread reforms at the Department for Education it was often classified as war against teachers. Do you fear that this will be seen as a sort of war against the police?DB: No, this is war against crime and anti-social behaviour. This is war on those who make people's lives a misery, including the police. I want the police to be as effective as possible. Given that detection - I mean this is another wonderful statistic - detection and conviction rates are appallingly low. I mean detection is down to 24% and conviction is down to 9%. Well that is just demoralising for the police and it is totally bewildering for people in the local neighbourhoods most affected, which is why I come back to the point again that their rights matter and I want their rights to be set alongside the bigger, very important human rights that we have been debating over the last three weeks. And I want to set that in the context of something else we are doing. We are actually going to confirm in the White Paper that we are going to move rapidly in the Police Bill to legislate for the new Independent Police Complaints Commission, so that we can get that side of it right. So we have effective, confident policing; we have high morale and we have high probity; we have confidence from the community because they know that the police are on their side and are playing the game; and we have a Complaints Commission that is truly independent, that gives the reassurance to the public that if something does go wrong it will be dealt with properly and speedily.