The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday May 22 2006 Chief Inspector Leroy Logan was wrongly described as the chairman of the Black Police Association in the article below. He ceased to be so in October 2004. Mike Fuller's mission since becoming chief constable of Kent has been to reconnect with the public and to enhance community policing. So here he is amid the grey structures and grassy squares of the Packwood Estate, a "challenging" place where even trees and benches become targets for thieves.He's on a walkabout - all flat cap and shiny black jacket - and talking to a middle-aged woman about the demise of the Packwood Tavern, a pub that became a crack house. "Things are better now, aren't they," he says confidently. "Well yes," she replies. "There used to be noise and so much fighting." But when an accompanying officer asks her to give a statement to ensure the pub stays shut, she stares at the dishevelled frontage. "Oh I couldn't do that," she says. "I had some good times in that pub. I used to go over there in my slippers."After two years in the job, Fuller, 47, has learned the virtual impossibility of bringing everyone on board. "It's not a popularity contest," he says.But if it were, he would be doing pretty well. For the past two years, official assessments have placed Kent among the top five forces for reducing crime, promoting safety and localised policing. It managed, albeit narrowly, to stave off the threat of merger under the government's reorganisation plans. The force has also earned plaudits for its sure-footed reaction to the audacious raid in February on the Securitas depot in Tonbridge - the world's biggest robbery. Within 72 hours of the investigation millions were recovered. The inquiry is ongoing - £33m is still missing - but most applaud the fact that seven charges have already been laid.Kent was also called upon to investigate the murder last month of Christopher Alaneme, the 18-year-old black man stabbed to death in a racially motivated attack in the seaside town of Sheerness. Five men have been arrested on suspicion of murder and attempted murder.The satisfaction at all this goes far beyond Kent and embraces officials, activists and politicians who are paying particular attention to the progress of Fuller, Britain's first black chief constable. Having left the Met, which he joined as a cadet in 1975, there are many at Westminster who hope to see him return with at least a chance of becoming Britain's first black commissioner. The general sentiment as he takes his flat cap and shiny jacket to the estates and villages of Kent can best be expressed as "so far, so good"."People have been incredibly friendly to me," he says. "I didn't know how people would respond. There was the obvious issue; the race issue. I have adopted a high profile and tried to be more accessible than a lot of traditional chief constables. One reason we did so well with the Securitas robbery was because of the fantastic public response. It is great for me in that sort of policing environment where there is tremendous public support, which is something I hadn't felt when I worked in parts of London."Kent has 6,172 police and civilian staff but only one employee made known his objection to having a black chief. Racist material was later found on the civilian's computer. Fuller says he has drawn a line under the affair. "He said it didn't translate into his work but he was sacked and he has not been able to challenge that."We talk around the polished oval table that forms the centrepiece of his office in Maidstone. Behind his desk there are framed certificates from the University of Sussex, an MBA and a diploma in law. On a sideboard he has a ceremonial sword, a present from local Sikhs. But the possession he treasures the most is a folder of letters from groups and individuals who testify that he has made a difference. "I thought you might like to know that since you arrived Hadlow has seemed quieter and safer," says one. A local paper editorial is positively rapturous. "From the National Farmers Union to the Women's Institute, he has been credited by people across the county with restoring their faith in the police," it reads.We both tape our conversation. This is the first in-depth interview he has given since he got the job and he is anxious not to be misquoted. But he is also relaxed, confident and much sunnier than he ever was at the Met, where many of those who liked him as a person and supported his rise to the heights of deputy assistant commissioner found him remote. His first instruction to reporters was that they should call him Mike. "I think I have grown in confidence. It is about just deserts. I have worked very hard to get where I am. I am well qualified for where I am. I don't need to apologise to anyone. I don't think I have had self doubts."He speaks of the need to innovate, to take risks. In London he used flyers outside nightclubs and ads on pirate radio to contact specific communities. He was founding chair of the Black Police Association when it was a perilous position to have. Now in Kent, he sends probationers to complete their training at university rather than a police college so they connect with other professionals and the training becomes less "militaristic". They also get a week's diversity placement, working with asylum-seekers, travellers and community organisations. "For some it is quite life-changing," he says.Fuller has his degrees but if there is a divide between the academics and the coppers he is a copper. He left the Met as director of intelligence but had previously worked for Special Branch and he headed the drugs directorate. During the Lawrence Inquiry he wrote the action plan on which the Met's response was based and he set up the most visible part of it, the Racial and Violent Crime Task Force. He formed Operation Trident, the ongoing unit to tackle the gun crime plaguing London's black and minority communities but its gestation was not easy."One of the most daunting things I did was see a play called Black on Black in the east end of London. I did a talk on what we were trying to achieve and got lots of offensive barracking from the audience. But when the 300 people voted at the end it was to support the police in tackling the problem. That was pretty satisfying in a perverse sort of way."If he thinks of returning to London, as commissioner or, more realistically, as deputy commissioner, he is too canny to say. He insists he is focused on Kent. He is a fan of Sir Ian Blair, the beleaguered Met commissioner who assisted his application. "He is someone I have always had great respect for," he says. "I owe him a lot."As a black pioneer he is blessed and cursed. He can progress in his career and be a role model. But he also has to balance the expectations of the wider community - who would balk at a chief constable for whom race was too great a preoccupation - and minorities, many of whom expect a black figure of such import to provide radical leadership.This week, in a letter to the Guardian, he challenged a white resident's published claim that he went just once to Sheerness, scene of the Alaneme murder, and solely because the victim was black. In fact, he went four times. "In the vast majority of cases I go out to, the victims would be white," he protests.He is alert to flak but also to friendly fire. "When I was appointed, Darcus Howe wrote something very, very critical and I was very disappointed. He wrote that I was being awarded this for being a good boy. It is quite the opposite."The memory troubles him, but then he smiles. Probably there is no single answer to the questions asked of prominent black figures in mainstream positions, but he says he has his answer. "What I felt was that I would get on with the job. That is what I have always done. I have focused on being a very competent professional. The race issue is something that I let people judge for themselves."What they say'[Fuller] astounded people by beating several other high-calibre colleagues to this job, showing that excellence is the best tool to combat not just racism, but any kind of prejudice' Leroy Logan, chairman, Black Police Association'He attracted the goodwill of the establishment. He has been a good boy, and good boys are rewarded' Darcus Howe'What we are actually seeing is the appointment of a talented man, irrespective of colour ... To suggest otherwise is simply mean spirited' Sir Ian Blair, Met chief'If Ian Blair is forced to step down, or retire for health reasons, Fuller's quiet leadership skills might be noticed where it counts, the Home Office' Ephraim Hardcastle, Daily Mail