A single picture can speak a thousand words. At his public unveiling as the new Metropolitan police commissioner this week, Paul Stephenson appeared before waiting reporters, uncomfortably sandwiched between Jacqui Smith and Boris Johnson. Sir Paul takes on one of the toughest roles in public service, not simply because of London's challenges of knife crime, terrorism and Olympic security, but also because he inherits the unenviable task of trying to please these two very different political masters. The Met is crippled by confusion over who is in charge. Britain's top police officer is formally appointed by the home secretary; the rationale for this is that the Met polices London as well as having important national responsibilities, particularly in the area of counter-terrorism. However, in making that appointment the home secretary must take into account the views of London's directly elected mayor. In reality, as we saw in the case of Ian Blair, the mayor has the political authority to force out a commissioner he does not like. When the offices of mayor and home secretary fall into the hands of different political parties the whole process of London's police governance becomes highly politicised. No one knows who is in charge, and the police suffer from a lack of strategic direction as a result.Recent events at the Met also highlight a further problem: it is unclear how much say any politician, local or national, should have over policing decisions. This came to light most clearly in the Damian Green case. Green was arrested for publicising material that had been leaked to him from the Home Office. The Conservatives insisted that the home secretary should have intervened to prevent his arrest; the government said such decisions should lie with the police and not politicians. This confusion over who should decide what stretches way beyond the capital and runs throughout the police service. We need to clear up who makes policing decisions at which levels, and to whom they are accountable. This demands much more radical reform of the police service than has been proposed hitherto by either government or opposition.First, we need to clarify what policing roles should be carried out by local police forces, what should be done by national police agencies, and to which elected politicians they should be accountable. For most of the last decade we have had the wrong people making decisions at the wrong levels. For years the Home Office sought to direct, from Whitehall, how local police forces should deal with essentially local level crimes like theft and burglary. This led to an extraordinary degree of inflexibility, with police forces unable to respond to local people's concerns about crime and antisocial behaviour because of the need to tick government boxes. For instance, in areas where children have been riding mini-mopeds around local streets and parks in a dangerous manner, local people have found that the police have been unable to prioritise the problem because they have to stay focused on government targets. This obsession with national targets also set up perverse incentives whereby police officers would pick off the "low-hanging fruit", such as by searching young kids and giving them cautions for relatively minor offences, like cannabis possession, simply to meet their targets. The government has recently scrapped most of these central targets. This move is long overdue, and should give the police greater flexibility to respond to local people's priorities. However, there remains confusion over how local communities can hold the police to account. The government recently proposed that local police authorities, at present comprising councillors and magistrates, should be directly elected. This proposal was dropped following a rebellion by Labour backbenchers concerned that this might allow extremists like the BNP to take control of local police forces. This problem needs to be resolved – if we are to give the police greater flexibility at a local level we need to find some way of local people setting police priorities and holding them to account.Having handed back responsibility for dealing with local crime to local forces, we need a new role for central government. Instead of micro-managing how the police handle street crime and vehicle theft, the government should focus on tackling serious and organised crime, which requires the kind of highly specialist capabilities that are best developed at the national level. The procurement of new equipment and technology should also be done centrally. It makes no sense for each of our 43 police forces to tender for their own differently configured police helicopter when bulk purchase would bring its own cost and efficiency benefits.In order to perform this new role the government should consider establishing a single national policing agency to focus on serious, cross-border and specialist crime. It would also procure technology and critical resources centrally. In the case of the Met, such a move would relieve London's police force of its national counter-terrorism responsibilities and enable it to focus on crime in London, while being held to account by London's mayor.As well as clarifying local and national responsibilities, the Damian Green affair and the resignation of Ian Blair show that we also need to differentiate much more clearly between the roles of police officers and politicians. As with so many parts of our "unwritten constitution", this has so far been dealt with by convention and by the courts. The time has now come to formalise, in law, where the division of responsibilities lies.Paul Stephenson's obvious discomfort as a copper in the middle of a political tug of war highlights the need for radical reform: we need to clarify who decides what, when and how – and where politics ends and policing begins.