Ruth Ellis, the last woman to be hanged in Britain, was suffering from battered woman syndrome when she shot her lover dead, and she was wrongly deprived of her only line of defence at her trial, the court of appeal heard yesterday.Lord Justice Kay, Mr Justice Silber and Mr Justice Leveson were told there was an error and a "basic unfairness" in Ellis's "skewed" trial in 1955, resulting in a miscarriage of justice which has endured for 48 years. The 28-year-old club hostess went to the gallows in 1955 for killing the racing driver David Blakely as he emerged from a pub in Hampstead, north London. She shot him in the back and when he collapsed on the pavement she fired four more bullets into his body. "It was obvious that when I shot him I intended to kill him," she said at her trial. Michael Mansfield QC, appearing for Ellis's sister Muriel Jakubait, 81, appealed for the murder verdict to be quashed and replaced with a verdict of manslaughter on the grounds of provocation or diminished responsibility. He said the trial judge, Sir Cecil Havers, had made a "substantial error" in withdrawing the defence of provo cation from the jury, which took just 14 minutes to convict Ellis of murder. Mr Mansfield said the judge and the six experienced prosecution and defence barristers involved in the case were "labouring under a misconception of the law". They believed that to establish provocation it must be proved that the killing was not motivated by malice but happened in the "passion of the moment" without intent to kill or cause grievous bodily harm. He said that new evidence from an expert analysis of documents would show that Ellis was suffering from battered woman syndrome. It was accepted at the trial that she had been "disgracefully treated" by Blakely. Mr Mansfield described Blakely's violent behaviour towards Ellis during the six months before she killed him. Ellis had said: "He only used to hit me with his hands and fists but I was full of bruises on many occasions." There were numerous violent encounters and reconciliations in a relationship described by Mr Mansfield as "swings and roundabouts". Ten days before the killing Ellis suffered a miscarriage after Blakely, the baby's father, had punched her in the stomach. Shortly before Easter 1955 the couple had made up, Blakely telling Ellis "everything would be all right". He talked about marriage and providing financial support and he said he would spend the weekend with her and her son from her previous marriage. But instead of collecting her for their weekend trip on Good Friday he went to Hampstead, ignoring her attempts to reach him. After numerous attempts to telephone him she was lied to and told he was not there. Travelling to Hampstead and knocking on his door produced no answer, and in order to "attract his attention", Ellis pushed out the windows of Blakely's car. On the Saturday he failed to contact her or return to their home. By the Sunday, with still no response from him, she was provoked into a loss of control. Mr Mansfield said Blakely's behaviour was intentionally directed at Ellis, and given the history of the relationship, it amounted to provocation. Two years after Ellis's execution the law was changed to allow a defence of diminished responsibility. David Perry, for the crown, said the law of provocation did not arise in Ellis's case because there was no final provocative act and no evidence of sudden and temporary loss of control. He said: "A reasonable woman would not have been provoked on the basis of the alleged provocative act." The hearing continues.