Police have released the last known images of the murder victim Jeshma Raithatha, a typical teenage girl shopping for clothes on her way home from school, three days before her 18th birthday.Detectives now believe that hours after the A-level student was captured on CCTV in Primark in north-west London on the afternoon of Monday May 16, she was dead - raped and stabbed three times through the heart. Her body was discovered eight days later in dense undergrowth at the back of a leisure centre near her home in Sudbury Hill, Greenford. Police think her killer grabbed her as she walked home along a wooded path. They are hunting for a middle-aged eastern European man who lived five minutes from the murder scene and worked locally as a car washer. Police have issued an alert to ports and airports to be on the lookout for the man, whom they describe as their main suspect. They refused to name him but have searched a house in Dimmock Drive, Greenford, where the suspect was staying. He is believed to have left the address shortly after Jeshma disappeared. Detectives initially thought Jeshma was abducted and held against her will for up to six days before she died and her body was dumped elsewhere. They were also examining the theory that the 17-year-old, who had ambitions to get into the music industry, might have had some previous contact with her killer, possibly on the internet, which she used frequently. But subsequent forensic evidence showed she probably died on the day she went missing, and officers now think she was killed where she was found. It seems likely she was stabbed as she lay on the ground, which would account for there being little blood in the area. One of her nails was chipped. Police say an initial examination did not detect signs of sexual assault, even though when her body was found her jeans had been removed. Subsequent tests revealed she had been raped, giving detectives a clear motive for the murder. Police have also discounted the internet theory and now believe she was the victim of a random attack by someone she did not know. Yesterday they issued the footage of her last recorded movements in an effort to jog potential witnesses' memories. Dressed casually in jeans, T-shirt and a cardigan, she had been to Claremont high school in Kenton that morning to study for her exams, but left at 1pm. At 1.30 she got on a 204 bus from Preston Road, Kingsbury, to Wembley High Road, where she went shopping. In the high road she bought a top in Primark at about 2.20 and then a candle in Pound City. She caught the 92 bus home at 2.39, alighting near Sudbury Hill tube station at about 3pm. It seems she then walked up the road leading to the David Lloyd leisure centre and along a path leading to the Wood End estate where she lived, and it was here that her assailant struck. The candle and top she had bought barely an hour before were recovered from the scene. Jeshma's parents reported her missing when she did not return home as expected, but it was not until May 24 that her body was found, about 20 metres (70ft) from the path, in a secluded area used as a drinking den. The area was still sealed off yesterday as police combed it for clues. Jeshma had been accepted to read an arts degree at a London university.