Rhys Jones's father, Stephen, stood outside Liverpool crown court yesterday after his son's killer had been convicted of murder and declared: "Finally justice has been done for Rhys."He said the family could now begin rebuilding their lives and he praised the kindness shown to them by the people of Liverpool, which had been "immeasurable"."For this, we will always thank you from the bottom of our hearts," Jones said. "Over the months we have found strength in the messages of support from the many thousands of strangers around the world." He thanked Detective Superintendent Dave Kelly, who led the murder investigation, family liaison officers, the Crown Prosecution Service, and the couple's employer, Tesco, "for their understanding during this most difficult time".When Jones was driving to work on the M57 on a pleasant August evening last year, the supermarket manager received a phone call from his wife which he described as "his worst nightmare".Melanie told him their 11-year-old son, Rhys, had been shot. Such was his shock, despair and confusion, he turned his car around and drove to the wrong hospital. He arrived at a hospital in Fazakerley, the closest one to their home, then realising his mistake he drove on to Alder Hey children's hospital, where medics were trying, unsuccessfully, to resuscitate Rhys.The couple's lives would be changed for ever as they were thrust into the media spotlight.The Joneses made emotional appeals for information leading to the arrest of the gunman. Speaking at a press conference a few weeks after Rhys was shot, Mr Jones said: "Four weeks ago we were a normal happy family, with us, Rhys and his older brother Owen. All that changed when Rhys was shot on his way back from a game of football and lost his life."Stephen and his sons were fanatical Everton fans. To reflect his passion for football, Rhys's coffin was painted Everton blue and many at his funeral, including his father, wore the team's shirt.Rhys's father found solace in writing poetry in the immediate aftermath of the killing. At the funeral in Liverpool's Anglican Cathedral, after mourners sang the hymn All Things Bright and Beautiful, a poem he had written for his son was read to the congregation. The couple attended a poignant vigil at Croxteth country park, with readings from Rhys's friends and the Bishop of Liverpool.A memorial football tournament named after Rhys was played in May this year with under-12s teams playing at Chester's stadium. Within months the couple had opened an adventure playground dedicated to the memory of the youngster at his old school in Norris Green.The couple began fundraising - selling purple ribbons for the Liverpool Unites campaign in Rhys's memory and raising more than £250,000 for a £1.2m community centre in his name. A fun run was organised to bolster the fundraising. The Joneses said the centre was "the best tribute" to Rhys they could think of. Although Croxteth Park is the second largest private estate in Europe it has very few community facilities.Det Supt Kelly said the Jones family showed patience and dignity throughout the proceedings and only asked police for the name of their son's killer when Mercer was charged. "I just hope for them at the conclusion of this trial that they can find some rest and move on with their lives."