News isn't supposed to hang around in the air like stinky fish, but here's a piece that simply refuses to go away, no matter how often I command it to. It's last month's story about Heather Thompson, the mother who, boasting that she could get her daughter and friend, both 12 years old, home, 20 miles away, in less than 20 minutes, drove at over 80mph and killed them both. With the industrial quantities of guilt she's for ever doomed to feeling, this surely belongs in a Greek tragedy - how Thompson must have railed against Fate for not doing its business and carting her off, too.By grisly coincidence, a case came to court in Florida last week. Mary Hill, allegedly driving at 70mph, killed her 13-year-old daughter and 14-year-old best friend but, again, survived herself. At first, these stories wind you so strongly because mothers are meant to be protectors, not killers. But then another thought begins to thrum: just as Myra Hindley, and not Ian Brady, became the emblem of evil, so speeding is more heinous when done by a woman. In fact, most reckless driving, we know, is carried out by young men. What's more, they tend to get 10 minutes in jail for the topping of lives, compared with those young female shoplifters sentenced to five years for nicking a cracked Rimmel Peachy Pink lipstick tester. You think this journalistic hyperbole? Last week, just before David Blunkett raised the maximum sentence for causing death by dangerous driving from 10 to 14 years, a 30-year-old male driver who'd killed a 17-year-old walked from the court with just six points on his licence and a £500 fine. That's because he was done for the lesser charge of careless driving. If he carelessly totals another teenager, he might get the maximum fine of £2,500, and between three and nine points on his licence. It sounds more like a board game - Automobility? - than real life, or rather its ending. We've got ourselves into an awful mess here: four wheels good, two legs bad. Courts and law-makers seem to believe that killing, when conducted through the intervening instrument of a car, when the murder weapon isn't held in the hand, only controlled by it, is an altogether different affair. It's as if it then becomes a matter of transport rather than crime - the very language, "traffic accident", allowing it to shelter beneath the carapace of accidental death. Overall, it's made to seem as though the car drives the driver, rather than the other way round. Car accidents are crimes almost without agency, without stigma, without a criminal. Of course, it doesn't do to demonise young men here. Speed signals sex, power, iconoclasm, balls. We can't sanction glossy ads puffing cars that do 0-350mph in three seconds, and then go and pillory young men for trying to emulate them. Especially as it's behind the wheel that these muddled young males often try to express potency and indifference to social mores - the car may have contributed to anomie, but it's also touted as its antidote. Anyway, we're a culture in love with velocity. We admiringly call amphetamines speed, but don't approvingly name barbiturates slow. When politicians are caught speeding - last year Harriet Harman doing 99mph, three years earlier Jack Straw's official car careering at 103mph - it is indulged as the peccadillo of the hurrying harried, the cojones of the too-busy. For while speed is commonly linked with gender - I've just done it myself - it should more properly be bound with class. It's the privilege of what writer Susan George calls Fast Castes. The radical thinker Ivan Illich showed the zero sum way in which it operates: "Beyond a critical speed, no one can save time without forcing another to lose it." Speed creates places and people that are sped by, passed over. Ask the elderly people trying to cross the road at a traffic blackspot in Thatcham, Berkshire, who had a princely seven seconds of pelican crossing time in which to do it. Timed by the Pedestrians' Association, it actually took them nine to 18 seconds. What are they meant to do - levitate themselves over? Last week's yes-we'll-have-them-no-we-won't on speed cameras simply expresses our ambivalence about speed. "Drivers face hundreds more speed cameras," blared the Sunday papers. "Huge speed camera cuts," trumpeted the Monday ones. This is the revenge of the accelerated. There's even a group called Mad - or Motorists Against Detection - that goes out and sabotages speed cameras. Naturally, they say that they're not in favour of speeding, just against the cameras. Funny, that's just what those waging war on speed humps claim. Both are defending their right to velocity, perhaps the most unequally distributed one in the world. Information technology, it was said, would diminish the need for speed and travel. It hasn't, and slowcoach remains a term of abuse. Driver re-education is the new slogan: speeders can trade docked licence points for speeding workshops. Myself, I think we need to see David Beckham pootering along and Thierry Henry va-va-vooming in low gear. Until then, two contrary facts are undeniable. Speed can intoxicate, or so it seems. But speed simultaneously scorches the universe, ravaging it also for those who'll never be wealthy enough to enjoy its thrills - the speed-poor.