Wayne's worldA piece of the old west lives on in the blockbuster Cowboys & Aliens, in which a spaceship lands in an Arizona town in 1873. Manning up in the posse alongside Hollywood stars Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford is a certain Brendan Wayne, grandson of cowboy legend John Wayne. California-born Brendan grew up on rodeos and film sets and does all his own stunts playing Deputy Lyle in the new film, finally fulfilling a boyhood dream hatched while watching Duke on set in the original True Grit. Having decided late to study acting at university, Brendan even majored in his grandfather's movies. Now married to an actress and with three daughters, Brendan owns two horses, Out of Money and Deuces, neither of which appears in this film.Attack the film?As London recovered from the riots, Trash could hardly believe the irony of receiving an email last Monday proclaiming the forthcoming release of comic horror Attack the Block on DVD. Of course, this was no cynical cash-in by distributor Optimum – as with the releases of Chicago inner-city doc The Interrupters this week by Dogwoof and even Brazilian favela v police film Elite Squad 2: The Enemy Within by Revolver, it merely proves that art reflects life but with the caveat that, nowadays, modern life is also pretty much in thrall to art. However, Attack the Block is a comedy that seeks to redeem those demons of the moment, hoodies. Here, a bunch of them, none of them wholly likable, defend their south London estate from alien attack.Is it too soon to joke about this culture? I very much liked the film – directed by Joe Cornish, who is better-known as a comedian and satirist – when it came out last May. I watched it again nervously last week and was relieved to find the comedy still worked but that the previously gentle politics of the piece now stand up as smart but subtle social comment. At a stretch, the alien hordes take on a metaphorical significance now, too. The fact that the film should survive any storm the media or reality can throw at it is testament to Cornish's obvious prep work with real youth groups and a keen eye and ear for their attitudes and emotions.Hoop threadsSteve James, director of The Interrupters, is still remarkably close to the two boys and families who formed the subjects of his most famous work, the basketball documentary Hoop Dreams, from 1994. Both boys are now in their late 30s and Steve told me this week that William Gates, crushed by a knee injury in Hoop Dreams, has become a pastor in Chicago. The other boy, Arthur Agee, has made his own educational documentary called Hoop Reality to stress the importance of school to urban youngsters. But much of Arthur's energy is being taken up with repeated efforts to launch a Hoop Dreams clothing and footwear line, with the slogan "control your destiny". "He has our full blessing and the rights to use the name for the clothes," says Steve. "We wish him all the luck and I really hope he gets it off the ground this time because he's been trying for many years."Meanwhile, James understands there are already talks under way in Hollywood for a movie based on The Interrupters. "I would welcome it," he says. Who, though, could play the charismatic Ameena Matthews, who becomes, by virtue of her dignity and intensity, the documentary's central figure? "It's a great part for someone," admits Steve as we bandied around names from Beyoncé to the "young Angela Bassett". "I've thought hard," he says, "and the only one who could play Ameena is Ameena herself." See the remarkable film and you'll know he's right.