Next time you find a dead pig in an empty office, close the door and tiptoe away. It is already helping police with their inquiries.The poignant porker would have died naturally, perhaps smothered by its mother in the sty. But it would not have died in vain. The piglet's mortal remains could be part of a London-wide experiment to settle one of the great mysteries of murder: whether the time and place of death can be precisely established from the grisly cycle of decay and digestion by maggots, mites and beetles on the putrefying carcass. Zoe Adams, of the Natural History Museum, is a forensic entomologist interested in the succession of insects that begin to colonise the dead while the corpse is still warm and continue through the long journey to complete decay. What happens to the flesh varies according to altitude, temperature, foliage and site, she told the science festival. "When bodies are left lying around, we get involved," she said. Pathologists can set a probable time of death from the state of a corpse in rigor mortis. But after a few days, this becomes harder to estimate. The precise species of insect that laid its eggs and hatched its larvae on the cadaver could provide a better clock of decay. But to be sure, scientists had to experiment with real flesh, in undisclosed parts of London: on top of an office block, in an empty office with a partly open window, in open grassland, in the shade. With the help of dead piglets, she and colleagues could construct a database of what is, literally, urban decay. "In truth, a human corpse is nothing more than a nutritional resource to be exploited and certain insects specialise in doing just that. All bodies go through essentially the same stages of decomposition, fresh bloat, active decay, late decay and dry remains," she said. "Each stage of the decay process has a different wave of insects associated with it. "We have actually found it tremendously difficult to find sites where we could leave out pigs to rot," she said. "We wanted to do it in London, because that is where a lot of our casework comes from." She added: "Once the insects have found the remains, we know enough to say how long they have been on there. The unknown quantity is how long it took them to find the remains."