Were we once more easily shocked? Back in the 70s, when the likes of Erin Pizzey began to campaign on domestic violence and we saw those appalling photos of horribly bruised and swollen women's faces, it was a great cause. Thousands marched and campaigned for women's refuges. It was as if society was finally lifting a huge stone, and confronting the squirming truth that existed in almost every street, hidden by a great conspiracy of silence and shame.Domestic violence was going to be stopped - or at least squeezed to the very borders of British life. Laws would change, and some did. The casual acceptance of wife-beating by drunken, angry men would be ended for ever. Easier divorce and more active social services intervention would save huge numbers of women from intolerable lives. Like back-to-back housing and the institutionalised beating of children, Britain's legacy of domestic violence would go.It never quite happened. Somehow, somewhere along the line, the political world lost interest - or at least lost the concentration, the year-by-year focus on a problem, that it is able to apply to other issues, from smoking to children's rights, the yob culture to migration. Now, thanks entirely to women ministers in the government, the subject is back on the political agenda. A new bill will bring in greater powers for the police and the court to protect victims and prosecute abusers, and will make it an arrestable offence to breach a non-molestation order. But that alone is not enough. Everyone needs to be made aware of the scale of this problem, and focus on ways of identifying it. New research commissioned by Jacqui Smith, the equalities minister, shows that it's not only the battered women and their children who suffer. There is a financial cost too, with time off work for injuries caused by domestic violence costing employers £3bn a year. The research by Professor Sylvia Walby at the University of Leeds shows that domestic violence also costs the criminal justice system around £1bn, almost a quarter of the total budget for violent crime, and the NHS and social services spend more than £1.5bn dealing with it. It's sad that women ministers still find it necessary to highlight domestic violence by focusing on the costs to the economy, but as one of them admits "sometimes it is the only way you can get through to male policymakers".Clearly, far from shrivelling, domestic violence has continued to be a British scourge. Tony Blair spent his first day back at work in London highlighting Labour's laudable war on the yob culture of the streets, and the use of antisocial behaviour orders to crack down on marauding youths, noisy neighbours and prostitutes. But the violent culture we have created doesn't start in the street. It is rampant behind closed doors. Jacqui Smith quotes figures showing that, on average, two British women are killed every week in domestic attacks, and that every minute of every day police receive a call from a woman suffering violence. Yobs get married or have relationships too. And they come from all social classes. The habits of violence learned at school or in the pub are taken home, and remembered later. But that part of the story is rarely discussed. Why not?I suspect the basic problem is horribly simple. We have become an image-fixated, short-attention-span culture and the reality of domestic violence is simply not vivid, or surprising enough to keep people watching, or talking. Compare it with other kinds of violence. Gangs of youths, female as well as male, make good television. The language, the style, the clothes, the frenzied speed of assaults or drug dealing - the whole buzz of it may be repellent, but also insistently attracts journalistic attention. A visual culture needs the specific, the one-off. The more beautiful and innocent the victim, the more easily our emotions are stirred. Think of those heartbreaking photos of Holly and Jessica in their football shirts. Theirs were appalling, hideous killings. But murders of children by people outside their families, the old nightmare of the stranger in the night, are thankfully very rare. Domestic violence is not, and it rejects the rules of easy media interest. It takes place in private, beyond the reach of cameras. It occurs between people who, feeling shame, embarrassment, fear, even sometimes love, are unlikely to seek publicity. It is mundane, with very ordinary perpetrators - not sinister, stalking murderers, but simply boozed-up, angry, disappointed "ordinary blokes". You never know, meeting them in the pub or office, who's the wife-beater. For news editors, domestic violence is all a bit drab. Millions give money to charities to combat disease or to help children, who are not exercised by domestic violence. That's for ... who? Feminists? Ministers? At any rate, somebody else. This is a scourge that somehow lacks high-profile, household-name martyrs and seems to bore crusading journalism. Because of the media culture's lack of interest, politicians who do campaign on this, including those in the current government, are fighting to be noticed, and usually failing. MPs looking for headlines look elsewhere. The result is twisted priorities. Perhaps the most bizarre example this autumn is the suggestion that, to revive the loyalty and enthusiasm of Labour backbenchers, the government is finally to force through a ban on foxhunting. This is, without doubt, a "vivid" media issue, from the telegenic packs of hounds and cantering chaps in pink coats to the angry marches through Whitehall and the chanting ranks of animal rights activists. It involves angry confrontations in the Commons, well-funded lobbyists, Tony Banks sounding off in fine form, and splits on the Tory front bench. What fun! But I can't believe I am the only person who finds the whole business ludicrously and tediously irrelevant to the real issues actual Labour voters are struggling with. To me, the deaths of a couple of dozen women a year and the punching, arm-breaking and stabbing of scores of others is more important by far. MPs who kept banging on about that, and forced us to listen, would be doing a great deal more for progressive politics than those diving in to the foxhunting fray. And ministers are at work. Apart from the new bill, there's a pilot project in Bristol to involve midwives in identifying domestic violence since, shockingly, 30% of domestic violence starts or is exacerbated during pregnancy. Across this government there is a real attempt to link up schools, hospitals and the police in a wider campaign. If No 10 is really looking for ways to restore the support and interest of Labour voters, it could do worse than crusade to save ordinary women in ordinary families, rather than foxes on distant moors. jackie.ashley@theguardian.com