Police investigating a vendetta against a security boss discovered a live hand grenade outside the home of former Liverpool player and manager Kenny Dalglish, it emerged today.The explosive device was found on a garden wall near his home in Southport on Sunday night as police made searches unconnected to the former footballer. The army's bomb disposal unit, who were called to the scene, cordoned off the street for the public's safety.John Ball, a security company boss, whose home has been shot at and whose business premises have been firebombed this year as gangsters unsuccessfully tried to extort money from him and his business partner Terry Riley, reportedly called police after spotting two armed men.The men were said to have fled in a silver Lexus, which was abandoned nearby. Two men were arrested after a police helicopter was used in the search. They are being questioned on suspicion of witness intimidation.The army bomb disposal unit were called out to make the device safe and the area was cordoned off.A Merseyside police spokeswoman said: "The device was removed and made safe and is currently undergoing forensic examination. The road remains cordoned off at its junction with Sandringham Road and high-visibility patrols have been stepped up in the area to reassure the public."Detectives believe this incident is linked to a series of other recent incidents in this area and not to the owner of the property where the device was found."Kenny Dalglish was returning to the UK today after attending the club's tour of the Far East. It was announced earlier this month that he had resumed his Anfield career with a senior role at Liverpool's Academy.Last month, the Cabbage Inn in Netherton, Merseyside, was firebombed just after 3.15am, forcing the landlady and her partner to flee for their lives. Detectives confirmed the pub attack had been another incident in a long line of attacks against entrepreneurs Riley and Ball.Ball's home in Birkdale, Southport, had been shot at in a drive-by shooting twice in a year. He was out at the time, but his wife and children were in bed as up to five shots were fired. Numerous addresses linked to Ball and his business partner Riley have been firebombed and shot at as local gangsters attempt to extort money from the pair.During one of the shootings at Riley's home, an unexploded petrol bomb was also found next to a four-wheel drive vehicle parked on the driveway.The Shorrocks Hill Country Club, in Formby, which had been owned by John Ball and is now owned by Riley, was petrol-bombed in early April.Since May, Riley's parents, sister and in-laws have been targeted at their homes. As Riley was driving along Southport's coastal road, two men on a motorbike sped past him, waving a gun. At the time, police raided a number of addresses and questioned five people, who were bailed.