Eight police officers seeking to overturn an inquest verdict that the death of a black man in custody was an unlawful killing had their public funding withdrawn yesterday.A week after the Guardian revealed a Metropolitan Police Authority sub-committee had agreed in secret to pay for the officers to take their case to a judicial review, the full authority backed down. In the face of a public outcry, the MPA rescinded the earlier decision and ruled that the officers could have the money only if it could also foot the bills of the family of the victim, a Tottenham care worker, Roger Sylvester. Mr Sylvester's family have been denied legal aid. If the authority finds that it cannot provide financial assistance to the Sylvester family, it will refuse to fund either side. The compromise was made at a highly charged meeting at which bitter accusations of secrecy in the MPA were made and black members threatened to walk out unless the decision was reversed. The new stance drew an angry reaction from the Metropolitan Police Federation, which accused the MPA of playing politics and failing in its duty of care. But it was welcomed by the Sylvester family, who said an attempt to give the officers an unfair advantage had been headed off. It is likely to cost the officers between £30,000 and £40,000 to secure the judicial review. The family's costs would be about the same. Mr Sylvester died in 1999, seven days after being handcuffed by officers outside his home in north London. Last October the inquest jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing after hearing that he had been held down for 20 minutes in a padded room. The police officers received leave in February to seek a judicial review and yesterday it emerged that the Met had at first tried to obtain public funding using a mechanism which would have allowed the MPA chairman, Toby Harris, to make the decision alone, without making it public or referral to any MPA committee. When he refused to do that, a recommendation was submitted by the Met, at the last minute and without prior notification, to a sub-committee, which confidentially agreed the funding last week. The chairman voted against that decision, and two black members abstained. Yesterday Mr Harris maintained his opposition, saying that the officers were entitled to expect help from the federation but not the MPA. He said the Sylvester case had "totemic" significance and by funding the officers and not the family the MPA would risk damaging its efforts to improve diversity. Peter Herbert, an MPA member and president of the Society of Black Lawyers, argued that the police officers should not be receive public funding. "The Sylvesters have paid taxes so their son could be unlawfully killed. They would pay doubly so we can pay for these officers to be represented at a review which will go ahead whether we pay our blood money or not," he said Mr Sylvester's brother Bernard Renwick said his family were relieved. "This was all going to be done behind closed doors. At least we have a compromise. "But at the end of the day the police officers can turn to their union. "We by contrast will still be on our own. Where is the fairness in that?" Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said it was consulting its lawyers. "The decision seems to be based on the emotive issues, but these officers are their employees and they have a duty of care. This is not a race issue. One of the officers involved is black. "If this cannot be cleared up, we may have to advise our members that they should not restrain anyone."