Detectives said yesterday that they did not yet know why two men broke into a house in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, tied up a young mother and started a blaze in which her baby son died."It is difficult to comprehend the wickedness of someone who could do such a thing and we appeal for the public to come forward and help us," said Detective Superintendent Barbara Franklin, of Northumbria police. "This is a horrific incident which has left a baby dead and a young mum injured," she said.Danielle Wails, 21, managed to call 999 with her tongue and screamed for help from neighbours. Firefighters found her four-month-old son, Alexander Gallon, in the house on the Cowgate estate but he died later in Newcastle General hospital."It appears that those responsible assaulted Ms Wails, tied her up, set fire to her home, leaving her locked inside," said Ms Franklin. "We could very easily now be investigating two deaths."In an appeal for help from the public, she said: "Come forward and help us catch these people. Someone must know these two men. If ever there was a crime the public were going to help in, it should be this one."She said that on Sunday Ms Wails and Alexander had been at home alone and the front door was left open as usual.Ms Wails was in the kitchen when two men wearing black entered the house. They punched and kicked her. She fell to the ground and was believed to have lost consciousness before being dragged into the living room, where her son was sleeping on the sofa.When she came to, there was smoke in the room and her hands were tied with telephone cord. The intensity of the fire prevented her from reaching Alexander.Ms Franklin said the sound of crying must have alerted the men that there was a baby in the house. "There's no way they could have been in the property without knowing. The house is very small. Mum was on one side of the living room, the baby was on the other, and the living room is only feet long. The baby was crying during the attack on Danielle."Ms Wails has told detectives that neither man spoke during the ordeal, that they attacked her from behind and were in the house for only three or four minutes.Alexander's father, Robert Gallon, 21, did not live with Ms Wails but remained on good terms with her and played an active role in his son's life. "He is distraught and is comforting Danielle today," said Ms Franklin.The two-bedroom house was leased by St Cuthbert's Care, a charity which helps single mothers, Ms Franklin said.Ms Wails moved in with Alexander two weeks ago so that she could receive help with her parenting skills. She had not suffered domestic violence.Ms Franklin "strongly believed" there was no drug link to the murder, nor in the lives of either parent, neither of whom had a serious criminal record.She said: "We have got to look at Danielle and her relations. Has someone got a grudge against her? Is there someone who has a vendetta against her?"But Ms Franklin said there was nothing to suggest that was the case and Ms Wails had made no complaints to police about harassment or intimidation.Fire experts will work at the scene, followed by fingerprint specialists, over the next two days.Ms Wails suffered bruises to her neck and wrists in the attack. She was released from hospital yesterday.A postmortem examination was expected to be carried out on Alexander yesterday.