Perhaps if Lord Falconer had been a tall, thin, lank of a man, he would not have become quite so tied to the Dome as he has been in the public mind. But he is of course mildly spherical - a perfect Lord Dome - and is also known as Tony's number one Crony. He still bears the scars of those years when the Dome became a metaphor for New Labour and all that was wrong with it: new and shiny on the outside, empty and vacuous within. Lord Falconer was given a good going-over by the press, not quite in the Stephen Byers league, but not far off. It was, he admits, "pretty heavy going at the time".He retains a wry sense of humour about it all though, recalling one bright day in the middle of it all: "My sister rang me up from Scotland on one particular day when both the Express and the Mail had my picture on the front page and calls for my resignation. She said, 'good news, in Scotland, the Scottish Daily Mail has you on only one half of the page'." He chuckles: this is not a man to let vicissitudes get him down, which is probably one reason Tony Blair enjoys his friendship so much. Lord Falconer can be disarmingly frank, a master of self-deprecation with a ready wit. Yet infuriatingly, he still persists in defending that damn Dome, surely one of the biggest white elephants we've seen for some time: "I don't think in the long term we will look back and think it was the wrong thing to do. Obviously, lots of things could have been done differently." You can say that again. But anyway, I suggest, you must be relieved to be shot of it at last? "Well, obviously there were good times and bad times," he agrees, but insists that the deal under which the Dome was given away in return for a share of the profits "will provide a long-term future for the Greenwich peninsula". Maybe, but what about those huge sums of public money? "If you want regeneration benefits, which was one of the reasons we supported the choice of Greenwich, you don't look at it as a commercial venture." Clearly. Nowadays though, the Dome looks like the least of the government's worries, and Lord Falconer, who has served a year in exile - or at least relative obscurity as housing and planning minister - has been allowed to return to frontline politics. He's just been appointed minister for criminal justice - a lawyer in the Home Office, where the home secretary David Blunkett famously boasted about how pleased he was that there were no lawyers there. So Lord Falconer is now very much a tank on Blunkett's lawn? "That's a totally unfair description," Falconer replies, adding that he gets on very well with the home secretary. Nonetheless, it's said around Whitehall that Lord Falconer has been put in to try to smooth relations between the Home Office and the legal profession as the government presses ahead with its huge shake-up of the criminal justice system.  Failing Crime has become "a number one complaint" for many people, Falconer believes. During his time as housing and planning minister, he toured the country and found that many people "have a deep and profound sense that the criminal justice system is failing them". He talks about open drug dealing, youths driving stolen cars inside estates, with police powerless to act. So, to put it bluntly, is the criminal justice system failing people? "Yes, it is. People see the system is failing them as deprived communities watch offenders go into the criminal justice system, be granted bail and go straight back out and re-offend."There was, he went on, a widespread feeling that "there's still an opportunity for the defendant to sort of play the system, and either get away without a trial at all, or get off on a trial even though guilty, and then even if those two fail, get a sentence which does not stop reoffending". Coming from the minister in charge, this "feeling" seems a devastating indictment of the criminal justice system after five years of Labour. But Falconer shares it: "Yes, I think all of those three things are too prevalent in the system and we need to address each one of those."Bail is clearly a priority for him, and he singles it out as something that needs "real focus" so that responsibility for stopping people offending while on bail doesn't continue to "fall between the cracks". Beyond that, the government's long-awaited white paper on criminal justice, setting out its objectives, will be published next month, making it clear that victims and witnesses will come first. Falconer is critical of how rape victims have been "humiliated and confused" in court, and cites the recent Damilola Taylor trial with its "days and days of cross-examination" of witnesses, including one young girl. "What do witnesses think when they go to court and end up feeling humiliated and confused?" If there is genuine radicalism in the New Labour agenda on crime, here is where it lies. Falconer is eloquent about how crime on deprived estates is fed by the fear of witnesses to give evidence against people around them. He worries that the system is "long and uncertain", saying: "If I'm willing to give evidence but I don't know when I will, and it will take lots and lots of time, and I don't know what the result is, then my willingness to speak is very, very limited." He has been shocked to hear from the Police Federation that in three new magistrates courts in London, no special rooms for victims or witnesses had been provided. He has been to the youth and adult courts at Camberwell and found a "sense of intimidation" hanging around. So it was essential to change the criminal justice system: "It's got to treat people with consideration, victims and witnesses, and it's also got to recognise it is for the community, it's not a free-standing organisation there for its own sake." This, I suggest, involves taking on vested interests, including the lawyers. Despite being a lawyer himself, he says he's quick to call for a "a culture change" among the legal profession to make the process "remorseless and effective, quick and simple". There should be, he believes, no advantages for lawyers in "stretching things out for long enough so that their client's case might slip through the cracks". He also wants to cut out the searing and often vicious style of cross-questioning that some lawyers pride themselves on. This sounds either heroic or impossible: polite, thoughtful and speedy lawyers? But Falconer argues that the more the law rewards early guilty pleas by people who have committed crimes, "the more lawyers will urge their clients to plead guilty at an early stage" which would make legal justice "less confrontational and time-wasting". The rules of evidence, he believes, are "rooted in history rather than common sense", and he's clear that there should be a relaxation of what kind of evidence can be brought in court. What about details of previous convictions? "I think we should be more trusting of fact-finders to be able to evaluate evidence" he says, in lawyer-ese. Could he put that in plain English? "We need to simplify, we need to let people and juries know the facts." Does that include the facts about a defendant's past? "In some cases that would be relevant," he replies.  Sensitive There is clearly a huge agenda here, and it's politically sensitive: Iain Duncan Smith rarely lets a few weeks go by without tormenting Tony Blair at prime minister's questions with yet another anti-crime initiative that was hyped up on the day but has lapsed into cobwebbed impotence since. Lord Falconer has proved himself resilient under fire. He knows lawyers, is a good debater and remains unfailingly cheerful. The real question is whether he has the steel and the levers to achieve the change he clearly wants. If he can't, then no one in this scarred government can. He is the ultimate New Labour insider, his friendship with Tony Blair going back to the days when they shared a flat. But does he not feel awkward being in government just because he's Tony's pal? Falconer insists he will be judged "by how good or bad I am". He believes the furore over Tony Blair's role at the Queen Mother's funeral is damaging: "It's inevitable that the more there are articles in the papers saying that politicians can't be trusted, the harder it is to convince people otherwise." He admits to "difficulties and strangenesses" with his old friend, but doesn't think Mr Blair is ready to quit: "I do not detect that he is tiring of it." The defender of the Dome is today the defender of Stephen Byers: "I do think he was unfairly treated." He had faced "constant reporting of what he was doing in a way that put the worst possible light on it" at which point, "life becomes impossible". Lord Falconer's own life has not become impossible. He may, on the other hand, be the ultimate defender of lost causes. This time some people on grim and dangerous estates will be hoping that against all expectations, Cheerful Charlie pulls it off. · Charles Leslie Falconer, Lord Falconer of Thoroton QC Born November 19, 1951 Married with four children  Education  Trinity College, Glenalmond; Queen's College, Cambridge  Career history Called to the Bar, Inner Temple 1974; QC 1991  Political career  Solicitor general1997-98; Minister of state, Cabinet Office 1998-2001; Minister for housing, planning and regeneration 2001-02; Minister for criminal justice, 2002-  Career high  Being appointed by Tony Blair to 14 cabinet sub-committees, where many key government decisions are made  Low  Refusing to go in 2000 over the fiasco of the Millennium Dome, even after admitting that it might have been mistake to build the Dome in first place