The parents of the murdered schoolboy Stephen Lawrence were dealt a blow yesterday when news was leaked, before they were even told, that their son's murderers would not be prosecuted.Doreen and Neville Lawrence, who waged an 11-year battle to bring their son's killers to justice, despite a string of police errors which an official inquiry found were partly due to officers' racism, are expected to be told within the next 48 hours no charges will be brought. Last night a police source said the official line of Scotland Yard, which has admitted failing the Lawrences, was that it would be "inappropriate" to comment before Mr and Mrs Lawrence were told. But suspicion was falling on the force as being the source of the leak. The Crown Prosecution Service decision on whether to launch any prosecutions has been described as imminent for the last two years. After extensive reinvestigation initially headed by former deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve, now retired, the CPS was presented with files of evidence suggesting a variety of ways of charging the five prime suspects and others suspected in the murder. The decisions bring to an end a five year reinvestigation into Stephen's murder by Scotland Yard detectives. The CPS has been considering evidence for more than two years. Stephen, a talented student, was stabbed to death at a south-east London bus stop in April 1993 by a white gang shouting racist abuse. No one has been convicted of the murder. For Scotland Yard and the CPS the case has been highly sensitive: for the Met because of errors exposed by the Macpherson public inquiry; and for the CPS because it first decided not to launch any prosecutions, which led the family to launch their own private prosecution. This ultimately ended in failure after evidence from a key eyewitness, Duwayne Brooks, was ruled inadmissible. The CPS had sought advice from an outside Queens Counsel to review decisions which its regular top lawyers were making about whether or not to prosecute. Any decision not to prosecute would be a devastating blow for the Lawrence family. Mrs Lawrence, who has struggled for justice for her murdered son, won support from anti-racists and rightwing newspapers. She has said one of her main hopes is the prosecution of the five youths she suspects murdered her son. The Guardian understands that the Met reinvestigation turned up new evidence tying some of the original five main suspects to the murder scene. But senior detectives privately thought that while for any other murder they would have had enough evidence to prosecute, the history of this case meant they would have to have more evidence.