The inquest into the death of a six-year-old girl who was murdered by her father could be reopened, the Guardian can reveal.The Ellie Butler case shows why family courts must be opened up | Louise Tickle Selena Lynch, the senior coroner for south London, is to hold a hearing next week to consider the highly unusual move of re-examining the death of Ellie Butler.Typically, whena death results in a murder charge and criminal trial, a coroner will open and immediately adjourn an inquest, as happened in Ellie’s case. However, following the conclusion of the trial it is unusual for an inquest to be reopened.Ellie’s grandfather Neal Gray, 70, told the Guardian he hoped a full inquest into his granddaughter’s death would answer outstanding questions. “I was very pleased when the coroner contacted me,” he said. “I have been calling for a public inquiry because I feel that there should be a further investigation into Mrs Justice Hogg, the judge who ruled that Ellie could be returned to her parents, and independent social workers from Services for Children.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Ben Butler.“I think the question should be asked about whether anything more could have been done to prevent Ellie’s death. If a full inquest goes ahead I hope it will bring justice for Ellie and also help other children who are still alive to prevent the same thing happening to them as happened to Ellie.”Butler, 36, was jailed for life last month for killing six-year-old Ellie at their home in Belmont, south London, in October 2013. He was also found guilty, along with Ellie’s mother, Jennie Gray, 36, of child cruelty.Following their convictions, Sutton’s safeguarding children board published the findings of its serious case review, which concluded Dame Hogg’s 2012 family court ruling left authorities powerless to intervene in Ellie’s toxic home life or prevent her death.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ellie Butler’s grandfather: ‘She told us that she loved us. That was the last time we saw her’Neal Gray said the passage of time had not made things easier . “I hope the coroner will be able to help me and my family get some answers … We were told we had to keep her funeral very quiet so later in the year I would like to organise a proper memorial service for her so that all her little friends from school and other people who knew her can attend.”Gray lodged a complaint against the independent social workers in the case with the Health and Care Professions Council, which has confirmed it is investigating whether to proceed with fitness to practice allegations.Both Sutton council and Services for Children declined to comment on the coroner’s decision to hold a hearing next week.