A taxi driver was today jailed for life for bludgeoning his wife and three children to death with a rounders bat over her affair with a married man.Rahan Arshad, 36, committed the murders and then fled on a pre-booked flight to Thailand, leaving the bodies to remain undiscovered in the family home at Cheadle Hulme, Greater Manchester, for almost a month.He beat his wife with the bat more than 23 times in their bedroom before attacking his children. Pathologists needed dental records to confirm the identities of the four victims.Arshad, who worked as a driver for Tripps taxis, murdered Uzma Rahan, 32, their sons Adam, 11, eight-year-old Abbas and daughter Henna, six, because of his wife's affair with a married man named Nikki, Manchester crown court heard.The jury took two hours and 15 minutes to find Arshad guilty of four counts of murder. He showed almost no reaction as the verdicts were read out. "The jury have convicted you on overwhelming evidence of the brutal and horrific murder of your wife and children," Mr Justice Clarke said. "The only sentence permitted by law is life imprisonment on each count. "You killed your entire family in circumstances of great brutality. Life imprisonment in your case means life."The murders are thought to have taken place either late on the evening of July 28 last year or early the following morning. On August 20, police found the four bodies at the house the couple shared.Ms Rahan's partially clothed body was found in the master bedroom, covered with a beige towel. The children's remains, in their playroom on the ground floor, had been covered with bedsheets. The bodies were badly decomposed, and some had been infested with maggots. All the victims had been beaten to death with the rounders bat, which was bought by Arshad on July 27 and later found hidden in a bag in the garden shed.His new silver BMW was recorded driving south along the M6 towards Heathrow by motorway cameras at around 7am on July 29. He left the car in the short-stay car park, boarding a flight to Bangkok later that day. Thai police arrested him at the country's border with Malaysia on August 30. Shortly after being arrested, he told police: "I confess to the murder. My beautiful kids. I don't regret killing that fucking bitch, but my kids, killing my kids ...".He refused to answer police questions, but in January gave a statement to prosecutors in which he claimed his wife killed the children.The court heard that Arshad had discovered his wife's infidelity years before the attack.He claimed he returned home after a fight with his wife on the evening of July 28 and found the children lying on the floor of the playroom, saying he went upstairs to confront her and she taunted him by saying: "Are you satisfied now?"Arshad said she murdered the children and he was provoked into killing her, but could not remember the attack.He said he had booked the flight to Thailand so he could have a holiday, and did not tell his wife about the trip because he feared she would not let him go.The court heard that he went to Bangkok with £3,000 and the equivalent of £1,160 in Thai currency. He said he did not return to Britain on August 18 as planned because he panicked."I didn't know what I was doing. I couldn't believe what was happening. I wanted to commit suicide, actually," he said.When asked why he had told a Thai immigration official that he had phoned his wife after arriving in Bangkok, Arshad said: "I didn't know what to say. I was really scared."Forensic investigations suggest Ms Rahan was clubbed to death by Arshad while being chased around the bedroom of the house. Arshad took his sleeping children from their beds to a downstairs playroom one by one and beat them to death. DNA and blood samples covered the floor, furniture and walls of the room and the upper master bedroom. Examination of the scene suggested Arshad laid his sleeping daughter's head on a cushion before beating her to death. He then placed another cushion over her head.Blood traces were recovered from Arshad's clothes, shoes, and the rounders bat, which he had tried to scrub clean before putting it in a plastic bag and hiding it in the shed.Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, who led the inquiry, said: "The three officers who were first at the scene were faced with complete devastation. It is a scene they will never ever forget. "It was so horrific. It is a man coming home and battering his wife to death and then doing exactly the same with his children. It is hard to think about what could be going through his mind. I can't even begin to imagine."