Gordon Brown has sanctioned a last-ditch move to secure a deal over the proposed increase in the period of detention without charge to 42 days after deciding he would rather compromise with Labour's rebels than risk a further loss of authority by being defeated on the issue.Despite repeated claims that he is willing to lose and be right, the prime minister has despatched his chief whip, Geoff Hoon, to broker an agreement that would prevent a damaging split inside his party.Hoon, a lawyer, is working alongside the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, and Home Office minister Tony McNulty to secure a deal. He is understood to have the support of the justice secretary, Jack Straw.An outline of the deal being discussed centres on the parliamentary trigger before the power to detain for as long as 42 days comes into force.A version being talked about in the senior echelons of the cabinet includes:· The government would have to declare that there is an "exceptional need" to use the power. Although that has not been defined, the circumstances could include the discovery of multiple terrorist plots, or in the aftermath of an atrocity.· Authorisation by parliament within a short period, possibly seven days.· Judicial review of the use of the power.But it was being stressed that the discussions were preliminary and fluid. A government source said: "Since the local elections there has been a decision to sit down and listen to backbenchers, and we think we can strike a deal. The numbers are tight. The compromises will be significant because we want to win this vote."The rebels are not going to be fobbed off with small stuff, but once you get to the detail the differences between both sides are bridgeable."The move came after ministers decided to try to capitalise on the improved atmosphere among backbenchers in the wake of Brown's decision to bow to Labour rebels and set aside £2.7bn in compensate for the withdrawal of the 10p tax rate.Smith is involved in renewed manoeuvring, which was agreed on Monday, and talks have started with key rebels to outline the shape of a possible compromise.It is likely that the crucial report stage of the counter-terror bill will now be on June 10 or June 11, leaving Hoon and Smith relatively little time to strike a deal. Parliament is in recess from May 22 to June 2.Sources said that the deal would not involve a compromise over the proposed maximum length of detention without charge of 42 days, or involve accepting wholesale the Tory proposal of using the Civil Contingencies Act, under which suspects can be held for a further 30 days on top of the current 28-day maximum.But one insider said: "Gordon cannot afford to be seen losing this vote. The vote is winnable, and we think there are a range of parliamentary and judicial devices that could work, but it is very fluid."Hoon is thought by colleagues to have an expertise at striking deals, and can use his legal knowledge.Under the current proposed version of the counter-terror bill, the home secretary would be able to extend pre-charge detention to 42 days in relation to any ongoing investigation. Though obliged to make a statement to the Commons within two days, parliament might not get a chance to vote on it for another 30. Critics say that is too long a gap.The negotiations will be delicate, as the prime minister's weakened political authority is at stake. He continued to deny yesterday that he was going to back down over 42 days, or that his backbenchers now knew he was easy to be rolled over. He said he would try to win this argument."The reason is not because it's a sort of political game in the House of Commons. The reason is I'm concerned about the security of this country. We must make it possible for us to do everything in our power where there are terrorists, and particularly multiple terrorist plots, to take action."