Here is a safe bet: at some point in the future there will be a major scandal in this country when police are exposed for submitting fictitious reports of their work; specifically, we will discover that they have been cheating in their recording of crime and cheating in their claims to be detecting it.This is a safe bet, first, because for many years fiddling the figures has been part of the everyday reality of British policing. It cheats the victims of crime, it lets offenders off the hook and it cloaks law enforcement in a false glory, but it is only route by which forces have been able to satisfy the politicians. There have been scandals before. In 1986 a Kent constable, Ron Walker, went to Scotland Yard with a detailed complaint that 60 of his colleagues had been fabricating phoney detections to improve their crime figures. He said they offered favours, including a licence to commit crime, to offenders in prison who agreed to "write off" unsolved offences and to offenders in police stations who agreed to have extra offences added to their list of crimes to be "taken into consideration" (TIC) by the court. In both cases, offenders were guaranteed that their admissions would not incur any extra penalty. Mr Walker detailed how one offender in prison admitted committing 87 offences - 34 of of them when he was in prison or under close supervision in a probation hostel. He found another offender whose list of TICs had been padded out with a string of fictitious thefts of bicycle lamps. Mr Walker's efforts came to nothing. Instead of investigating his allegations against 60 officers, the director of public prosecutions instructed Scotland Yard to investigate only the handful for which Mr Walker had provided documentary proof. News of the inquiry was leaked to the press with the result that when Scotland Yard finally raided 13 police stations in Kent, it found that, with the exception of one single document, every item of paperwork it needed had been destroyed. Ten years later, in September 1996, the head of the major crimes unit in Nottinghamshire, Detective Superintendent Peter Coles, resigned in protest at similar cheating and made a formal complaint against his own senior command, accusing them of "organisational dishonesty". Eventually, a full-scale inquiry was set up by Bedfordshire police, who cleared senior officers of corruption, but uncovered a devastating picture of deliberate cheating. It found that in the previous year, when Notts police claimed to have recorded a fall of 7,788 offences, the reality was that officers had hidden 9,175 offences in secret databases which were designed to evade the official figures. The Bedfordshire inquiry went on to find that 42% of all the previous year's detections were achieved by using TICs, prison write-offs and claims that offences needed no further police action, three techniques which were riddled with evidence of "a deliberate manipulation of facts to maximise detection figures". These included thousands of false detections for burglary, shoplifting, car crime, rape and indecent assaults against children. "The true picture of recorded and detected crime was being suppressed and distorted," the Bedfordshire officers concluded. Four years after the Nottingham scandal, in July 2000, HM inspector of constabulary reported consistent evidence that crime was still being misrecorded. Violence was put down as public disorder, burglary as criminal damage; sex assaults and credit card fraud was sometimes not recorded; some offences were wiped from the record on the grounds that the report was false - simply because the alleged offender denied it. There was clear evidence of deliberate concealment: HM inspectors in one force found officers anticipating their arrival by frantically going back through the records giving crime numbers to offences which they had failed to record. The Home Office reacted to the first part of the problem - the misrecording of crime - by changing the rules, ignoring the fact that there had always been rules and that the cheating had always involved breaking them. Most important, the Home Office left the door open to further misrecording by rejecting strong advice from HM inspector of constabulary to use "robust and independent" audits to check the figures and to make the counting rules legally binding. The second part of the problem - abuse of detections - continued uninterrupted until April 1999, when the Home Office finally changed the rules to bar the use of prison write-offs and TICs for offences which had not already been recorded. That did nothing to stop officers under pressure from abusing TICs for offences which had been recorded. In the past three years three Guardian investigations have exposed the outbreak of cheating forced on teachers by this government's performance indicators. From the health service there have been repeated reports of executives massaging the numbers on waiting lists to hit their government targets. And yet the Home Office, knowing the history of abuse in the police, has piled a new layer of numerical targets on them and underlined it with a new regime of performance-related pay for officers with the best results. Not all police forces will play the game. There are chief constables who are insisting on "ethical crime recording" and who are suffering politically for the figures which emerge. But there are others who succumb to the pressure and who pass it on to the junior officers, who are expected to break the rules to satisfy them.