A leading youth justice expert has called on the government to raise the age of criminal responsibility to 14 years as part of a complete overhaul of the juvenile justice system.In a report published today, titled From Punishment to Problem Solving: A New Approach to Children in Trouble, Rob Allen, the director of the International Centre for Prison Studies at King's College, London, said that Britain's juvenile justice system needs a "fundamentally different approach" to the current one, in which children as young as 10 can end up in court for minor offences.The report notes that Britain has one of the highest rates of youth detention in the world, and prosecution rates are increasing. It argues that the system should move away from prosecution towards more emphasis on addressing the educational, mental health and family problems that often lie behind youth offences."The system operates in the wrong kind of framework of criminal prosecution and criminal punishment, and it gets in the way of doing a really good job," Mr Allen said.Mr Allen, who has just completed two four-year terms as a member of the Youth Justice Board, said relatively minor cases such as theft or fights in school playgrounds are ending up in criminal courts.His report tells the story of a 10-year-old boy who appeared in a Salford court in April 2006 facing a racially aggravated public order offence, after allegedly calling an 11-year-old boy "Paki", "Bin Laden" and "nigger".The judge, who threw the case out of court, told prosecutors: "Nobody is more against racist abuse than me, but these are boys in a playground. This is nonsense ... there must be other ways of dealing with this apart from criminal prosecution.""What is the achieved convicting a child as young as 10?" asked Mr Allen, pointing out the age of criminal responsibility is higher in many countries. In France it is 13; in Japan it is 14; and in Italy it is 15.The report observes that in Finland, youth offenders are more likely to be treated for psychiatric problems than criminal ones. A study in Greater Manchester found serious and untreated problems of loss or bereavement in 92% of 147 randomly selected youth offenders."We are out of step with standards in international practice," Mr Allen said. "When international observers come here they are shocked by many aspects of the system." For more serious offenders, the report proposes a package of wide-ranging reforms including moving the responsibility for youth justice from the Home Office to the Department of Education and Skills, and introducing specialist prosecutors who would identify cases where local authorities should investigate proceedings related to care.The Home Office said in a statement that the report "raises some important issues regarding youth justice and we look forward to studying it in detail ... Custody should always be a last resort. The Government works alongside the Youth Justice Board in close partnership with statutory, voluntary and community organisations to prevent children and young people from offending in the first place."However, the statement continues that there are no current plans to raise the age of criminal responsibility in England and Wales.The report is published today by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies at King's College, London.