The Home Office has pledged to review the management of a privately run prison where an investigation by Guardian Films and the BBC uncovered routine bullying of staff by prisoners at the jail.A reporter working undercover as a prison officer at the troubled Rye Hill jail found widespread intimidation of staff and incidents where diligent custody officers were urged to "back off" by senior colleagues for fear of upsetting inmates. It also found that prisoners had easy access to drugs and mobile phones.The investigation, which will be shown tonight, comes after the jail had already been heavily criticised by inspectors over the murder of an inmate and the "avoidable" suicides of prisoners.The Home Office insisted that Global Solutions Limited (GSL), the private firm that runs Rye Hill, has already been penalised for failings at the jail. But it added that the management would be reviewed again after tonight's broadcast.In a statement a spokeswoman said: "The regional offender manager will continue to work closely with the Commercial and Competitions Unit of Noms [the National Offender Manager Service] and the Home Office controller in considering whether further remedial action is required to ensure compliance by GSL against the contract. A review will be held following the showing of the Panorama programme and the response received from the contractor, as to whether additional action is required."The statement also admitted there had been failings at the jail. It said: "There have been undoubted failures in the past performance of GSL against their contract to deliver the required service in a number of areas. Both the current contract holder, the regional offender manager for the East Midlands, and the previous holder, the head of the office for contracted prisons, have sought to remedy these failings through robust contract management. "Contract management of Rye Hill has involved financial penalties related to specific incidents (escapes), the withholding of invoices and penalty points to reflect poor performance, which translate into further financial penalties."It added that there had been an improvement in management at Rye Hill in the past 12 months, but that there was scope for more.It said: "Additional management resources have been put into the prison and they have introduced a more effective performance management regime. "This is reflected in the achievement of the targets for 2006/07 related to systems and security: no escapes, searches, contingency exercises, prisoner complaints and self-harm audits. There is, however, still some way to go to fully satisfy the standards that we require of the contractor."Performance against other key ... targets over the past two years has been relatively consistent. Serious assaults remain an area of concern, with a rise from 3.4% in 05/06 to 4.8% in 2006/07. The level of positive mandatory drug testing is also one of concern with a slight rise from 16.3% to 16.8% over the same period." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "These shocking revelations starkly demonstrate why Labour's prison policy is utterly failing to rehabilitate offenders and reduce crime. "It is bad enough that chronic prison overcrowding means offenders are constantly uprooted and not allowed to settle, drastically cutting their chances of completing their training or drug rehab courses. "It is beyond belief that ministers are turning a blind eye to the prevalence of drugs, drink, weapons, illicit mobile phones and bribery, despite being warned about the state of this prison by Her Majesty's Inspectorate."Ministers need to realise that prisons are not only a place to lock up offenders. They should play a crucial role in rehabilitating offenders and thus reducing reoffending and overall crime levels. Yet despite this crucial link, John Reid's priority is simply to put prisons and the police in different government departments in a costly, bureaucratic and vastly ineffective reorganisation."Prison experts say the film demonstrates why the government should rethink its enthusiasm for privately run jails. Half of the new 8,000 prison places pledged by the home secretary, John Reid, are expected to be privately provided.Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: "The private sector experiment has been an abject failure in prisons. There continues to be deaths in them. They are more expensive, they have not impacted on reoffending rates and there have been scandals like this."The argument was always that private prisons were going to be beacons of good practice. But staffing levels are low and staff are paid less [than those in publicly run jails] which means there is more risk that they are bribed or bullied. They also don't have a union to back them up."She added: "Rye Hill is a terrible shambles. But the trouble is that the government has got locked into a contract they cannot get out of."Stephen Nathan, editor of Prison Privatisation Report International, said the idea of privately run prisons was flawed."The failures at Rye Hill are systemic. The pursuit of profit is incompatible with rehabilitating prisoners and providing adequate working conditions for staff. The government cannot continue to ignore the evidence. These contracts should be terminated."Brian Caton, the general secretary of the Prison Officer Association, agreed. He said: "This is just another glaring example of why prisons shouldn't be privatised."Speaking to BBC News 24 he said: "In order to make profit from prison they [private companies] cut down on the biggest expenditure which is staff: staff training, staff pay and staff pensions. "It is so important that we maintain a high standard of training and support for staff working with these very violent and sometimes difficult and damaged individuals. If we don't do that then we should not be surprised if, as a society, we end up with huge amounts of corruption, fraud and the kind of things [exposed in] this programme."