On 7 December 1950 Clarence Henry Willcock, a 54-year-old manager of a dry cleaning firm, was ordered to pull into the kerb of Ballards Lane, in Finchley, north London, by PC Harold Muckle. In the subsequent court hearings the prosecuting authorities never suggested Muckle believed Willcock was driving dangerously. PC Muckle nevertheless demanded to see his identity card. Willcock refused. Muckle handed him a form which stated that he must produce his card at a police station within 48 hours. Willcock threw it on the pavement saying, 'I will not accept this form.'Willcock was duly convicted by Hornsey magistrates. The law requiring all citizens to carry identity cards had been rushed through Parliament in September 1939 and remained unrepealed after the war. Willcock had no legal defence, but he had moral and practical arguments and, in a sense, a patriotic case against the cards.The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Goddard, supported all three in the Court of Appeal. He reluctantly concluded he had no choice other than to uphold the conviction but said: 'The police now, as a matter of routine, demand the production of national registration cards whenever they stop or interrogate a motorist for whatever cause. To demand production of the card from all and sundry, for instance from a woman who has left her car outside a shop longer than she should... is wholly unreasonable. To use Acts of Parliament passed for particular purposes in wartime when the war is a thing of the past tends to turn law-abiding citizens into lawbreakers. In this country we have always prided ourselves on the good feeling which exists between the police and the public.' Random demands to see identity cards, he continued, 'tend to make people resentful of the acts of the police and inclines them to obstruct the police instead of assisting them.' The following year, Winston Churchill's Conservative government abolished the cards. There's an archaic feel to this story 50 years on. The quaint names of the men who confronted each other in Finchley - when was the last time you met a Harold or a Clarence? - and the intervention of Lord Goddard, the hanging judge with a soft spot for liberty, are out of Ealing comedy. As is the final triumph of the indomitable ordinary man from suburbia who forces the bureaucracy to drop its petty harassment of the law-abiding. Goddard's pride 'in the good feeling which exists between the public and the police' isn't what it was. Nor is his implicit belief that common-law democracies were distinguished from Napoleonic Europe by the freedom they gave citizens to live peaceably without the state forcing them, on pain of punishment, to explain themselves. But his arguments against identity cards survived the whole of the Cold War and all but the last year or so of the Irish conflict. Only when the Berlin Wall was down and the negotiations leading to the Good Friday Agreement were moving along did the demand to return to wartime policing become incessant. The arguments in favour of ID cards have been discredited twice in a decade. It hasn't mattered. However many times Whitehall and sections of the media lost the debate, they came back. Fighting them has been like punching a bouncy castle. Without the Soviet Union and the IRA to sustain security bureaucracies, and with the differences between the parties becoming impossible to discern without contact lenses, the first war to justify a suddenly aimless political process was the war against crime. Liberal-Lefties forget that it was begun by Tony Blair rather than the Tories. The then shadow Home Secretary dropped most of his party's commitments to civil liberties and began a gruesome exploitation of celebrated crimes. The Major administration was being outflanked on the Right and had to respond. ID cards seemed a suitably tough gimmick to Major. But his Home Secretary, the reviled Michael Howard, couldn't bring himself to go along with the PM. Howard told the press that, 'If anybody thinks it would be sensible to rush ID cards, I would suggest they go and see their neighbourhood psychologist.' When he repeated this view from the platform of the 1994 Tory Party conference, he was greeted with cries of 'Rubbish' and 'No, no, no.' The Tories were spilt with the libertarian Right and what I suppose I must call the Conservative Left forming a loveless alliance against the authoritarians. They were helped by chief constables who, to the surprise of many, insisted they didn't want the power to demand the production of cards; in part because it alienated the public, as Goddard said, and in part because establishing a suspect's identity was nowhere near as difficult as finding the evidence to convict. The scheme, like many other law-and-order stunts, came to little. Our new driving licences bearing owners' photographs were all that was left of it by the time of the 1997 election. New Labour's attitude was typically two-faced. The party appeared to oppose ID cards, saying that the money spent on them could be better spent elsewhere. Yet it never actually came out and said it opposed them on principle. It had reason to be grateful for its reticence after 11 September. One of the many instant remedies to an attack on another country from the British Home Office was to bring back the cards. The idea filled the airwaves with chatter for a few weeks before David Blunkett pulled back. The same arguments which are used to dismiss the idea that ID cards fight crime apply with greater force when you are confronting horribly efficient mass murderers. Organised criminals can always get forgeries. Among the few charges to be brought after the enormous FBI investigation was one against a luckless Virginian who was allegedly bribed or otherwise persuaded to testify that two hijackers were local residents and should receive state ID cards. If you have the money to buy a fake ID, there's always someone who will help you get the means of giving the police a false sense of security. George W. Bush has torn up his country's Bill of Rights and the Geneva Convention. Nevertheless he said the idea that Americans should be forced to carry a national ID card wasn't worth considering. A dismissal from such a source would appear to settle the matter. But this week Blunkett will haul ID cards out of their grave and insist we must carry them, not to fight crime or Islamic fundamentalism, but as a weapon in the war against the menace of asylum-seekers. We'll have to see what he comes up with, but the portents are grim. Unlike his predecessors, Blunkett refuses to talk plainly. His ID cards will be ID cards in all respects but one: they will have the kinder, smoother title of 'Entitlement Cards'. According to press leaks, asylum-seekers will have to carry them at all times. The rest of us will have to present them at police stations on demand. Blunkett's briefings may be kite-flying and he may go for voluntary ID cards. The distinction between voluntary and compulsory is, however, a distinction without a difference. If the aim this time is to find asylum-seekers who have disappeared, British ethnic minorities will, inevitably, be hassled. If they don't carry ID at all times, they'll have repeated trips to the cop shop. If the rest of the population has to produce the cards to prove our entitlement to hospital care or social security, then the poor who depend most on public services, will need to carry them most if not all the time. The white middle and upper classes will lose only their privacy. The cards Blunkett apparently wants will include a microchip with the carrier's name, age nationality, address, national insurance number and medical details. Most important of all it will have a unique identifying number which will allow the Government to match all the different data on you in its various computers and draw them into a single file. John Wadham, the director of Liberty, makes the educated guess that a citizen without a card will find it harder to receive private as well as public services. You will attract suspicion if you don't carry one. Criticism of ID cards is always met with world-weary bluster about everyone who is anyone carrying credit cards. The difference is that it isn't a criminal offence not to have a credit card. Beyond that lies the need to defend the right to be eccentric or anonymous without having to explain yourself to anyone in a uniform. As with trial by jury or the presumption that you are innocent until proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt, this British liberty always needs defending against the British Government. The bleak joke of it all is that the Conservative Eurosceptic press, which has shouted loudest about crime and immigrants swamping the country, is pushing Britain into having European ID cards. But the joke is also on liberals. The Government isn't proposing to introduce cards and then take us into a Europe without national boundaries and border controls. Instead, we will have the burdens of Europe without its benefits. nick.cohen@observer.co.uk