Dangerous drivers who kill can expect to go to jail for at least 12 months, and for six years or more in the worst cases, the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, said yesterday.He and two other appeal court judges issued fresh guidelines for courts in England and Wales sentencing motorists convicted of causing death by dangerous driving or by careless driving when under the influence of drink or drugs. The guidelines are their response to advice in February by the independent sentencing advisory panel, and follow its advice that driving while deprived of sleep should merit a stiffer sentence, not a more lenient one as in the past, and that causing multiple deaths should be seen as a more seriously aggravating factor. Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Gage and Mr Justice Moses, said that while jail terms should be imposed only where necessary, "normally the only appropriate sentence for an offender found guilty of these offences is a custodial sentence". The judges issued the guidelines while giving judgment in three appeals by drivers against sentence and a case referred by the attorney general because he considered the sentence "unduly lenient". Lord Woolf said courts should bear in mind how important it was "to drive home the message that dangerous driving has a potentially horrific impact". They should take into account the impact on families, but not their desire for vengeance. Aggravating features should include driving while the attention was avoidably distracted, by for instance reading or using a mobile phone; consumption of drugs or alcohol; greatly excessive speed; racing; competitive driving; and driving a poorly maintained or dangerously loaded vehicle. New mitigating factors included a good driving record, a timely plea of guilty, genuine shock or remorse, and serious injury of the offender. One appeal was by Neil Cook, who killed Mark Cook, step-brother of the Atomic Kitten singer Liz McClarnon. His seven-year sentence was reduced to six years because he was only 19 at the time. Robert Cooksley, 46, from Cardiff, jailed for four years after pleading guilty to causing death by careless driving when under the influence of drink, lost his appeal. Ian Stride, 43, from Ilford, Essex, jailed for 30 months for causing death by dangerous driving, had his sentence cut to 18 months and his driving ban of five years reduced to three. The 12-month suspended sentence on Richard Crump, 30, from Bournemouth, for causing death by dangerous driving was increased to two years, suspended for two years.