A young man and a 14-year-old boy died from stab wounds at the same London hospital today, increasing the toll of the recent spate of knife attacks in the capital. The man, in his early 20s, was pronounced dead at the Royal London hospital in the east of the city where he was being treated for multiple stab wounds in his chest and arm after being attacked at an address in Bethnal Green, earlier today. A 14-year-old boy who was stabbed three weeks ago, also died at the Royal London hospital today. David Idowu, 14, was stabbed in south-east London on the evening of June 17. It is believed he suffered two wounds in the attack, one to his stomach and the other to his chest.Detective inspector Bernie Galopin, from Southwark CID, said: "Nearly three weeks after the attack on David he has lost his life, and this will now be a murder investigation. "In light of David's death our immediate thoughts are with his family and friends and getting justice for them."A postmortem examination and an inquest into Idowu's death have been ordered. Officers from the Metropolitan police's homicide and serious crime command will now handle the murder inquiry.On June 17, the ambulance service called police to Great Dover Street in south-east London, following reports of a stabbing. Paramedics flew Idowu by air ambulance to hospital where he remained in a critical condition until today.Police believe he may have been involved in "an altercation" with a group of youths in nearby Tabard Street.The deaths are the latest in a spate of stabbings that continued over the weekend.Two security guards were stabbed in Oxford Street, central London, on Saturday, while a man in his 20s was attacked with a knife on Putney Heath, in south-west London, early on Sunday morning.A 25-year-old man was stabbed in the mouth in Southend-on-Sea, Essex, as he waited for a taxi early on Saturday, while a 19-year-old man was being treated in hospital after a "potential stabbing" in Sheffield.Three men and a teenager were attacked with knives in Salford, Greater Manchester, on Friday night, and a 19-year-old man was stabbed in the stomach in Merseyside.Two men and a 16-year-old are due in court today in connection with a stabbing at a working men's club in Sunderland during the early hours of Saturday morning.In a separate incident, Graham Mitchell, 39, from Newcastle, is charged with the attempted murder of a 25-year-old woman and a 26-year-old man who were stabbed in Newcastle on Saturday.Idowu's death brings the number of teenagers killed in London to 19 this year. The majority have been the victims of stabbings - either involving knives or other sharp objects - but some have been shot or violently beaten. The government confirmed today that accident and emergency departments in hospitals will be expected to contact police when patients are treated for stab wounds in the same way that they already have to report gunshot wounds.