Police have recovered the car used by gunmen who murdered two teenagers as they celebrated new year in Birmingham, the detective leading the investigation said today.Two shell casings used in the weapon which shot dead Charlene Ellis, 18, and 17-year-old Letisha Shakespeare, were found in the burnt-out red Ford Mondeo, detective superintendent Dave Mirfield, of West Midlands police, told reporters."I would say this is the best breakthrough I have had since the inquiry commenced," he said.The car, registration number P941 UTG, was bought from a Northamptonshire motor trader on December 31 last year, two days before the shooting, which happened at the rear of a hairdresser's salon in Birchfield Road, Aston.Det Supt Mirfield said that firefighters had found the vehicle ablaze at Black Patch recreation ground, in Foundry Lane, Smethwick, after the shootings. It was taken to a scrapyard, from which detectives retrieved it for forensic examination.He added that, although the car had been extensively damaged, investigators had matched it to the one used by the gunmen because of the shell casings, witness statements identifying a red Ford Mondeo and CCTV footage of the car leaving the scene of the murders. "I cannot say in any greater way how important it is for those bullets to be recovered," he said. "It was an extremely detailed search of that vehicle which recovered those bullets."Det Supt Mirfield said that the Mondeo had been bought by two men through Auto Trader magazine. They paid cash for the vehicle, which was in "showroom" condition. One of the purchasers is described as Asian, aged 20 to 25, 6ft tall and of a stocky build. He had dark, straight, collar-length hair and spoke with a Birmingham accent. The second purchaser was black, around the same age, about 5ft 10ins tall and of average build. He had thin hair worn in dreadlocks, with what was described as a "mop" on top, and also spoke with a Birmingham accent. Police are appealing to anyone who recognises the descriptions to contact them. They have also urged the two men to come forward, saying that they could be "innocent" purchasers.Witnesses are asked to call either a special protected witness hotline on 0121-322 6053, the incident room on 0121-322 6079 or Crimestoppers on 0800-555 111.