The Metropolitan police is to face an investigation into allegations that it covered up testimony that the killers of Stephen Lawrence were shielded by a corrupt detective.The Independent Police Complaints Commission's action has been triggered by a BBC programme tonight about the unsolved murder of the black student in April 1993 at a south-east London bus stop. Five white youths were named by locals as being responsible for the murder, including David Norris, whose father, Clifford, was a notorious gangster suspected of corrupt links with some police officers. In the programme a former officer, Neil Putnam, alleges that John Davidson, a senior detective in the first inquiry into Stephen's death, had a corrupt relationship with Clifford Norris. He alleges that when he told his bosses that corruption had been a factor behind the botched murder inquiry, it was covered up.Mr Putnam says his information was kept from Sir William Macpherson's public inquiry into police failings. The Lawrence family had alleged officers corrupted by Clifford Norris had helped shield the prime suspects. Mr Putnam is described as a witness of truth by the Met, whose testimony gained corruption convictions against other Met detectives. Mr Putnam himself was convicted of corruption after confessing to offences.The IPCC deputy chairman, John Wadham, said: "There are two serious allegations in this film and we will be asking the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) to record the misconduct complaints. We would then expect the MPS to refer them back to the IPCC for us to decide how they are investigated."Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's mother, said: "We are the ones, as the family, who have had to sit back and suffer all these years. I hope that the IPCC will prove that they are independent and will investigate the corruption."Stephen's father, Neville, described the allegations made in the programme as "very disturbing", but added: "It shows that the issue of police corruption can no longer be ignored. It must now be investigated. We are ordinary people and thought there was corruption but could not prove it and we would not make such a claim unless it could be proved."Richard Stone, adviser to the Macpherson inquiry, reacted with anger: "It is infuriating to be made aware, seven years after the inquiry ... an officer ... was asking to meet Sir William. [Putnam] was considered a reliable witness ... who convicted almost all those he named."In a statement Scotland Yard denied covering up crucial information. It said that following his arrest Mr Putnam gave anti-corruption officers information about Mr Davidson being corrupt, but did not provide a link with Mr Norris. It said that during a corruption investigation there had been no evidence of ex-detective sergeant Davidson being involved in corrupt activity within the Lawrence inquiry "or doing anything to thwart the investigation". Mr Davidson, who now runs a bar in Spain, denies any wrongdoing and was never prosecuted for any alleged offence.The boys who killed Stephen Lawrence, BBC1, tonight, 9pm