British police hunting the killer of Polish millionaire Kinga Legg were today investigating several sightings of Ian Griffin, her entrepreneur boyfriend who went missing immediately after she was found battered to death in a Paris hotel last week.Detectives leading the manhunt for Griffin in the UK said unconfirmed sightings of the 39-year-old had been reported in locations across the country, and urged him to hand himself in."If Ian Griffin is in the north-west, we would urge him to make contact with police, either in Cheshire or elsewhere in the region," a spokeswoman for Cheshire police said. Police sources said one unconfirmed report located him on Shudehill in central Manchester.More details of the couple's life together, and Griffin's disappearance from Paris, emerged as police interviewed relatives and friends in an attempt to piece together the events of the last week.Griffin and Legg had been staying in the five-star Hotel Le Bristol, a favourite haunt of the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, and his wife, Carla Bruni. Last Monday the couple went out to restaurants and bars and later drank several bottles of champagne in their suite.The next day Legg, 36, was found ­battered to death in the bath and Griffin had disappeared, sparking an international manhunt led by French police and involving Interpol and at least two British police forces.Over the weekend, the black Porsche in which Griffin is thought to have driven back to the UK was found by police outside his parents' house in Houghton Green, near Warrington.He turned up at a Surrey boatyard on Wednesday and asked for works to be ­accelerated to make his speedboat ­seaworthy.Boatyard workers said he became ­agitated when he was told his boat would not be immediately ready. He tried to buy a motor cruiser instead, and purchased a marine satellite navigation system and charts covering British, Irish and European waters. Police are also concerned that Griffin may consider taking his own life.The international manhunt was launched after Legg's battered and naked body was discovered by a room maid on Tuesday evening. There were reports the couple had an argument in a restaurant before returning to their room.It is understood their room was left with a "do not disturb" sign outside on Tuesday morning and it emerged in a French newspaper that a man called reception and insisted: "Madame Legg must not be disturbed today."Griffin was seen driving away from the hotel in his Porsche later that afternoon and a member of staff went up to the room at around 8pm to find the suite bloodstained, with broken furniture and ripped wall fittings.An initial doctor's report found Legg had died from an internal haemorrhage and had suffered blows to the skull and body after being punched and hit with a lampstand.Legg had made her fortune selling tomatoes and vegetables to multinational companies, including Tesco and McDonald's.She transformed her family's farm in Opatówek into an international business called Vegex and later moved to the UK and married Peter Legg, a council officer in Preston, Lancashire. The relationship broke down and she moved to Cheshire and became part of the county's well-heeled social set.In 2005 she met Griffin, who has run a string of companies, many of which have subsequently closed. They included a gadget shop, outside which he posed for a picture astride a personal hovercraft, ­tanning shops and telecommunication companies. He used to drive an orange Lamborghini, said to have once belonged to the guitarist Eric Clapton, relatives told a Sunday newspaper.Police in Surrey have searched the £5m rented mansion in Oxshott he shared with Legg and investigated the sighting at the Shepperton marina."Mr Griffin told me he was going away and needed the work done quickly," said Ruby Lewis, 19, a sales administrator who spoke to Griffin on Wednesday when he came to the marina to try to pick up his 18ft boat. "He … seemed quite agitated when I told him the anti-fouling work hadn't been completed but we had explained earlier that we were very busy. He then asked if it was possible to buy a cabin cruiser. Mr Griffin was dressed in jeans, a grey T-shirt and wearing a beanie hat and seemed in a bit of a state because while he was here he mislaid his wallet. Then he went to his car where he found it."He came back to the front desk and decided to take away a marine satnav system and some electronic navigation charts that he also asked us to fit, but we hadn't been able to … Before he went he bought another chart – for European waters – for £79.99 which he paid for in cash."A spokeswoman for Cheshire police said: "This investigation is being led by the French authorities and UK forces cannot comment on these matters. However, a number of forces, including Cheshire, are undertaking specific actions to support the French investigation."