With permission, Madam Speaker I wish to make a statement about the Harold Shipman case. Harold Shipman is the general practitioner from Hyde, Greater Manchester, who the House will know was found guilty yesterday at Preston crown court on 15 charges of murder, and of forging the will of one of his patients.I understand that the crown prosecution service are considering further charges. The police have investigated a total of 136 cases. The whole House and indeed the whole country will have been shocked to hear the detail of these dreadful crimes. I am sure that all hon. and rt. hon. members will want to join me in offering on our deepest condolences to all the relatives and friends of the people who died at the hands of Harold Shipman.These relatives and friends have endured the ordeal of a lengthy public trial with quiet dignity. Our sympathies today are with those families. We now know that Harold Shipman murdered at least fifteen women patients. They had placed their trust in him as their local GP. He abused his position of trust in a way that was callous, systematic and determined. As Mr Justice Forbes, the judge presiding in the trial said yesterday, he murdered each and every one of his victims by a calculating and cold blooded perversion of his medical skills. It is almost beyond belief that a doctor could act in this way. The relationship between individual doctor and individual patient is built upon trust. The Shipman case must not be allowed to erode the bond which rightly exists between our excellent family doctors and the families they serve. GPs in this country, almost without exception, are hardworking, honest and trustworthy. It is almost universally agreed that we have one of the finest family doctor services in the world. It is imperative in my view that we protect that reputation even as we learn the lessons of the Shipman case. It is of course true that a determined criminal can defeat the best regulated organisation in pursuit of his purpose. But we must be confident that we do indeed have the best systems for regulation and self-regulation firmly in place. There is no doubt that those systems have to be strengthened and to be changed. Harold Shipman not only managed to perpetrate these appalling crimes he managed to get away with them for years without being discovered. Members of this House and members of the public will want to be reassured about whether these awful events could have been foreseen and avoided, whether the early signs could have been detected sooner and whether action to halt Harold Shipman could have been taken earlier. It is to answer these and other questions in a careful and considered way that I can tell the House that I intend to establish an independent inquiry into the issues raised by the murder of patients by Harold Shipman. I am establishing this inquiry using the powers I have as secretary of state as defined in section 2 of the NHS Act 1977 and with the support of the home seceretary. The inquiry will be comprehensive and inclusive. The victims' relatives in particular will of course be able to present their views and experiences to the inquiry. The report of the inquiry will be made public. I am publishing the terms of reference for the inquiry today. A copy has been placed in the Library of the House. Given the issues of confidence raised by the Shipman case the inquiry must act thoroughly and speedily. It will report to me in the autumn. It will be chaired by Lord Laming of Tewin, the former chief inspector of social services. The inquiry's primary purpose will be to make recommendations on how best patients can be safeguarded in the future. It will look at the role played by all the agencies involved in the Shipman case including the coroner, registrar, police and health services. It will examine all relevant issues including the measures needed to safeguard against the risks of isolated professional medical practice, GPs access to controlled drugs and the role of the NHS tribunal. We have received and noted the West Pennine health authority's internal report on the Shipman case. Last night the health authority announced the suspension of its GP advisor. The health authority report will no doubt be considered by the inquiry but equally the inquiry will also be charged with properly scrutinising the role and conduct of the health authority itself. It will also be important that the general medical council's involvement in Harold Shipman's case is examined by the inquiry, that lessons are learned and that recommendations for reform are made. The GMC must genuinely exist to protect patients. It must be truly accountable and it must be guided at all times by the welfare and safety of patients. The House will know that the government and the medical profession are already taking action to modernise regulatory structures and to deal with poor performance wherever it occurs in medicine. The general medical council is developing proposals for assessment and revalidation of all doctors' licenses to practice at five yearly intervals. To strengthen and underpin this in November last year the chief medical officer produced recommendations in his report, Supporting Doctors, Protecting Patients to identify and deal with the small minority of doctors whose performance or behaviour gives cause for concern. It proposes that there should be annual appraisal of all doctors including GPs. Until now there has been no such system. It proposes that health authorities should have the power to suspend GPs when the circumstances indicate patients may be at risk. They do not have that power at the moment. Finally it proposes that participation of GPs in external clinical audit should in future be mandatory. It is not mandatory at present.The detail of these proposals is still being consulted on. But we now need to press ahead as quickly as possible with them. In parallel the government intends that the system of clinical governance should apply to all doctors. It will promote high standards of care and introduce accountability in a way that has not existed in the past. Isolation in which an individual doctor's pattern of practice is hidden from view will be a thing of the past. The new system will in turn be monitored by the new independent commission for health improvement Our proposals will provide safeguards against the rare doctor who poses a grave and immediate threat to patients' safety. In the process they will improve GPs' accountability without preventing them from getting on with the job of treating and caring for their patients. Madam Speaker to reinforce the steps that are in already in train and those that the inquiry may recommend I believe that there are certain immediate actions which the government needs to take in the light of the Shipman trial. Firstly, the way the NHS tribunal currently works means that the health service would continue to pay Harold Shipman for around another month following his conviction for murder. That is inconceivable. I am acting urgently to make sure it does not happen. Similarly the powers I have as secretary of state allow me to remove pension entitlements from those recipients who have seriously damaged public confidence in the NHS. I am today giving notice that I am considering removing Harold Shipman's pension entitlements. Secondly, despite his convictions for murder Harold Shipman today is still a registered doctor with the general medical council. The public will now expect that the GMC gives its most urgent attention to removing Harold Shipman from its register of medical practitioners. Thirdly, at present there is nothing to require a family doctor to disclose a past criminal conviction or a previous professional censure to prospective partners or a health authority. In the 1970s, Harold Shipman had a conviction for obtaining and misusing a controlled drug. He had a record with the general medical council. Yet this did not lead anyone to monitor him more closely than any other doctor. That will now change.  I can tell the House that we shall be requiring doctors to disclose criminal convictions and action taken against them by a professional regulatory body whether in the UK or abroad - before they can be appointed to medical lists. Fourthly, we intend to make it compulsory for GPs to report deaths in their surgeries and other serious incidents to health authorities. At the same time we are working with the office for national statistics to find new and better ways of monitoring deaths of GPs patients. Fifthly, I have asked the chief medical officer to commission and oversee a clinical audit of Harold Shipman's past practice. The audit will examine the pattern of deaths, certified causes of deaths, prescribing of restricted drugs and will examine the relevant medical records. Any concerns highlighted by the audit will be drawn to the attention of the relevant authorities. Finally, my RHF the home secretary is setting up an urgent review to consider how to improve death certification and make more effective the checks undertaken before cremation and burial. The review will also consider whether there should be a role for coroners in monitoring the proper procedures after death. The consideration and findings of this review will of course be made available to the inquiry I have announced today. Madam Speaker we owe it to the relatives and friends of those murdered by Harold Shipman to identify and to take whatever steps are necessary to prevent a repetition of the terrible events witnessed in Hyde. Harold Shipman was a determined serial killer. He preyed on some of the most vulnerable members of our society. He broke the trust of his patients in the most dreadful way imaginable. Having betrayed the trust of his own patients, Harold Shipman should not be allowed to break the vital bond of trust that exists between family doctors and their patients. The action I have outlined today is intended to strengthen that bond of trust. It expresses the government's determination to apply the lessons of the Shipman case to ensure that patients have the protection they deserve.