A hard core of 5,000 career criminals who commit half of all crimes are to be targeted in a new police surveillance campaign. Repeat petty offenders, such as burglars and car thieves, will be sent letters on release from prison warning them that they are being watched by the police and will be subjected to surprise home visits. The plans will be unveiled this week in the latest findings from a government policy review.The Prime Minister will also reveal new powers for police to seize valuables such as jewellery, plasma TVs and other elements of the 'bling' lifestyle lived by many offenders such as drug dealers when they make arrests, if they suspect these are bought with the proceeds of crime. Currently officers need a court order to take such items away after a conviction. The Home Office estimates that 5,000 offenders commit a million crimes a year between them. Ministers believe targeting them could mean big reductions in crime, after a pilot scheme found subsequent offences committed by individuals under surveillance were reduced by 62 per cent.A Downing Street source said: 'Some of these people can be doing 10 crimes a week, and it's often driven by drugs. It is saying, "Let's target probation officers' time and really breathe down the necks of these particular individuals".' The offenders will also be offered help to come off drugs.Tony Blair and the Home Secretary, John Reid, will be flanked by Gordon Brown to announce the policy review's proposals on crime and security. The package will include measures to prevent reoffending by teenagers coming out of young offenders' institutions.The national Asset Recovery Agency, set up by the government to seize ill-gotten gains from criminals, was recently criticised by the National Audit Office, which found that it had spent £65m to recover £23m - although Downing Street will say this week it expects to have recovered at least £125m by the end of this financial year, and double that by 2009-10. The agency can only remove assets after seeking court orders once someone has been convicted, but increasing police seizure powers would allow possessions to be taken even before they are charged with a crime, speeding up the process and potentially increasing the value of seizures, although anyone acquitted would be likely to claim their valuables back.Downing Street believes the change will target the high-profile 'middle merchants' of crime rather than major criminals, making the lifestyle of dealers and low-level gangsters who flash their wealth around look less enticing.