The treatment of teenagers held at Brinsford young offenders' institution, near Wolverhampton, is condemned as a "stain on the prison system" in an official inspection report published today.Bullying is so rife that it was a significant factor in at least two out of five suicides in eight months, says the report by Sir David Ramsbotham, the chief inspector of prisons. He describes the inspection, in June last year, as "one of the most disturbing that my team and I have carried out". It disclosed a level of neglect and lack of understanding of the young prisoners' needs that was "breathtaking". Sir David says he was particularly angered to discover that such bad conditions still existed within a young offenders' institution despite similar damning reports into Feltham, London; Glen Parva, Leicestershire; Portland, Dorset; and Werrington, Staffordshire. "That conditions as disgraceful as those at Brinsford exist is shameful enough, but the fact that this report follows similar situations at other [young offenders' institutions] is inexcusable," says the chief inspector, particularly in the face of the government's concentration on youth justice. "This should never have been allowed to happen by the prison service itself, but I am sorry I did not intervene earlier to ensure the treatment afforded to young prisoners was of an acceptable standard." Sir David promises to return to Brinsford in six months' time but says he "fears, on the evidence of past experience, nothing may have happened to rectify the situation". The inspection report details the lack of any workshops and the limited opportunities for association and exercise, with too many young people spending far too much time locked in their cells. The inspection team itself saw evidence of bullying and concluded that staff had either surrendered to what they regarded as the inevitable or were fighting a rearguard action. Sir David says he was disappointed to find that only lip service was being paid to the implementation of new child protection measures. Youth jails were brought within the provisions of the Children Act, which are supposed to lead to the intervention of outside social services staff when children are found at risk of abuse. The chief inspector found that while the child protection log had been set up at Brinsford, no cases had been entered into it. Martin Narey, the director-general of the prison service, claimed that significant progress had been made at Brinsford since the inspection, including the provision of more than 20 hours a week of purposeful activity out of prisoners' cells. "As Sir David knows, the introduction of functional management across the juvenile estate from April 1 will give additional scrutiny to the management of under 18s at Brinsford, and ensure greater consistency," he said.