A couple of years ago, it was not uncommon for a victim of burglary, assault or theft in Kenya to report the case to a police station and be told: "Go and arrest the thief and bring him to the station. We will do the rest." Needless to say, nothing ever got done. The good citizen would not arrest the thief and the police would not follow it up.The situation has slightly changed today but Kenyans still do not have much faith in the ability of law enforcement agencies to execute justice, especially in cases involving murder. This is why, even as the case of Julie Ward, the British tourist who was killed in Kenya more than two decades ago while on a trip to the Masai Mara game reserve, gets reopened by the Metropolitan police, Kenyans wonder at, and admire, the tenacity of British authorities to get to the bottom of a case that took place way before some of them were born.Many are likely to dismiss this pursuit of justice as the mere chasing of the will o' the wisp. Others believe that the British authorities really do not know Kenya, or at least do not know that this is a place where the mills of justice grind exceedingly slow and sometimes conk out in the middle of the task. Thus they think this is one of those cold-case episodes where a killer gets nailed three decades after the act.But who can blame them? Our justice system is such that only those who have money get things done. When a poor villager is murdered in a remote backwater of the countryside, the police come, ask a few questions, collect the body and take it to the morgue. From there? A deathly silence. The family can only grieve and bury their dead while hoping against hope that one day the killers would be known. That day never arrives. And no word from the police is ever heard.If there is one thing that Kenya lacks, as indeed do many other developing countries, it is the tenacity to investigate crime in the fashion exhibited by the Julie Ward case. And neither do they have the capacity to do it. One might argue that Julie's father, John Ward, has the money, and therefore will stop at nothing to have the murder of his daughter resolved.But really, justice is not about who has the money or who does not. An investigative unit that works and bares results is a boon to the confidence of the citizenry. True, a murdered person will never come back to life just because his killer has been nailed. But the family and friends of such a person would rest in the faith and hope that justice has at last been done.Though Kenya has been carrying out police reforms lately, many Kenyans are yet to be convinced that justice could be speedily executed in cases that deafeningly cry out for it. There are numerous murders that have gone unresolved. In fact, most of those who are arraigned in court on charges of manslaughter or murder are those who, invariably, have been caught in the act. But successful investigation based on forensic evidence is something yet to catch on in this country. It is not that Kenyan police lack training to deal with these cases. It is that they are ill-equipped. Even when they dust the scene for fingerprints, it is not clear what they do with them because they lack the technical capacity to deal with them. At any rate, before they arrive at the scene, which in most cases is never cordoned off anyway, scores of people would have interfered with it.That is why Julie Ward's case is not likely to make the headlines in Kenya. That is probably why it does so in the UK. If Julie lived in Kenya and her father had the same kind of money, there would probably still not have been any hope that two decades after her murder the police would reopen her file. Hers would be a really cold case. In Kenya, cold cases get really cold after only a few months, and in many cases, soon after the body has been interred.