A violent white prisoner was allowed to remain in a cell with an Asian man whom he later beat and stabbed to death, even though prison authorities had been warned that he posed a threat to other inmates, an inquest jury found yesterday.The jury found that a series of failings by the prison service contributed to the death of Shahid Aziz, who was stabbed by his cellmate, Peter McCann, at Leeds prison on April 2 2004.The prison was in such chaos that an assessment of the threat McCann posed to fellow inmates relied solely on asking him whether he was dangerous. McCann said he was not, and was classed as safe enough to share a cell with another prisoner. He was moved into a cell with Aziz and within an hours had murdered him.The case has parallels with the murder in 2000 of Zahid Mubarek by his white cellmate, a known violent racist, in Feltham Young Offenders Institute.In a devastating verdict, the jury sitting at Leeds coroner's court, unanimously found that prison officers should have acted immediately on a warning from a probation officer that McCann was dangerous. He had two previous convictions for violence, including attacks on inmates, and details of these should have been obtained before he was placed in a cell with Aziz.The jury also criticised the prison for the length of time it took to tell Aziz's family about his death.The inquest heard that McCann arrived at the jail, at Armley, two miles from the city centre, on March 25 2004. Details of his past violence, including hitting an inmate with a mallet and attacking another with a knife, were unknown to prison staff. A probation officer rang the prison on April 1 2004 to warn that McCann was so dangerous she feared he would attack fellow inmates. She spoke to an officer in prison security, but her warning was not acted on. On April 2, McCann murdered Aziz, a father of two.The jury, in their narrative verdict, said: "If the information from the probation officer had been passed to the wing, Peter McCann would have been moved, a search would have been carried out [and it would have] enabled a thorough cell-sharing risk assessment to be carried out. These failings contributed to Shahid Aziz's death."McCann is serving life for the murder, and initially claimed that Aziz had attacked him. But at the inquest he retracted his story, telling the jury he had slit his victim's throat with a razor blade mounted on a plastic toothbrush, before strangling him with shoelaces and battering him over the head with a chair to "finish him off". He said Leeds was a "racist jail", where whites and Asians should not be made to share cells, but denied being a racist.Leeds prison had been dogged by allegations of racism and Aziz had been a leader of protests by Asian inmates.In an interview with the prisons ombudsman, a female race-relations officer at the West Yorkshire jail admitted she had dismissed a complaint from Aziz. Told he wanted to speak to a race-relations officer, she had replied: "You are looking at one. Go away, not interested." In his report, the ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, said he was "appalled" by the admission.Outside the court yesterday, Aziz's widow, Parveen Khan, of Dewsbury, said the prison service had still not apologised for its failings. "Although the director general wrote us a letter of condolence at the time, neither he nor anyone else from the service has ever apologised in writing."Rob Kellett, the jail's governor, said: "I am determined to ensure that any further elements of learning from this incident are responded to as quickly as possible. Much of this is already in place following recommendations from the ombudsman."