The mother of Lucie Blackman, a British bar hostess killed in Japan six years ago, broke down in a Tokyo court today as she spoke of the "unrelenting pain" she had suffered since her daughter's dismembered remains were found inside a cave in a fishing village in 2001."I used to believe that the sorrow of any parent losing a child is the greatest sorrow anyone can know," said Jane Steare in a statement at the trial of the man accused of killing her daughter. "But it got worse."Joji Obara, a wealthy property developer, is suspected of drugging and raping Lucie, and then cutting up her remains with a chainsaw and burying them after she reacted adversely to the excessive dose of drugs he had given her. Mrs Steare, struggling to maintain her composure, went on: "To lose a child and know her body was desecrated in such an evil way is the greatest and most unrelenting pain I have ever had to endure. It is with me day and night." Lucie, 21, was working as a hostess in at the Casablanca Club in the seedy Tokyo district of Roppongi when she went missing in July 2000. She had told friends she was going for a drive with a customer from the club. Seven months later, her remains were discovered in a seaside cave about 100 metres from Mr Obara's luxury apartment in Miura, a tranquil fishing village south of Tokyo. Mrs Steare said she still struggled to cope with the mental and physical turmoil caused by her daughter's death. "I only sleep when exhausted," she said. "I often wake again in the early hours and begin wondering if this was the time of night she died. I wondered if she suffered. Did she feel any pain? Did she call out my name? I will never know." She said she could not even take comfort from looking at photographs of Lucie "because of what her killer did to her body with that chainsaw". Mr Obara, 52, has denied any involvement in Lucie's death. He also denies committing seven other sexual assaults and causing the death of an Australian hostess, 21-year-old Carita Ridgway, who died of liver failure in February 1992 after being drugged and raped. Mr Obara refused to attend yesterday's hearing. He reportedly began removing his clothes and clung on to the sink in his cell Tokyo Detention Centre to prevent officials from escorting him to the courtroom. Mrs Steare said she "thought she would die" when she received the news that Lucie, a former British Airways flight attendant from Sevenoaks in Kent, had been found dead. "My worst fears came true when she was found not only dead, but her beautiful body had been chainsawed into pieces, her beautiful blonde hair had been shaved off and her head had been encased in concrete." Mr Obara faces life in prison if convicted. He had reportedly offered Mrs Steare and Ms Ridgway's mother, who also spoke in court yesterday, £200,000 pounds each not to testify. Both said they had refused the offer. "It is my hope that the court will consider these actions as entirely consistent with the unspeakably evil nature of his character," Mrs Steare said. "I am living a life sentence because of what he did to my beloved Lucie. He must never be released. He must never be given the opportunity to do this again." The trial has lasted more than five years and a ruling is not expected for at least several more months. Next week, Lucie's father, Tim Blackman, will fly out to Japan to deliver a statement to the court. He and Mrs Steare divorced several years before Lucie's disappearance.