Eight life sentences were passed yesterday on the ringleader of the gang which set fire to a Huddersfield house, killing eight members of a family.The judge, Mr Justice Andrew Smith, told Shaied Iqbal, 26, that his minimum term recommendation, which will be announced later, would reflect the ruthlessness of the crime. Shakiel Shazad, 23, and Nazar Hussain, 24, were sentenced to 18 years for the manslaughter of the eight victims, including five young girls, who died in the terrace house. The judge said they should serve at least 11 years. Relatives of the Chishti family, which lost five sisters, their mother, grandmother and an uncle, welcomed the terms but appealed for the full length to be served, and for "life meaning life" in Iqbal's case. Muhammed Shafique, another uncle, who escaped the blaze in May last year with badly burned arms, said: "At the end of a long, difficult and incredibly emotionally draining legal process, the family wish to express their satisfaction at the length of sentence this morning. "No sentence can do true justice to these crimes, but it is our very strong wish that all defendants serve the full entirety of their sentences. "We will watch with interest to see what the minimum sentence for Shaied Iqbal will be, and hope that it means the whole of his life. Talk of remorse was clearly designed only to keep the sentences to the lowest possible, even at the final hour when the three seemed interested only in wriggling and squirming." The West Yorkshire police have stepped up their hunt for a fourth man from Huddersfield, Shaid Mohammed, who is suspected of having been the joint ringleader with Iqbal in the attack.The trial at Leeds crown court heard that the family had been targeted because of false rumours that one of the victims, Mohammed Ateeq-ur-Rehman, 18, had spread gossip about Iqbal's secret affair with a young woman. Shaid Mohammed is also alleged to have sworn vengeance against Ateeq for supposedly helping his sister elope with a student friend, an accusation which the family and the police dismissed. Though domestic grudges, these issues developed into hatreds so intense that the pair organised a gang with petrol bombs stuffed with bolts and nails which were hurled into the house at 2am. Judge Smith told Iqbal, an odd-job man: "I remain unable to fathom what led you to such cruelty. But I am sure you were the instigator, or one of the instigators, of what happened. "The recommendation for the minimum term you should serve in prison will reflect the ruthlessness with which you orchestrated and executed this design". Iqbal was already serving 21 months for his part in the abduction of Shaid Mohammed's sister from Newcastle, where she had secretly married after eloping. All three were given 14-year concurrent sentences for conspiracy to commit arson with intent to endanger life. The judge told Shakiel and Hussain that the attack, after a reconnaissance to make sure that everyone in the house was asleep, had created an "obvious and terrible risk". He said: "Your offence of manslaughter came very close to murder. It caused the horrific death of eight people - of a mother and grandmother, of her eldest daughter, who had come to this country to care for her father, of an innocent young student with a promising future, and of those five young sisters. "Other members of the family saw and heard their loved ones suffering in the fire. No decent person who heard their evidence would ever forget it." Two other members of the gang, Mahommed Arif Siddiq, 28, and Intizar Hussain, 25, who gave evidence for the prosecution, will be sentenced next month after the judge has read background reports. Those who died in the fire were sisters Tayyaba Batool, 13, Rabia Batool, 10, Ateeqa Nawaz, six, Aneesa Nawaz, two, Najeeba Nawaz, six months, their mother Nafessa Aziz, 35, their grandmother Zaib-un-Nisa, 54, and Ateeq.