Thousands of youngsters are being packed into overcrowded institutions as a result of overzealous implementation of new sentencing policies.As a 13-year-old boy was sentenced in London last week to two years' detention for dealing in cocaine, prison reform groups expressed alarm that the increase in young people being sent to jail was undermining the work of the Youth Justice Board, formed in April specifically to tackle the issue of youth custody. Campaign groups have warned Home Secretary Jack Straw that new detention and training orders for young offenders are being used inappropriately by magistrates. Under the new sentences, young criminals spend half their time in custody and the other half in the community in an attempt to ease their resettlement into society. But campaigners say that the 'one-punishment-fits-all' approach means that people who would normally not have been sent to prison find themselves behind bars. Among the worst victims of the new orders are mothers under the age of 18, who are being sent to prison and separated from their babies. Reform groups have expressed alarm that a legal loophole allows the babies of these young girls to be taken into care - a denial, they claim, of basic human rights. The Howard League for Penal Reform is investigating several cases of girls under the age of 18 who have had their children taken from them, a practice that has long been outlawed for adult women prisoners. These are understood to include a number of Roma refugee girls, who are often given tougher sentences for minor offences such as shoplifting than their white British counterparts. 'New problems are arising which have never been an issue before,' said Frances Crook, director of the Howard League. 'It is quite appalling that girls are being placed in custody and having their babies taken away, something that would be quite unlawful for adults.' Thousands of youngsters are being held in overcrowded conditions, sometimes hundreds of miles from their homes. Figures obtained by The Observer show that a total of 2,177 places are available at juvenile institutions while only 1,803 are occupied. Despite this, three young offender institutions - Northallerton in North Yorkshire, Glen Parva in Leicestershire and Portland in Dorset - are seriously overcrowded. Northallerton, with a design capacity of 152 prisoners, currently holds 246. The Howard League is compiling a dossier on institutional abuse at Portland which will be presented to Prison Service director general Martin Narey later this year. A recent Home Office report into the impact of custodial sentences on young people showed that even short sentences have a devastating effect by immersing them in criminal culture. This often encouraged lesser offenders to go on to commit more serious crimes. One young woman told the researchers: 'You're just going to get back to the way it was before, aren't you? In here I can say, "Oh I'm not going to do this, I'm not going to do that." But when I get out I'm going to do it all again.'