When I joined the police force as a constable in south London 35 years ago, policing wasn’t that different to the job my grandfather and great-grandfather had done. Bravery earned the respect of colleagues, the copper on the beat was the linchpin of the service and I never saw anyone use a computer.Fast forward to 2015 and policing looks very different. Recorded crime has fallen, but a shrinking workforce is dealing with unprecedented demand. Much of the growing workload is not just solving crime, but public protection – dealing with domestic abuse, monitoring high-risk violent criminals or sex offenders and vulnerable children, and being vigilant against the threat of terrorism.Police officers and staff do a difficult job, and while there are some things from the past we should hold on to, we need to equip them with skills and knowledge to meet the challenges of the future. The prospect of a reducing workforce increases the size of the task. The changing nature of crime is demanding specific skill sets One of the consequences is that there will inevitably be less supervision, and decisions will be made by those on the front line without checking with their bosses. This will increase the need for police officers to be skilled and autonomous. Officers need access to the evidence about what works in cutting crime, and to the training and information required to help them make decisions that in the past would have been left to those higher up the chain. It’s part of the College of Policing’s role to equip them with these tools.Part of ensuring that the skill levels of officers are right for the roles they perform is recognising what the equivalent education or qualification level should be in policing. There are many everyday situations in which police officers and staff are called upon to make judgments and exercise extraordinary professionalism. Yet, while working alongside partner organisations, be that probation, local government, prisons, healthcare workers or others, they are often the only professionals without established qualifications. Work in this area is in its infancy but implementing a qualifications framework could make a difference to how people in policing are supported and recognised, and to the training of future recruits.Slash police budgets – it will stop officers doing other people's jobs Against a backdrop of increased autonomy we have an opportunity to address the negative impact of the hierarchy that has sometimes characterised policing. Command and control can be necessary and effective in high-risk situations. As a default style of leadership, however, it can stifle the innovation and internal debate essential for improving services. If we don’t adapt our structures to ensure the way we lead is appropriate to the context in which we are working, it will make our job more difficult. It is likely that roles in policing will have to become increasingly specialised. As a police constable, I had to be all things to all people, but the changing nature of crime is demanding specific skill sets to deal with particular problems. For example, young recruits – and many of the people they police – have never known a world without constant digital communication. Policing the online world is a totally different challenge to what we faced before.The recognition and reward of new and necessary skills, and a clear method of how we develop them, will be important for officers. We see becoming an advanced practitioner – an expert in a field such as cybercrime or fraud – as a better career path for some than pursuing the traditional route of vertical promotion.I do much more than police work. But if I don’t do it, who will? A fresh look at the contribution made by police staff may also help shape the future of policing. Nothing can replace officers on the streets but there are hundreds of staff members across forces who do complex and important work in forensics, investigations, custody and many other roles. Defining and reforming the powers they have could make a difference to the way in which forces can target their resources. The last thing I expected – or even wanted – 35 years ago was a professional body to help me do the job better, so I understand the hesitancy towards the College of Policing from some traditionalist officers. But these changes in the world officers operate in are here to stay. Our task as a professional body is to help those working in policing to keep pace.Sign up here for your free weekly Guardian Public Leaders newsletter with news and analysis sent direct to you every Thursday. Follow us on Twitter via@Guardianpublic