Viren Rastogi, the businessman behind a global metals trading fraud that duped 20 banks - including West LB, JP Morgan Chase and Dresdner Bank - out of $750m (£383m), has been jailed for nine and a half years.Rastogi was described yesterday by a judge at Southwark crown court as "the real brains" behind a network of bogus international metal trades against which his company RBG Resources, and a sister company, Allied Deals, run by his brother Narendra Rastogi in New York, raised hundreds of millions of dollars in loans.Paige Rumble, the lead SFO investigator said: "This was a truly audacious and ruthlessly efficient fraud that ranged from the poorest areas of India to the corporate tower blocks of Manhattan."Viren is likely to have the sentence he received greatly increased later this year if he does not comply with what is expected to be a confiscation order running into hundreds of millions of pounds. He has been declared bankrupt despite liquidators believing he has substantial assets around the world.The Rastogi family, from India, honed their elaborate fraud techniques first in Dubai and then in New York, before offices were set up in London's Piccadilly in 1996. Almost overnight the UK business appeared to be booming, with turnover reaching $1bn and Viren paying himself a salary of £650,000. Rastogi and his family were using "boiler rooms" around the world to manufacture a bogus paper trail to support their metals trading scam. Unbeknown to the lending banks and auditors, Rastogi was in control of more than 200 supposed trading counterparties at "brassplate" addresses in more than 20 different countries. Instead of shipping millions of tonnes of metals around the world, the web of bogus transactions simply churned cash lent from the banks - with a proportion being salted away in a maze of offshore trusts in the British Virgin Islands.In the end the towering facade was cracked by a simple mistake. In November 2001 eight counterparty confirmation letters were mistakenly faxed from Hong Kong along with some routine paperwork to PricewaterhouseCoopers, RBG's auditors. These counterparties were supposed to be competitors operating in separate parts of the world, yet their signed paperwork had come through from the same far east fax number. Within two months PwC had quit as auditors."There is little evidence to suggest to us that business activities are consistent with transactions recorded in the books," the accountancy firm said in its resignation letter, adding that it doubted whether the commodities involved in the transactions existed.Rastogi protested that PwC's claims were "ill-founded", suggesting auditors were focusing on just "3% to 4% of the total business". It was another lie. In May 2002 police, lawyers and liquidators raided the homes and offices of the Rastogi empire in London. They found Viren stuffing documents into a shredding machine. Parallel raids took place in the US.Liquidators from Grant Thornton then began tracking down the assets. Following the paper trail around the world led them - as PwC predicted - not to warehouses full of metals, but to a long list of brassplate addresses, including a cowshed near Delhi. It was a wild goose chase, Grant Thornton was forced to tell creditors. They would not get a penny back.Three Rastogi-controlled boiler rooms in Dubai, Singapore and Hong Kong were found to be operated by Viren and two more brothers Ravindra and Subash Rastogi. Stamps and stationery relating to hundreds of bogus counterparties were discovered at these forgery factories.Taking the evidence to the high court in London two years later, Grant Thornton were able to secure a summary judgment against Viren Rastogi, ordering him to repay $360m. So incontrovertible was the evidence that the judge refused to hear a defence.Viren refused to hand over any assets and was declared bankrupt. As a result, it will be the taxpayer who must pick up the bill for Rastogi's defence throughout the seven-month trial.Viren's London lieutenants, Anand Jain and Gautam Majumdar, were yesterday jailed for eight and a half years and seven and a half years respectively. Judge Wadsworth said the three had "created a very impressive front that fooled banks, the metal exchanges in the UK and US, and well-respected accountancy firms".Meanwhile, Narendra, who gave evidence at the trial against his brother, has been sentenced in the US to seven years for his role in the fraud. He signed a plea bargain after being told he otherwise faced a maximum sentence of 865 years in jail. Brothers Ravindra and Subash have not been prosecuted. Sheetal Rastogi, Viren's niece, is also understood to be in India. She allegedly played a major role in the London fraud but fled the country a month before RBG was raided.