The police service in England and Wales is the most expensive in the world. Since 1997 the cost of policing has gone up in real terms by 43%, or £4.5bn. This influx of money has yielded some benefits, such as the visible presence of police community support officers on the streets. But despite this, public satisfaction with the police is near an all-time low, and national serious crime is rising. The price of cocaine has halved in the last decade; people-trafficking, gun crime and e-crime are all increasing.Policing in England and Wales is split into 43 regional forces. But a new Reform report published this week shows that this structure offers the worst of both worlds, with forces that are too small to cope with national serious crime policing, but too big to be responsive to local needs. They are run by chief constables accountable to police authorities that lack the power to hold them properly responsible for the performance of their forces. Yet chief constables' hands are tied by central direction, both from the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers, which Shami Chakrabarti criticised last week for having "a rather shady lack of accountability". Its status as a limited company – meaning it is exempt from Freedom of Information requests – is just one example of the lack of accountability for "the power behind the throne".In the current situation, the government directs on the minutiae of policing through targets and strategies, while chief constables are left to exercise their influence on the trivial matters over which they do have control, such as uniform design. This should be reversed: the Home Office and ACPO could take a useful lead on standardisation and administration, while chief constables are left to get on with what they know best – the business of policing.What about national serious crime – guns, drugs, gangs – which is not being dealt with effectively? The problem is a lack of co-ordination and co-operation between the 43 forces. The 2004 Bichard Inquiry into the Soham murders found a devastating failure of forces to share intelligence. An influential 2005 report by HM Inspector of Constabulary laid out the scale of the problem, declaring that "the 43-force structure is no longer fit for purpose".At present, criminals are able to exploit the lack of intelligence between forces to their advantage. In 2004 the report into the Soham murders of Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells identified that police forces did not share information on serious crime effectively. In 2005, the damning Closing the Gap report told of a failure to address serious regional crime. Concerns of this nature created the misguided logic behind the proposals in 2006 to create "superforces". The refusal of chief constables and police authorities to co-operate led to the plan being abandoned. The other "big idea" was to create a Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA). This has turned out to be a white elephant, with an annual budget of £400m but with little credibility or effectiveness.Jacqui Smith's plans for elections to police authorities were abandoned in the face of objections from precisely the vested interests that need to be held to account. And the government has now given in to the self-perpetuating oligarchy of ACPO. The policing and crime bill going through parliament will actually give ACPO more power in appointing chief constables – effectively allowing it to appoint its own.Our report recommends a dual change. First, local policing needs to be made more responsive and accountable to local communities. Our research has found that 11 of the 43 forces already match local government boundaries. A further 25 forces are made up of police basic command units with matching boundaries. These local authorities should have the option to secede their local policing from the regional force, creating the Leeds city police force or the Brighton and Hove police force. Only seven of the forces have boundaries that do not match existing local government structures.This needs to be matched at a national level. The Metropolitan police should be given a formal role in leading and co-ordinating national serious and organised crime. It already has many of these responsibilities, most notably co-ordinating counter-terrorism through regional "hubs" run by the Met but staffed by local officers and funded directly by the Home Office. An expansion of this model to cover all serious crime would allow the Met to offer a national lead while maintaining and strengthening the link with local intelligence and operations.Making individual forces locally accountable and responsible for their own operational practices would allow the home secretary to focus exclusively on national policing, and to hold the Metropolitan police commissioner responsible for his performance. This dual accountability, at a local and national level, would allow the police to focus on doing their job. And the public will know whom to thank when they deliver – and whom to blame when things go wrong.The Reform report A New Force is available here