A £5,000 reward was today offered by Crimestoppers in an attempt to solve the murder of a drowned Cornish parish councillor who had an interest in the occult.The body of 56-year-old Peter Solheim was recovered from the sea by fishermen around five miles off Black Head, on the Lizard Peninsula, on June 18 this year. Since then, detectives from Devon and Cornwall police have interviewed more than 1,500 people, but nobody has been charged with the former printer's murder. Inquiries revealed that Solheim had an interest in the occult, and detectives said they were interviewing members of Cornwall's Druid community about his death.Shortly before he died, the divorced father of three told his girlfriend, with whom he lived, that he was either going fishing or travelling abroad with a friend called Charlie, who had a larger boat.The parish councillor, from Carnkie, in Cornwall, was last seen getting into his own small fishing boat with an unidentified man at Mylor harbour, near Falmouth, on June 16. On June 17, the boat was found floating at the harbour, and the following day Solheim's body was recovered from the sea 13 miles away. Detectives launched a murder inquiry after calculations showed it was not feasible that his body could have floated from Mylor to the area in which it was found. A post-mortem examination revealed that the cause of death was drowning, but Solheim also had suspicious, unexplained injuries. One theory is that he and Charlie could have been planning to travel to France together. Police said it was possible that, if Charlie had gone on to France alone, he did not know that Solheim was dead. They are keen to speak to him.Announcing the Crimestoppers reward, Detective Inspector Neil Best, who is leading the inquiry, said: "It is my belief that there are people in the local community who are in two minds as to whether they should contact the police. "This has been a long and difficult investigation, but we are determined to solve this murder. Therefore, any information - however small it may seem - could be the key, and so I ask again for people to tell us what they know." A 56-year-old woman from the Lizard area was arrested in connection with Solheim's murder on July 21, and remains on police bail until the end of February.Police recently carried out a search of beaches near St Mawes and St Keverne in an attempt to find evidence.