The parents of a Birmingham toddler have been jailed for nine years each for causing or allowing his death.Danielle Cassin, 27, and Mark Piper, 31, were cleared of murdering 22-month-old Levi-Blu Cassin at Birmingham crown court on Friday and found not guilty of his manslaughter, but they were convicted of causing or allowing his death.Levi-Blu was found in cardiac arrest at a flat in Solihull, in the early hours of 20 February last year. He was pronounced dead a short time later at Heartlands hospital after suffering massive abdominal injuries.The child’s parents blamed each other for his injuries. The court heard that Cassin smoked class A drugs in her son’s presence and would take him to crack dens for hours at a time.Piper faced allegations that he beat two of his other sons and regularly attacked Cassin at the flat they shared.A serious case review will be carried out to discover if there were failings leading to Levi-Blu’s death. Cassin had been in contact with Solihull social services since before his birth in 2011. But a child protection agreement designed to keep Levi-Blu safe was flouted by Cassin and Piper despite regular contact with social services.Piper was banned from staying at their flat, but hid behind a mattress when social workers carried out inspections.Timothy Raggatt QC, prosecuting, read a victim impact statement from Levi-Blu’s grandmother Angela Cassin, who said she would never know the truth about what happened to the child in his final hours.Her statement said he was “utterly defenceless” in the hands of those she anticipated would care for him.Raggatt added: “There is a great and continuing sense of loss for the little boy.” He told the court that Cassin, who wept in the dock, had no previous convictions but Piper had convictions related to drugs and robbery in 2001. He was also convicted in Solihull in 2001 for possession of cocaine and cannabis. In 1999, he was convicted of possessing a bladed article.Christopher Millington QC, for Cassin, said she had written to the judge speaking of a lifetime of regret.Paul Lewis QC, for Piper, said his client had also sent the judge a letter. He said no distinction should be drawn between the defendants.The judge, Mr Justice Goss, said it was most likely that Levi-Blu suffered his injuries as he lay against a hard surface and his organs were compressed. This would have been in the form of punches, kicks, stamps or with a weapon. He said Cassin put drugs ahead of her son, while Piper would rather be on his PlayStation than care for his son.