Only Angela Gordon knows why she stopped feeding her seven-year-old daughter, Khyra Ishaq, but there were many warning signs that something was seriously amiss in the months before she starved to death.At the time of her death, Khyra Ishaq weighed under three stone. She had lost about 40% of her body fat, and her body mass index was so low it was off the scale of medical charts.She had been kept away from school by her mother, who was said to be educating her at the family's home in Handsworth, Birmingham.The case has echoes of that of Victoria Climbie, who was abused by an aunt before she died in Haringey, north London, a decade ago.Khyra's emaciated body had 60 injuries, a result of the sadistic regime she had been subjected to, which included punishment beatings, cold baths or being forced to overeat until she was sick. A neighbour believed Khyra scavenged stale bread that she left out for birds. .Her mother and stepfather, Junaid Abuhamza, gradually withdrew her from the outside world, resisting all efforts to intervene in their lives.Khyra was removed from primary school five months before her death in May 2008. Staff at the school had been concerned about her – during one 24-hour period, the deputy headteacher made three phone calls to social services to express anxiety about her welfare.The deputy head called unannounced at the family home and talked to Gordon on the doorstep."She was agitated by our presence," she said. "We didn't see the children. Social services said the referral didn't warrant initial assessment."Social worker Ranjit Mann visited the house in January 2008, following up a referral from the school. She peered through the letterbox and a window when there was no answer. Two days later she phoned Gordon, who accused her of breaching her privacy and became aggressive. Mann did not call again.Gordon claimed she fed Khyra porridge and fruit before school, and maintained that the seven-year-old was adequately nourished. However, this assertion was part of an elaborate lie designed to convince the authorities that nothing was amiss.Suraj Ahmed, a doctor at Birmingham city hospital, examined a seven-year-old boy who lived at the house in January 2008 after teachers expressed concern about his welfare."He was searching cupboards looking for food as soon as he got into school," Ahmed said. "At lunchtime, he would grab food from other children's plates and eat it, and that was a cause of concern for the school staff." His weight was below average.Ahmed pointed out to Gordon that the child was not getting enough calories and suggested he saw a dietician, but she rejected this advice and said she did not want the school feeding him any snacks without her permission.During a brief stay in hospital, the boy would constantly approach people and ask them for food.A lock had been fitted high up on the kitchen doors to keep Khyra and the five other children in the house away from the food inside.If the children were caught stealing food they were made to stand outside in the cold, beaten or forced to overeat until they vomited.Abuhamza admitted five charges of cruelty relating to the other children, but Gordon denied all charges and both denied murder. Gordon, it seems, was in denial.A 12-year-old girl who lived at the house recalled the regime. "Khyra stole bread from the kitchen or something from the cooker," she said."Junaid told her 'You've won a prize, you've got a nice treat'. He gave her a chocolate jar and told her to eat it all. It made her feel really ill and it made her vomit."Another child recalled Khyra being asleep in her mother's lap two days before her death. Gordon was spraying her daughter's face with water, but she did not wake.In the days leading up to her death, he said, he could see the bones through her skin as she slept.The children, he said, took lessons in the lounge and were punished if they did not answer questions correctly.A forensic pathologist who carried out a post-mortem examination on Khyra found 60 marks, 34 of which could have been sustained in the week before her death. Eight were consistent with being struck by a cane.Roger Malcolmson, the doctor who examined Khyra's body, said he had never seen such a high fat loss. "It was shocking, in fact, to see her for the first time," he said.He described how the joints of her elbows were particularly prominent and her face was sunken. There was little skin fat and her jawbone was prominent.Khyra's maternal grandmother, Eartha Gordon, had last seen her in January 2008. She said Angela Gordon had used a variety of excuses to avoid contact."She would say one of the children was sick or had the flu," she said. "One time she said they were decorating – that the place was in a mess and it was not suitable for anyone to come around."She said she had met Abuhamza once but was unaware that he was living in the house.Next-door neighbour Marta Wnuk Isoline Clark, Khyra's paternal grandmother, who has since died, said her aunt, Valerie Francis, had repeatedly attempted to see the family."My grandchildren have been let down by the very people who are supposed to protect them and ensure they are safe," she said. "Why did social services not look in on my grandchildren?"