The system for preventing people who pose a threat to children from getting jobs in schools faces overhaul after serious failings exposed by the Soham case.Even though Huntley had been accused of a string of sex offences in the past, checks made by police on him when he was appointed caretaker of Soham Village College failed to unearth these details. At the time Huntley got his job the vetting process was being changed and a new system is now in place. But police and Home Office sources accept that under the new system Huntley would probably still have slipped through the net. Even if North East Lincolnshire social services had linked the five cases, which they did not, there is still no direct mechanism employers such as Soham village college can use to obtain these details. Huntley applied for the post of residential site officer at Soham village college in October 2001 under the name he was then using, his mother's maiden name, Nixon. He did not try to disguise his identity, providing his full address in Humberside, his national insurance number and employment record. Under the vetting system in place at the time he also had to disclose his date of birth, any previous names and home addresses for the previous five years. Cambridgeshire county council passed these details, including the name Ian Huntley, on to the police. As was normal, Huntley began work before the check came back. At the time the force was processing some 2,000 checks a month, almost seven times the usual volume. Employers were getting checks in quickly because under the new system about to come into force they were going to have to start paying for the service. Cambridgeshire police's criminal records bureau checked the would-be caretaker on the police national computer under the name Nixon. The civilian operator failed to check him under the name Huntley. Police admit this was an error and disciplinary proceedings against the operator could follow. A check under the name Huntley would have found that he had committed a burglary in 1995. Yesterday the school's headmaster said if this had been known Huntley would never have got the job. However the police computer would not have shown he was charged with rape in 1998. Such details are "weeded off" once the case against a suspect is dropped, Humberside police yesterday claimed. Nor would this check have thrown up any of the other accusations and reports made against him which did not result in a charge. This sort of information is held locally in police "intelligence" systems. Cambridgeshire police say they sent a fax to Humberside asking them to check Huntley. They are confident - though have no proof - that they passed the names Nixon and Huntley on. The school was told there was "no trace" on Huntley; on the face of it, he had no convictions, had never been cautioned or bound over and there was no "intelligence" to warn of the danger he might pose. Humberside police say they have no way of knowing if Cambridgeshire police did ask them to check their intelligence systems, against either of Huntley's names. But the force admits that at the time of the check it had nothing on Huntley. It claims such details - held on paper rather than computer - were "weeded off" to comply with data protection laws. The force has now made changes to its "intelligence and vetting processes and weeding policies". Cambridgeshire police believe they would have kept, and found, the details of Huntley. They have a sophisticated "mining" programme which allows them to search for a person on a variety of databases. The Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) should have been in operation at the time Huntley was checked. Its opening was delayed and it finally began work in March 2002. But would Huntley's past have emerged if the CRB had been in place by then? The problem is that each of the 43 forces in England and Wales keeps intelligence material - such as accusations of sex crimes - as it sees fit. The Association of Chief Police Officers' code of conduct states: "It is not possible to lay down strict criteria for the removal of data from criminal intelligence records." The Data Protection Act 1998 stipulates that information kept on a subject must be "relevant and not excessive", and not retained for "longer than is necessary". It is up to each force to decide how long to keep such information and how to use it. North East Lincolnshire council says cases involving Huntley came to their attention five times between August 1995 and July 1998. Connections between the cases were not made because they were handled by different people who had no reason to cross-refer them. The council's children's service argues that its job is to protect children, not to spot patterns of behaviour in adults. It is ironic that if Huntley had been accused of sex crimes while working with children, he would almost certainly have been placed on secret lists which schools have access to. Because it was only later that he got the job at Soham he slipped through the net.