Tony Blair yesterday tried to regain his reputation for being "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime", by pledging to crack down on 5,000 "hard-core prolific offenders" who are responsible for 10% of all crime.In a major speech on the subject which made his name more than 10 years ago, the prime minister declared that all 376 Crime and Disorder Reduction Partnerships would be asked to identify up to 20 of the offenders by the summer."A hard core of prolific offenders - just 5,000 people - commit around 1m crimes each year, nearly 10% of all crime," Mr Blair told a joint Local Government Association and Home Office conference on crime in London. "That's only 15 or 20 people for each of our Crime and Disorder Reduction Partnerships. Yet they are wreaking havoc. The financial loss is estimated to be at least £2bn a year. "This hard core of offenders may include local gang leaders, drug dealers, vandals, car thieves and other whose prolific anti-social behaviour is causing most harm to local neighbourhoods." In a sign of the government's determination, the prime minister said that the government was prepared to change the law to allow the authorities to tap the telephones of known criminals to gather intelligence on the hard-core 5,000. At the moment, the police can only tap the telephones of suspects who are believed to be committing an offence that would attract a three-year sentence if convicted. Mr Blair said: "The Metropolitan police believe that the threshold is too high for intrusive surveillance and prevents them from carrying out such activity on people who may be prolific offenders, but whose offending has not reached the level required by the act. We will review this situation with them and, if necessary, legislate to give the police the powers they need." Other initiatives to crack down on the 5,000 "hard-core" offenders will include: · Using the national intelligence model to help identification. "Once targeted, it will be possible for all the agencies concerned to focus and bear down on the same key group of offenders," Mr Blair said. · Deploying modern surveillance techniques, including individually targeted CCTV, to collect evidence. "This is especially important in neighbourhoods where prosecutions for anti-social behaviour have been hindered by witness intimidation," he added. If convicted and sentenced, the hard-core criminals would face a tough "reform or return" regime in prison. "If they take up crime again, they will face a very swift return to the courts." The prime minister made clear that he has not lost sight of the second part of his landmark slogan - to be "tough on the causes of crime" - when he said the government must adopt long term measures to "ensure that others do not become hard-core offenders". He said: "Prevention is the key. We have set out a framework for identifying vulnerable children in the children's green paper. Now agencies at a local level must work together to identify those children and young people most at risk of becoming prolific offenders." The Tories praised the prime minister's words as "fine", but claimed that criminals were winning. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "The speech is an admission that Labour have failed to tackle anti-social behaviour. After seven years of power, crime has become an epidemic. Criminals are laughing at the law. It's time to get serious. Tony Blair's fine words will come as little comfort to people who have to put up with the endless misery caused by mindless yobs and vandals."