A playboy conman who rifled safeboxes of suites in the Savoy and the Dorchester in London, and other top hotels around the world, is in jail awaiting sentence after pleading guilty to stealing £150,000 of jewellery, cash, and clothes.Juan Carlos Guzman-Betancourt, 29, believed by police to be the son of a Colombian diplomat, used his charm, good looks, and a set of false identities to con hotel staff. Dressed immaculately, he talked his way into the safe boxes of wealthy guests by saying he had lost his room key and forgotten his safe code. Unsuspecting staff would let him in to their most expensive rooms, unlock the boxed, and leave him to it. Wearing a black suit and shirt, Guzman-Betancourt appeared at Southwark crown court in south London yester day after admitting burgling the Mandarin in Knightsbridge in 2001 and the Dorchester in December last year. At the first, an English couple lost £35,000 of jewellery; at the second, a Bahrain businessman was robbed of Armani, Valentino and Dolce & Gabbana clothes, a £2,000 Valentino leather jacket, and an £8,000 watch. Guzman-Betancourt asked for 16 other offences to be taken into consideration, including the possession of forged Russian and Spanish passports. He is to be sentenced at a later date. The conman was fluent in several languages, used 10 identities, and slipped through the hands of police several times. In 1998 he was arrested after burglaries at four London hotels, but skipped bail and carried on his luxury lifestyle in Paris. A year later he was again arrested, at Heathrow, but only got a fine for attempted credit card deception. In 2001 he stole from the London Intercontinental £15,000 and a credit card that he used to hire a chauffeured Bentley for £400 to take him to Heathrow for Paris, spending £8,000 on the card at the airport. In Paris he was arrested a third time but freed once again. His luck ran out a month ago when he was spotted by police officers "purely by chance" in a central London supermarket. By then he was wanted by Las Vegas police and also in Russia and Japan. Detective Sergeant Andy Swindells of Scotland Yard's hotel crime unit said: "He is a highly accomplished liar -plausible, believable, and very professional. He commits these offences for a living, and is therefore incredibly well versed in identity theft, hotels, and foreign travel."