Police are seeking a group of men thought to be Chelsea supporters who were heard shouting racist chants at a London train station.The incident, which occurred at St Pancras on Wednesday night, happened the day after fans from the same football club allegedly pushed a black man off a Paris Métro train while shouting a racist chant.The Chelsea supporters were returning from  a Champions League match against Paris Saint-Germain in the French capital on Tuesday. Supt Gill Murray of British Transport Police said: “The racist chanting was reported by a member of the public who was disgusted by the behaviour of the men who had travelled on the 6.40pm service from Paris Gare du Nord.   CCTV footage released by police show three men allegedly involved in the Paris incident. Photograph: Guim“The men shouted as they walked through the station having alighted from the train a short time earlier. If you travelled on the train from Paris or were at the station and have information which can assist our investigation I would urge you to get in touch as a matter of urgency.” Murray continued: “It’s clear that unfortunately there is still a minority who think it is acceptable to behave in such an abhorrent manner. There is more that needs to be done to publicly condemn this type of behaviour, and British Transport Police is actively working with football clubs, the football authorities and other key agencies to tackle this appalling behaviour.”Chelsea has reiterated its promise to ban for life anyone proved to have been involved in the racist altercation and is assisting police in both London and Paris. Five people have so far been suspended from the club’s Stamford Bridge ground following investigations into the Paris incident.The Paris commuter who was attacked by Chelsea fans on Tuesday told the Guardian that the incident left him afraid to use the Métro. The man, named as Souleymane S, said: “I was a little bit hurt physically but in terms of morale I was hurt a lot. It has really affected my life. I can’t go back into the Métro: it makes me really afraid. I don’t think you should be denied the right to take the Métro because you’re black. That’s what they wanted.”Chelsea have said they are appalled and apologised to the victim, while manager José Mourinho said he was ashamed of the fans involved. The club said it has also invited him and his family to London to attend the second leg of the European clash against Paris Saint-Germain on 11 March.Chelsea play Burnley at Stamford Bridge on Saturday afternoon.