It has become commonplace for Britain to look across the Atlantic for policy inspiration. From zero tolerance to mandatory minimum sentences to private prisons, a whole raft of British crime policies have been influenced by the US. The latest in this special criminological relationship are government plans, seemingly borrowed from Conservative party proposals, for online public access to crime maps showing details of crimes that have taken place in neighbourhoods, something that already happens in US cities including New York and Los Angeles. However, whilst it is essential for the police to have access to detailed information, it is questionable whether public access would be beneficial.We know from successive editions of the British crime survey that the public is relatively ill-informed about crime and has little confidence in the police. However, there is no guarantee that crime maps would address this. Crime data, including at a ward level, is already available online, and yet there remains a significant gap between perceptions and recorded crime levels. This is partly due to the way the public interprets media coverage of high profile crimes, but also because many people do not believe police figures.As Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan Police commissioner, stated in last month's Colin Cramphorn memorial lecture, our faith in policing lags behind our US counterparts "because New York has not fiddled about with how they collect crime statistics in the way the UK has". These are damning words from the country's most senior police officer. Until politicians resist the temptation to distort crime statistics for electoral purposes and the police get honest about what they do and don't record, this confidence gap is likely to remain, whether or not crime mapping is publicly available.Significantly, crime mapping would in any event only provide an incomplete picture as so many crimes go unreported. This could lead to the public making safety decisions based on misleading information. There are also serious concerns, recently voiced by the information commissioner, that crime mapping on a street or postcode basis could risk the anonymity of victims. It is also unclear how public access to crime maps would in practice enhance accountability. It would be far better to instead focus on the effectiveness of police authorities and on how local authorities are engaging with communities.Crime maps may also distort policing activity. There could be a disincentive for police to launch proactive operations if they knew any crimes detected would make an area a hotspot on a crime map. Mapping could also lead to a focus on crimes which cause most public outcry rather than lower-profile but serious crimes such as domestic violence. Public access to crime maps could also increasingly lead to wealthy people fleeing or avoiding high-crime areas, whilst doing nothing to address causes of crime.If the government is serious about reducing crime and fear of crime and building confidence in the police, it should instead focus on developing diverse and well-resourced police services and ensuring that communities are put at the heart of community safety policy. This means doing more to involve the public, especially young people, in shaping their local area. It also means more systematic and sustained investment in community resources, including voluntary and community organisations that work with those at risk of offending or victimisation. These approaches are far more likely to enhance safety than publicly accessible crime maps which really may send us all off in the wrong direction.