 Daily Mail Editorial, October 15 "Despite yesterday's fanfare, [Tony Blair] had little new to say. There is no more money for his anti-yob crusade ... Instead he urged police, courts and councils to use powers they already have to deal with hooliganism. Amen to that. A pity he didn't acknowledge that those powers are drafted so bureaucratically that they are virtually impossible to apply. The doubts don't end there ... Louts, beggars and vandals don't develop in a vacuum. They are overwhelmingly the product of the collapse in traditional values, family breakdown, a lack of discipline at home and in school ... Mr Blair is right to speak of the need to rebuild 'cohesive communities'. The tragedy is that his own policies have done more than anything else to destroy them."  Sun  Editorial, October 15   "Antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) will only work if they are backed up with a very big stick ... Too many people in authority have been brainwashed by the politically correct claptrap that children lose self-esteem if they are punished. Those youngsters have grown up into parents who don't know how to discipline their own children. If those who defile our way of life knew they would be locked up for five years, they would soon mend their ways. We should be building more jails for the serious and serial offenders. And setting up tough work camps for young yobs like those that work so well in America. Slapping their wrists gets nowhere."  Gerry Hassan Herald, Scotland, October 15   "It is very easy to stigmatise and stereotype young people. They are easy targets for politicians looking for a quick headline. And in an increasingly complex, changing world, politicians, despite often using the right buzz words, are often the last to change. Instead, people such as [the Scottish first minister] Jack McConnell and [the home secretary] David Blunkett hold on to a morally authoritarian agenda shaped by a sense of certainty that seems to hark back to some mythical golden age. "However, our young people are worth more than that. Scots youth groups provide a valuable service - allowing young people to develop social skills, self-esteem, and self-confidence, interact with other young people in a way different from school and with adults, while often engaging in socially worthwhile work. It is worthy and the sort of thing you'd think New Labour might champion."  Theodore Dalrymple Daily Telegraph, October 15   "Anti-social behaviour is almost the only field in which Britain leads the world, and is what the British are now principally known (and despised) for, everywhere they go ... The plain fact is that a large proportion of British people do not socialise when they get together; they antisocialise. They cannot enjoy themselves without making a nuisance of themselves, without screaming, drinking to excess and creating an atmosphere of menace ... "The government's proposals to deal with the problem are, as one would expect, weak and feeble ... It is most unfortunate that repression is now the only means by which anti-social behaviour can be reduced in Britain. The law is a blunt instrument, and it would be much better if people were socialised into behaving with reasonable consideration for others in the first place, rather than coerced into it by an already over-mighty state."  Daily Star Editorial, October 15   "Mr Blunkett gets our full support ... He was right to begin his crusade with a sideswipe at those who will put it into effect. He warned that officials who fail to tackle anti-social behaviour will be sacked. Too right! We must get rid of the slackers in our town halls and police HQs."  Independent Editorial, October 15   "Crime and anti-social behaviour stem largely - but not exclusively - from economic blight. In that context it may accurately, if strangely, be said that Gordon Brown's successful macroeconomic policies and imaginative schemes ... have done far more to get disruptive youths off the streets and crime down than any number of Jack Straw or Mr Blunkett's eye-catching initiatives. Improvements in educational standards and opportunities could do the rest ... "Jobs, education and a decent built environment are thus part of the answer, but Mr Blair is right to identify the problem that many people complain about the failure of enforcement ... Delivering good policing isn't as eye-catching as Asbos or compulsory parenting orders, but it may just help." Daily Mirror Editorial, October 15   "The measures ... are an important step forward. If they are properly enforced. He wants the police to crack down hard - and so does the public. But we cannot expect the police to do it all. The growth in yobbish behaviour has a number of causes, including the failure of parents to instill discipline ... "Mr Blunkett threatened teachers who did not control young people in their care. That is grossly unfair. Teachers suffer more than most from the lout culture. Everyone has a responsibility to drag young yobs into a civilised way of life. But it has to start in the home."