Scotland Yard has launched an internal investigation after one of its most high-profile ethnic minority officers became the target of a hate mail campaign.The Met's department of professional standards is conducting an inquiry into abusive letters sent to Sergeant Gurpal Virdi, the Sikh officer wrongly dismissed by the force four years ago after false allegations that he sent racist hate mail to his colleagues. The Guardian has learned that Mr Virdi was targeted again after writing to The Job, a police newspaper, criticising the fact that some officers convicted of drink driving were sacked and then reinstated on appeal. The letters were sent to Mr Virdi at New Scotland Yard. One of them said its sentiments were shared by "all of us", another letter assured him: "We know who you are". Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday that the incident was being handled as a racially motivated crime. Though the inquiry, launched last month, has not been made public, Mr Virdi revealed its existence in a submission to the Morris inquiry, an official investigation into how the Met treats ethnic minority staff. Mr Virdi said: "The incidents themselves have been very distressing but I don't want to comment further while the inquiry is under way." Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, who chairs the Metropolitan Black Police Association, said: "I am horrified these things are still going on. It shows how much work there is to do in the Met to improve the culture, respect difference and respect people's right to free speech." A Scotland Yard spokesman said the letter receiving most attention had been carefully worded. "It doesn't contain overtly racist, sexist or threatening language but we are treating it as a racial incident because we think it was racially motivated." In his letter to a February edition of The Job, which is published by the Met, Mr Virdi said permitting officers convicted of drink driving to resume their careers sent the wrong message to the public. "We have all seen what drunk drivers can do, especially where someone innocent is killed or seriously injured," it said. "With senior officers allowing these convicted officers back into the police service, we are not seen to be behaving in a professional manner. How can convicted officers be seen to enforce the law that they themselves are guilty of?" He highlighted the case of one police constable who, having been dismissed in 1998, was reinstated following an appeal and given back pay. According to the Met's own analysis, 44 of 58 officers dismissed for drink driving who appealed to an assistant commissioner or the commissioner himself were required to leave - but 11 subsequently returned to work. Researchers found an apparent increase in the number of officers being reinstated. They warned "a trend may be forming", but added: "These numbers are extremely low and connecting any significance to them is questionable." Of 34 who appealed to a tribunal or the home secretary, five were allowed to return to work. The presumption is always that such officers should be dismissed or required to resign, but the Met says dealing with each case on its merits can throw up apparent "inconsistencies". For its part the Police Federation will not fund legal advice or legal representation to members involved in criminal proceedings or internal disciplinary proceedings arising from drink driving. Mr Virdi was accused in 2000 of sending racist hate mail to himself and colleagues at a west London police station but was reinstated after an employment tribunal demolished the Met's case against him. The real culprit has never been caught.