Heavily pregnant prisoners are being forced to travel hundreds of miles in claustrophobic prison vans known to inmates as "sweatboxes", the Guardian has learned.The women are being transported in conditions which campaigners have criticised as "unethical and barbaric", often spending many hours in cramped cells measuring 860mm by 620mm (34in by 24in), with hard seats and no seatbelts.Beverley Beech, chairwoman of the Association for Improvements in the Maternity Services, called for the Prison Service to stop using cellular vehicles to transport pregnant prisoners. "It is time this unethical and barbaric practice was stopped," she said. "Women in advanced pregnancy are in no position to run away and they should be treated with humanity and awareness of their condition."She said the Prison Service had no understanding of the damage that can be done to an unborn baby "whose mother is confined to what amounts to a broom cupboard for many hours while being transported around the country".A source within Styal prison in Cheshire said a 27-year-old inmate had spent four hours in a van the day before her baby was due. She expected to be taken to court in Liverpool by taxi and complained when told she would travel in a prison van. She was then offered a thin cushion.The trip from Styal to Liverpool should have taken less than an hour but lasted two and half hours because the vehicle had to drop off other prisoners. The prisoner was allowed one toilet break. After an hour-long court hearing, she made a 90-minute journey back to Styal.Ms Beech came to prominence when she highlighted the practice of chaining pregnant women to hospital beds 10 years ago. The Home Office was forced to end the practice after she took a camera into the Whittington hospital in London and photographed a Holloway prisoner being shackled an hour after giving birth. The pictures were shown across the media and caused a furore.The Prison Service said it was planning to issue guidelines on the best practice for transporting pregnant prisoners.Retired midwife and peace activist Olivia Agate said the vans were dangerous and should not be used to transport prisoners. In February 2004 she was arrested and taken 84 miles from Skipton, North Yorkshire, to Durham jail. She spent five hours in the vehicle. "During the journey, a woman shouted out that she was going to be sick but the staff ignored her," she said. "We could hear the poor girl retching but the van carried on. When we got to Durham, the smell was awful."Global Solutions, which operates a fleet of 400 prison vehicles, said specifications were agreed with the Home Office. A spokesman said there was provision for people with special needs, including pregnant women, and the company was not aware of any complaints regarding the transport of pregnant women.A Prison Service spokeswoman said every individual case was risk assessed before vans were used for the transportation of pregnant women. "However, the Prison Service is issuing best practice guidelines on escorting pregnant women," she said.