Having chosen not to expose Barry George to cross-examination in the witness box, his defence lawyers targeted the only remaining piece of forensic evidence that could link him to Jill Dando's murder.The single fibre of grey-blue polyester discovered on the raincoat worn by the BBC television presenter allegedly came from a pair of C&A trousers found at George's home. It provided "weak support" for the case against George, prosecution lawyers maintained.But Dr Roger Robson, a former Home Office forensic scientist who runs his own consultancy, challenged the significance of the discovery - claiming the thread could have come from another source.The raincoat had been left lying on the ground for between six and nine hours after the murder, Robson suggested. The fibre might have been dropped by anyone passing. "It could have come from the suits or trousers in Miss Dando's wardrobe or from [her fiance] Alan Farthing's wardrobe," he said. "It could have been contaminated by people walking past [on the path]."The battery of tests carried out on the polyester fragment was not conclusive. One gave a negative result before turning positive when the test was run a second time. Robson claimed the analysis did not back the case against George. "I would not be confident in putting any weight on the fibre," he said. "I would put in my report 'insufficient tests performed'."Evidence at the original trial that convicted George included what were said to be traces of firearms residue found in his pocket and supposedly lodged there from the gun used to kill Dando.That forensic remnant did not appear in the retrial, however, after the court of appeal ruled that the jury had been misled about the significance of the microscopic speck in his coat. The single thread attached to her coat was the only remaining forensic detail before the jury.George's lawyers also brought in evidence from a neuropsychiatrist to dispute prosecution suggestions that he showed signs of "histrionics, paranoia and narcissism" and had a personality disorder.Prof Michael Kopelman implied that George could not have been as calculating as alleged. "[He] described to me that he can be aware of what's going on around him but just can't respond," the professor said.There was a family history of epilepsy as well as "severe cognitive impairment". George had an IQ of 75, in the lowest 5% of the population, Kopelman added. "I am sure that Mr George has inherited a gene or genes which predispose him to epilepsy or cognitive impairment," he said. He scored even lower, in the bottom 1%, in memory and "executive" tests, Kopelman added. These were "measures of his ability to plan and organise himself and to carry out or execute various things".The court heard that during the height of the Irish troubles in the early 1980s, George went to his sister's wedding in Ireland and claimed he was in the SAS - a boast that nearly came close to getting him beaten up. George could not even remember how many children his sisters had, important dates, or his medication, the court heard.