David and Victoria Beckham's housekeepers have been arrested after allegedly stealing items from the couple's home to sell on eBay. A third person, thought to be the housekeepers' son, has also been detained in connection with the case. Eric and June Emmett, who have reportedly worked for the former England football captain and his wife for more than 10 years, were arrested on Friday after memorabilia from the couple's Hertfordshire mansion appeared on the auction site. They were released on bail.Hertfordshire police said they arrested and bailed a 25-year-old man from Essex yesterday. The man is believed to be Gareth Emmett."A 56-year-old woman and a 55-year-old man from Essex have been arrested in connection with this incident and are currently on police bail," a Hertfordshire police spokesman said. "A 25-year-old man from Essex was arrested yesterday evening. He has been bailed to a police station in Hertfordshire in November."Police said they were investigating the allegation and had yet to place charges.Eric Emmett, speaking from his home in Nazeing, Essex, today denied the couple were involved in the alleged theft. "What is in the papers is fabricated nonsense - totally fabricated. Ninety-nine percent of it is totally untrue," he said. His wife described the allegation as "a bolt from the blue" and said she was shocked by it.Reports said Victoria Beckham's parents, Tony and Jackie Adams, became suspicious about items that seemed to tally with things missing from the house being sold online as "Posh and Becks" memorabilia. Football boots printed with the names of the couple's three sons - Brooklyn, Cruz and Romeo - as well as designer dresses and shirts were among some of the items seen on eBay.According to the Mirror, the Adams' enlisted the help of friends to bid for some items in an attempt to discover the identity of the seller, who claimed to be a relative of a member of staff at Beckham's football academy. A source quoted in the paper said: "Both David and Victoria were incredibly upset and are hugely traumatised."A spokesman for the Beckhams confirmed there had been an incident and said that the matter was now in the hands of the police.An eBay spokeswoman said the website was cooperating with police and attempting to work out which items were involved in the alleged theft.She said the site would be able to trace a clear paper trail back to the seller, adding: "Anyone stupid enough to try to sell anything that is not 100% legitimate makes a big mistake when they try to do it on our site." It is not the first time the Beckhams have had a run-in with staff over personal issues. In 2005, they failed to stop a national paper running an interview with a former nanny in which it was claimed their marriage was on the rocks.