 A senior Crown Prosecution Service barrister shared a £20,000 bribe to drop a case against a man he believed to be guilty, a court was told today.The bribe was paid to Sarfraz Ibrahim by an undercover police officer posing as a criminal guilty of assault as part of an elaborate sting set up by the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca).Ibrahim, 51, of Cardiff, who had been a lawyer for 19 years, admitted corruption, attempting to pervert the course of justice and misconduct in public office.His co-defendant, Saifur Rahman Khan, 37, also of Cardiff, went on trial today accused of aiding and abetting misconduct in public office and attempting to pervert the course of justice. He denies the offences.The jury in today's trial heard that in the summer of 2008 the barrister and his friend Khan, who ran a property letting agency, were spotted meeting two cocaine dealers at a service station on the M4 in south Wales. Jonathan Laidlaw, prosecuting, said the meeting triggered "anxiety" about Ibrahim, who was the CPS trials unit chief in Gwent, south Wales."Ibrahim's position as a barrister working for the Crown Prosecution Service made that anxiety all the more acute," said Laidlaw.Soca created a fictional scenario "to test whether he [Ibrahim] was prepared to act corruptly and whether Khan was ready to assist in such a venture".An undercover officer posing as a businessman told Khan that the arrest of his employee, Nick Baker, was causing problems. Khan allegedly told him his friend worked for the CPS and could ensure that Baker would not be charged.When Baker's bogus file came before Ibrahim, the CPS barrister recommended that no further action be taken.An undercover Soca officer, posing as a businessman named Tariq, approached Khan saying he wanted to rent rooms for an employee called Nick Baker, Laidlaw said. Baker, also an undercover officer, took up the rooms in March last year.Two months later police staged a raid of Baker's rooms and arrested him."They actually broke down the door to the flat that Nick Baker had rented and took him away and questioned him about an assault," said Laidlaw.Soon after, Tariq dropped in to see Khan and talked about the problems the arrest of his employee had caused.Khan is alleged to have told Tariq that a friend of his worked for the CPS. Khan allegedly explained that if the case came to his friend and he recommended no charge "then it is no charge. Understand? He has that power."In June last year Khan asked to see Baker. The two men met, at which point the latter confessed the assault allegation was true, it is claimed.Khan allegedly said of Ibrahim to Baker: "He is the one that says that you have got a case, you know, or have not got a case. You understand?"Laidlaw told the court that later the same month Khan and Ibrahim met Baker at Mermaid Quay, in Cardiff Bay. During the meeting Baker made it "perfectly clear that he had assaulted the victim", the jury heard.Laidlaw said: "Ibrahim told Nick, 'The case is going nowhere.'"Ibrahim went on to explain that he would not normally be responsible for reviewing such cases but that he could "manoeuvre it". Once he had control of the file he would be able to recommend that no further action was taken.Ibrahim told the undercover officer that if he did that, then afterwards, "I do not know you."Next Ibrahim told Baker to write in complaining at the slowness with which his case was proceeding. This allowed him to approach the police officer responsible for the file, who was aware of the undercover operation, and ask for it.In July last year the bogus file containing Baker's fictional case was delivered to Ibrahim while he was at Cardiff crown court.The CPS barrister recommended no further action (NFA) should be taken, telling the case officer: "Because of evidential difficulties the file was marked NFA."Laidlaw alleged Khan and Baker later met at the Hilton hotel in Cardiff to discuss how Ibrahim should be rewarded and £20,000 in cash was handed over, it was alleged. Khan retained half, it was claimed.After Ibrahim's arrest police discovered the lawyer had debts of almost £1m.Laidlaw said Khan would claim in his defence that he had been "manipulated to act in a manner other than he would normally" by the police.The Khan trial continues.