Home secretary David Blunkett is on a two-day visit to Spain to finalise new fast-track extradition arrangements. The new agreement could reduce the average time it takes to bring suspects to trial from 12 months to three weeks.That's bad news for the bad boys among the burgeoning British expat community of Marbella and the Costa del Sol. For years it has been, in tabloid-speak, the Costa del Crime - the place where not-so-lovable rogues go to escape the law. Sea, sand, sun and sanctuary, so to speak.Spain became a convenient bolt hole for British criminals after the expiry of a century-old extradition treaty in 1978. The treaty was replaced in 1985, but by then a rich assortment of hoodlums had established themselves on the Costa del Sol. Since then, Spain has become a lucrative as well as relatively safe haven for British drug traders and money launderers. British police sources say there are more than 200 seasoned criminals on the loose in Spain. Extradition proceedings have begun in around 35 cases, but each case can take up to a year, and one in three is unsuccessful. Among the most wanted expats are alleged members of the gang involved in the £6m Security Express raid, Britain's biggest cash robbery, in 1983. Two of the robbers, Ronnie Knight - former husband of the actress Barbara Windsor - and Freddie Foreman, enjoyed the Spanish sun or more than ten years before they returned to London and lengthy jail terms. Clifford Saxe, 74, also suspected of involvement, was arrested in January in Fuengirola and faces extradition. The notorious gangland figure Kenneth Noye fled to Spain for three years after stabbing Stephen Cameron to death on a slip road of the M25 in Kent in 1996. The Costa del Sol is something of an ideal destination for those on the run in the sun. With upwards of 250,000 expats living there, a British accent is scarcely going to turn heads. The climate is splendid, local entertainment is varied, there are lots of celebrities on hand. The Marbella mayor, Jesus Gil, has worked hard to reduce crime - but is not notably hard on imported criminals. Best of all, there are plenty of opportunities to make money and to launder it. Southern Spain is one of Europe's main entry points for drugs and cigarettes, smuggled from North Africa. In 1999 alone, 115 tonnes of hashish with a street value of £480million was seized in and around region, which lies north-east of Gibraltar. According to one source, Columbian drug barons are so impressed with Spanish-based British gangs' ability to traffic that they conduct much of their cocaine trade with them along the coastline. The prosperity of that trade has become visible on the Marbella skyline, studded with hundreds of construction site cranes. Many of the thousands of building projects are believed to be funded with the laundered proceeds of drug-related and other crime. Criminals are also offloading their hoards of cash pesetas in preparation for the introduction of the euro on January 1. Related story 18.11.2001: Sun sets on Costa del Sol bolt holeUseful links Book your Costa del Sol break Absolute Marbella.com