Shocking CCTV footage of a man dying on the floor of a police station surrounded by officers will be shown on prime-time television tonight in an effort to uncover the truth about his death. Christopher Alder, a former paratrooper, died in Queens Gardens station in Hull on April 1 1998. His family, who want a full public inquiry, believe his death had racist overtones and was, at best, negligence and, at worst, manslaughter. The black father-of-two was taken to the station from hospital after he became aggressive as he was being treated for head injuries received in a fight outside a nightclub that night. Tonight, for the first time, the public will get to view 11 harrowing minutes of CCTV recording. Mr Alder, who was 37, is seen and heard lying face down on the floor, his trousers round his knees, his breath rasping, and choking as he dies of a cardiac arrest. Officers accuse him of play acting and make no attempt to revive him. Police refused to release the CCTV footage, but the documentary makers obtained a copy from another source. Mr Alder's sister, Janet Alder, backed the decision to include the distressing scenes in the Rough Justice: Death on Camera documentary on BBC1 tonight. She hopes it will prove the final push in her family's long battle for justice. "He spends his last 11 minutes on that floor, with no assistance whatsoever, with no dignity, no respect shown to him," she said. "I can't get my head round the fact that we're living in a society where we're not safe in police custody." Ms Alder is convinced the death had racist overtones, as are Mr Alder's two sons, Leon and Kevin, who were 13 and 15 when their father died. In additional CCTV footage, seen by the BBC team but not included in the programme, monkey noises and laughter are heard as Mr Alder's dead body lies on the ground, where it remained for more than eight hours after his death, just before 4am. In a statement released through their solicitor, Jane Deighton, Leon and Kevin Alder said: "Our family has lived with this agony for six years. Once again we ask for a public inquiry into our father's death. We need to know how and why he died. We need to know whether he died because he was black and whether those responsible for his death have escaped justice because he was black." At an inquest two years after Mr Alder's death, the jury, which had seen the footage, recorded a verdict of unlawful killing. But the Crown Prosecution Service decided that there was not enough evidence to bring a case against the five Humberside police officers present when he died. Nigel Dawson, Neil Blakey, John Dunn, Matthew Barr and Mark Ellerington refused to answer questions put to them at the inquest. The Alder family sought out independent medical experts and eventually the police officers were charged in connection with the death, but the judge ruled there was no case to answer. An internal disciplinary hearing cleared them of wrongdoing and they are all still with the Humberside force. Four are on sick leave, while the fifth has made a partial return to work. Steve Love, the Humberside deputy chief constable, told the BBC he could not comment on police actions the night Mr Alder died because civil proceedings were ongoing. The police position has always been that the officers had no idea how serious Mr Alder's injuries were. West Yorkshire police carried out an investigation into the death. But the family are still demanding to be told why blood was wiped from the police van, and why the officers' clothes were dry-cleaned and Mr Alder's destroyed before full forensic tests could be carried out. The family also want to know why he had to be dragged unconscious into the police station when he was able to walk to the police van minutes before and why he was left suffering when he obviously needed medical help. They are backed by Inquest, which monitors deaths in custody, and Liberty, which is taking the case to the the European court of human rights. Helen Shaw, of Inquest, said the CCTV footage of Mr Alder's death was the most distressing thing she had seen. He is one of 200 black people who have died in UK police or prison custody in the past 15 years. Two medical experts believe Mr Alder died of neglect. Jack Crane, the Northern Ireland state pathologist, said it was not unusual for people with head injuries to become aggressive. Mr Alder had sustained two severe blows outside the Waterfront nightclub in Hull before becoming aggressive at the hospital. "I still do not have any doubts that his death, when it occurred, was due to the lack of attention he got when he was brought into the police station," Prof Crane said. Nat Cary, a Home Office pathologist and a lead expert witness at the Soham murder trial, said Mr Alder could have survived if basic medical procedures had been observed, such as putting him in the recovery position and making sure that his airways were clear.