Police tonight charged a 23-year-old man with the murder of a vicar who was stabbed in the grounds of his churchyard.Father Paul Bennett, 59, of St Fagan's Church of England church in Trecynon, near Aberdare, south Wales, was killed yesterday afternoon. Police sources said the man charged was called Geraint Evans, and he is expected to appear before Aberdare magistrates tomorrow.It is understood that Mr Evans lived in a flat near the churchyard where the killing took place.Earlier, police confirmed that Fr Paul's wife, Georgina, was with him when he was killed.They appealed to anyone who was in the area between 2pm and 3pm yesterday afternoon to come forward. Officers were called to Windsor Street at around 2.50pm yesterday, and found Fr Paul dead at the scene. A resident of Church Row, a small terraced street within 100 yards of the vicarage, described hearing shouting at the time of the incident. "It was around 2.15pm and I heard something," 17-year-old Dafydd Howells said. "I heard shouting and scuffling noises. "It wasn't so much screaming but shouting. It was really loud and it was definitely a man's voice. It was going on for a minute or so, and then I didn't hear anything."The Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, spoke of his shock at the murder."I know something of his devoted and selfless ministry in testing conditions, and I can well understand the depth of grief felt by local people, both church members and others in the community," he said. "Fr Paul's family will be especially in our prayers here at Lambeth [Palace] as they come to terms with this terrible tragedy."More than 130 people crammed into the small St Fagan's church today for the weekly Eucharist service, which would normally have been taken by Fr Paul.Father Robert Davies, the vicar of Aberdare and Dean of the Cynon Valley, led the service. He urged the congregation to pray for the community and the family of Fr Paul, including his wife, Georgina, children Emma and Nigel, and grandson John.Fr Paul's family were not present at the service, and are staying at the home of a churchwarden while police officers continue their forensic examinations of the scene. One member of the congregation, Mair Perry, described Fr Paul as "a great, humble, down-to-earth man". "He was the type of person you could speak to and he was a very popular person. He will be greatly missed. We are all thunderstruck and can't believe it has happened." One floral tribute laid at the scene read: "Our prayers are with his family and friends. We hope he enjoys heaven where there is no death or violence. Amen." After the service, Rev Norman Hadfield, a retired priest who was a close friend of Fr Paul, said he did not believe vicars were prepared for the strangers who frequently come knocking at their homes. "People don't realise the type of people that come to the vicarage," he said. "When I was the vicar of Resolven, all sorts of people would call there, and at one time I was threatened with a knife. "The hierarchy of the church really don't prepare priests for this. We know that people are going to call at your house and all we are told is not to give them any money, but food. They used to ask me for money, and I'm sure they must have asked Fr Paul for money." Mr Hadfield said Fr Paul had worked in the printing industry before being ordained more than 20 years ago."He was a very devoted priest and a bit of a workaholic," he said. "He had an empathy with the people, and the church was his life. It was everything."