The government is considering plans for the early release of up to 3,000 prisoners, after being told by senior members of the judiciary and Prison Service that there is no more room in Britain's overflowing jails. The news is likely to prompt fresh criticism that ministers failed to anticipate the overcrowding crisis.A decision to release thousands of prisoners before they have completed their sentences is expected to be announced after responsibility for prisons is transferred from the Home Office to the new Ministry of Justice on Wednesday. The Home Secretary, John Reid, has refused to release prisoners early. Both the Home Office and the Department for Constitutional Affairs have consistently denied that the government has drawn up plans for such a move.But Lord Falconer, the Lord Chancellor, who is to head the Ministry of Justice, now accepts there is no alternative.Falconer is understood to have come to this conclusion two weeks ago after hosting a dinner attended by Lord Phillips, the Lord Chief Justice, Judge Igor Judge, president of the Queen's Bench division and senior representatives from the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Prison Service. Falconer was told that early release was not a question of 'if but when', according to a senior Whitehall source.During the past three weeks, the prison population has risen by 500 and is now close to 80,500. In addition, around 300 prisoners are being held in police and court cells. Falconer has been warned that all available space in jails, police cells and courts will be taken within weeks.Last night penal experts accused the government of a kneejerk reaction that would do little to solve future problems.'The continuing overcrowding crisis means the government faces a real choice,' said Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust. 'They can either use early release as a pressure valve, buying time to build a few more prisons, crowded as soon as built, or they can get to grips with the root causes of needless overcrowding and stop sending mentally ill people, petty offenders, addicts in need of treatment to prison.'It is likely the government will announce the move as an extension of the 'temporary licence scheme', which means probation staff will be ordered to monitor those released early.The most likely option is that the prisoners will be released two to three weeks before the end of their sentence. Normally around 1,700 prisoners are released each week but by extending the temporary licence scheme, around 3,000 will be released.There has been no official communication from the government to the Prison Service indicating that early release of non-violent offenders is being planned. But staff working in the prison and probation service are expected to be ordered to sift their prisoner caseloads to ensure that no dangerous offenders are released early under the scheme within days of the Ministry of Justice coming into being.Releasing prisoners early under licence will prompt anger from probation staff charged with supervising them. 'Over the last few years the government has failed to deal with the looming prison crisis,' said Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation officers' union. 'Successive predictions produced by statisticians in the Home Office have indicated that the prison population would surge past 80,000 by 2007. Despite the warnings, the government has not commissioned further prison places, changed the law so that fewer people go to prison or provided adequate resources for probation.'Last week Phillips gave a clear indication that the move was imminent. In a speech he warned: 'The prisons are full and the predictions are that the rate of prison sentencing is bound to outstrip the capacity of the prisons, despite the plan to provide another 8,000 prison places.' He said that Falconer could not simply instruct judges to go light on sentencing as 'that would be an inappropriate attempt to interfere with judicial independence'.