A car dealer has been jailed for 18 years for ordering firebomb attacks on the homes of two police officers.Wayne Taylor, 42, of Clacton-on-Sea, Essex, paid two men to throw milk bottles filled with petrol at the houses of the detectives in revenge for a drug raid on his house. The judge said Taylor's actions "strike at the heart of our society".Taylor blamed the Essex police officers for "ruining Christmas" and was angered that they had disturbed presents under his Christmas tree during the search in December 2005. He was found guilty last month of two offences of arson with intent to endanger life, but cleared of attempted murder and a third unrelated arson.Detective Sergeant Martin Brough and his wife, Amanda, were feeding their newborn baby when two petrol bombs and concrete slabs were thrown at the front of their home. "I was horrified that night, absolutely terrified ... that someone should firebomb my home ... I was so frightened," Brough said.Detective Inspector Michael Ornellas said he was woken by "an enormous crashing sound". "I could see the bottom of the stairs were alight. There was no other way out. I had real concerns for my family's safety."Ornellas managed to put the blaze out with the help of his sons and the family escaped to safety.Mark Dennis QC, prosecuting, said it was only by chance that the officers and their families had not been killed in the attacks in Clacton."The two attacks had all the hallmarks of having been co-ordinated acts of spiteful and vindictive revenge," he said.Judge Stephens said "severe punishment" was necessary for Taylor's offences. "This was cold-blooded, premeditated, aimed at putting wholly innocent lives in danger. It was only the alertness of the officers that prevented the fires taking hold," he said.Taylor was jailed for 18 years on each offence, to be served concurrently.Two men were jailed for the attacks in March 2007, and Taylor was arrested last year after one of them, Jason Eagles, made a statement to police. Eagles, now 25, was given an indeterminate sentence with a minimum term of six and a half years for the attacks.