Susan Rushworth, Shelley Armitage and Suzanne Blamires were three women who lived precarious lives: they all worked regularly in Bradford's red light district and were battling addictions.A body thought to be that of Blamires was found in the River Aire at Shipley on Tuesday afternoon and police have arrested a 40-year-old man in connection with her murder and the disappearance of the other two women.Susan Rushworth, known as Sue or Susie, had been trying to sort out her life before she became the first of the women to go missing 11 months ago. She was addicted to heroin but, with professional help, had been clean for five weeks.She was last seen near her flat in the Manningham area at around 12pm on Monday 22 June. The slim 43-year-old, about 1.67m (5ft 6in) with brown hair, was part of a close family and had three children, James, 24, Kirsty, 21, and Aaron, nine.She had met up with Kirsty the Saturday before she went missing, and had seen James on the day she disappeared. She had bought some new clothes and was popping into town. She told him she loved him and would be back in an hour. She was wearing a green zip-up fleece jacket, blue jeans and white trainers.In the days after her disappearance he said: "We are all very worried about her. We're a close family and we're not coping well."Rushworth was determined to battle her addiction, according to her son. She had been off heroin for five weeks, and was getting help. She had never been missing before.Just after her disappearance, he said: "There is no reason that she would have just left. She'd only recently started seeing her grandchildren and was getting to know them."In the following weeks they called her repeatedly, but records revealed that she had not used her phone since she was last seen. She had epilepsy, and her family worried that she had no medication.When she had been missing for six months the family made another desperate appeal for information. "I think something has happened to my mum because she was always in touch with us and it is so unlike her to just disappear like this. She would have needed her medication," said James in a statement released by police.Kirsty added, with some defiance: "The police aren't going to go away. They will keep looking until they found my mum or find out what happened to her. If you know something and are expecting this to go away – it won't – we will keep searching for answers."Shelley Armitage, 31, was also a sex worker, and had lived and worked in Huddersfield's red light area before moving to Bradford. She too had been battling with drink and drug problems. Again, it was unlike her to disappear – she had bought a puppy and could not bear to be separated from it for too long.She left her flat in Allerton with a friend on the evening of Monday 26 April and was last seen in Bradford's red light district the same night. She was wearing a white cardigan and skinny black jeans, white sandals and carrying a sky blue bag.Weeks went by and she did not get in touch with her boyfriend or family. Footage of her last movements were released by police worried for her safety.Detective Superintendent Sukhbir Singh, leading the investigation, said: "We know she has health issues with drink and drugs and she has also failed to claim her benefits or use her mobile phone. She also recently bought a puppy which she adores and hates to be parted from for long, making her disappearance all the more unusual."Less is known about 36-year-old Blamires. She is thought to have known Armitage – they lived a few streets apart in Allerton. She went missing last Sunday, and the police had not yet posted a missing person appeal. She was last seen near her home.She was a sex worker with problems with drugs and alcohol, like Armitage and Rushworth – but unlike them, her body has apparently been found.