Maria Ward - social workerWard, 39, was assigned to Baby P's case on February 2 2007, 14 months after joining Haringey council. She made her first visit to the child on February 22. During a visit in March, she noticed Baby P headbutting the floor and referred him to the Child Development Centre. She also picked up on injuries in June but did not notice anything wrong four days before his death, saying he "appeared well".Dr Sabah al-Zayyat - paediatricianAl-Zayyat, 52, a locum paediatrician from Saudi Arabia, may face a General Medical Council disciplinary hearing after allegedly failing to spot that Baby P's back and ribs were broken two days before he died. Although al-Zayyat noted a number of bruises on the baby she decided not to carry out a full examination as the child appeared "miserable and cranky". She said she had not been informed the baby had been placed on the child protection register. She said Baby P was sitting without support during the examination. Al-Zayyat worked at Great Ormond Street children's hospital but has not had her contract renewed.Gillie Christou - social working team managerChristou, 50, was Ward's supervisor. She told the court that she had agreed to keep the baby with his mother "based on the material in front of me and based on the background to the case." Paulette Thomas - health visitorThomas, 43, accompanied Ward on her second visit to see Baby P on March 2, the day after his first birthday. She said the child appeared healthy during a checkup last March but by July had lost weight.Sharon Shoesmith - children's services directorShoesmith, director in Haringey since 2005 and chair of the local Safeguarding Children Board which also launched the review into the death of Baby P, was in charge of coordinating contact between agencies to protect vulnerable children. She was not a witness in the court case of Baby P but was part of the serious case review last August. The review found there had been "numerous examples" of good practice but there had been "weaknesses" in information flow.