It was not just the enormity of the crimes that went on within Family Q that astonishes; it is the length of time – 35 years – that they went unchallenged, despite the virtually uninterrupted involvement over that of period of 28 different welfare agencies and more than 100 safeguarding professionals.The case is a saga of abuse, deception, error and professional inertia, played out in 67 homes across two counties. Despite the "quiet words" between professionals sharing private suspicions, no one took responsibility or action, and the family's grim narrative unfolded unimpeded, surviving successive policy initiatives and developments in child protection practice.The serious case review (SCR) summary report recounts some of the grotesque details of rape, incest, intimidation and physical abuse inflicted by a father known as Adult R – for which he received 25 life sentences after he was convicted in November 2008 – and attempts to answer how this reign of terror was allowed to continue so long.Anyone looking for easy scapegoats will be disappointed by the SCR: it concludes that the staff in every agency involved, from police to social workers, were competent, experienced and qualified. They acted in good faith and were "concerned to play their part," the report says, and for the most part their work was "competent and consistent".So what went wrong? The report identifies an intriguing concept: the "stuck professional." This describes a well-meaning practitioner who suspects incest or abuse, but becomes paralysed by indecision. They wait for clear evidence – charges, or a disclosure by the victim. They subcontract their professional judgment to others.Doctors and police concluded no intervention was warranted, because geneticists could not prove abnormalities in babies born to Adult R's daughters were the result of incest.Petrified of the possible legal consequences of making an allegation of incest, perhaps even unable to face the horror of what was happening, the "stuck" safeguarding professionals diverted their energy into managing the consequences of the family's dysfunctionality: arranging multiple house moves, procuring equipment for the daughters' disabled children.To some extent the inertia was caused by fear, an unwillingness to challenge a brutal and intimidating abuser (although the report notes acidly that "some professionals were afraid of Adult R but prepared to leave children in the environment").The watchword in child protection post-baby P is "authoritative". Professionals in the case of Family Q were too tolerant, timid, indecisive, and unquestioning, the report concludes. Confronted by terrible misdeeds they lacked the confidence, maturity and authoritativeness to intervene. Professional failings but human ones too.