A stalker who repeatedly turned up at the home of the Manchester United and England footballer Rio Ferdinand has been convicted of harassment.Susanne Ibru, 38, twice disturbed the player and his wife Rebecca as they slept at their home in Alderley Edge, Cheshire, claiming she needed to speak to him.She was convicted at Macclesfield magistrates court in her absence. Ibru, who conducted her own defence, left court after being told that Ferdinand's wife Rebecca, 30, had been excused from giving evidence after the birth of their third child at the weekend. Earlier, Ibru had questioned Ferdinand in the witness box, telling him as he left the court: "I'll see you soon, bye."A warrant was issued for Ibru by the district judge, Nicholas Sanders, who asked for her to be brought back before him for sentencing. He said it was "quite clear" that the prosecution case against her had been proved.Ferdinand, 32, said he was left "angry and upset" by Ibru repeatedly turning up at his home uninvited. Ibru, of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, visited his home three times between February and June last year, despite being warned to stay away.Ian Davies, prosecuting, said that Ibru woke the couple early on 21 February by pressing the intercom buzzer at the entrance gate. Ferdinand went to a bathroom window and saw a figure wearing a hooded top. He shouted down to see who it was. She looked up, and he saw it was Ibru. Asked by Davies how he felt, Ferdinand said: "At first I was angry and upset but then disturbed, really, because I have got a young family and this was not the time or the place to be coming to speak to me."The player called the club's security staff, who contacted the police, and then watched on his CCTV as Ibru walked away and was stopped by officers at the end of the road. Ibru returned on 16 June. Ferdinand said he saw her on the road opposite his house as he arrived home at about 8pm.He said he had no idea why she wanted to speak to him. Ibru was given a formal police warning to leave the couple alone. Her third visit came early on 18 June, when she was arrested.