Ray Wyre, who has died from a stroke, aged 56, was one of the world's leading experts on sexual crime. He pioneered the treatment of sex offenders in residential therapy settings, believing that the potential for change existed within every criminal and, most importantly, that this work was crucial in reducing the risk of further offending. His distinctive therapeutic approach, which involved making bold but research-based assumptions about what other crimes an individual might have committed, was often controversial, but yielded spectacular results. As his former colleague Charles Fortt puts it, "He didn't treat people punitively because they had offended, he worked with them in a way which enabled them to reveal the worst things they'd done. The men believed that Ray knew what was inside them, things that no one else had seen."Wyre worked with some of the UK's most dangerous offenders, including Reggie Kray and child-killer Robert Black. The success of his methods, and his striking ability to enter the mind of the offender, made him a trusted police adviser in important criminal investigations and court hearings. In the Black case, Wyre was asked by his defence lawyers to assess the murderer. Black, already serving a life sentence for a vicious sexual assault, cancelled his appeal on reading Wyre's report, and was subsequently convicted of the murder of three girls. Wyre also worked with Anne Marie West as the police prepared the case against her parents, Fred and Rosemary, for their trial in 1994.Wyre had set up the Gracewell clinic in Birmingham during the late 1980s. It was the world's first residential clinic for sex offenders, followed, in the mid-1990s, by the Wolvercote clinic in Surrey, which boasted non-reoffending rates of 80%. Among his many legacies was legislative change provoked by work he did with television journalist Roger Cook. It was after one of their programmes that, in 1987, child pornography was made illegal in the UK. Wyre was born in Hampshire. His father was a chief petty officer and Wyre, after leaving school at 15, joined the Navy as a submarine torpedo man. After leaving, Wyre embarked on theological training, which involved a stint as a volunteer warden at a working men's hospital. This experience helped him decide against ordination, and in the late 1970s, he was taken on as a trainee probation officer at Winson Green prison in Birmingham, where his first patient was a sex offender.Though he had little time for organised religion, his faith remained important to him, informing his deeply felt belief that, in the words of his long-time colleague Steve Lowe, "even in the people who are hated by society, there is a good person lurking in there somewhere". He would later joke that he owed his success in public speaking - which took him around the world, lecturing to shocked audiences of diplomats, NGOs and government policy makers - to his training in the ministry. From 1981 to 1986, he worked with category-A inmates at Albany prison on the Isle of Wight, pioneering group therapy for sex offenders. He later said he was "always fighting the system because no one wanted me to do this sort of work. They thought sex offenders were one-offs and wouldn't do it again; they didn't understand that it's a lifelong pattern of behaviour and that unless people go through therapy while in prison, they'll go straight out and resume where they left off".In 1988 he founded the Gracewell clinic, thanks to financial backing from Trevor Price, a Midlands property entrepreneur. It was the world's first residential clinic for sex offenders to take referrals, initially from the probation service, but later accepting men who had thus far managed to avoid the criminal justice system. Among the many innovations Wyre introduced was the use of resident offenders to challenge the beliefs of new or more resistant arrivals. The knowledge he and fellow practitioners acquired became an important source of information to police investigators from all over the country. The clinic closed in 1993, partly through local objections to so many paedophiles being housed under one roof. In 2002, the same fate befell Gracewell's successor, the Wolvercote clinic in Surrey. Despite Wyre's trailblazing work, there is now no residential unit of this kind in the UK.Optimistic, cheerful and obsessed by his work, Wyre loved politically incorrect jokes, and would often find it hard to finish them because he was already laughing uproariously in anticipation of the punchline. He was fond of magic tricks, and was an accomplished poker player, once appearing on a Channel 4 series about the game. Lowe puts Wyre's success at poker down to his skill at "reading" other people. "Poker, for him, wasn't about gambling. He'd never have gambled his house, but he often came away with a wallet full of money, and a little-boy smile on his face."Among his published works are Women, Men and Rape, and Murder of Childhood, about Robert Black.Wyre's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife Charmaine, and three children, now all adults, from his first marriage.· Ray Wyre, crime consultant, born November 2 1951; died June 20 2008