A man on trial for the murder of two French students in south London today admitted tying one of them up before they were repeatedly stabbed.Dano Sonnex, who had denied entering the flat where the men were killed, told the Old Bailey that he was ordered to apprehend one of the students by his co-defendant, Nigel Farmer, during a burglary last June.Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, both 23, were stabbed 244 times in what prosecutors described as an "orgy of bloodletting" at Bonomo's bedsit in New Cross before the property was set alight.Sonnex said he tied up Ferez with a pair of tights while Farmer seized Bonomo.Both men deny murder, false imprisonment and arson.Sonnex, of Peckham, admits a single count of burglary, which Farmer, 34, of no fixed address, denies.Taking the stand today, Sonnex, 23, said he had decided to "tell the truth" in the light of Farmer's evidence against him.He said he and Farmer had been drinking and using marijuana, cocaine and ecstasy in the evening before the murders.They were also selling cocaine but were robbed and Farmer wanted to burgle a house to get the money back.Sonnex said he and Farmer had carried out several other burglaries together, but that he had always acted as the look-out. This time, the pair found a window open at Bonomo's bedsit. Farmer went in while he waited outside, said Sonnex. He heard noises inside and Farmer called him to come in. "He said 'D, D, come in and give me a hand, I need a hand.' I went in the window," Sonnex told the court.His barrister, Philip Misner, asked why it was the first time he had admitted being in the flat.Sonnex replied: "I just thought the jury wouldn't believe that I didn't kill these people."He said he walked through the flat and saw Ferez sitting on a futon "talking French very, very loudly". Farmer was holding Bonomo on the bed, he said. "He had his hand around his neck, pushing his head on the pillow of the bed, aggressively saying, 'stay down, stay down'."Sonnex said Farmer ordered him to "grab that one", which he did."I grabbed him [Ferez] by his neck and he complied. He was struggling but he wasn't fighting back."He told the court that Farmer tied up Bonomo and ordered him to bind Ferez by the feet and ankles, which he did, using a pair of tights.Sonnex said of Bonomo: "He could speak slight English. He said something about his girlfriend, I know that for sure."My friend said 'just keep on thinking about your girlfriend, keep on thinking about your girlfriend'."Sonnex said they searched the property and Farmer found PSP games consoles and mobile phones, which he passed to him, as well as Bonomo's credit card.He said he asked the student for his pin and he was "very compliant".The court heard that Sonnex had been jailed for wounding with intent and robbery in 2003 and released on licence in February last year.In April he was arrested for handling stolen goods and had his licence revoked.Sonnex said he was back in custody for "four or five weeks tops".He said he took part in a burglary at Bonomo's address six days before the murders with the "friend" in which a laptop was stolen.Sonnex also said it was Farmer who had tried to burgle the home of an EastEnders actor a short time before the murders. Farmer has made the same allegation about Sonnex.The case continues.