The naming and shaming of "yobs" as young as 10 who are made the subject of antisocial behaviour orders will be the norm, the home secretary, Charles Clarke, announced yesterday.Home Office guidance to local councils, police and prosecutors will make clear that youths given Asbos should have their names and photographs published.The decision was announced as official figures showed that nearly 4,000 Asbos had been issued since they were introduced in April 1999 and that they were becoming increasingly popular with the courts. But the Home Office research published yesterday also showed that the numbers breaching their Asbo conditions has risen from 36% in the three months to December 2002 to 42% in the three months to December 2003. Mr Clarke, speaking in Brighton, said tackling antisocial behaviour was a major priority for the government. "We know that too many communities are still blighted by the mindless behaviour of a few yobs, who can ruin the quality of life for everyone. Many offenders think they are untouchable and above the law. If they thought there would be a news blackout on their actions, they must now think again." He said publicising the names and photographs of juveniles subject to Asbos had been tested in the courts. "Your photo could be all over the local media, your local community will know who you are, and breaching an Asbo could land you in prison," said Mr Clarke. The clarification of the legal position followed complaints from civil liberties groups that identifying juveniles could lead to vigilante action. But the high court ruled in October that it was not a breach of human rights to name three teenagers in official leaflets as being part of a gang that "terrorised" part of north-west London. The decision led to protests from probation officers yesterday. Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation union, said: "There is absolutely no evidence that humiliating young people through naming and shaming and adverse publicity has any impact on crime, or has any deterrence effect. Indeed, it could actually increase defiance and antisocial acts."