Health officials are set to question the former practice manager of Dr Harold Shipman - jailed for life last week for killing 15 elderly patients - over allegations that he lied about his background in order to get his job.John Gilmore, 47, had been dismissed from a previous NHS position for gross misconduct. Gilmore was employed jointly by Shipman and four other doctors from single-handed surgeries in the Hyde area to manage their funds. He was interviewed in the presence of a West Pennine Health Authority official.The authority's chief executive, David Common, said Gilmore did not reveal his past misdemeamours which had only come to his attention last week. 'The consortium of GPs was in fact employing Mr Gilmore independently of the authority. But if anything is brought to our attention with regard to an individual we would naturally bring it to the attention of the GPs,' said Common. He added that someone who had been sacked for gross misconduct would be unlikely to secure job within his authority. From 1994 to March 1999, Gilmore was responsible for the GPs' drug budgets, becoming a close personal friend of the Shipmans, staying at the family home at times, even after the arrest. He will now be questioned by the local medical committee where he works as a part-time administrator. The Hyde LMC secretary, Dr Kalash Chand, said: 'We were not aware Mr Gilmore had been sacked for gross misconduct and are very concerned. His explanation of why he left that job seems to have been economical with the truth. We will be having a meeting with him on Monday.' Doctors at Shipman's practice were first alerted to his crimes by the unusually high number of cremations among patients he was trating. 'At the start of 1998, Shipman was coming in to our surgery and asking us to countersign more cremation certificates than ever before,' says Dr Raj Patel, one of the doctors responsible for sparking the first police investigation. 'We worked out that his rate of death for elderly patients was three times our own. We reported this to the coroner and the police and almost immediately the deaths stopped. 'We are certain that he found out he was being looked into and changed his behaviour accordingly.' Shipman had killed more than 20 patients in the first three months of the year before the investigation had begun. Only during the trial was it revealed that Shipman altered notes on previous victims in early 1998, to fit cause of death. Dr Alan Banks from the West Pennine Health Authority was asked by poice to examine the files of 14 of Shipman's patients. His comment was that they were not as detailed as they should have been. In the next four months, he would kill just three more. Sources close to the investi gation believe that the final three deaths may have been an attempt by Shipman to 'keep up appearances' rather than rouse suspicion by ending his killing spree completely. Greater Manchester Police, who are examining the deaths of 171 of Shipman's patients, are believed to be pursuing several other lines of inquiry including a hunt for the person responsible for the tip off. If it is found that Shipman was deliberately alerted about the investigation, the mole would face a charge of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Shipman was phenomenally well connected in the Hyde community and the source of the leak could have come from many avenues. Although the cost of Shipman's murder trial was met by the legal aid board, the bill for the year-long run up was met entirely by the Medical Defence Union. Last year the union spent £65 million defending and settling claims against doctors. It supports the cases of 9 out of 10 doctors accused of wrongdoing. The union was first alerted in February 1998 by Dr Patel, his colleague, Dr Linda Reynolds, and the local undertaker, Deborah Bambroffe, who had noticed that a large number of Shipman's patients did not appear to have been ill when they died. The union urged extreme caution but the trio decided to inform the local coroner of their suspicions. He in turn called the police. Both Reynolds and the coroner stressed that the inquiry should be kept 'confidential and discreet'. The chief executive of the Lincolnshire Heath Authority, Richard Jevins, told The Observer : 'I understand we have never been approached by a new employer of Mr Gilmore's for references. Certainly I would have expected any health authority recruiting anyone to seek references.' Three years after his sacking Gilmore charged the LHA with unfair dismissal and his claim was settled out of court.  tracy.mcveigh@observer.co.uk   tony.thompson@observer.co.uk 