The German man who murdered a student after becoming obsessed with his girlfriend on the internet may have failed to distinguish between the virtual world and reality, an academic said today.David Heiss, 21, stabbed Matthew Pyke 86 times in a savage attack after he became infatuated with his girlfriend, Joanna Witton.The German office worker struck up a friendship with the 21-year-old on the war games website she ran with her boyfriend. He then started trawling through her online diary and Facebook pages, eyeing photographs of the redhead he professed to love.  Joanna Witton, girlfriend of the student Matthew Pyke, who was murdered by David Heiss. Photograph: Rui Viera/PAForensic psychologist Prof Kevin Browne, of the University of Nottingham, said Heiss may have been shunned in the past, painting a picture of a man who had been rejected by his parents or previous girlfriends.Heiss lived with his grandmother in Limburg, near Frankfurt, and hardly ever saw his parents. None of his family attended his trial to support him.Browne said: "The underlying cause of this person's insane jealousy will be a fear of abandonment, having been rejected by either his parents or girlfriends."This poor girl (Witton) may have formed a relationship with him in the virtual world and then he has turned it into reality by stalking her and becoming insanely jealous. It's a very sad situation that they didn't predict."He added: "In any case he would find it difficult to develop relationships in the real world but, if he had done, he would still be insanely jealous."It seems that his relationship in a virtual world has spilled over into the real world."The problem with the virtual world is that people will take risks that they wouldn't do in the real world. People say things in jest at a distance that they wouldn't say in the real world."It's like being in a car. When people are in their cars they are more likely to swear at someone than if they were standing next to them because the car offers them protection."People may be more flirtatious in the virtual world than they would be in the real world. People get confused between reality and the virtual world. They want to turn their fantasies into reality and it is dangerous. But it is only a very small minority we are talking about."Witton went under the name JoJo, while Pyke, 20, called himself Shade.They, along with Heiss, whose nickname was Eagle the Lightning, would spend up to eight hours a day on warscentral.com, where they exchanged tips and strategies for the Nintendo game Advanced Wars.It was here that Heiss first came across Witton in 2007, before he started bombarding her with messages and emails declaring his love for her. But when she rejected him, and then blocked him from the website, his desires took a sinister turn.Shaun Smith QC, prosecuting, said that often, for those who used the computer chat forums and websites, online relationships were just as important as real-life friendships.He told the jury: "For a number of people that you will hear from, they live their lives through the internet."They sometimes consider it more real than a normal existence that you or I might expect. They use networking sites and develop friendships and relationships, because they might have anonymity."Browne believes such sites can offer those who find it difficult to adapt socially in real life a secure way of interacting with other people.He said: "Where people have a virtual world, they do use it to a certain extent for entertainment but to another extent for comfort."During his evidence, Heiss also said he was jealous of university students for having the chance to study, a chance he says he was denied. He told the jury that, despite having the equivalent of five A-levels in German, biology, Catholic religion, politics and economics, he did not have the finances to study at university.