By day Steve Wright worked as a forklift truck driver in a number of industrial estates around Ipswich. By night, a jury was told yesterday, he would do one of two things. If his partner, Pamela, was on a day off from her nightshift at a call centre he would spend the evening with her. If she was at work, things were different."It is the prosecution case," Ipswich crown court was told, "that whilst Miss Wright was at work and engaged on the nightshift the defendant was engaged on other activities, namely picking up prostitutes in the red-light district of Ipswich and, in the case of [the victims], killing them."Wright, who is 49, is accused of killing five women - Tania Nicol, Gemma Adams, Anneli Alderton, Annette Nicholls and Paula Clennell - between October and December in 2006. All of the women were working as prostitutes at the time they died. He denies the charges, but yesterday the prosecuting QC, Peter Wright, outlining the crown's case against him, said the defendant had conducted "a deliberate campaign of murder".The defendantOn December 1, after two women had disappeared from the Ipswich area but before any bodies had been found, Steve Wright was driving his car slowly through the town's red light district when he was stopped and questioned by police. He did not know he was in an area used by prostitutes, he told them, he had just gone for a drive. This was, said the prosecution yesterday, "palpably untrue". Wright was a "frequenter of prostitutes", said the QC, and had moved - only weeks before Gemma Adams disappeared - to the heart of the red light district.Wright had also moved workplaces between the first two and last three murders, from a location west of the town to an industrial park near his home in central Ipswich. The QC suggested that might be significant, as might the fact that his partner, Pamela, with whom he shared his rented apartment in the red light district, worked to the east of the town, in the same direction as Nacton and Levington, where the last three bodies were found. Equally significantly, he said, Pamela Wright worked night shifts, and her partner worked during the day. He would take her to work each evening, then she would get the bus home, leaving him to prowl for prostitutes, the QC said.The victimsThough the first of the bodies were found in a stream, and the further three in woodland, there were significant similarities between all five, the prosecutor said. All were naked when discovered, and they had taken opiates shortly before they died; all were abandoned in semi-rural locations. That, said the QC, was no coincidence, nor was the fact that in each case "there were no obvious signs of gratuitous violence, no significant injuries, no defence wounds or signs of sexual assault". Each of the women, he said, had hyper-inflated lungs, showing that they had died "fighting for breath", suffering smothering or manual compression of the neck.But things were not the same in every regard. In the case of Anneli Alderton and Annette Nicholls the bodies had been posed in a cruciform formation; they were found lying on their backs with their arms outstretched to their sides. Their hair had also been arranged on the ground.Tania Nicol, 19Tania was last seen on the evening of Monday October 30, at about 11pm, as she was working her normal pitch. CCTV images were shown to the court of a lone female going to the side of a car, which an expert witness has determined was a dark coloured Mark III Ford Mondeo, the same model as that owned by Wright. Her mobile phone disappeared from detection at 11.42pm. Five and a half weeks passed between Nicol's disappearance and the discovery of her body, on December 8, trapped in debris in Belstead brook, south-west of Ipswich. A pathologist was unable to ascertain the exact cause of death, but the state of her lungs suggested asphyxiation, the prosecution said, while damage to the thyroid cartilage was consistent with it having been squeezed.The pathologist could not rule out that Nicol had been alive when she was dumped in the river, the prosecutor said, but he believed that this was very shortly after her disappearance.It emerged yesterday that her body could have been spotted even before the second victim disappeared. On November 8, the QC said, just over a week after Nicol went missing, a student, Rushanna Quddus, was travelling by bus and, as it crossed Belstead brook, snatched a glimpse of what she believed to be a naked body. She did not report her sighting until almost a month later.Gemma Adams, 25The first body to be found, on December 2, was that of Gemma. It was found further upstream in the same brook. She had been prescribed methadone, and picked up her 'script daily from a pharmacist in the town. She last did so on November 14, two weeks after Nicol vanished. The following morning her phone received a text message at 58 minutes past midnight; shortly afterwards the phone disappeared from detection.A man told police he had picked up a woman around that time whom he believed to be Adams. They had had sex, and then he had dropped her off at 12.45am. When he drove past she was nowhere to be seen.A water bailiff found Adams's body as high water subsided in the brook. It was trapped in a river bend. Adams was also naked, also with hyper-inflated lungs "consistent with a woman fighting for her breath". The pathologist believed that she too had probably died very shortly after she disappeared.Anneli Alderton, 24After a break in the murders, of almost three weeks, Sunday December 3 marked the day Anneli was last seen; CCTV footage of her taking a train that evening was shown to the court. The previous evening she had told a concerned police officer that she was still working on the streets because she wanted to earn money for Christmas presents for her son.The following day Alderton had an appointment with her probation officer. She had never previously failed to attend, but did not show up.The body of Alderton, who was a few months pregnant, was discovered exactly a week later in woodland south-east of Ipswich, close to the A14 and the village of Nacton. Three days earlier a passing motorist had seen in the woodland what he had mistakenly decided was a mannequin. Alderton had been posed in a cruciform formation, with her arms outstretched. The QC said he would not show jurors photographs of her body, which was badly decomposed.As in the case of the first two murders, the QC said, the location of the body showed a degree of local knowledge on the part of the killer or killers. "It was relatively isolated yet readily accessible. They, we say, had chosen well." Steve Wright, he said, had, until three months earlier, worked in an office just 200 metres from where Alderton's body was found.Annette Nicholls, 29Annette was last seen in the afternoon of December 8. Her body was found four days later in woodland close to that of Alderton. She was lying, also posed in a cruciform, very close to the road. There had been little apparent effort to conceal her.Police called in an entomologist to estimate how long her body had lain undiscovered, the court heard. Based on the number of flies found on the corpse, they believed it had been there for three or four days. The crown believed the body had been abandoned before Alderton's body was found.Nicholls also had hyper-inflated lungs and bruising, but significantly, the QC told the jury, there was no evidence of drag or scratch marks on her body, suggesting her body had not been dragged through undergrowth. There was, however, a scratch on her face which could have shed blood "which may be highly significant".Paula Clennell, 24Paula's body was discovered some hours before the finding of Nicholls, on December 12, though she had not disappeared until two days after her, on December 10. She had died, the court heard, as a result of compression of her neck, consistent with being strangled in a headlock, though she had also taken a significant dose of opiates. Clennell's body was not posed, but appeared to have been "hurriedly dumped", a few hundred metres away from that of Nicholls.Clennell was the only victim to show evidence of a struggle, showing some bruising round her neck and bloody fluid coming out of her mouth. There were also drag marks on her body. She had, in all likelihood, been killed and dumped after a police cordon was installed in the area. The circumstances, said the QC, fitted "with someone being disturbed or startled by a police presence or cordon and hurriedly disposing of the body".The possible accompliceIt was suggested on a number of occasions that, according to the prosecution case, Wright may not necessarily have acted alone. This possibility might be suggested, the QC said, by the lack of drag or snag marks on the naked bodies of Alderton and Nicholls, despite the dense vegetation in which they were found."Of course, one possible explanation for this, we say, is that her naked body may have been carried by more than one individual, or was wrapped in something. Alternatively it may have been carried by someone of sufficient strength and stature to be able to carry her unaided."On the evening of December 8, shortly after Nicholls disappeared, a woman on a bus passing along the road, where the victim's body would be found, saw a dark Ford Mondeo parked awkwardly by the side of the road. Its lights were off.About 300 metres further on a second car, she thought to be a Renault Clio, was parked, with an interior light illuminated. The vehicles were not far from the spot at which Nicholls's body was found, the court was told."The similarities in respect of the deaths of each of these women, together with the close relationship in time and location between their disappearance, their death, the discovery of their bodies and the sites at which they were abandoned ... points to each of these murders having been committed by the same man," the prosecutor argued.Either alone or with another or others, that man was the defendant, Steve Wright, said the QC.The case continues.The evidence 'Picture points inexorably to defendant'It was following the discovery of Anneli Alderton's body, said the prosecutor, that "a picture was beginning to emerge which pointed inexorably towards the defendant being responsible".Most compelling, he said, of the evidence the jurors would be given was DNA from bodies of three of the women: Alderton, Annette Nicholls, and Paula Clennell. The possibility of this DNA belonging to anyone other than Steve Wright was a billion to one against, he said.The jurors would be told of fibres discovered on the women's bodies matching samples from Wright's car, home and clothing.The court was shown CCTV footage which, the prosecution alleged, was of a dark Ford Mondeo Mark III driven in circuits around the red light district of Ipswich on the evening of October 30, the night Tania Nicol was last seen."It is the prosecution case that the [driver of the car] ... was the defendant, and you may conclude on the evidence you hear that he was cruising the red light district a short distance from his home in order to pick up not merely a prostitute for sex but a suitable victim."A camera with number-plate recognition snapped Wright's car at 1.39am that night, driving out of Ipswich in a south-westerly direction. "Why was he out in the early hours of that morning, at 1.30am? It certainly appears unusual; unless, of course, the vehicle contained the body of Tania and he was anxious to dispose of it."Similarly, on December 3, the night on which Alderton was last seen, CCTV captured a car driving around the red light district at 11.18pm. A distinctive air freshener and the tax disc position were the same as in Wright's car, the prosecution said.Later that evening, at 1.41am, the car was again captured driving out of the town in the direction of the A14.There was also, said the QC, "another interesting coincidence": in between the disappearance of Nicol and the disappearance of Gemma Adams, his partner, Pamela Wright, had had an unusual amount of time off work, working only one night in the interim. By December 1, the night he was stopped by police, Pamela Wright was back at work. Two days later, on December 3, she was also working."It is the prosecution case that the defendant did not remain at home while his partner worked. On the contrary, we suggest he had gone out looking for another suitable victim." In this case, he said, it was Alderton.