William Hague yesterday came under fire for the second time within days after stepping up his attack on the "liberal elite" and attempting to link Labour's "politically correct" race policies to declining police morale.Divisions among Conservatives were starkly illustrated when a senior shadow cabinet colleague spoke of "poison" being spread within the party which was inflicting "grave damage".Despite a weekend of bitter name-calling, the Tory leader renewed his attack on the "sloppy thinking, cosy assumptions and political correctness" of the liberal establishment, and rejected claims that he had "played the race card" as "truly disgusting and disgraceful". He did so in an article which not only tied the fallout from the 1994 murder of Stephen Lawrence to Labour policies, but explicitly linked last month's murder of Damilola Taylor in Peckham to the shortage of beat constables. Writing in the Sunday Telegraph, he did not blame Jack Straw for the 10-year-old Nigerian's murder. He simply asked where the home secretary, who visited the Peckham estate, had been "when the regular foot patrols were being scaled down because of shortages?" However, the newspaper emblazoned the link across its front page. Bill Morris, the transport union leader, accused Mr Hague of inflaming racial tensions, likening his stance to Enoch Powell's "rivers of blood" speech in 1968. Racists would interpret Mr Hague's views as "permission to attack young black people", Mr Morris added. The Tory vice-chairman, Steve Norris, who has been outspoken in support of racial and sexual inclusivity, signalled dismay. And the former Conservative prime minister Sir Edward Heath, who sacked Powell from his shadow cabinet after the 1968 row, suggested Mr Hague had got into "a muddle", adding he should "make it absolutely plain where he does stand on all this". Efforts by senior Conservatives to present a united front on social issues were undermined when the shadow foreign secretary, Francis Maude, when asked whether there was an internal party split between a dominant hard right and centrists seeking a more inclusive approach, talked of a small minority spreading "poison". Mr Maude said: "I have no idea where it is coming from, but whoever is doing it is inflicting grave damage on the party. I actually find it breathtaking that some people apparently think that it is appropriate or helpful to spread poison in this way... "If a small minority, wherever they may be, are indulging in wrecking tactics of a really self-indulgent and stupid form then they will pay a penalty for it." Talk of poison and the row over Mr Hague's stance on race stem from Tory fears that, four years after John Major's meltdown, they are heading for another election disaster. Mr Hague would not be deflected from criticising the 1999 Macpherson report into the Lawrence affair for "going too far" in charging the Metropolitan police with institutional racism, added Mr Maude. "Obviously there is no question about William or any of the rest of us being racist," said Mr Maude. "But we do have to say things as we see them, and if we see that the pendulum swung after the Macpherson report too far, much too far... then it is our duty to say so and we are not going to be frightened off doing so because of this kind of intemperate attack on us." Ann Widdecombe, the shadow home secretary, also rallied to Mr Hague's defence, calling the race card accusations "utter nonsense". The pair spoke from a position of near-desperation for a leadership which needs to cut Labour's 179-seat majority in 1997 back to below 100 if the opposition - and Mr Hague - are to be in with a chance next time. Thursday's Gallup poll for the Daily Telegraph confirmed that the Tories have slipped back to 15 points behind Labour and back to where they were before the September fuel blockades briefly put them in front for the first time in eight years. That plight is enough to explain Mr Hague's reversion to law and order populism among Labour ministers and officials. Clare Short, the development secretary, told ITV's Jonathan Dimbleby: "It's very sad but I have no absolutely no doubt that this is calculated by William Hague to play the race card. Sadly, he's obviously decided to play the race card to help him win his election and I think it is a very sad day for the country." Aides to Mr Portillo denied reports that the shadow chancellor privately called Thursday's keynote speech on law and order "a disgrace". But the statement they issued on his behalf was carefully enough worded to suggest ill-ease. Whatever their views on Mr Hague's tactics, Tory MPs are alarmed that fighting of the kind that hamstrung John Major's leadership is again breaking out as the expected May election looms.