We are always looking for people to come forward and we want to be using these witnesses more. The system today is more robust and accountable. The debriefing of these witnesses whom we call "assisting offenders" is recorded and there are numerous documentary records of the process from the start to the finish in a process which is agreed with the Crown Prosecution Service.Since the regulations were changed in 2006, we have used a number of these witnesses; I won't say how many but the numbers are in double figures. We get far more referrals from people who want to become assisting offenders than are approved. The vast majority are rejected. It [the system] gives us a huge angle into organised crime, it gives us access to information and evidence we would not otherwise get.For us it is all about taking out criminal networks and getting into hard-to-reach communities. The evidence that we get is fantastically useful, particularly in inner-city areas where we have problems with guns, gangs and a lack of evidence; it is these Trident-type cases where this is an attractive option.You tell a 16 or 17-year-old that he is going to spend the next 30 years in prison and most of them don't want to. The benefits to the individual are such that they do come forward. They will always get some kind of reduction [in sentence], the guidelines are somewhere between a half and two-thirds reduction depending on the level of assistance. Someone who gives us intelligence won't get the same level of discount as someone who stands in the box and gives evidence at a number of trials. Assisting offenders come from all walks of life.Many want to begin a new, honest life. Cleansing their past is the old phrase, and they go on to give us evidence as a witness of truth.We never know why a jury finds someone not guilty. If a witness ... is discredited and found to be lying, a senior Crown prosecutor can revoke the agreement and bring them back before a judge for their original sentence to be reimposed.Detective Inspector Tony Moore is head of the "assisting offenders" unit at Scotland Yard