Hans Kristian Rausing, one of the heirs to the multibillion-pound Tetra Pak packaging dynasty, has appeared in court charged with preventing the lawful and decent burial of his wife, Eva, whose body is said to have been found beneath several layers of clothing and binbags at their opulent west London home.Dressed in a pale blue shirt and no tie, with a navy jacket and a trimmed beard, Rausing appeared thoughtful and frail at West London magistrates court as he spoke only to confirm his date of birth and address.Represented by Alexander Cameron QC, the prime minister's brother, Rausing, 49, was granted bail on condition that he stay at a private psychiatric hospital in north-west London and does not leave it without being accompanied by a member of staff.It has been reported that police discovered the decomposing body of Eva Rausing, 48, one of Britain's richest women, in a bedroom at the couple's luxury home in Belgravia last Monday. They had earlier arrested her husband on suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. It is not known how long the body had been there for.Police are treating her death as unexplained. A postmortem last week failed to establish a cause, while an inquest was opened and adjourned at Westminster coroner's court on Friday.In a statement released after their son's court appearance, the Rausing dynasty expressed their continuing support for their son. "Hans and Marit Rausing and their families are mourning the death of their son's beloved wife, Eva," it said."Her death, and the details of subsequent events, are a reminder of the distorted reality of drug addiction. They desperately hope that their dear son, Hans, may find the strength to begin the long and hard journey of detoxification and rehabilitation. They ask now for some privacy to grieve."District judge James Henderson told Rausing: "I grant you bail on two conditions. The first is that you must reside at the Capio Nightingale Hospital and that you live there and sleep there overnight, and you do not leave that hospital unless you are accompanied by a member of hospital staff."The multimillionaire , who brought with him into court a copy of the guide to 1950s visual culture As Seen on TV and spoke in a slight Swedish accent, nodded in agreement. He was ordered to appear at Isleworth crown court on 26 July.Unlike offences against the person – such as murder or manslaughter – the offence of preventing the lawful and decent burial of a body is intended to deal with the situation where there was no foul play on the part of the defendant. It is an offence concerned with the aftermath of fatal accidents.