   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Detectives searching for the killer of the landscape architect Joanna Yeates are investigating a report that three people were seen leaving her home on the night she vanished.The landlord of the ground-floor Bristol flat where Yeates lived has told officers he saw three people apparently leaving her home on foot.Chris Jefferies, 65, is said to have spotted the three shortly after 9pm on Friday 17 December, about 15 minutes after Yeates is thought to have arrived at her home in the affluent Clifton area.Avon and Somerset police confirmed it was investigating the sighting but said it was just one line of inquiry.The Crimestoppers charity has put up a reward of £10,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of Yeates's killer, and police revealed new CCTV footage of her last known movements.  Chris Jefferies, landlord of Joanna Yeates. Photograph: Tim Ireland/PAJefferies said he was not certain if one of the three people was Yeates. Speaking outside his home, he denied earlier reports that he told police he saw Yeates leaving with two unidentified people. "It is a serious distortion of what I said to the police," he said.Earlier, he told Sky News: "I made some comment which was very, very, very much vaguer than that. Anything that I have said I have said to the police and I'm not prepared to make any comments to the media."Jefferies said he was not sure that Yeates was one of the three people he saw: "I definitely cannot say that I saw Joanna Yeates that evening."Another resident of the block where Yeates lived said he had been told Jefferies saw the three people as he parked his car.Geoffrey Hardyman, 78, who lives in the top-floor flat, said: "He saw people coming out after dark as he was parking his car. I don't think he was really paying any attention but just assumed they were from Joanna's flat. He didn't know if they were male or female."Everyone has been shocked and saddened by what has happened. But I don't think there's any particular fear in the building."Yeates left the Ram pub in Bristol, where she had been drinking with work colleagues, at 8pm on 17 December. She bought cider at an off licence and then picked up a pizza at a Tesco supermarket close to her home. She left the store at 8.40pm and is believed to have arrived at her flat in Canynge Road five minutes later.She was reported missing on Sunday 19 December when her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returned from a weekend away. The receipt for the pizza was found at the flat the couple shared, along with the coat she had been wearing, her keys, purse and bank cards. There was no sign of a struggle or break-in.A huge police search was launched. Her clothed body was found by dog-walkers on a roadside verge at Failand, three miles from her flat, on Christmas morning.Police said she was strangled and they believed the body had lain where it was found for several days. They have asked to hear from anybody who saw suspicious activity in the Failand area between Friday 17 December and Sunday 19 December.Detectives have also asked people who saw or heard anything suspicious in Canynge Road on the Friday night to come forward. They have viewed private CCTV footage from the road that shows it was busy with cars and people on the night Yeates disappeared.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Jones, who is leading the investigation, said police were following a number of lines of inquiry. "One of these concerns apparent reports that several people were seen or heard in or around Joanna's flat on the night of her disappearance. Clearly this is something we are following up."As I stated at the media conference yesterday, we know that there were a number of people in the Canynge Road area on the night of Joanna's disappearance. We want to hear from any of these people or anyone else with information that can help the inquiry."Apparently responding to a suggestion from Yeates's father, David, that police knew more than they were letting on, Jones said: "We have, of course, been keeping in contact with Joanna's family and keeping them informed of our progress."Late last night, I received a message from Mr Yeates in which he stated he and his family had 'total confidence'. Indeed, Mr Yeates said: 'We truly believe that you will identify the person who killed our daughter.' I am, of course, grateful to have the support of the family."The latest CCTV footage shows Yeates walking into the Bargain Booze convenience store and post office in Clifton, where she bought cider.She allows the door to swing closed behind her and heads towards the back of the store. She appears to be smiling and is clutching an object, possibly a purse, in her right hand. She is wearing a light-coloured coat that was found in her flat.In a second clip she is at the till paying for her cider and again seems animated and cheerful. Two other pieces of footage have already been released. The first shows her in a Waitrose supermarket and in the second she is paying for a pizza in a Tesco shop. The trip to Bargain Booze took place between the two supermarket visits.Forensic searches of Yeates's home and the spot where her body was found are continuing. The blue front door of her flat has been removed and taken away for examination.Jones has previously said that detectives are investigating the possibility there was a sexual motive or that Yeates knew her killer. He has also said that Reardon is being treated as a witness and not as a suspect.