Altaf is doing time at Birmingham's Winson Green Prison, which as the first port of call for newly convicted prisoners is acknowledged to be high risk for self-harm and suicide among its intake. Altaf is also a listener; one of a team of prisoners trained by the Samaritans to help alleviate the feelings of intense distress and disorientation often encountered by fellow prisoners during their time inside. "Becoming a listener was mainly to do with how I felt when I first came into prison," he explains. "You don't know what's going to happen to you, and you need someone to talk to. In a prison environment, you can't trust anyone, at least initially. "I've been doing it for 20 months now, and originally I thought it was just about stopping people from killing themselves but I know now that it's also about listening to people's concerns whatever they are, and offering them different angles to look at things from."Suicide is the most extreme expression of inmates' mental and emotional distress and the number of self-inflicted deaths in custody increased alarmingly last year to 95, the highest figure for five years. Styal Women's Prison in Cheshire is conspicuous for having suffered six suicides in a 13-month period up to August 2003.The Samaritan's listening scheme was set up in 1991 in response to the suicide of a 15-year-old boy held on remand at HMP Swansea. Any prisoner from any category can apply to become a listener, and there are now 1,500 trained listeners in 153 prisons across the UK, operating a 24-hour, on-call rota. The Samaritans insists that the principle of confidentiality must apply to the prisons scheme, which Ruth Acty, the Samaritan's prison support coordinator in the West Midlands, acknowledges has caused problems in introducing the concept to staff. "When you talk to enlightened governors and prison officers, they understand that the purpose of listeners is to be a complementary service," she says. "But that understanding wasn't always there, and it's been difficult at times to get staff to see that listeners aren't there to carry secrets, to provide tobacco or drugs or the loan of a phone card. "But across the UK, the relationships between the Samaritans, listeners and prison officers have really firmed up now - it's more of a partnership." Trusting relationships are the key to keeping that partnership working, explains Winson Green's governor in charge of operations, Tony Price. "Through the efforts of listeners, the staff here have seen the difference - I guess we tend to look at everything with the utmost suspicion, but if you can step away from that as we have all been making efforts to do as a team, you start to see dividends. It has enriched the life of the prison."The ability to put one's own prejudices aside and listen non-judgementally is a vital quality that is looked for in volunteers, and is particularly crucial in a prison environment, where, as Ms Acty points out, a listener may have to work with someone who has abused their own children. This type of scenario is put to recruits in training sessions, and all listeners are subsequently offered structured ongoing support to offload their own concerns to local Samaritans volunteers. Quite apart from the time and understanding listeners can provide to fellow prisoners, the scheme offers individual listeners the chance to develop personal potential they may never have realised they possessed. "Especially the young offenders who've never had anything of value in their lives at all - when they find they really can do this, that they have a valuable skill, there's such an incredible feeling of self worth" Ms Acty notes. "Prisoners who may have poor literacy skills and haven't felt capable in their previous lives aren't precluded from being a Listener either. It's not academic and it can really surprise those people to find out that they can be excellent at the job."It can be dreadful when you see a man sobbing in front of you saying that he can't bear another day but the buzz that listeners get is that they can spend time with a prisoner in what we call a care suite, even all night if someone is really distressed, and a week later, they see that guy mopping the landing and he's still here."The transformative effects of being valued in an unforgiving environment are underlined by Altaf: "I can tell you categorically, I've been told by people that talking to me as a listener has stopped them from committing suicide. "The things you're taught, you'll keep for life. I'm a different person now, I can see things from different points of view - it's changed me, definitely, and it's changed the way I am with people. It's not something you do for any type of gain except for helping people, and it needs a dedication that's rarely seen inside."