A man was stabbed in the chest at last night's Carling Cup match when brawling broke out between rival fans.There were running fights involving hundreds of people before and after the match between West Ham and Millwall at Upton Park. The game was held up when home supporters invaded the pitch after West Ham took the lead in extra time.The stabbed man and two others were taken to hospital. At least 10 people were arrested. Police and football club officials are scanning CCTV footage to identify others involved.The 44-year-old man was stabbed in Priory Road, a few yards from West Ham's ground, before the game. He was said by police to be in a stable condition last night. The other two were last night being treated in hospital for injuries that were not life-threatening. One of them was found in Rancliffe Road with head injuries, while another was taken to hospital after an alleged assault at a pub in Green Street.Onlookers described how bricks and bottles were lobbed as hundreds of supporters rioted.Inside the ground fans fought with police and stewards and play was suspended when scores of supporters invaded the pitch.A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said: "We will be reviewing all the events, looking at CCTV both inside and outside the ground to identify offences and offenders."The Football Association said it would investigate and anyone involved would be banned from football for life.A spokesman said: "We absolutely condemn all of the disorder that has occurred at Upton Park both inside and outside of the ground."We will be working with all parties, including the police and clubs, to establish the facts surrounding (last night's) events."We strongly expect all culprits to be banned from football for life. They have no place in our game."The West Ham boss Gianfranco Zola said the scenes were unlike anything he had seen. "I've been involved in difficult games and things happened. Here, I've played seven years and I've never seen it like this."It's certainly not good for football. I was completely shocked. Totally."I knew it was a game that meant a lot for the two sets of supporters, but I didn't imagine it like this."The Millwall boss Kenny Jackett said: "I wasn't aware of the stabbing outside the ground. I'm very sad to hear that."We've got a passionate game in this country, but when it oversteps the mark then things have to be done."The fighting started shortly after 6pm as thousands of fans made their way to the ground. One West Ham fan who went to the match said the District Line underground train from Barking stopped just before Upton Park at 7.20pm and did not move for about 15 minutes. "Tempers flared on board as kick-off approached, people tried breaking open the doors," he said. "The atmosphere was tense in surrounding streets, the police helicopter was up and riot police were everywhere."The fan said he saw about 30 police with shields and batons "storm" towards the nearby Boleyn pub.A 29-year-old man who runs a kebab shop in Green Street said: "All hell broke loose, it was very frightening. It's not every day you see stuff like that."