After pleading guilty to an offence under the Offences Against the Person Act in July, Sarah Catt was on Monday sentenced to eight years in prison by Mr Justice Cooke. Catt self-induced an abortion at about week 39 of her pregnancy, using drugs she bought over the internet. The remains of the foetus have not been found.Eight years for any offence is a hefty sentence. Eight years when the judge expressly declares he is giving a full one-third credit for early plea (so the sentence would otherwise be 12 years) makes it particularly so, even for an offence that carries a maximum of life.It is difficult to fully weigh up a sentence where there is little guidance – thankfully, this is a rare offence, so previous decisions are scarce. Written sentencing remarks are becoming more common, and can often be helpful in terms of illuminating the thought process and motivation of the judge when deciding punishment.The sentencing remarks in this case are in full here. Paragraph 15 mentions the Abortion Act. The judge says: "There is no mitigation available by reference to the Abortion Act, whatever view one takes of its provisions which are, wrongly, liberally construed in practice so as to make abortion available essentially on demand prior to 24 weeks with the approval of registered medical practitioners."Of course, interpreting the precise meaning of a person's words is never easy. However, one reading of that passage suggests that the judge considers we as a society are wrong in giving the Abortion Act a liberal construct to allow as many women as possible abortions under its terms.Considering the offence he is sentencing, the remarks are cause for concern. One starts to wonder if there are motivations involved that ought have no place in the sentencing of any person.When one starts looking into the background of the judge, it transpires that he was appointed vice-president of the Lawyers' Christian Fellowship in 2003, and remains in post today.The Lawyers' Christian Fellowship (LCF) is an organisation that, alongside other activities, lobbies government on issues such as abortion and gay rights. Andrea Minichiello Williams is a past director of public policy of the LCF. While in post, Williams described the human fertilisation bill as the "work of the devil", and made no secret of the fact she believed (and presumably still does) that abortion ought to be illegal. The LCF has been involved in campaigning for changes to abortion law via the human fertilisation and embryology bill.On any level, the offence committed by Sarah Catt can only be described as serious. However, her history of late-stage abortion, adoption and of live births from pregnancies kept secret until as late as possible, are suggestive of someone with – an understatement, this – some issues around pregnancy. Although there was a psychiatric report which didn't disclose any psychiatric condition, the judge, according to paragraph 7 of his remarks, saw no need of a report from a psychologist. Such a report might have revealed a condition (such as post-traumatic stress, for example) outside of the remit of the psychiatric report the judge did view.When one reads the remarks of the judge knowing his belief system, one can only ask: did the judge view this case only on the context of the crime she actually committed, or also in the context of a crime against a god which may not be hers?Back in 1924, Lord Hewart, then the lord chief justice, said: "It is not merely of some importance, but of fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly be seen to be done." Have we seen justice done here?