Ian Huntley was yesterday accused of carrying out a "cold-blooded" analysis of the case against him and weaving around the facts a false account of how Holly and Jessica died. Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, suggested to Mr Huntley that even during the trial he had changed his story.Mr Latham told Mr Huntley that within a couple of months of the girls' deaths he had "read and absorbed" the prosecution case. Mr Huntley agreed that it became clear by last autumn that he could be forensically linked to items of the girls' clothing found in a bin at Soham Village College. Mr Latham suggested it was then that he came up with his account of how the girls came into his house because one of them had a nosebleed but then left alive and well. In the witness box Mr Huntley insisted this was how he recalled the events as of October last year. Mr Latham said: "What's this, some sort of false memory syndrome?" Mr Huntley replied: "The specialist said I was seeing what I wanted to see. It was some sort of coping mechanism." Mr Latham said: "You were being far more devious than that, Mr Huntley, you were inventing a defence to fit the facts." Mr Huntley replied: "No." Mr Latham questioned Mr Huntley over a discovery by the police that he had changed the tyres of his car the day after he used the vehicle to dispose of the girls' bodies. The prosecutor reminded him that less than a week before the start of the trial Mr Huntley's barrister, Stephen Coward QC, revealed that his client insisted he had changed his tyres as a matter of course. But on Monday in the witness box Mr Huntley conceded that he switched his tyres to cover his tracks. Similarly, before the trial, Mr Coward said Mr Huntley had "no memory of Jessica Chapman having her mobile telephone with her". But in evidence Mr Huntley recalled seeing it poking out of her pocket. The QC asked: "Well, that's come to you, has it, in a flash of inspiration?" Mr Huntley answered: "Things have been coming back to me gradually." The barrister said: "You realised that it's just impossible to deny the telephone and impossible to deny the change of tyres." Mr Huntley rejected this. But he admitted that immediately after the girls' deaths he had decided to "cover up" what he had done. Mr Huntley told the jury: "My behaviour over those 12 or 13 days was inexcusable, yes." The QC also told him: "You were thinking with clinical care about this... It was like a military operation, wasn't it?" Mr Huntley said: "I wouldn't put it quite like that." The defendant was also asked about how the bath in which he claims Holly died came to be cracked. Mr Huntley said it was damaged when he tried to wash his dog after he had disposed of the girls' bodies. "So that's another accident in the bath?" the lawyer asked. "Yes," Mr Huntley replied.