The American banking heir Matthew Mellon was yesterday found not guilty of hiring a detective agency to hack into the computer of his former wife, Tamara Mellon, founder of the Jimmy Choo shoe empire, during their acrimonious divorce.During the two-month trial, Ms Mellon had told the jury that her husband had hired a London-based firm, Active Investigation Services (AIS), to snoop on her £185m business empire.However, his defence team argued that Mr Mellon was too distracted to be guilty. Nicholas Purnell QC, defending, told Southwark crown court in London that even without Mr Mellon's woefully poor attention span, there was no way he could have known City-based AIS would break the law.He said his client had paid the firm £12,000 to check whether Ms Mellon was concealing financial information during their "acrimonious" divorce, only to be "duped and gulled" in return.In her 90-minute witness box appearance, Ms Mellon portrayed her former husband as a loving but bumbling incompetent. "A day doesn't go by when Matthew doesn't lose his keys or even his wallet," she said. "For a long time I didn't want him to be alone with our daughter just because he is so absent-minded. I wanted him supervised even though he is fantastic with her. He is too absent-minded to be alone with her. Being married to Matthew was like having another child."She said the former cocaine addict "missed planes like other people missed buses", never had a job, could not manage bills and bank accounts, and could not cope with a comic, let alone a book. Psychologist Craig McNulty backed up this view of Mr Mellon, who is thought to be worth £4.5bn, telling the court that his poor concentration condemned him to the bottom 11% of the population.However, Ms Mellon released a statement outside court insisting the pair were still "good friends". The couple had been married for four years when their relationship began to founder, the jury was told. Ms Mellon said that after divorce proceedings began, her estranged husband's solicitors sought disclosure of the financial state of her company. When they did not get what they wanted, Mr Mellon hired AIS, which mounted a hi-tech cyber assault on his wife's London headquarters with emails apparently offering her sympathy and help in her divorce battle.One of the so-called tempters was signed A Friend and claimed to offer "things on your soon-to-be ex-husband". It went on: "I think what he is trying to do to you is terrible and you should have this information to help you out, especially with your lawyers." Because of their "sleazy" nature, Ms Mellon passed them to her IT expert, who found they were infected by bugs which, if opened, would have recorded every keystroke on her keyboard.Mr Mellon, who did not give evidence during the two-month trial, was discharged from court by Judge Paul Dodgson along with two co-defendants who were also cleared. Daniel Carroll, 36, from Westminster, central London, was found not guilty of an unauthorised modification conspiracy count and another concerning an interception claim. Maurice Kennedy, 58, of Barnet, north London, who had also asked the company to help him during his impending divorce, was acquitted of an interception conspiracy.AIS was headed by serving police officer Jeremy Young, 38, who admitted 15 conspiracy charges before the trial began, and former colleague Scott Gelsthorpe, 32, who bragged about decades of Scotland Yard experience.The agency regularly broke the law to get the information required, for which it was willing to pay large sums of money. Yesterday, Gelsthorpe, from Kettering, Northamptonshire, who had insisted he did not know anything illegal was going on, was convicted of two conspiracy counts involving the unauthorised modification charge, and one of conspiring to unlawfully intercept computer material. Also found guilty of six conspiracy counts was Daniel Carroll's father, David, 58, of Highgate, north London, who helped run the agency. The three await sentencing.