The two men acquitted of the rape and murder of 15-year-old Scarlett Keeling in 2008 are set to return to the courts after India’s Central Bureau of Investigation made a surprise announcement that it is appealing against the judgment. Samson d’Souza and Placido Carvalho were alleged to have plied Scarlett with drugs, raped her and left her unconscious on a beach in Goa, where she subsequently drowned. They were acquitted of charges of rape and culpable homicide at Goa children’s court in September last year.  But in an unexpected move, the CBI has now challenged the ruling. Its petition states that the judge in the children’s court acquitted the men despite not having “applied her judicial mind both on points of law and on facts of the case”. The CBI also said the judge had wrongly concluded that there was a delay in recording witness statements.  Fiona MacKeown, Scarlett’s mother, said she was “energised every time things start up again but basically, I’m exhausted by it all. I want it to be over. I want the courts to do the right thing and investigate this properly. “I want to know who murdered Scarlett and why, but I don’t believe that will ever really happen,” she admitted. “What I hope will happen is just to know that some justice has been served, so the life of the rest of my family can get back to something like normal.”The appeal, which could last up to 18 months, could begin at the Bombay high court in just two to three months.“I’m verging on bankruptcy, going back and forwards to India,” MacKeown added. “I’m in all sorts of financial trouble, but I can see the difference it makes to my case every time I’m over there: my presence gives energy to the hugely supportive press there, and that in turn puts pressure on the government and whole judicial system.”Vikram Varma, MacKeown’s advocate, said he is hopeful that the two men will be convicted. “I do think there’s a good chance of us getting a conviction of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against both men,” he said. “But we cannot hope to get a conviction of murder because the case was so badly handled by the local police at the start.”Before the case can go forward, the Bombay high court must decide whether the appeal should be admitted. Varma, however, said he has no doubt that it will be. “I’m very hopeful because unless the CBI felt they had a good chance of success, they would not have applied for this appeal,” he said. Scarlett’s bruised and half-naked body was found on the popular Anjuna beach in the north of Goa after a Valentine’s Day beach party.  Police initially declared her death an accidental drowning, but MacKeown pushed for a second autopsy. A postmortem examination showed there was ecstasy, cocaine and LSD in the teenager’s body. It also showed 50 cuts and bruises and evidence of sexual assault. D’Souza, 37, and Carvalho, 48, were both charged the following month with culpable homicide, grievous sexual assault, destroying evidence, assault with criminal force with intent to outrage a woman’s modesty, and administering drugs with intent to harm. It was alleged that they plied her with drugs, raped her and left her unconscious to drown on the beach metres from a bar in which the group had spent some hours drinking.The case has dragged on for eight years through India’s notoriously sluggish justice system, delayed by frequent changes in judges and prosecutors. In that time, MacKeown has had to endure tasteless coverage of her daughter’s drug use and sex life, and close scrutiny of her own lifestyle, and of her decision to allow Keeling to travel alone to Anjuna while the family toured a neighbouring state. The crime also inspired a Bollywood film. MacKeown was not consulted, but later said it “was not unkind” in its depiction of her daughter.