There are nearly 60,000 cameras under the control of local authorities, according to a recent study by Big Brother Watch. My first reaction is, so what? We are installing more cameras because the public are demanding them and, what's more, they work.Although I have to congratulate Big Brother Watch for completing the Herculean task of filing and compiling more than 400 freedom of information requests to uncover this number, its report then goes on to play fast and loose with the figures. In his article on these pages, Alexander Deane of Big Brother Watch cites the example of Breckland council which, he claims, is wasting £3.5m on a new CCTV surveillance system. Astonishingly, he asserts that, given this money, the police could have fielded 150 new police officers.Really? Let's take a moment to unpick those numbers. A starting officer costs £22,680 plus ancillary and support costs. It takes at least four officers to patrol a beat 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The lifetime of this CCTV system will be 10 years. Add it all up and you get a rather different conclusion from Deane: £3.5m would get you three extra officers walking the beat for 10 years, spread across five towns.That's a far cry from 150 officers and doesn't hold a candle to the 65 cameras that will be on location, day and night, providing continuous monitoring and recorded evidence.Furthermore, the number of cameras quoted in the report by Big Brother Watch is so devoid of context as to be meaningless. What is the benchmark for the "correct" number of cameras for a country such as the UK, with its unique mix of population, crime patterns and urban density? No one knows for certain because CCTV surveillance is a relatively new technology and as we expand our camera networks, we are moving into largely uncharted territory.Sixty thousand cameras, of course, pales into insignificance compared with the combined number of cameras in public and private ownership. Depending on which source you believe, there are either 3.2m or 4.2m cameras in the UK, but these are only guesses.Regardless, the number is still the wrong issue to be focusing on: whether it's 1m or 10m is irrelevant, it's what we are doing with them that counts. Is it proportionate to the problems we are facing? Is it money well spent? Are there more cost-effective ways to spend that money?The anti-CCTV lobby would answer no, no, and yes. But even that's a shift from the arguments of a few years ago when they railed against CCTV as a de facto infringement of our civil liberties. The argument now seems to focus on cost and proportionality. Even Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, accepts the use of CCTV in principle while simultaneously questioning how many have been installed and whether the money could have been better spent.To put the cost of publicly owned CCTV into perspective, councils spend in the order of £250m a year on CCTV systems, compared with the police budget for England and Wales of more than £10bn a year. Cutting all CCTV and putting it into policing would raise their budgets by a paltry 2.5% and deprive them of a vital source of evidence and real-time assistance.Is the anti-CCTV lobby gearing up for a bigger fight, testing their arguments ahead of a full assault on the "surveillance society"? Given that CCTV is not, in itself, a statutory requirement of local government, perhaps they would like to accept my challenge:Why not, as a test, lobby three councils to decommission it? Take a small town system, a metropolitan borough (outside London) and a London borough and mount campaigns to scrap CCTV. Imagine the publicity that success would bring about. I don't rate the odds very highly, but it would certainly be more effective than Big Brother Watch's anti-CCTV guerrilla sticker campaign.