Daily Telegraph Editorial, November 3"Even the most reflexively hostile critic of the British police would have to concede that they are remarkably restrained in the use of lethal force... Sometimes things go wrong on the streets... Last week, the second inquest into [Harry] Stanley's death ruled that he had been unlawfully killed by the two members of the Metropolitan police's SO19 armed response unit, who were then suspended from armed duties."One can sympathise with the frustration of armed police, who must make split-second decisions in conditions of extreme stress... Nevertheless, the decision of 100 or so members of the SO19 armed unit to put down their weapons [resolved yesterday afternoon] is deeply disappointing... At a time of alarming increase in gun crime in the capital, and a high level of terrorist threat, it is self-indulgent and reckless of the SO19 officers to take what amounts to strike action."Daily Mirror Editorial, November 3"Firearms officers are furious that two of their colleagues have been suspended. But that is no excuse for them to go on strike. They claim that laying down their weapons isn't industrial action, but it is. Their job is to protect people - yet they are failing in their duty... "Gun cops do a difficult and dangerous job. They sometimes have to take split-second decisions on which life or death hangs... It has taken five years for Stanley's family to start to get what they feel is justice. But because of the verdict of an inquest jury, 100 firearms officers are virtually withdrawing their labour. That is not part of their job. They are there to uphold the law, not strike against it."Sun Editorial, November 2"Gun cops are refusing to go on armed duty, saying their legal protection has been stripped away. The Sun understands their anger and frustration. But their action is wrong... The Sun believes armed police MUST have legal protection when making split-second decisions, and we hope common sense will prevail. Meanwhile, London needs its brave and highly professional armed police on duty at maximum strength."Daily Mail Editorial, November 3"The problem is that this case... has to be set in the context of the way police have become everybody's whipping boy. They are damned if they do and damned if they don't... They are always assumed to be guilty: guilty of institutionalised racism and guilty of homophobia; guilty of over-reacting and guilty of under-reacting; and increasingly they are humiliated by chief constables who seem more interested in sociological box-ticking than catching criminals. "Yes, police need to maintain the highest standards. The public demands no less. But when politicians and chief constables expect - and get - loyalty and support from their officers, wouldn't it be refreshing if sometimes they offered just a touch of loyalty and support in return?"Herald Editorial, Scotland, November 3 "Before the [first] inquest, the Crown Prosecution Service had ruled out criminal charges, but cited expert evidence that contradicted the officers' account... Clearly, there are serious questions to answer and wrongs to right. The CPS might decide that there are sufficient grounds for prosecution [and] the Stanley family have a strong case for believing that is the proper forum..."The job of a police marksman is high risk and can be extremely stressful. Decisions that can make the difference between life and death must be taken in a split second. Was the correct decision taken in the case of Stanley? That should be for the law to decide, no matter how long it might take. Both marksmen's fellow officers should cease their misguided action and go back to work so that the wheels of justice can turn unfettered."