A 15-year-old girl who stabbed a young mother to death while high on drink and drugs was convicted of murder today. The teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, stood expressionless as a jury delivered its verdict at Newcastle crown court. She claimed she had not meant to hurt Samantha Madgin, 18, who was attacked on August 2 while on her first night out since the birth of her baby son, Callum.Madgin, who was an aspiring model and on the books of an agency based in Newcastle, suffered 10 stab wounds - one to the face, four to the left arm, two to the right arm and three to the chest. The fatal wound went through the left side of her chest. The 15-year-old defendant, from Newcastle, had drunk between five and six cans of lager and three-quarters of a pint of vodka. She had also taken between seven and eight lines of cocaine before the attack, the court was told. Madgin died during an argument between her friends and two men at 11.30pm on Albert Avenue, Wallsend, North Tyneside. The young mother tried to intervene in the argument. Witnesses heard her shout "come away" shortly before the teenager lunged at her with a kitchen knife. Forensic experts said Madgin, who was unarmed, struggled to ward off the "sustained and determined" attack. An ambulance arrived soon afterwards but paramedics could not save her. A witness overheard a conversation between a young girl, believed to be the 15-year-old, and a man soon after the incident, in which the witness heard the man ask, "Did you stab her?" The female replied, "Yes". The jury heard the teenager, who handed herself in to police on August 6, disposed of the in a drain. Police found it the day after her arrest. She told police she was carrying the knife because she was frightened and had not meant to kill or injure Madgin. She said the injuries were inflicted by accident as she tried to push the 18-year-old away. At the start of the trial, the girl admitted manslaughter, but this plea was not accepted by the prosecution and the teenager went on trial for murder. Four men have admitted affray charges relating to the disturbance. As the jury of eight men and four women announced its unanimous verdict, Madgin's friends and family in the public gallery cheered and shouted, "Thank God". Addressing the defendant, Judge David Hodson said: "In the light of the jury's verdict that you are guilty of murder, the court has one sentence and one sentence only it can pass and that is that you be detained at her majesty's pleasure. "It is important that the courts now determine the minimum term you must serve in custody before you can be considered for release by the parole board." The case was adjourned until April for pre-sentence reports. Outside the court nine of Madgin's friends waved banners proclaiming, "Rot in hell" and "Justice for Sam". They chanted, "Sam got justice".