Thousands of schools in England could see the start of term next week disrupted by the staff police check "emergency", headteachers said today.Two schools in Leicester, which should have opened today, were forced to close because some staff had not been cleared to work with children. Moat Community College, which has more than 1,000 pupils aged 11 to 16, had to shut and Kestrels' Field Primary School in Leicester had to ask parents of 85 children who arrived for lessons this morning to take them home again.The Secondary Heads Association said next week many more schools would have to make "abnormal arrangements" to cope with the fact that many teachers and other employees would not have police clearance to work in class because of delays at the criminal records bureau.John Dunford, the association's general secretary, said the government had failed to heed warnings from heads a year ago that the bureau would not have the resources to cope with the number of checks required. "As a result of their failure to heed these warnings a year ago during the setting up of the CRB, we now have an emergency situation this week," he said.Schools could be forced to double up classes and hold inductions for new pupils in halls rather than individual form groups to cover for a lack of teachers, he warned.Schools in Leicestershire, where 700 checks are said to be uncompleted, and where term begins today, were this morning braced for the unavailability of hundreds of staff. And in London 540 pupils at ADT City Technology College in Wandsworth have been told to stay at home for three days.The position in London is exacerbated by the large number of overseas teachers who work in schools and will have to have their backgrounds checked abroad. The scandal of a Canadian teacher accused of having sex with underage pupils focused ministers' attention on the problem earlier this year, although she was later acquitted. Mr Dunford said headteachers had told the government when the CRB was being set up a year ago that it was storing up problems for the future. "They underestimated the number of people coming into schools by a huge factor and the operation was established on the wrong scale. That's why they had to have interim measures and that's why we've got an emergency. "My estimate is that somewhere between 15,000 and 18,000 schools will start on Monday or Tuesday of next week. "There has to be more than half a chance in the light of what's happened today that many of those schools will not have had all their checks completed," he added.Public concern about child safety has risen in the wake of the deaths of 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. A school caretaker and teaching assistant have been charged in connection with the murder.The headteacher of Taylor Road primary school in Leicester, Chris Hassell, said the CRB had let everybody down. "I do think we've been let down by the agency, because they haven't produced the goods," he told the BBC Radio 4's Today programme. The CRB took on 100 extra staff, who worked through the bank holiday weekend, and the Home Office said it was working with the bureau and the Department for Education and Skills to clear the backlog by September 4.Last week, the government said 25,000 urgent checks should have been completed by that date and by the end of Tuesday the figure had fallen to slightly more than 18,000. Officials estimated the total backlog was 100,000.A bureau spokesman said: "Every effort is being made to fully clear these disclosure applications by the commencement of the term times, though there can be no compromise in the rigour of the process."The CRB will endeavour to ensure that all but a handful of applications - those which may have been submitted late - are processed in time." Teachers and other school staff have to undergo a double clearance before they can work with or near children. Their names must be checked against List 99, the secret DfES dossier of people convicted or suspected of child abuse. They must also have their criminal records scrutinised, a process that can take some time as they may have worked in several different police force areas, which all have to be contacted. The DfES said child protection was paramount, and the head of ADT College had made the right decision. The college was supposed to open to all 1,000 pupils yesterday, until the principal, David Durban, realised 12 newly-qualified teachers had not been fully cleared. Children in the first year, those studying for GCSEs and sixth-formers were all in this week, but 540 pupils in Years 8, 9 and 10 have been told to come in next Tuesday.Shadow education secretary Damian Green said: "The government was being warned as far back as April, before the Criminal Records Bureau got going, that there were going to be problems, it didn't have enough resources. It did nothing about those warnings until it panicked a few weeks ago after the terrible events in Soham and it hasn't panicked effectively."