The wife of a banker murdered on his doorstep in a mysterious Highland shooting said yesterday that she could not explain to her children why their father would not be there for Christmas.Speaking publicly for the first time since her husband, Alistair, was shot outside his front door in the quiet seaside town of Nairn, Veronica Wilson said she could not understand why anyone would want to kill him. Mr Wilson, 30, was shot on his doorstep at around 7.15pm on November 28. He had been speaking to a man for a few minutes. During the conversation, the man handed Mr Wilson an envelope. He then shot him. Mr Wilson's wife and two children were inside the house at the time. Police have so far been unable to establish a motive for the killing, although late yesterday morning a council workman discovered a handgun in a drain which police believe was used in the murder. Mrs Wilson appeared pale and drawn as she answered questions yesterday. In a voice heavy with suppressed tears, she said: "I am just still in absolute disbelief. There was no known reason for this to happen, so I cannot even begin to understand why someone has done this, not just to my husband but to all of us - I don't even know if it is true or real. "It would make it easier if I thought there was something in my husband's life, but it just makes no sense. For me and the boys to move on, I need to know who did this and why - I can't imagine ever moving on without knowing." Mrs Wilson, 33, said the festive season made her husband's death all the harder to bear. She described Mr Wilson as a hardworking family man who was devoted to his two children, aged two-and-a-half and four. "We were a regular couple. When we started our family, that is what our lives became. He enjoyed the bank. But, as much as he enjoyed it, he considered it as a means to provide for the family. We were his life." She said she could not imagine Christmas without her husband. "None of us ever thought last Christmas would be the last Christmas with Al," she said. "I can't imagine him not being there, playing Scalextric - I can't imagine not having my third big kid there." Mrs Wilson said her youngest child did not understand what had happened to his father, but her older child was "beginning to ask a lot of questions". The family have not returned home since Mr Wilson was murdered. It is a prospect they dread. "When we go back to the house, that is when it will hit us - when it is their bedtime," she said. Mrs Wilson said the night of her husband's murder had appeared just like any other. "It was just 7pm, my boys were just going to bed, he was just reading them stories ... " "I can't believe that they did it on our own doorstep, with all of us in the house," she said. "There was no reason for this to happen, but even if they had something against Al, they have taken away our home. "For me to lose my husband in any more normal circumstances would be hard, but how can you explain to my boys that their daddy has gone?" Mrs Wilson appealed for anyone who knew anything about her husband's murder to contact the police.