John Heibner, who was convicted of a murder nearly 40 years ago, has lost his long battle to prove his innocence. The appeal against his conviction for murdering Beatrice Gold has been turned down, bringing to an end, at least for the time being, a high-profile case seen by some as one of Britain's longest-running miscarriages of justice.Beatrice "Biddy'' Gold was shot dead in the basement office of the clothing business she ran with her husband in Clerkenwell, London, in 1975. The following year, Errol "John" Heibner, a 30-year-old South African-born armed robber, was convicted of her murder and jailed for life. He served 25 years in prison, always protesting his innocence. On his release he campaigned to have his case reopened.Gold had been at the office with her husband, Eric, and their colleague, Sheila Brown. At the end of the day Eric Gold and Brown went shopping. When they returned to the office Beatrice Gold was dead, shot three times with a .32 revolver. Heibner was known to police as a criminal operating in the area, and was facing a 15-year sentence for an armed robbery which he had admitted.He signed a confession because, he later said, he understood that his girlfriend, who had also been questioned, would be released without charge if he did so. The case against him rested on this confession, which he retracted at the trial. His first appeal against conviction was heard in 1978 and was dismissed, but Lord Justice Shaw suggested the home secretary should investigate the circumstances of the case.Heibner was supported by prominent figures. The Rev Nick Stacey, former director of social services for Kent, met him in Maidstone prison, became convinced of his innocence and wrote to two successive home secretaries on his behalf. Lord Ramsbotham, former chief inspector of prisons, also pressed his case.Initially, the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) decided there were insufficient grounds to refer his case back, but reconsidered and the case went to the court of appeal last December.In a judgment given last month, appeal court judges Lady Justice Rafferty, Mr Justice Irwin and Mr Justice Jeremy Baker, dismissed the appeal."Heibner now relies on speculative theories which give rise to a danger of usurping the trial process," they concluded. "We have applied tests advantageous to Heibner so as to extend to him the greatest available protection as he prosecutes his appeal. We see nothing to make us doubt the safety of this conviction and this appeal is dismissed."Heibner remains determined to continue with the case.