More specialist care facilities for rape victims, similar to the one that opened in east London yesterday, should be introduced throughout the UK, experts say.There were an estimated 61,000 rapes and sexual assaults in England and Wales in the past year, according to Home Office statistics, though the British Crime Survey believes that as many as one in eight is not reported to police.Rape help groups believe the rate is much worse; of those reported, only 6% have led to a conviction. The Metropolitan police said they had received reports of 10,200 sex offences in London in 12 months to March 2004, of which 2,971 led to cautions, arrests or charges. The number of convictions was unavailable. Police hope the Haven, in Whitechapel, which brings specially trained doctors, nurses and counsellors together under one roof, will encourage more victims to report the crime, as well as lead to the collection and preservation of vital forensic evidence at an early stage. The Whitechapel Haven is the third sexual assault referral centre in the capital. The Camberwell centre has had 3,000 people through its doors since it opened in May 2000, and Paddington, which opened in April, has seen more than 200. All three are joint NHS, Met police and Met Police Authority enterprises. Sir John Stevens, the Met commissioner, who opened the Whitechapel Haven, said: "People can come here anonymously and receive invaluable help and support after an extremely traumatic event. Rape is a most under-reported crime but there has been a significant increase in the [numbers] charged with rape since the first Haven opened." Those who report a sexual assault to police in London will now be taken directly to a Haven. Even if victims do not want to file a police report, they can still give permission for detectives to use anonymous DNA samples which could trap serial rapists. Victims can also return for further counselling. Richard Sumray, chair of the MPA scrutiny panel, said that formerly, in London, places where rape was investigated were forbidding. Victims often had to go to back rooms at police stations where most of the medical staff were men. Less than 20% of UK forensic examiners are women, although most victims, male and female, want to be examined by a woman. Almost all the staff in the three London Havens are female, as are 90% to 95% of the clients. Sue Atkinson, the regional director of public health for London, said the Havens hastened the response time. "Previously, people sometimes had to wait hours to see medical staff, getting more and more distressed," she said.