I took over at London Probation four years ago following the murder of City financier John Monckton, which exposed serious failings in the way two offenders had been managed by probation officers. Soon after taking up the post, I attended an award ceremony hosted by inspirational people from London's black communities who were taking a powerful stand against violent crime in the capital. Next to me sat an official from the Downing Street unit set up to monitor the progress being made on delivering the government's key priorities - one of which was crime. In a discussion about our respective roles, I was surprised to be told bluntly: "Basically, you are going to be in the shit for the next three years. You will face a constant struggle for resources, recurrent public protection failures, and very little public understanding of your work."That would not be my experience, I thought. I had clocked up more than 30 years' experience as a probation officer, during which time I had been head of probation in two counties. Now I had been brought in to tackle serious failings in the country's busiest probation service. I was more than up for one last career challenge. In February this year, five months before I was due to retire, I finally understood the message I had been given. Following the investigation into the appalling, sadistic murders of two bright and promising young French students, Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, I resigned. One of the murderers, Dano Sonnex, released after an eight-year sentence for violence, had been wrongly classified by an inexperienced probation officer as being at only medium risk of reoffending, which meant he was not subjected to a more intensive level of inter-agency monitoring. Worse still, he had gone on to reoffend, and should have been back in prison, but delays had occurred in re-arresting him. Other mistakes were also made. Every agency involved - from the prison service and the police to the crown prosecution service and the courts - had been at fault, but there was little doubt that the primary blame lay with London Probation. My resignation was evidence of the responsibility I felt for the mistakes that had allowed these acts of barbaric savagery to occur. It had happened on my watch and I fully accepted that I was accountable. My remorse over what took place is matched, however, by a determination to highlight the lessons that have to be learned and the action to be taken - not just by London Probation but also by the government. Primary responsibilityThe case of Sonnex is a reminder of the politically and publicly unpalatable reality that only in a handful of cases will the perpetrators of truly heinous crimes remain locked up for life. The rest will be released back into society - and preventing the next victims by managing and supervising these most serious offenders is, and has long been, probation's primary responsibility.There are some 200,000 offenders in England and Wales supervised by probation; 50,000 are identified as high-risk and subject to stringent multi-agency controls, with probation, police and prisons jointly taking the lead. Of these most serious offenders, known as Mappa (multi-agency public protection arrangements) cases, fewer than 100 a year go on to commit very serious further offences. Nationally, 11,576 offenders were recalled to prison last year - 21% for a further offence and the remainder for preventive reasons- and nearly 90% were done in a timely manner. But herein lies the rub: while probation could claim success in its handling of the vast majority of its most serious cases, each one of the cases that goes wrong is a personal tragedy, causing irreparable pain, damage and loss.Combined with this is concern about fuelling the public's fear of crime. How does the probation service speak out about its primary function without raising public alarm? Suffice to say, ministerial policy has been to keep quiet wherever possible, and to resort to damage limitation when things go wrong. In common with all public sector organisations, probation does not and will never have sufficient resources to do all it would like to do. Probation chiefs accept this and work hard to prioritise and balance the available resources with the demands. But for Jack Straw, the justice secretary, to dismiss lack of resources as a factor in the Sonnex case and deny that there is any such lack in the service as a whole is quite simply wrong.Impossible to predict Straw has cited an underspend of £3.5m in London Probation (on a £150m annual budget), and £17m overall in England and Wales in 2008/09. However, in October 2008, all probation boards were encouraged by the National Offender Management Service (Noms), which allocates funding, to maximise underspending. Financial planning within the ministry has been so abject that it has been impossible to predict what level of expenditure probation areas could expect. Therefore, money had to be kept back so that it could be carried over into the following year's budget to meet exigencies, including potential redundancies. Another contributory factor to the underspend was that, in February 2008, probation was allocated an additional £40m to reduce the number of short-term prisoners by 1,000. This was achieved. However, because the money was not forthcoming for two months, probation areas ended the financial year with extra funds on their books because it takes time to convert money into skilled, well- trained and deployed staff. This haphazard approach to fiscal affairs is a symptom of the subordinate status assigned to probation by the government and Noms, an organisation whose top three tiers are populated almost exclusively by people from the prison service. The fundamental demand for skilled probation services comes from courts and the parole board, both of which are independent and use probation for sentencing and monitoring released prisoners. The constant workload pressures are corrosive, but, in my judgment, are a matter of considerable political apathy and buck-passing. If there is a crisis of numbers in the prison system, 10 Downing St will be involved directly. People know when a prison is full. Rising tideThe contrast with probation has been stark. There is no way of determining when capacity has been reached. Instead, the workload simply increases. A previous chief inspector of probation described the failure to tackle the workload pressures in the system as being like building a sandcastle with your back to the rising tide.At the time I took over London Probation, I was told by the then home secretary, Charles Clarke: "You are the doctor, you fix it." He added that he wanted to be told personally if there were any barriers to improvement, be they policy, resources or finance. The most pressing need, we agreed, was to recruit more high-calibre probation officers whose judgment, authority and initiative would be vital to the service's future. Four years on, in the wake of the Sonnex case, the Ministry of Justice is finally going to fund the recruitment of more qualified probation officers in London. However, most probation areas are in the process of cutting posts in order to meet the stringent cuts in their budgets. London has stubborn underlying difficulties in retaining experienced staff. The inexperienced officer supervising Sonnex had a caseload of 127 offenders - compared with an average of 37.7 cases per probation officer across London. The office where she was based was short of staff of all grades. Yes, management was clearly at fault in not attempting to remove some of that workload, but it also has to be remembered that a probation officer's caseload can vary widely over a relatively short period of time.Workload pressures, poor accommodation and failing information systems were recurrent themes among frontline staff, and they wanted senior managers, myself included, to listen more to these concerns. Those with senior private sector experience on our excellent governing body viewed our operational environment with dismay and disbelief. It is a Through the Looking Glass world in which London Probation can be criticised by the justice secretary for failing to spend money properly. Yet an exacting independent audit regime consistently found the service to be adequately or well controlled, and delivering value for money.Inherent failureThe criticism is symptomatic of an inherent failure to understand the probation workplace, where staff undertake skilled and often extremely difficult and challenging work daily. An eminent management consultant told me that, in her experience, a probation area is as complex to run as a hospital - but without the supporting structures.With its tremendous staff, London has the potential to be a flagship probation service of which we can be proud. But beyond the enormous challenges it faces every hour of every day, it also has to beware of "friendly fire" from those who seek to mask a very real lack of resources with charges of ineptitude.