A man has been charged with the murder of Rachel Nickell, the 23-year-old mother stabbed to death in front of her two-year-old son on Wimbledon common, south-west London, more than 15 years ago.Nickell was stabbed 49 times and sexually assaulted after a walk with her child, Alex, and their dog across the public open space in July 1992.Robert Napper, 41, was charged yesterday after an extensive reinvestigation of the case by Scotland Yard.Colin Stagg went on trial for the murder but was cleared in 1994 after the trial judge criticised police for trying to "entrap" him as a suspect. He is claiming compensation for having spent a year in custody before his trial at the Old Bailey began.Detectives reinvestigating the case made a breakthrough in 2004, linked to DNA. The test results are thought to have formed part of the decision to bring yesterday's murder charge.In a statement issued by the Crown Prosecution Service, the reviewing lawyer, Hilary Bradfield, said: "I have worked closely with officers from the Metropolitan police from the earliest stages of this investigation and have given advice to them about evidential and legal matters on an ongoing basis."As the investigation has developed I have been carefully examining and assessing the evidence, and consulting with Rene Barclay, director of the serious casework unit."It has been a painstaking process and alongside the police we have considered all aspects of the case in detail. This week we have reached a decision that there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction and have authorised the police to charge."In a statement Scotland Yard said: "The investigation into the murder of Rachel Nickell has always remained open and subject to ongoing reviews. The investigating team, led by DCI Tony Nash, has worked closely with the CPS throughout the enquiry leading to the charge today. The case is now subject to legal proceedings and the MPS [Met] will therefore not be making any further comment at this time."Napper will be summonsed for the first hearing before City of Westminster magistrates on December 4.The reinvestigation of the case focused on miniscule traces of DNA found on Nickell's clothing. Detectives used a technique, named low copy number DNA, to replicate the sample, which was too small to yield a result using conventional techniques.The Nickell case reviews led to the discovery of potential errors in DNA evidence affecting hundreds of other serious crimes. In 2001, investigators found that smaller than usual samples of DNA, taken from Nickell's clothing, had been missed by the Forensic Science Service. A second laboratory successfully used low copy number DNA techniques on the samples.After the murder of Nickell, psychologists helping the police in the case produced a profile of the probable killer, and investigations led to Colin Stagg becoming a suspect. An undercover policewoman befriended Stagg, and the techniques she used led the judge to halt his Old Bailey murder trial and denounce Scotland Yard's tactics.Mr Justice Ognall condemned the police undercover operation in which a woman officer, "Lizzie", exchanged pornographic letters with Stagg. At one point during the correspondence she wrote that she wished he had been Nickell's killer. "Quite frankly Colin, it wouldn't worry me if you had murdered her. In fact in certain ways I wish you had because it would make things easier for me," she wrote.At the time, it was the biggest murder inquiry in London, with 32 suspects arrested and hundreds questioned. Police have investigated links to other killings, mindful that the death of the former model was one of the most high-profile unsolved murders of modern times.After Stagg's acquittal Sir Paul Condon, then the Metropolitan police commissioner, said the investigation would not be reopened. But the decision was soon reversed. The government and Stagg are still haggling over the level of compensation he should receive.In 2004 Stagg told the Guardian he was still angry about his treatment and over the public suspicion, stoked by sections of the media, that still surrounded him: "I'm entitled to every penny I can get. I've never been able to get a proper job."Alex, Nickell's son, is now 18 and he lives in France with his father, Andre Hanscombe.