Detectives on both sides of the Irish border were yesterday investigating claims that smuggled fuel may have contaminated the animal feed behind the Irish pork crisis, which last night prompted the Food Standards Agency to order the withdrawal of all Irish pork products from supermarket shelves in Britain.The Irish Republic's environmental protection agency and Irish police are investigating the possibility that the feed was tainted with dioxins from smuggled fuel oil. The fuel is converted from agricultural green diesel to red diesel used in motor vehicles and for heating oil. This process, pioneered by the IRA's south Armagh Brigade during the Troubles, produces dioxins as a waste byproduct.Police are acting on intelligence that the oil used to heat the animal feed in a processing plant in the republic was sourced from Co Tyrone in Northern Ireland and may have been smuggled fuel. However, they are also exploring an alternative theory that the oil was legitimately sourced but was tainted by being transported in a tanker contaminated with dioxins.The oil that is the focus of the investigation was used in a burner at the Millstream Recycling plant in Co Carlow to convert food products into animal feed. This plant is being investigated by police as the suspected source of the contaminated feed.In a statement, Millstream Recycling stressed that the company had only ever purchased their oil from a legitimate supplier in the Republic of Ireland. Garda Siochana, the Police Service of Northern Ireland and sources at the Department of Health in Northern Ireland said yesterday there was no suggestion that the Co Carlow-based company was involved in anything illegal. Millstream added that it would be inappropriate to make any further comments during the investigation.In rural parts of Northern Ireland, most notably south Armagh and east Tyrone there are dozens of illegal fuel smuggling centres, many under the control of republican paramilitaries. The IRA sold the converted red diesel on the black market to drivers at a knockdown price. The drivers avoided fuel tax on both sides of the border but the process resulted in the pollution of land and rivers around the border.The PSNI and the Garda confirmed yesterday that they have been called in over allegations that the fuel came from Co Tyrone. Police sources stressed that the inquiry was still at an early stage.Smugglers operating on the south Armagh-Co Louth border were blamed during the last foot and mouth crisis for bringing the disease into Ireland. Foot and mouth entered the Irish Republic via cattle smuggled from Northern Ireland. Supermarkets and other retailers last night began removing all pork products linked to Ireland. The European commission said Britain's attempts to introduce a different recall system from Dublin's would undermine attempts to have a level playing field across Europe on Irish products.The Food Standards Agency said that when European chief veterinary officers met yesterday, "it was confirmed that the European commission wants a level playing field across Europe on Irish pork and, as such, all Irish pork should be recalled and destroyed. The original decision taken by the Food Safety Authority in Ireland is binding across Europe". Pork products from animals reared, slaughtered and processed in Northern Ireland were unaffected.The agency says that consumers with any concerns about the origin of pork products should contact the shop at which they bought them.Last night , it was unclear exactly how many retailers had put products back on their shelves earlier this week and now had to remove them again. The Guardian understands some had difficulty in establishing which farms had been involved in the pork crisis.Sainsbury's said it had only acted on the food agency's original advice which meant that all pork products from Ireland had been removed from sale.The Irish government announced that the sale of Irish pork and bacon would resume with new products carrying a label confirming that they were safe to eat and verified as having had no association with potentially contaminated feed. Agriculture minister Brendan Smith said its "decisive and rapid action" in removing all pork products from the shelves last weekend "allows us to restore supplies in which the consumer can have full confidence".Borderline businessThe falling pound and Alistair Darling's VAT cut has benefited Northern Ireland. In the republic, VAT is 21.5% while it is now 15% north of the border.At the huge Sainsbury's in Newry, Co Down, a third of trade is in euros. And up to 60% of trade at pre-Christmas weekends in Newry and Derry, closer to the border, has been from Republic of Ireland shoppers.Until the pound started falling against the euro, the republic's one advantage was its cheaper fuel; the Treasury loses millions a year from diesel smuggled by gangs and sold in areas such as south Armagh. Customs is investigating garages in Belfast alleged to sell "washed" diesel to motorists.