Oh dear. I've always had a small soft spot for Chris Grayling. But here he is in today's papers comparing parts of Britain to the lawless and bloody as the slums of Baltimore, as portrayed in the cult HBO series The Wire.No, he wasn't referring to David Cameron's parallel confession to Grazia magazine that he smoked and drank alcohol at Eton, the naughty boy, but to inner-city crime. Naturally, Grayling's comparison made headlines, complete with cheesecake photos of Wire star Dominic West, who was at Eton with Dave, but it's basically daft. We're not comparing like with like.It wouldn't matter if Grayling wasn't shadow home secretary, which is a job for grown-ups, a brief to be handled carefully by any politician who expects to hold the real job one day.Grayling is an attack dog; he's good at it, but that doesn't mean you let the dog off the leash for no good reason. People are filing what he says for the future when it can all be held against him. Apparently, this is on the Tory news grid as "Broken Britain Week" – so we can expect to be annoyed by this stuff for days to come.Our rottweiler, a TV journalist turned manager turned management consultant by trade, is Tory MP for Epsom and Ewell on the affluent underbelly of south London. Elected in 2001, he didn't need to be told that the point of opposition is to oppose. It was something the Tories were busy unlearning at the time.Grayling got stuck in and was rapidly promoted, entering Michael Howard's shadow cabinet team as shadow leader of the Commons in 2005 – a post too emollient for his talents (it requires a taste for consensus and conciliation), so he moved on.When David Davis committed shadow cabinet suicide last year Dominic Grieve briefly got the Home Office portfolio and was – I suspect – soon deemed too gentle, too cerebral even, by Cameron. I thought Grieve was right for the job, a sure sign that he wasn't, since I am not the kind of voter law 'n' order politicians are interested in. So Grayling got it.Now down to the stats. The city of Baltimore, where The Wire was set by local reporter David Simon, has a population of around 640,000 and a murder rate – falling, I am happy to note – of 234 in 2008, down from 282 in 2007 after rows about fiddled figures – a detail which echoes the TV series.Is that around 40 murders per 100,000? That's around six times the New York rate of 6.3 per 100,000 in 2008 (523 murders, slightly up on 2007) and a lot, lot higher than the UK – where the murder rate per 100,000 is around 1.4, slightly higher than France, lower than Scotland (2.56), a lot lower than South Africa (49.6). The overall US murder rate is 5.5 – a quarter of post-Soviet Russia's.I know, I know, Baltimore isn't the USA, and the rougher parts of Manchester (10 per 100,000, on some estimates) or Nottingham (5.2 not so long ago) aren't the UK either. England and Wales had 757 murders in 2006-07, the US just over 17,000 in 2006 – half of them gun murders.It's just that every culture is different. It's too easy to blame it all on guns (there are even more gun accidents and suicides in the US) or – in our current mini-epidemic – on knives (70 teens killed last year), despite increasingly draconian penalties and that handgun ban after the Dunblane massacre. Knives killed 258 here, according to Home Office stats, guns just 49.It's bad in places here, but it's not that bad. It's not Broken Britain; the unruly chaos has an upside as well as a downside. I was in Eastbourne on Saturday afternoon; very nice too. It was as quiet and respectable as modern Germany. On balance though I'd have preferred Hackney.But the stubbornly defended constitutional availability of guns with enormous firepower to ordinary citizens – as well as criminals – in the US is surely an important factor, as is the country's racial legacy, which makes so much crime black-on-black in poor neighbourhoods.In fact, the common thread linking murder rates in every country appears to be extremes of wealth and poverty, despair, plus the easy jump that makes to drug-related crime.I thought The Wire was the best TV I'd watched in years, and those who say it was merely violent and hopeless, the public authorities always doomed to defeat, were not watching closely enough.As Labour was quick to point out this morning, Simon has given interviews deploring the misuse of his work by politicians – with whom, as Wire fans know, he is not wholly enamoured.In any case, home secretary Grayling will change his tune quickly enough as he faces triumph and failure in office: they all do.PS Context: of the 1,574 youngsters who died between 10 and 19 in 2008 half did so because of illness, 546 in accidents, and 84 in suicides – slightly more than those murdered.