Chris Grayling's announcement that a 320-bed "secure college" is be built adjacent to the existing young offender institution at Glen Parva in Leicestershire is a serious step backwards, all the more saddening given the progress made in recent years to dramatically bring down the number of children and young people in custody from over 3,000 to fewer than 1,300 (Report, 17 January). This will not be the rehabilitative, educational "pathfinder" it is said to be. It is for children the "Titan" equivalent of the 2,000-bed prison the government plans for adults near Wrexham. Economies of scale are fine for the production of nails; they don't work for seriously troubled adolescents. What are needed are relatively expensive, small, local, intimate units closely linked to the community agencies with whom troubled children and their families dealt prior to their custody and with whom they will have to relate on release. Large, misleadingly cheap, geographically distant institutions will, despite the best efforts of their teaching staff, fit the description the minister wants to put on the tin: colleges – but of crime. The likely outcome will be the displacement and closure of the local authority secure units. It is dispiriting to find the Youth Justice Board, now firmly back within the Ministry of Justice, endorsing the plan.Rod MorganFormer chairman, Youth Justice Board• It is outrageous that at a time of swingeing cuts to other services for children and young people, the government proposes spending millions on a new 320-bed child prison. This flies in the face of evidence which indicates that where children have to be detained, small local units with a social care and therapeutic regime are most effective. While education is an important component in helping children who are in the criminal justice system, it is counterproductive to suggest that locking up even more of them is the way to ensure rehabilitation. The average time spent in custody is 11 weeks, and children who end up in custody have a myriad of needs which are unmet before and after their sentences. Providing education in a "fortified school" for a short period and, for many children, at a great distance from their home and community, will not deal with the impoverished lives, mental health and learning difficulties and lack of opportunities that most of them will return to. It will neither protect the public nor help children to stay out of trouble.Pam HibbertChair of Trustees, National Association for Youth Justice