The home secretary, David Blunkett, will today announce measures to cut the rocketing prison population by 500 a day, which will see low-risk inmates released an extra month before the end of their sentences. The immediate changes to the home detention curfew scheme will be announced by Mr Blunkett in the face of a new official forecast by prison chiefs that jail numbers will reach a record 73,000 by July - almost 10,000 over the normal capacity of the system. The reform of the scheme will mean that thousands of low-risk inmates will be released three months early, rather than the current two months. The selected prisoners have to pass a risk assessment test before they spend the rest of their sentence at home under curfew enforced by an electronic tag. The home secretary will also tell the prison service annual conference in Nottingham of his longer term plans to introduce a radical "part-time prison" scheme, which will include weekend prison for remand inmates and a new network of open prisons or hostels as a "tough third option" as well as prison and probation. It would mean prisoners, particularly those on remand awaiting trial, could keep their jobs and maintain family ties. The prison service is looking at plans to site the new secure hostels or open prisons within the grounds of existing jails. Dangerous and serious criminals and sex offenders will be excluded from the new scheme and will face longer prison sentences and more intensive supervision under legislation to be introduced this autumn. The home secretary describes the scheme as "getting tough with violent offenders while getting smart with the pressures on our outdated prison facilities". Mr Blunkett will also use the speech to make a key break with the "prison works" philosophy of his predecessors by acknowledging that Britain locks up more people than every other European country but Portugal, without any impact on reconviction rates. "Prison is an expensive way of denying people liberty. A new intermediate option could reduce costs dramatically, giving us more money to spend on crime reduction," the home secretary will say. Mr Blunkett is trying hard to talk down the prison population, which last Friday stood at 66,977, some 4,000 higher than 12 months ago. Some 44,000 inmates have left prison two months early under the tagging scheme introduced in 1999. Home Office figures show fewer than 2% reoffend while they are tagged. The plans for weekend prisons were criticised by the Conservative home affairs spokesman, Humfrey Malins: "If you are going to have open prisons in the middle of communities you have to be very careful," he said. The new chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, welcomed the plans.