I am puzzled that John Kampfner (Labour's back on the right, 6 November) accuses me of attacking the rehabilitative elements in the prime minister's recent crime and justice speech. I am on record as being supportive of attempts to reduce reoffending, backed up by evidence of what works. I am committed to expanding the use of restorative justice, creating a Women's Justice Board to reduce reoffending and driving down crime by reforming those guilty of committing a criminal offence. Where I am critical of the prime minister is that his speech was billed as a fresh new approach, but was instead full of rehashed announcements. The one major new policy – rehabilitation payment by results – fails my evidence-based policy test. Ongoing pilots – some started under Labour – have been ditched or simply ignored.There's no independent research which shows it works, so rolling it out before we have seen the results of any pilots is premature. I'm concerned at the risks to public safety and to former offenders themselves because of botched rehabilitation policies.Sadiq Khan MPShadow secretary of state for justice• Jackie Ashley (Comment, 5 November) and John Kampfner both unfairly traduce pro-European Labour MPs like me for voting against the government and urging cuts in the EU budget. But being pro-European does not mean enabling the EU to escape spending cuts imposed by every one of its member states. Europe would be more popular with its citizens if it showed more willingness to tighten its belt as they are having to do. Europe's leaders cannot retain confidence by preaching austerity for everybody else except themselves. The austerity being imposed by the coalition at home and leaders across the EU is disastrous, but how can they all justify an increase in the budgets of Europe's institutions while everyone else suffers from their cuts? I voted last week to curb Brussels' budget as a pro-European who believes this is in the interests of both Europe and Britain.Peter Hain MPEurope minister 2001-02