A police worker who seduced an officer in a plot to leak the identity of a protected witness in her boyfriend’s murder trial has been jailed.Lydia Lauro, 33, took a civilian job at Hammersmith police station in west London two months after her lover Leon De St Aubin was convicted of an shooting outside Wandsworth prison.She seduced a fellow police detention officer, Hayden Cheremeh, 36, and used his login to get into the intelligence system. Lauro then handed the details of a protected anonymous prosecution witness to Aubin while he was in prison.She and Cheremeh were jailed for five years each at the Old Bailey in London on Friday. Lauro did not show any emotion as the sentence was passed. Cheremeh refused to attend court.The judge Anthony Morris said Lauro had also used the database to look up the details of people in custody at Hammersmith police station “in order to find sexual partners for yourself”.She looked up more than 150 confidential reports while trying to track down the witness, a young woman who had given crucial evidence from behind a screen, using a voice-altering device and under a pseudonym.The trial heard that Lauro sent screenshots of a list of possible names of the witness to Diana Lank, the mother of Aubin’s co-defendant Rupert Ross. Lank, who was on trial with Lauro and Cheremeh, admitted receiving the confidential information and claimed her actions were justified, insisting her son had been wrongfully convicted. Cheremeh and Lauro were found guilty of conspiracy to commit misconduct in public office between November 2011 and May 2013. Lank was cleared of the same charge after the jury failed to agree on a verdict. Laurie-Anne Power, defending Lauro, said she was misguided and vulnerable. Jeminipe Akin-Olugbade, defending Cheremeh, described him as a “naive, infatuated and possibly over-idealistic person who got caught up in actions far greater than himself”.In November 2011 Aubin and Ross were each jailed for a minimum of 30 years for the shooting of 20-year-old Darcy Austin-Bruce in May 2009. That trial heard that Ross shot Austin-Bruce five times outside Wandsworth jail, and Aubin drove him away on a stolen moped.