Detective Chief Superintendent William Illsley, the officer in charge of the Lawrence murder investigation, was asked by Mansfield if he knew a police officer, known as XX in the inquiry but since named as Detective Sergeant David Coles, and his relationship with Clifford Norris, father of David Norris.Mansfield first asked him If there had not been first a complaint by Mr and Mrs Lawrence, you would still be saying there was nothing wrong with the first investigation, would you not?Illsley I would, sir, yes.Mansfield That is, to say the least of it, a very unhappy and unsatisfactory situation?Illsley It is, sir, yes.Mansfield You agree with all of that?Illsley I do, sir, yes.Mansfield I think you agree that reveals a shocking state of affairs, does it not?Illsley Yes, sir.Mansfield In the Metropolitan Police?Illsley At that particular time, sir, yes.Mansfield It was perfectly proper and obvious that you could have arrested the first weekend?Illsley Absolutely.Mansfield You had the legal powers to do it?Illsley Yes, sir.Mansfield Were you aware a Metropolitan Police Officer was consorting with Clifford Norris?Illsley No, sir.Mansfield Are you sure?Illsley Positive. I can't remember that. I might have known at the time. I can't remember it now.Mansfield We are calling him "XX". It would be completely out of order for that officer to have meetings with Clifford Norris on the pretext of nurturing him as an informant - that would be completely out of order?Illsley It would, sir. Totally. Especially as a professional criminal, yes.Mansfield You became aware that David Norris was the son of Clifford Norris, yes?Illsley Yes.Mansfield Did you then decide, "Well, one of the things we better do, perhaps, in this case, since Clifford Norris is wanted, is to make sure we arrest him and get him off the scene." Did that occur to you?Illsley No, sir.Mansfield There was a great attempt byDavidson, and others in this inquiry, to try and make a distinction between a racist murder and racially-motivated murders and so on, do you follow?Illsley I do, sir.Mansfield Do you find that reprehensible?Illsley I find it incredible, yes. Rajiv Menon, counsel for Brooks When XX was interviewed, he said the various meetings with Clifford Norris in public houses was by pure chance and that, although unauthorised by any senior officer, he was meeting Mr Norris for the purpose of cultivating him as an informant. That is what he told the internal inquiry. That inquiry concluded that there was more to the relationship between XX and Clifford Norris than XX was prepared to admit?  Illsley Yes, sir.  Menon Yet for reasons best known to that internal inquiry, they chose not to discipline him, but simply give "words of advice"? Illsley Yes.  Menon Bringing it back closer to home, XX, we have discovered recently, guarded Duwayne Brooks on at least one night during the period of the private prosecution. You, I am sure. would agree with me that this is a shocking development?  Illsley I can't comment. I don't know, sir. I honestly don't know about this.  Menon Can you think of any less appropriate officer in the Metropolitan Police to have been chosen to protect Duwayne Brooks whilst he is giving evidence at the Old Bailey as part of the private prosecution?  Illsley If the facts are what you say and I accept they are true, yes, I do, sir, I find it incredible. 