An academic was led from the court of appeal yesterday to start a six-month prison sentence for repeatedly punching his wife and indecently assaulting her, after the appeal court ruled that the two-year community rehabilitation order imposed on him was too lenient. The 66-year-old man, who cannot be named, surrendered himself into custody after Lord Justice Rose substituted two six month sentences, to run concurrently, for indecent assault and inflicting grievous bodily harm on his wife of 20 years. The case was one of two referred to the appeal court for review by Harriet Harman, the solicitor general, amid concerns that courts are treating domestic violence cases too lightly, and allowing professional men to plead their careers and public service as mitigation. Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Hunt and Mr Justice Keith also increased to three years a two-year prison sentence imposed on a 52-year-old man convicted of attempted rape, indecent assault and causing actual bodily harm. He had attacked his partner after watching the terrorist attack on the US on September 11. In the first case, the judges agreed that the man, who had pleaded guilty, should have been given a custodial sentence. The community service order was made with conditions to attend a domestic violence programme for 60 days and undergo psychiatric treatment. Describing it as an "unusual" case, Lord Justice Rose said: "Having regard to the offender's age and having regard to his quite outstanding career of public service, we would have expected in the court below a sentence of the order of 12 months' imprisonment." There had been a sustained attack, incorporating violence and indecency, and significant injury. The wife was in hospital for four days after the attack at their home. Her injuries included two fractured ribs and psychological trauma. But taking a number of factors into account, including the element of double jeopardy, the rule preventing an offender being sentenced twice, and also the man's behaviour since the incident, the court had decided to impose a total sentence of six months. The court was told that the offences were committed at a time when the husband was clinically depressed, partly caused by his wife's association with another man. In the second case, Orlando Pownall QC, for the attorney general, said that the attempted rape was followed by an act of "grave indecency" calculated to humiliate and cause severe pain, and then by "unnecessary and gratuitous" violence. Lord Justice Rose said that, in the circumstances, they would have expected a total sentence of at least four years. "We have no doubt that the sentence of two years was unduly lenient."