 4.10pm GMT The two suspects have been bailed until a date in January, PA is reporting. 3.42pm GMT Tessa Jowell MP was just interviewed on Sky News too. She was asked what it said about the UK’s communities that something like this may have happened. I think it’s quite honestly, on the basis of what I’ve been told, I think it’s very difficult to draw a conclusion about that at this stage. My constituency, which is part of Lambeth, has very strong church networks, it has strong networks, but then there are also parts of Lambeth where people do live in great isolation in a fragmented life that is all too often the way of life for people who live in a big city like London.So I think it’s too early … to draw any broad themes or broad conclusions.Were the current slavery laws tight enough at present? Well, again, I’m not sure we’re yet at a point where this case, these circumstances of these three women, can be used as an example of how slavery laws, which I gather are rightly under review, how they should be altered. I think we just need to learn more from the experience of these women, more about what happened to them, and, as I say, that will take time, before jumping to that kind of conclusion.  London: where people often live in 'great isolation', Tessa Jowell said. Photograph: Jasper White/Getty Images 3.28pm GMT Former Olympics minister Tessa Jowell, who represents Dulwich and West Norwood, has been briefed by Scotland Yard detectives and Lambeth borough commanders about the case, the Press Association reports. She said: This is a hugely complex case which will be understood through the information provided by the three women, who are now in a safe place, being debriefed by people skilled to deal with these highly traumatised individuals. It will be important to be patient as the debriefing may take many weeks into months and only once that has been complete will we really understand how this happened, what actually happened and who knew what was going on.It's clear from the briefings that I have had and also that the police have provided that, on the information available so far, this is not a situation that has any parallels with the Austrian or American imprisonment cases. 3.08pm GMT The Metropolitan police has just sent out this transcript of the press briefing held about the ‘slavery’ case earlier on today.Commander Steve Rodhouse of the Specialist Crime and Operations is quoted as saying: We understand the immense public interest in this case and we want to do all we can to help explain what we can about this unique case.What we must do is everything we can to protect the integrity of our investigation and ensure that we do not damage the collection of evidence or the chances of bringing this to a successful criminal prosecution. Equally we need to respect the needs of the victims in this case.This investigation will take some considerable time. There are a number of lines of enquiry to follow up, numerous statements to take, and a number of exhibits to examine.We are unpicking a story that spans at least 30 years of these women's lives, and all of this requires police activity to turn that into evidence.Whilst that process continues we have released the suspects on bail, but they have not returned to the property where we carried out the operation yesterday.Our HTU [human trafficking unit] have built up considerable experience over the years dealing with the evolving crimes of what people are prepared to do to exploit others and the conditions they enforce upon their victims.They are different though from this case. As an example we had a case where a woman was brought over from India to the UK and held as a domestic slave. She was moved around three different houses with one being a wealthy family. She was made to cook and clean for a number of hours per day. This woman was beaten and sexually assaulted and not paid for any of the work carried out.This case is sadly what we probably all understand as forced labour and domestic servitude – slavery in simple terms.But the details that the investigation into the arrests yesterday has uncovered something that is, so far, unique to us and does not compare to any previous investigations we have carried out.We do not believe that this case falls into the category of sexual exploitation, or what we all understand as human trafficking.It is not as brutally obvious as women being physically restrained inside an address and not allowed to leave. What [Inspector] Kevin [Hyland] and his team are trying to understand is what were the invisible handcuffs that were used to exert such a degree of control over these women.Trying to label this investigation as domestic servitude or forced labour is far too simple. What we have uncovered so far is a complicated and disturbing picture of emotional control over many years; brainwashing would be the most simplest term, yet that belittles the years of emotional abuse these victims have had to endure.We believe at this stage to the outside world this may have appeared to be a 'normal' family. This does mean that over the course of many decades the people at the heart of this investigation and their victims will probably have come into contact with public services, including our own; that is something we must examine fully, and it is too early to provide details.What I can say with some certainty is that the two suspects in this case were arrested by the Metropolitan police service in the 1970s, some considerable time ago. We cannot say any more on this at at this stage. As for any other contact we are researching that, as you would expect.I must take great care not to provide information that could lead to the identification of the subjects.Inspector Kevin Hyland said: The whole of the HTU, 37 officers, are now working on this investigation, with access to specialist trained officers and units within the MPS.Specially trained officers are working with the women to try and understand their lives, and what has taken place over the course of the last 30 years. This may take weeks and many months. The HTU have had a great deal of experience in obtaining accounts from victims who have suffered physical, sexual and emotional abuse. The very process of explaining what has happened to them is in itself a very traumatising experience.From the outset of us receiving the information the well-being of those women has been our priority, and they continue to be in the care of a specialist non-governmental organisation.Whilst we do not believe that they have been subjected to sexual abuse, we know that there has been physical abuse, described as beatings - however there is nothing to suggest that the suspects were violent towards others outside of the address.The two people we arrested yesterday are on bail; they have also been arrested on suspicion of immigration offences and we are working closely with the Home Office Immigration Enforcement.I am not prepared to disclose the nationalities of the two people arrested but they have been in this country for many years; we also do not believe the victims were trafficked into the UK.At this very early stage we do not believe that this investigation is linked to any other groups, and whilst it is too soon to be categoric we do not believe we are looking for other victims.I stress this is what we know now, and as our investigation moves on that may change.Last night our search of the address in south London took 12 hours. We seized 55 bags of evidence amounting to in excess of 2,500 exhibits that require examination.This investigation will continue for as long as is necessary and will go where the evidence takes us, what is most important to the team is that this investigation can reach the most proper and appropriate conclusion, be that ultimately a criminal prosecution.The Human Trafficking Unit was first formed in April 2010. Since then we have run 150 operations that have resulted in 261 arrests, 288 charges and to date 79 convictions, with a further 38 individuals awaiting trial. 3.02pm GMT The public had "no right to be sceptical" about this case, police added. 2.48pm GMT The Press Association reports that the police have said they have contacted the Malaysian and Irish embassies over the case.The alleged victims were allowed out of the house "in carefully controlled circumstances", police say. The property itself is "an unremarkable house".They would not say whether the Irish woman among the allged victims was from the north or the south. 2.40pm GMT In this video clip Home Office minister James Brokenshire discusses the 'slavery' case. Brokenshire says: I think like most people I am utterly shocked and appalled by the reports we are receiving that there are allegations that women could have been held for literally decades.It underlines this real challenge around modern slavery that it's out of sight, that perhaps people think about slavery as being visible. Images of chains might spring to mind.But actually so much of this is hidden; it's in the dark.And one of the issues that the government has taken forward is raising awareness and ensuring that those agencies who may come into contact with victims are better able to identify where modern slavery is taking place, identify those who are victims, and ensure those who are responsible are brought to justice.He explained the changes proposed by the government's modern slavery bill: It will simply the offences that are on the statute book, make them easier to understand and therefore to initiate. And also to ensure that it has teeth ... It will have a life sentence for the most serious cases.He said the government was also introduce a "modern slavery commissioner" who would hold agencies to account.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Updated at 2.44pm GMT 2.31pm GMT Slavery is incredibly difficult for authorities to identify, let alone measure at a national level, Mona Chalabi adds. As a result, widely different estimates have been circulated by charities and NGOs about the scale of the problem. A report by the Centre for Social Justice in March this year suggested that there were around 850 adults and 380 children in modern-day slavery in the UK.That's considerably lower than the estimate from the Walk Free Foundation of 4,200-4,600. Estimates from the International Labour Organization would seem to highlight just how unique this case is.They estimate that only 5% of individuals are slaves for more than six years - and they have no data at all for cases lasting longer than 10 years.Last month, the Home Office launched a consultation for experts and charities to come forward in evidence sessions that will ultimately lead to a draft "modern slavery bill". 2.26pm GMT The Home Office doesn't collect regular statistics on slavery, my colleague Mona Chalabi reports. But the International Labour Organization (ILO) produced a report in 2012 on forced labour which they define as "modern-day slavery". Their data, which covers the period 2002-2011, estimates that "20.9 million people, or around three out of every 1,000 persons worldwide, were in forced labour at any given point in time over this ten-year period". Mona notes: Gender affects vulnerability - women make up 98% of those that are enslaved in sexual exploitation while men account for 60% of labour exploitation victims.Read her full report here.  2.04pm GMT SummaryMy colleague Sandra Laville sums up some of the information the police have provided on the case today:• Detectives are trying to discover what the "invisible handcuffs" were that meant three women were allegedly held against their will inside a house in London for 30 years. Commander Steve Rodhouse of the Metropolitan police said: We are trying to find out what were the invisible handcuffs that were used to exert such control over these women. We are uncovering a complicated and disturbing picture of emotional control over many years; brainwashing is the term you could use.• It has emerged that the two suspects who were released on police bail early this morning were known to Scotland Yard. Rodhouse said the man and woman, both 67, were arrested by the force in the 1970s. He refused to reveal whether the couple - who are Asian - had a criminal record. He said: The people at the heart of this investigation probably have come into contact with public services including our own. We need to examine this more fully.• The woman also received beatings, Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland, the head of the inquiry, said.• The police are not investigating the women being trafficked. But the suspects are believed to have committed immigration offences and the police are working with the UK Border Agency. They are being questioned over false imprisonment, domestic servitude and offences against the person. Their passports have been seized and they have bail conditions that prevent them returning to the address where the women were held.Updated at 2.23pm GMT 1.54pm GMT PA has also been hearing from Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland, who said the whole of his human trafficking unit – 37 officers – was now working on this investigation. He said: Whilst we do not believe that they have been subjected to sexual abuse, we know that there has been physical abuse, described as beatings. However there is nothing to suggest that the suspects were violent to others outside of the address.He was not prepared to disclose the nationalities of the two people arrested, but said they had been in the country for "many years".Hyland said the police search of the address in south London took 12 hours, and said they seized 55 bags of evidence amounting to more than 2,500 exhibits.Updated at 2.23pm GMT 1.52pm GMT The Press Association has been speaking to Commander Steve Rodhouse of the Metropolitan police. Rodhouse said the police were "unpicking a story that spans at least 30 years of these women's lives".He said that to the outside world they and the suspects might have appeared to have been a "normal family". He added: This does mean that over the course of many decades the people at the heart of this investigation, and the victims, would probably have come into contact with public services, including our own. That's something we need to examine fully.What I can say with some certainty is that the two suspects in this case were arrested by the Metropolitan Police in the 1970s, some considerable time ago.Rodhouse said the investigation would take "some considerable time" and said police did not believe the case fell in to the category of sexual exploitation or the usual definition of human trafficking. To label the investigation as domestic servitude or forced labour was "far too simplistic". It is not as brutally obvious as women being physically restrained inside an address and not being allowed to leave.He said police were trying to understand "what were the invisible handcuffs being used to exert such a degree of control over these women", he said. 1.47pm GMT The charity at the centre of the rescue of three women from 30 years of domestic slavery in London has been inundated with calls for help from other victims, writes Sandra Laville. In this video clip you can see Aneeta Prem from the Freedom Charity discuss the rescue.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  1.44pm GMT martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery Cops say two suspects had contact with public services.November 22, 2013martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery Victims were beaten say policeNovember 22, 2013martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery Police not looking for other victims and don't believe there are other suspects.November 22, 2013martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery Scot Yard says investigation will tke considerable timeNovember 22, 2013martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery National Crime Agency, which has human trafficking/slavery as a priority target, not involved in Lambeth. Suggests isolated caseNovember 22, 2013 1.43pm GMT Martin Evans (@evansma)Police say 37 officers from the Human Trafficking Unit are working on the case. #slaveryNovember 22, 2013Martin Evans (@evansma)Police spent 12 hours searching the property and removed 55 bags of evidence and 2,500 exhibits.November 22, 2013 1.42pm GMT Crime reporters have been receiving a press briefing from Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland of the Metropolitan police's Human Trafficking Unit.Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)Hyland there has bn physical abuseNovember 22, 2013Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)Case likened to brain washing , met police say. They checking other contacts with authorities the women and suspects hadNovember 22, 2013Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)Victims were not traffickedNovember 22, 2013Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)Suspects were arrested by met police in 70s police won't say what for #slavesNovember 22, 2013Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)Police won't say if the suspects have criminal record#slavesNovember 22, 2013Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)The police need to find out what the "invisible handcuffs" were that held women#slavesNovember 22, 2013Sandra Laville (@sandralaville)Police say suspects being questionned on susp of false imprisonment, sec 71 of coroners justice act re servitude and offences against personNovember 22, 2013 1.37pm GMT The two suspects bailed after three women were alleged to have been held as slaves for 30 years were previously arrested in the 1970s, Scotland Yard has said.The two have been arrested on suspicion of immigration offences as well as in connection with the investigation into slavery and domestic servitude.The case came to light after one victim told a charity she had been held against her will in a house in London for more than 30 years.The victims - a 30-year-old British woman, a 57-year-old Irish woman and a 69-year-old Malaysian woman - are being looked after in a safe location.Police said the two suspects have been in the country for "many years", and said the case "so far is unique to us". It was described as a "complicated and disturbing picture of emotional control over many years".I’ll have live coverage of all developments in the case throughout the day here today.