A 17-year-old was found guilty at the Old Bailey yesterday of murdering promising footballer Kiyan Prince. Hannad Hasan, of Colindale, north London, stabbed Kiyan, 15, when the youngster attempted to break up a "play fight" outside the London Academy school in Edgware, north London.Hasan grabbed Kiyan in a headlock, stabbing him in the heart, stomach and arm with a penknife he described as "a little toy" in May 2006. The youth denied murdering Kiyan, described as one of the "brightest talents" on the Queens Park Rangers youth team, but admitted manslaughter.There were chaotic and emotional scenes as Hasan was found guilty by an 11-1 majority after 12 hours of deliberations and several members of Kiyan's family had to be escorted from the court. The judge, Paul Worsley, adjourned sentence for 28 days and Hasan was remanded in custody.It was the third time the youth had faced a jury for the offence. In the original trial the jury could not agree on a verdict and a second trial collapsed in December last year after Kiyan's distraught father approached a juror on her way home.Hasan, a Somalian refugee, was reportedly obsessed with Somalian gang culture in the UK and was trying to impress members of the notorious Thug Fam who killed PC Sharon Beshenivsky, according to a source.After his arrest, Hasan told police that he hoped Kiyan's mother could forgive him. He said: "I am terribly sorry. I know how my mum would feel." He told police he had only intended to give Kiyan "just a little scratch" with the knife. He added: "I did not want to stick it in him. I did not want to kill him. I am thinking this is like a dream."Phil Hearne, principal of the London Academy, said after Kiyan's death: "Someone, somewhere has to take the lead on knife crime, but where is that leadership coming from? We are happy to tackle unhealthy eating in schools, but which is the more dangerous - a Turkey Twizzler or a knife? How many people have to die before somebody takes this seriously?"After yesterday's verdict the family said in a statement: "Kiyan's life being taken from us in this cruel way has done irreparable damage to our family. I would like to thank the jury for their wisdom and doing their part in bringing Kiyan's murderer to justice."Knife crime will continue to rise in numbers unless the government begins to take this knife culture seriously by coming down hard on potential murderers, because that's what a person carrying a knife is, and until then hard-working people with close families will continue to suffer."Jaswant Narwal, district crown prosecutor at the Old Bailey trials unit, said: "As well as the deep loss felt by Kiyan's parents this senseless knife killing has shaken an entire school and community ... No child should live with the risk of seeing their friends frightened, wounded or killed and certainly not outside their own school."