News broadcaster ITN was locked down by police earlier today after a man with a knife stabbed himself in the reception area of its central London headquarters.Police cordoned off the Gray's Inn Road building and the surrounding road following the incident, which occurred mid morning. After stabbing himself in the chest, the man surrendered to police and was taken to hospital. He was not arrested.It is not yet known whether the incident was connected to ITN or any of the other occupants of the Gray's Inn Road building.It is understood the man made some reference to an "injustice", although it is not known what this referred to.As well as being ITN's headquarters and housing the newsroom for ITV News and Channel 4 News, the Gray's Inn Road building also houses corporate offices for ITV as well as other organisations.A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We were called just after 10.40am to the building on Gray's Inn Road to a man in possession of a knife in the reception area."Police spoke to the man and he surrendered the knife. He was taken to hospital for assessment. It is believed he had a small cut to the chest which was self inflicted."The spokesman denied rumours that the man had been tasered.An ITV spokesman added: "There has been an incident at 200 Grays Inn Road and the police are in attendance."Video posted on Twitter shows police officers in the reception area of the building. There are also reports that an air ambulance was called. Another Twitter video shows a man in the reception area with what appears to be a wound to the left side of his chest.One ITN journalist at the building told MediaGuardian.co.uk: "Someone went in and threatened to kill himself. The whole building was cordoned off."A spokesman for ITN said: "There was an incident in the main reception of 200 Gray's Inn Road earlier today which both the landlord and the police were quick to react to. The matter was dealt with swiftly and there was no impact on our programme making."• To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.• If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for publication".