Crime statistics always provide a mix of gloom and cheer and yesterday's batch proved no exception. Police-recorded crime edged down, but crimes reported by individuals to the British crime survey nudged up: it showed vandalism, for instance, rising by 10%. Elsewhere there were signs that Britain is becoming less violent - recorded gun crime fell 13%, and homicides hit an eight-year low.The home secretary's reaction was equally mixed. Jacqui Smith was right to emphasise the fact that Britain is a more law-abiding country than it was a decade ago. She also showed that she realises that the fear of crime - which the BCS suggests remains at stubbornly high levels - is a problem. In a week where one survey suggested 30% of householders keep makeshift weapons ready for self-defence, this emphasis seems fitting. Some of her predecessors have been less keen to explain that much of what we have to fear is fear itself.On cannabis, however, neither ministers nor the media seem in a mood to follow reason. Ms Smith's comments about smoking dope a university (how fortunate that she did "not particularly" enjoy it) started a predictable hunt for other ministerial confessions. And egged on by the Conservatives (who last week raised the issue in their social policy report), the government has ordered a review that could reverse the brave decision to reclassify the drug at the start of 2004 - restoring it to class B status. That would mean that mere possession would again become an offence for which arrest would be the norm - and one for which jail terms of up to five years could apply.Ms Smith stressed the increasing prevalence of concentrated strains of marijuana, and the (real) evidence of a link with mental illness for a minority of those who smoke it. On neither front, however, has anything changed since a government review last year rejected reversing the reform. That conclusion was the right one. The traditional approach did nothing to tackle the real risks of the drug. The argument against going back was reinforced by yesterday's BCS. Three decades of tough prohibition went hand-in-hand with an explosion in use. New figures showed that since the reclassification, the proportion of 16-59 year olds using the drug has fallen, from 11% to 8%. The police, meanwhile, have issued record numbers of cautions.If cannabis were put back in class B, officers may feel forced to choose between turning a blind eye and wasting time in making arrests and attempting prosecution. If Ms Smith wants to address the reality of crime, as well as the perception, she should step back from a policy that would ensnare the law in trivia.