Britain's race watchdog yesterday made its most explicit threat yet to take legal action against the police after figures showed that black and Asian people were up to eight times more likely to be stopped and searched.The Home Office yesterday published a series of statistics designed to show progress in meeting its pledge to stamp out racism in the criminal justice system. The pledge came after the 1999 report by Sir William Macpherson on the bungled investigation into the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence, which found the police were institutionally racist. However, the new figures showed stop and searches of Asian and black people in 2001-02 up by 16% and 6% respectively compared with 2000-01, while those of white people fell by 2%. In London the Metropolitan police stopped 40% more Asians and 30% more black people, but 8% fewer white people. Trevor Phillips, chairman of the commission for racial equality, deplored the fact that the disproportionate use of police stop powers was growing instead of being reversed. Mr Phillips said: "My message to police chiefs around the country is that the trend must change. "If we continue heading in the wrong direction the CRE will be compelled to consider using its enforcement powers under the Race Relations Act to make police forces deliver on the commitments they have already made to address these disparities." The Macpherson report backed police use of stop and search powers, but said their disproportionate use against ethnic minority communities had to be stamped out. Yesterday's figures come at a time when Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's mother, has accused the government of losing interest in beating racism. Next month is the 10th anniversary of the murder of Stephen, 18, at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London. No one has been convicted of the stabbing, which led to a crisis of confidence in the criminal justice system's ability to treat people fairly irrespective of their race. The Home Office minister Lord Falconer rejected Mrs Lawrence's charge that anti-racism had dropped off the government's agenda. "The government's commitment to race equality is as strong as ever and increasing confidence in the criminal justice system is central to that agenda," he said. He acknowledged that, with tensions in Britain high because of the war in the Gulf, the police and courts needed to be seen to treat all communities fairly. Year-on-year, recorded race hate crimes rose by 2%, to 54,351 in 2001-02. Police forces in Lincolnshire, Staffordshire, West Midlands and North Wales have seen their figures double in two years, but the Home Office put this down to better recording and victims being more willing to report incidents to the police. Nearly 9,000 people were cautioned or prosecuted for racially aggravated offences, double the amount the year before. Within the criminal justice system ethnic minorities continue to be under-represented as employees. The number of ethnic minority police officers grew slightly year-on-year to 2.6% of the force, but this is still less than half the proportion of ethnic minorities in Britain's population. Government departments fare little better, with 4% of the staff of the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, being from ethnic minorities. The department did not disclose data for the higher grades. At the Home Office just eight of the 410 staff in the highest grades are either Asian or Afro-Caribbean.