A new documentary about the police's undercover operations is being made.Back in November 2011, Channel Four broadcast a documentary about Mark Kennedy, the police spy who spent many years undercover in environmental groups. It was made very much from his point of view.This new documentary will be different - it tells the story from the point of view of those who were the targets of the police's covert espionage.Jason Kirkpatrick, the director of the new documentary Spied Upon, says that the aim of his film is to show the "human story of what it's like to be targeted by secret police, while revealing at a human scale today's complex international spying apparatus."The film is personal for Kirkpatrick. He was befriended by Kennedy while he was undercover.  As he says, he thought Kennedy was a "very dear friend", but realised he was not when he was unmasked.A taster of the film can be seen here - where there are some clips from the film which is scheduled to be released next year.Over the next few weeks, there will be a series of previews to promote the film. Clips from the film will be shown, followed by a discussion to allow, says Kirkpatrick, "the audience to provide influence and direction for the finished film".People who were spied on will also be speaking at these events. The first one is on Wednesday in London (see this), followed by another on Friday in Nottingham (see this).Others are lined up in Leeds (see this)  and Edinburgh, with the last one on October 16 at the University of St Andrews.Kirkpatrick is also seeking to raise money to complete his film - see this.Kennedy was paid thousands of pounds to take part in the Channel Four documentary, broadcast in 2011 (and available to be watched here or here). In many ways, it was an uninvolving film as Kennedy, as he has never done, did not tell the truth of what he had done undercover.This review in the Guardian found it a "a sad, unedifying story, but told in a slightly relativistic way: Mark was its focus but doesn't seem to have achieved much understanding and isn't prepared to take much responsibility. It makes his testimony sound plaintive and his character hard to love." The reviewer, Zoe Williams, added :"Mark clearly thinks of himself as a man more sinned against than sinning".Meanwhile, elsewhere, there is another public meeting this week about the controversy over the deployment of undercover spies in political groups.Tomorrow evening, the Haldane Society of Socialist Lawyers has organised a meeting to call for a public inquiry into the spies' conduct.Imran Khan, the lawyer representing Doreen Lawrence, is due to speak. He has set out clearly why it is wrong for the police to be given the task of investigating the activities of the undercover spies - see this and this.The other speaker will be Lois Austin, the former chair of the Youth Against Racism in Europe group that was infiltrated by Peter Francis, the former spy who has exposed many of the undercover spies' secrets.Details of the meeting at the University of Law in Store Street, central London are here. 