A man was stabbed in the chest and two others taken to hospital following clashes between hundreds of rival football supporters in east London last night.There were running battles before and after the Carling Cup match between West Ham and Millwall at Upton Park, and the game was held up when home supporters invaded the pitch after West Ham took the lead in extra time.The 44-year-old man was stabbed in Priory Road, just yards from West Ham's ground, before the game. He was said by police to be in a stable condition last night. The other two were last night being treated in hospital for non-lifethreatening injuries. One man was found in Rancliffe Road suffering head injuries, while another was taken to hospital following an alleged assault at a pub in Green Street.The fighting started shortly after 6pm as thousands of fans made their way to the ground. One West Ham fan who went to the match said the District Line underground train from Barking stopped just before Upton Park at 7.20pm and did not move for around 15 minutes. "Tempers flared on board as kick-off approached, people tried breaking open the doors," he said. "The atmosphere was tense in surrounding streets, the police helicopter was up and riot police were everywhere."The fan said he saw about 30 police with shields and batons "storm" towards the nearby Boleyn pub. He said the night "seemed to belong to another era".A 29-year-old man, who runs a kebab shop in Green Street said: "All hell broke loose, it was very frightening. It's not every day you see stuff like that."The Metropolitan police said officers had made several arrests and were scanning CCTV footage to identify hooligans. She said: "We will be reviewing all the events, looking at CCTV both inside and outside the ground to identify offences and offenders."The teams have a history of bitter rivalry and both had notorious hooligan elements during the 1980s when violence at football grounds was commonplace in the UK. A Football Association spokesman said it expected all those involved in last night's violence to be banned for life.