It was once commonly said of disreputable persons that they were wont to take anything that wasn't nailed down. The expression clearly belongs to a more innocent age when banging a few nails into something was good burglar-proofing. These days thieves regularly take things that have been securely bolted into place. They'll nick 2.5 tonne Henry Moore sculptures for the scrap bronze. They'll steal Alistair Cooke's bones. They'll pinch the monkeys from the zoo. Frankly, I'm a bit worried about thieves. Things must be tough out there.I first began to worry when someone nicked the bushes from our front garden. They weren't valuable, but I suppose you could have got £10 for the pair and thought it worth your while. With the replacement pair I took the precaution of padlocking them to the railings and burying the chain. Though there were no further attempts, it was my assumption that at the point when the thief pulled his prize halfway out only to find he needed to go home for the bolt cutters, the whole exercise would become more trouble than it was worth.Perhaps my maths is out, but I can't quite see how the Moore thieves decided that stealing a 2.5 tonne sculpture with a scrap value of £3,000, split between however many people, was worth the bother or the risk, especially when you remember it's night work.Likewise I can't see the business sense in boosting a penguin, or a family of tropical marmosets whose value is directly tied to their wellbeing. Are they really prepared to recreate Brazilian rainforest conditions in a lock-up and keep the heat on until the heat's off?If nothing else, such crimes explode the myth that thieves steal because they're lazy. A few weeks back in north London three men in hard hats spent their Sunday using pneumatic drills to liberate playground equipment from a community centre. They took the seesaw and the swings. They even took the chicken on a spring. This stuff cost about £3,000 when it was new. How much is it worth second hand, uninstalled, with bits of concrete stuck to it? I just hope they didn't hire the drills.Perhaps thieves are simply running out of conventional things to steal. Car crime is down because bog-standard car stereos are now all-but-unremoveable. In the "Street Robberies Near My House" section of the local paper they're still reporting mobile-phone thefts, but I can't see this fad continuing once the illegal redistribution of phones is complete. Is there anyone left out there who wants a mobile and hasn't got one?In the past whenever I thought about the economics of theft I always assumed the criminals were making, at the very least, some rough calculations as to the net reward, factoring in their time and the current volatile market in stolen dead baby monkeys, but it's clear this isn't happening. It's possible that thieves are no longer in it for the money, in which case none of us are safe. It seems more likely that all this stuff is being stolen to order for some billionaire who wants to build a solid bronze zoo.