"Never let the facts get in the way of a good story" is a mantra drilled into journalists from the time they first submit their expenses claims. It is not uncommon for the media to be accused of misreporting stories by bringing to them such a strong set of predetermined assumptions that they fail in their basic duty of conveying accurate information. The coverage of the report of the inquiry into the case of Michael Stone, who killed Lin and Megan Russell at Chillenden, Kent 10 years ago, is a classic example.I was brought in to the Stone inquiry team because the media coverage of the killings, and the subsequent first trial, had been an important issue. It reportedly led the then home secretary, Jack Straw, to introduce controversial legislation aimed at preventing "another Michael Stone". Straw wanted - but failed - to extend the Mental Health Act to enable "dangerous people" to be detained indefinitely. The report coverage, perhaps understandably, mostly reflected the anguish of father Shaun Russell - "Blunders that left Stone free to murder my family" was the Daily Mail headline. "If everyone had done their job right maybe Stone wouldn't have murdered my wife and daughter" - Daily Mirror. Stone "might not have killed Lin and Megan if people had done their jobs" - Daily Telegraph.The only problem was that the inquiry found the opposite. The media frame for the Stone murders was those trusted cliches "the bungling bureaucrat", "the misguided psychiatrist" and so on. "Blunders" were the order of the day - irrespective of what the report might have found.Indeed the inquiry team did find "bungles" - perhaps the most serious being that the Prison Service had lost Stone's papers and one GP made a series of treatment errors. But, in the main, the team found that Stone's care had been of a high standard: "We are satisfied," they wrote, "that the agencies and professionals involved here all did what they perceived at the time to be for the best. We doubt that much more would have been attempted anywhere else in the country." And they went on to say: "the inquiry has found no evidence that they [Stone's crimes] would have been prevented if failings in provision of treatment, care, supervision or other services to Stone had not occurred." The media's preconceptions, before, during and after the trial and now, 10 years on, were that Stone was a dangerous psychopath, that all the authorities(including the police) knew him to be dangerous, that he made specific threats, begged for treatment and yet was left free to commit the Chillenden murders.In fact Stone is a more complex character. Even though he was "well known" to police, he was not questioned about the murders until 12 months later - only after his psychiatrist had contacted the police following a report on BBC1's Crimewatch.Second, the report found that Stone had issued threats to kill five days before the murders and had made similar threats before. When he was detained under the Mental Health Act, far from it being the case that he was set free by misguided psychiatrists, the inquiry found that not only was the decision to release him correct, but that his initial detention had been "inappropriate". This is the heart of the matter. The Mental Health Act is about detaining people to treat them - not to imprison them. Stone had what was agreed to be a "psychopathic personality disorder"; but this is not a medical term. No agreed diagnosis exists and there is no consensus on whether it is treatable. In this situation no one had the right to detain him Stone unless, or until, he had committed a crime.But there were some systemic and individual bungles that might have been significant. One of Stone's GPs (he was often on the books of several GPs at one time) was supposed to give him injections of a tranquilliser, Haldol, every 20 days. But as the report illustrates, his record-taking was, to say the least, unconventional, and he made several errors. The first was to fail to give Stone the correct dosage as recommended by his psychiatrist. The second was to administer the drug incorrectly. But the third error may have been the most serious. An initial reading of the records suggests that, at the time of the murders, Stone was 21 days overdue for his medication. But on closer inspection a scribbling in the margin indicates that he received an injection in the middle of this period- making him only two days overdue.The inquiry could not tell if the notes had been added at a later date, so, having no evidence to the contrary, it had to accept that the injections were given when stated. However, the inquiry noted that "they are satisfied that at least some of the actual records of administration were not contemporaneous".This whole aspect, comprehensively covered in a separate chapter of the report, received virtually no coverage. It did not fit the existing frame which, given the time pressures on the reporters, was perhaps understandable. Publication of the report has taken years. Stone, who still protests his innocence, blocked its release. So when the report was finally published, it warranted a more careful reading. Maybe next time - or maybe those pesky media frames will, once more, intrude.· Ivor Gaber is a journalist and research professor in media and politics at the University of Bedfordshire