A consultant anaesthetist who was arrested and bailed by Humberside police after the death of a man at a hospital said yesterday he had done nothing wrong.Dr Sean Bennett, 50, has not been at work at Castle Hill hospital in Cottingham since concerns emerged about the death of a patient in his 50s who was understood to have a bleak prognosis.Because of his condition his relatives had been invited to hold a family conference with another consultant to discuss treatment options - a standard procedure in such a case. It is alleged that before they could convene again, Bennett came on duty, read the case notes and switched off the ventilator. The matter was referred to police by Hull and East Yorkshire NHS trust, which runs the hospital.Humberside police are looking at other deaths as part of their standard procedure and a file will be submitted to the Crown Prosecution Service this week.Bennett said yesterday: "While the investigation is taking place I am excluded from clinical work. I do not think I did anything wrong. I have been working in the NHS since 1981 and have never had a complaint against me. I have a good reputation locally and I have had a huge amount of support but that doesn't seem to count for anything."This type of inquiry is going to have a detrimental effect on patient care."His wife, Anna, told the Hull Daily Mail her husband was "no Harold Shipman" and had an impeccable character. She said: "Everyone is supporting him, all the nurses and doctors, our house is full of cards from them." A police spokeswoman said: "Humberside police interviewed a member of staff from the trust, who has been released on police bail until the end of September to allow the case to be reviewed by the Crown Prosecution Service."A spokeswoman for the Medical Protection Society, which is representing Bennett, said: "He is cooperating fully with the police investigation." Stephen Greep, chief executive at Hull and East Yorkshire Hospitals trust, said: "The trust can confirm that Humberside police is investigating allegations of malpractice against a member of our staff. The individual concerned has not been at work since the investigation began."