For years, the British public have been told not to panic about the risk from paedophiles, child killers and violent sex offenders. Thankfully, appalling crimes such as the murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman are extremely rare and the extraordinary publicity surrounding this double abduction is a testament to the unusual nature of the crime.But there are no grounds for complacency. And there is growing evidence that the police, psychiatrists, policy-makers and those in the media are only just beginning to come to terms with the true extent of violent crime and sexual abuse in this country. A Huddersfield University survey published this weekend claims that one in five children has been the subject of unwanted sexual advances outside the home. Although only 40 of the 2,420 children questioned said someone had tried to abduct them, it is still disturbing that so many nine- to 16-year-olds have had to undergo such potentially devastating experiences. Even more disquieting is the sheer number of previous offenders in the community, as revealed by the first annual reports of the new 'public protection' panels set up to monitor the activities of paedophiles and violent criminals released from prison. Official figures show that more than 47,000 offenders are deemed a 'potential risk' to the public. Although only a tiny proportion are thought to be of immediate danger, it should be of deep concern that we have only just begun to identify the scale of the problem. Experts agree that for the most serious category of offenders, known as the 'critical few', intensive surveillance is the only answer. But the professional agencies are already struggling to cope with the issue of public protection: as we report today, police in London claim that it costs £16,000 to mount a single surveillance on a dangerous offender and most police forces only have the resources to cope with two or three such cases at a time. For some who pose a danger to children, indefinite custodial sentences may be a necessary sanction. But this is simply not an option for all 47,000. And 'naming and shaming' every suspected paedophile risks encouraging misplaced vigilantism as much as curbing paedophilia. The Home Office has been planning to give some members of the public from local communities a greater role in the supervision of paedophiles, sitting on the new protection panels with access to confidential information that they might use responsibly. Legislation providing this extension of protection should now be included in November's Queen's Speech.