Take a glance at Anna Svidersky's profile on MySpace, the web's most popular social networking site, and you get an insight into the life of a typical American teenager, from her love of The OC to the request that you "make me smile". What it doesn't tell you about are the events of April 20, when schizophrenic David Barton Sullivan visited the McDonald's where Anna worked and brutally stabbed her to death. The story dominated the news in Anna's home town of Vancouver, Washington. Not only was the victim six days short of her 18th birthday, but Sullivan was a twice-convicted sex offender. He had left his home that night armed with a kitchen knife and the sole intention of "hurting a female".Tragic as it was, this story was never destined to attract worldwide attention. Until, that is, Anna's friends posted the news of her murder on MySpace. Together, they composed a tribute to Anna - complete with a collage of photographs - and sent it out to all their contacts. They wanted to let people know what had happened and to keep Anna's memory alive. Soon it was circulating around the entire MySpace community, along with pleas to forward the message. Just a few days after Anna's death, the story had reached much of the online world. People started taking virtual pilgrimages to Anna's profile while others made video tributes and posted them online. Anna's death had once again showed the power of the internet to spread information across the world almost immediately: while few, if any, British news sources have covered the story, tens of thousands of British web users know about Anna. But the case also brings up some moral dilemmas. Should we be intruding on someone else's grief, even if we have been invited to? And in circulating the story of Anna's death, are we treating her with the same triviality we would afford to a funny forwarded email?Among those who have posted a tribute to Anna is Alex Milnes, an 18-year-old music fan from Banbury in Oxfordshire. He had never heard of Anna Svidersky until he received the MySpace bulletin. Despite living 5,000 miles away from her, he felt the need to respond. "Although we hear about murders every day, somehow it seems worse when you hear about it over MySpace," he says. "Something that feels quite safe to teenagers has made people realise that life isn't all about how many [MySpace] 'friends' you have on your page."Blake Ford is also 18 and from Florida. He claims to have been so touched by the tribute that he wrote a song for Anna and plans to sell it online for $1, with the proceeds going to her family. He told people about his song by posting a further bulletin. Within an hour, he had people responding to it from California, New York and London. Another surfer, Shelby, 17, made a video tribute to Anna and posted it on youtube.com: "Seeing all the messages made me feel so bad. Me and my friends were crying." So far, her video has received more than 2,200 hits. She's not alone. One video tribute has already been watched over a million times. It would seem, at first glance, that this is grief on a global scale. But can it really be possible to grieve over someone you've never met?In 2004, the thinktank Civitas produced a report on the way British people had reacted to events such as Princess Diana's death and the Soham murders. They gave the mass outpouring of grief a name, "mourning sickness", and went on to suggest that people were making "phoney" emotional connections in order to feel better about themselves.Alex agrees with this idea of a phoney connection, likening the interest in Anna to the way people "grieve" over celebrities because they "think they know the person". But by visiting Anna's page, he says, "you could find out nearly everything about her". Indeed, reading Anna's page seems to show her life exactly as it was up to the moment she died. Locked by a security password only she knew, it cannot be altered or airbrushed now that she is dead. Hence it is still full of risque comments and goofy phrases. Instead of assurances from heartbroken family members that the victim was a sweet young girl who would "do anything for anyone", we find a portrait in which Anna boasts of being "legal in six days" and chooses as a theme song a coarse little number by the band Hollywood Undead.But being able to pore over the details of Anna's life is not without an element of creepiness. People who have never met Anna have posted tributes to her as emotional as those of Anna's closest friends. Some members of the online gaming community, meanwhile, have reportedly been using the pictures on Anna's tribute page as "avatars" to represent characters in their role-playing games.Understandably, this has led to tensions between those who know Anna and those who think they do. "I don't want any more friend requests, or sympathy messages from people - I just want you back," wrote one of Anna's best friends, Shona. Another, Sage, posted: "I'm sorry, Anna. I'm sure you don't wanna see 100 comments that say in the first line 'I didn't know you,' and at your funeral, some of the people who spoke, their first words were, "I didn't know her, but ..." That really irritated me."Clearly, there is a divide between those treating Anna's death with respect and those who are not. But there is a further distinction to be made, between those who are actually grieving for Anna (her closest friends) and those grieving for someone, or something, else entirely. The Civitas report claims that in making these false connections with strangers, people are actually grieving for a sadness inside themselves and attaching these feelings to a well-known face or event. Certainly, in an age where chat rooms and "virtual" friends are replacing traditional support structures such as religion and the family, the need to make emotional connections is stronger than ever, even if they are not genuine. And because the grief cannot, in this case, be genuine, a competitive element has arisen over who can grieve the most hysterically. In Anna's case, the quantifiable nature of hits and posts only magnifies this competitive element."I reposted the bulletin once, but a few people on my contact list have reposted it and I have noticed changes to it, like extra pictures of Anna with poems on them," says Alex. "MySpace is renowned for being an emotional, scenester place so it doesn't surprise that people are trying to show who can be the most emotional. Maybe they think it will get them more online friends."The story looks unlikely to stop here. Condolences from all over the world continue to flood in, with 29 video tributes currently hosted on You Tube alone. There is already a 200-word entry on Anna's life at Wikipedia, complete with a picture from her high-school yearbook. For those frustrated at being unable to leave comments on her MySpace site (only her approved MySpace friends can do that), there is a tribute page set up at www.myspace.com/loving_memory_anna. On this page there is a request from Anna's friends that the "RPers" (players of role-playing games) show some respect and stop using Anna's picture in their online games. Sadly, though, control is no longer in their hands. The grim truth is that this tragedy has mutated into the latest internet buzz. And as with anything on the internet, this dangerous combination of grief, sympathy and voyeurism is starting to snowball at a frantic rate.