Two people have appeared in court charged with neglect after the death of a seven-year-old girl, police said yesterday. There were reports that neighbours had said the girl had starved to death, but police pointed out that the cause of death had yet to be established because a post mortem examination has not been carried out.West Midlands police named the child as Khyra Ishaq, from Handsworth, Birmingham. She died after being admitted to hospital at the weekend. Angela Gordon, 33, and Junaid Abuhamza, 29, believed to have been Khyra's mother and stepfather, were charged with causing or allowing the death of a child between May 9 and May 17. They appeared before Birmingham magistrates court on Monday and were remanded in custody until next Wednesday. Yesterday, the minister for children, young people and families, Beverley Hughes, told the Guardian the family had not been known to social services and she promised a serious case review.West Midlands Ambulance Service said two ambulances had been called to the address at 5.45am on Saturday and had gone to Birmingham Children's hospital.Neighbours said six children had lived at the address and the mother had spoken of taking them out of school to teach them at home, but they had not seen the children for a few months. Hughes promised detailed examination of the case and the role of all agencies involved.The two-bedroom terrace house where the family lived was boarded up with metal sheeting yesterday. In the overgrown rear garden there was a fridge on the patio beside some black binbags.The sister of Khyra's natural father turned up at the house yesterday and learned of her niece's death from reporters after asking them what had happened.Valerie Frances said she did not know where her brother was or whether he knew his daughter had died. She said she had not seen her six nieces and nephews since the beginning of last year. "I am very unhappy about the way I have found this out. The family should have been told in a proper way," she said. A spokesman for West Midlands police said officers were working with social services. A council spokesman said: "We are deeply saddened by the death of this child and our sympathies go to the child's family and friends at this difficult time. This death is now the subject of a police inquiry and the council is fully supporting their investigation. As a result we are unable to make any further comment."Shabir Mohammed, 29, a security officer whose mother lives next door, said: "I have not seen anyone at the house for the last few months. I am very shocked." Nadine Isorinne, 26, a care worker, said there were three girls and three boys. "The mum was a very friendly lady and we used to talk to each other all the time," she said. "She would bring the kids over for birthday parties. I cannot believe it."Her husband said forensic teams had been at the house since the weekend and carpets and mattresses had been taken away for testing.