Should you live in London for any length of time, you will come across one of the city's countless unofficial mourning sites. They have a similar iconography: wilted flowers tied with fading ribbons to a lamppost; an untidy array of cards and scrawled messages fixed to a fence; polythene-covered photographs from a family album, children's drawings, maybe a religious totem or two. Near where I live in south London, for instance, I sometimes notice people gathered from time to time on the corner of Clapham Road and Fentiman Road, where a few years ago a young woman was killed by a motorist. Sometimes, I walk past the spot and notice fresh flowers tied to a lamppost to mark the passing of another year since that death occurred, randomly, meaninglessly, out of the blue. In a way, it is now an altered place, its mundanity invested with significance even to a passing stranger.Sometimes, though, as is often the case when the death is a murder that is not gang-related, no trace of what happened remains. No shrine. No memorial. Further down Fentiman Road, for instance, stands an ordinary terraced house in which, on 31 January 2001, terrible things happened: a man was killed slowly and terribly by two other men. This, too, is an altered site: a place where torture, degradation and unimaginable suffering took place, but there is no trace of that death there. Gone are the wooden boards that were placed over the windows in the immediate wake of the police investigation and the scattered traffic cones that seem like omens in Antonio Olmos's photograph of the site. The city covers up its scars quickly, renews itself with indecent swiftness. The landscape of London is layered with hidden resonances, places that add up to a dark psycho-geography of violence and death that lurks just beneath the official history and its heritage industry. But we are adept at forgetting and perhaps do not want to be reminded.  Anthony Bates, 36, was tortured to death at a squat in Vauxhall on 31 January 2011. Police found his badly mutilated body in the kitchen of a house in Fentiman Road the next day. Gary Speight, Dean Swift and his girlfriend Corina Lowe were charged with murder. Speight and Swift were convicted of murder. Lowe was cleared of the charge. Photograph: Antonio OlmosThat is one reason why the still images in this book are important. It is not just that they capture the fleeting rituals of grieving – huddled friends, wreaths, messages of condolence – and the dismal remnants of forensic procedure – police tape fluttering – but that they acknowledge the resonance of these places where a human life was ended by violence. What Olmos has mapped out in these images is a not just a landscape of murder, but a landscape of forgetting. Doggedly, diligently, he has recorded these sites as if on our behalf so that they do not disappear into the vast discarded history of the capital.It seems fitting, then, that the first image he took should be one of the most apparently mundane: a terraced house on an empty street in Southgate, north London (overleaf). It is an oddly vulnerable-looking house, with no hedge or wall in front to mark its boundary, just an uneven driveway next to a forlorn, leafless tree. This is the house in which Jitka Nahodilova lived. At the time of writing, you can still view Jitka's Facebook profile, which includes a photograph of her cradling a small, white, sleepy-eyed puppy. A young woman frozen in the full bloom of life by a snapshot that is now a kind of relic. Jitka was stabbed to death in her house by her boyfriend on 1 January 2011. Soon afterwards, he jumped under a train at Finsbury Park station.In death, Jitka became the first murder statistic in a year in which 209 people died violently in London at the hands of others. Throughout that year, Antonio Olmos visited each murder site in the capital, usually within a few days of each crime, and photographed what he found there. "My aim," he explains, "is to give memory to what are mostly forgotten events, unseen places, landscapes where great violence has occurred."The Landscape of Murder is the end result. As the title suggests, this is not so much a book about violence and death, but a way of seeing London and its neighbourhoods differently, even as many of those neighbourhoods look similar in their neglect, their downbeat, untidy Londonness.It was the proximity of Jitka Nahodilova's murder that prompted Olmos to begin his two year-long journey. She lived and died close to where he lives in a similar house on a similar street. That journey took him far and wide across the capital "to parts of London I knew little or nothing about". He has created what he calls "an alternative portrait of London, one shaped by violence and inequality". It tell us what we already know, but what our politicians seldom address, that murder mostly happens among the disenfranchised in the poorer parts of the capital. Same as it ever was.In photographic terms, Olmos's journey is not without precedent. When we think of murder sites, we think of Weegee and his predatory camera, prowling the mean streets of New York's Lower East Side in the 1930s and 1940s. Or the "Mexican Weegee", Enrique Metinides, who created colour photographs of death and suffering that sometimes look as staged as a conceptual tableau by Gregory Crewdson.But Olmos is operating in a different, more understated tradition, wherein the landscape, rather than the act or its gory aftermath, is the key determinant of the image. Unconsciously or otherwise, The Landscape of Murder echoes Paul Seawright's 1988 series, Sectarian Murder (1988), and Joel Sternfeld's On This Site: Landscape in Memoriam (1997), both of which, in different ways, chronicle the often mundane settings where terrible acts of violence took place.Olmos's raison d'etre, his decision to visit a murder site within a few days of the crime, meant that he photographed what he found there at that particular time, whether friends gathered to grieve, strangers passing or, as is often the case when he shot at night, an absence made all the more palpable by the eerie sodium glow of a street light.Often Olmos's street photography skills came to the fore and he captured a small moment of intimacy amid the city's impatient momentum. In one such image, he catches a woman stopping to read a memorial card while a gaggle of pedestrians waits impatiently by a busy road crossing, oblivious to the flowers ribboned to a railing. We sense his own presence, his fascination, but also his patience and his attentiveness. In the act of photographing, these houses, pavements, street corners, flats, towpaths, elevated concrete walkways, neglected shopfronts and suburban streets have become landmarks of a sort now.