A Lithuanian gangster who made up to £100,000 a month smuggling young eastern European women into Britain for prostitution, was jailed for 10 years yesterday after his sex ring was discovered by chance when two of its victims escaped.Viktoras Larcenko, 25, who admitted conspiracy to traffic women for prostitution and money laundering, for which he received a three-year concurrent sentence at Southwark crown court, his sister Rita, 20, and three others, subjected their victims to appalling treatment. One was a former schoolfriend of Rita Larcenko's, who was tricked into sexual slavery, another was raped by gang member, Jason Tai, a 39-year-old Malaysian. Rita Larcenko was jailed for 14 years and Tai for 15 years after an earlier trial.Brothel madam Salina Abdul-Rahim, 40, also Malaysian, was sentenced to three years for money laundering and controlling prostitutes, and Dan Ket Duong, 45, from Vietnam, was sentenced to 30 months for trafficking.Police discovered the gang by chance in August 2003, when two of the women, Anna, 20, and 19-year-old Jurgita (not their real names) escaped. Neither Anna nor Jurgita spoke much English but their ordeals emerged through an interpreter. Both were conned into coming to the UK with the promise of jobs as waitresses or cleaners. But when they arrived they were met by Rita Larcenko and taken to a brothel in Knightsbridge, west London, run by Rahim and catering for mainly Chinese and Middle Eastern men. Jurgita was raped by Tai, who claimed he had the right to "break in new girls". A few months later, police found a third woman, known as Kristina, 19, who had also been cajoled into coming to Britain, and tricked by former classmate Rita Larcenko into working in a brothel in Birmingham.Detective Sergeant George Goodfellow, who headed the investigation - the first brought under the Nationality and Immigration Act - with help from Interpol and the Lithuanian authorities believed the Larcenkos brought dozens of women to Britain."We just don't know exactly how many because they won't come forward to police. Most are here illegally, they don't speak English and they are terrified of the consequences."Det Sgt Goodfellow said Larcenko, who like his sister was fluent in English, came to the UK in 1999 aged 19.He put up prostitutes' advertising cards and set up a fake English language school before progressing to trafficking. Rita Larcenko was a hardened manipulator with no remorse, he added.