David Blunkett is set to spark a fresh battle with the judiciary and the police this week when he launches far-reaching proposals for reform of the criminal justice system.In a speech on Wednesday, the Home Secretary will argue that the 'vast, complex judicial machinery' is 'conducted in the costume and language of another world'. He will say that confidence in the police has declined and that both they and the courts must be more accountable to local people. His speech is likely to reignite simmering tensions between judges and the Government. Blunkett will also raise the prospect of directly elected boards to run police forces, reparation courts where criminals will be seen working in the local community cleaning graffiti and repairing other forms of vandalism, and crime figures published neighbourhood by neighbourhood. News of Blunkett's attack comes the day after it was reported that Lord Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, said trust had broken down between the judiciary and politicians and that the Government did not appear to believe judges would set tough enough sentences. Blunkett will say that the justice system is still weighted against the victim and that too many criminals are freed on 'legal technicalities'. 'People vote in order to make a difference to the world they live in, and that includes crime and justice,' Blunkett will say. 'If they are to have faith in the democratic process, and to participate fully in it, they must see their will, embodied by democratically elected representatives and the legislation passed by them, carried out. Not obstructed and overturned by legal technicality. Figures from the British Crime Survey show that fewer than half the people believe the criminal justice system is effective in bringing people to justice.'A lack of faith in the system to administer justice inevitably leads to the reluctance of victims and witnesses to participate in the system, a breakdown in stability and order, and the potential for vigilantism. 'I am concerned that, despite our recent efforts to redress it, the balance of justice is still tipped against victims.' The Home Secretary will say that, if the Government is to win the battle for the next election, it must bring forward radical proposals and allow more local control of public services. He will use the example of Community Justice Centres in New York, which he visited in March, where teenagers act as judges and jury for low-level disorder crimes such as minor vandalism involving their peers. On the police, Blunkett will argue that although a lot has been done to 're-engage' the public, there are still major problems. 'Confidence in local policing remains high in many areas - about three-quarters of the public think that the police do a good job,' he will say. 'But this confidence has declined over the last twenty years.' He said that accountability still remained 'opaque' and that other countries, most notably America where they have directly elected sheriffs, had better engagement between the police and the public. 'Should, for example, police authorities have a directly elected element or even be entirely elected?' he will say. Responding to the row over news leaked last week that foreign police leaders could take over failing forces, Blunkett will publicly back the plans.