A dedicated taskforce is to be established to target gangs in an effort to stem the knife crime epidemic. The Metropolitan police today declared that tackling knife crime was its number one priority.Metropolitan police deputy commissioner Paul Stephenson said that officers would be deployed to the 32 worst affected London boroughs "with immediate effect''.The announcement came as a 16-year-old boy became the 18th teenage victim killed of the capital's spate of street crime this year.Shakilus Townsend suffered multiple injuries when he was attacked in Thornton Heath just before 2pm yesterday, and died in St George's hospital, Tooting overnight.Witness described the teenager crying out for his mother and saying "I don't want to die" as he lay injured and dying in the doorway to a block of flats.A Metropolitan police spokesman said Townsend had been stabbed more than once. The weapon had not yet been identified and no arrests had been made.Police believe the murder could have been gang-related. "We are retaining an open mind as to motive at the moment, but what we can say is that gang-related activity is one line of inquiry that we are looking into," the spokesman said.One neighbour, Dee Bamina, 35, told how she had frantically tried to help save the teenager by stemming the bleeding from a wound to his chest with a bath towel."I think a group of boys must have been after the boy,'' she said. "All I heard was them saying 'get him from the other side'." Bamina said she saw a gang of four or five boys aged 15 to 19 with scarves covering their faces. One was carrying a baseball bat. Townsend told her he did not know his attackers, she said."I tried to ask him his name and to tell him to calm down and lie down because he was trying to get up and go." She said the boy was saying, ''I don't want to die," and, "Where's my mum? I want my mum".Richard Higgins, 17, described hearing the screams of his neighbour who was standing over the teenager."I thought he had tripped at first then I saw the knife. It was a big kitchen knife, maybe 18 inches. He had stab wounds on his stomach and one big long wound on his chest." The attack came days after Ben Kinsella, 16, was killed outside a bar in Islington, north London, at the weekend.On Monday, Hamouda Bessaad, 34, was stabbed to death on Old Kent Road, in south-east London, and a day later Dee Willis, 28, died after a knife attack in Peckham.Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons, who is leading the investigation into Townsend's killing, said: "This is another senseless incident in which a young life has been taken away by a knife. "Given that this happened outside a block of flats in broad daylight, I am certain there are people who will have witnessed this murder. I would urge those people to come forward and speak to the police to help us bring justice to Shakilus's family and friends."A 17-year-old boy who lives nearby said he felt stabbings were a regular occurrence."If he hadn't died, no one would have cared about this. It would have just been another stabbing. "You grow up around here, you always see the yellow boards around and then you wake up and see 20 police vans outside. "How are the police or the government going to be able to sort this out if we as kids don't know why this sort of stuff's going on?"