A 16-year-old boy has been stabbed to death in an east London park, the first murder of a teenager in the capital this year. The youth had been celebrating a girl’s 16th birthday on Saturday with about 100 other young people at a social club on the Ashton playing fields in Woodford.After leaving the party alone, he is said to have got into an argument with four male youths outside the building, before one stabbed him. The youths then ran off towards Chigwell Road. While guests at the party tried to save him before police and paramedics arrived at 9.40pm, he died just over an hour later at Whipps Cross hospital. The victim has not been formally identified, but was named locally as Charlie Kutuyampo. Police this afternoon recovered two knives from near the scene, each around 5in long, and they were taken away by forensics officers. A postmortem examination will take place on Monday. No arrests have been made.  Charlie Kutuyampo, who has been described as ‘a very fun guy to be around’. Photograph: TwitterDCI Ken Hughes, from the homicide and major crime unit, who is leading the investigation, said: “There were around 100 young people at this party and we are appealing for anyone with information or any witnesses to come forward as soon as possible. The victim’s family are naturally devastated and in shock by what has happened and we need the help of those at the party that night to progress our investigation.”As grieving friends laid flowers at the spot and gathered to remember him, it was reported that Kutuyampo attended or had recently left King Solomon high school on Forest Road in Ilford. A former pupil there, Jodeci Joseph, who was a few years older, told Sky News: “I built up quite a good relationship with him, like when I would see him, I would always say, ‘Hello, how are you?’ See how he is, always catch up with him, just walking around with him.“He was a very nice boy, very good intentions, very, very good intentions. He was very extroverted, very loud, but that is normal for a child to be quite loud. Very loud, very energetic, a lot of energy, very happy as well. He was just a very fun guy to be around.”In 2015, 19 teenagers were murdered in London, of whom 15 were stabbed to death, a third more than in the previous year.  Last year’s increase followed several years in which knife crime had been falling in the capital. Justice ministry statistics released last month showed that the number of offenders punished for carrying a knife rose by 7% in the last year as police and the courts take a tougher approach, especially to teenage offenders.There were four fatal stabbings of teenagers in London during January 2015.  The first was Jeremie Malenge, 17, who was stabbed multiple times on Homerton High Street on 6 January 2015 by three teenage boys, since jailed for his murder. Two days later, Bilal Mirza, 17, who planned to study computing at university, died after being stabbed in the thigh in Queen’s Park less than two miles from his home.Isaiah Ekpaloba, 18, a talented rapper and actor from Hackney, was fatally stabbed on 9 January, and Shaquan Sammy-Plummer, 17, from Finsbury Park, an A-level student who had offers from five universities, was stabbed in Enfield on 30 January.Alan Cartwright, aged 15, was the youngest teenager to die in 2015 from stab wounds. He was killed while cycling on Caledonian Road, Islington, north London, on 27 February. Joshua Williams, 18, who stabbed him while trying to steal his bicycle, was jailed for life in September.Anyone with information is asked to call police on 020-8345 3862 or Crimestoppers on 0800-555 111.