Former lifeguard Mark Bridger has conceded he is "probably responsible" for the death of April Jones but has denied her abduction and murder.Bridger, who is accused of abducting the five-year-old as she played near her home in Machynlleth, mid-Wales, will go on trial next month.At a plea and management hearing at Mold crown court, Flintshire, Bridger denied abduction, murder and intending to pervert the course of justice by concealing or disposing of the child's body.In court it emerged his case would be that he was probably responsible for her death. The judge, Mr Justice Griffith-Williams, said: "The defendant's case is that he was probably responsible for the death of April." The defence counsel and the judge agreed this could be reported before the trial. No more details were given.April's parents, Coral and Paul Jones, were in court for Bridger's plea. At one point Coral, who sat with her husband just two metres from the dock, appeared to dab away tears.The schoolgirl went missing on the evening of 1 October last year as she played on her bicycle on the Bryn-y-Gog estate in Machynlleth. She had been allowed to stay out late because her parents had received glowing reports of her at a parents' evening. April's disappearance triggered a huge search by police and the public, many of whom travelled from across the UK to help try to find the child.Bridger, 47, who lived in a house called Mount Pleasant in the nearby village of Ceinws, was arrested the following day. Police are continuing to search for April's body.Bridger was led into the dock for Monday's hour-long appearance by three security guards. He wore jeans, a blue sweatshirt and maroon shirt. A pair of spectacles hung from his sweatshirt. His hair and beard were neatly trimmed.April's parents sat beside police liaison officers close to the dock. They both wore pink shirts and Paul Jones wore a pink ribbon, a nod to the ribbons the townspeople of Machynlleth and searchers wore as a sign of solidarity and hope.Bridger looked up and seemed to choke back tears when asked how he pleaded to the murder charge. For most of the hearing he sat up straight and stared ahead, though occasionally he glanced at the more than 30 reporters who packed the court.The judge said there was to be no reporting of any evidence discussed during the hearing in case it prejudiced Bridger's trial, which is expected to last around four weeks and take place at the same court. He also put an order in place banning the naming of any child witnesses mentioned.April's parents, who have not been in court for any previous hearings, appeared to watch Bridger carefully throughout. At one point when evidence was being discussed, Coral Jones dabbed her eyes with a tissue or handkerchief. Her hands shook violently as she sipped from a glass of water.Bridger's barrister, Brendan Kelly, suggested the trial should be heard well away from mid-Wales because "ill feeling" was likely to run high. The judge decided it ought to stay in Mold, partly because it was the easiest court for April's parents to get to. He said he was satisfied the jury system was "more than sufficient" to address any concerns. The court heard Bridger would travel from HMP Manchester, formerly known as Strangeways, every day for the trial.The defence and prosecution lawyers agreed a site visit would help the jury. They also agreed a child witness could be cross-examined via video link from Aberystwyth magistrates court.Elwen Evans, prosecuting, asked for two days to be set aside to prepare court one at Mold for the trial.At the end of the hearing, the judge instructed Bridger to stand and informed him the trial would start on Monday 25 February. Coral Jones shook her head as Bridger was led down the stairs of the dock to the cells.Dyfed Powys police have vowed to continue to search for April until all viable lines of inquiry are complete. On Friday the force said 16 search teams had resumed investigations after a two-week break over Christmas.Just before Christmas, April's parents made an emotional plea for their daughter, who had cerebral palsy. In a message on Facebook, they said: "We just want you home for Christmas."