A man who killed an MP's assistant in a terrifying samurai sword attack was yesterday convicted of the attempted murder of the MP.Robert Ashman, 52, had denied attempting to murder Nigel Jones, Liberal Democrat MP for Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, but after six hours' deliberation by the jury he was found guilty at Bristol crown court. Ashman, a regular at the MP's surgery, had previously admitted the manslaughter of his assistant, Andrew Pennington, who was awarded a posthumous George Medal for gallantry. Ashman had arrived at Mr Jones's weekly constituency surgery with the 2-ft sword tied around his neck and hidden beneath his overcoat. When Mr Jones escaped, with extensive injuries to his hands, Ashman turned on Mr Pennington, stabbing him six times and leaving him to die on the floor. Mr Pennington, 39, was described as a man of gentle spirit. He had used the office's electric fire to hit Ashman over the head, allowing Mr Jones to escape. Mr Jones, 55, told the court that Ashman had brandished the sword above his head like a cartoon character from Masters of the Universe. The MP needed 55 stitches to his wounded hands. He said he believed that Ashman was intent on murdering him. Ashman was suffering from a severe mental disorder at the time of the attack - but, the prosecution argued, it was not a defence for attempted murder. He still has the condition. A psychiatrist said he suffered from delusions and a persecution complex. His imagined persecutors included Lloyds TSB, Cheltenham borough council, and the chief constable of Gloucestershire police. Earlier this week Ashman's lawyers said they would offer no evidence after psychiatrists said it would be undesirable for him to appear in the witness box. Mr Jones told the court that Ashman seemed "normal as ever" when he entered the office in January 2000, until he went into "ramble mode". He began talking about the world conspiring against him. "It was after I asked him if there was anything else I could do, he quite deliberately opened his coat, took the sword out, and said 'I'm going to do this thing'," Mr Jones told the court. "He held it up like in the TV cartoon Masters of the Universe, almost in ceremonial style. He then lunged at me and the blade was four inches away from my heart." The MP grabbed the blade with both hands and with the force of the lunge both men fell on to a sofa. Mr Jones said he closed his eyes and concentrated on holding on to the sword. Ashman is detained in Broadmoor hospital, and will be sentenced in 12 weeks' time after psychiatric reports. Mrs Justice Hallett said: "I am very conscious as to public safety. I must be allowed to allow doctors at Broadmoor the chance to look at him again." At his Cheltenham home Mr Jones said: "It is good that, after more than three years, my side of the horrible events have been vindicated by a jury and I can try and forget the whole affair. But of course the loss of my friend Andrew Pennington will be with me forever." After the attack, the MP said, he was diagnosed with mild post-traumatic stress disorder, but refused treatment to stop flashbacks so he could recall the events in court. "It's so good to get closure on this thing and get back to normal," he concluded. Constituents now make appointments to see staff at new offices in Cheltenham.