An experienced children's nanny shook the baby son of two police officers, causing brain injuries which led to his death 10 months later, Liverpool crown court heard yesterday.Linda Wise, 47, from Anglesey, north Wales, caused brain damage to Isaac Rowlinson, who was three months old when she was caring for him, which led to his death last July from an epileptic fit, the jury was told. She denies manslaughter. Isaac's parents, Lancashire police officers Detective Inspector Paul Rowlinson, 41, and Detective Constable Lisa Rowlinson, from Pemwortham, near Preston, had hired Wise a month before the alleged shaking incident, after cashing in their savings.When Isaac became ill after being in Wise's sole care overnight and was taken to hospital, she was overheard by his parents saying: "Could I have done something more? I did the best I could."The prosecution claimed that when the parents arrived at the hospital they felt she had a "false expression on her face ... like when a child makes itself cry".Isaac had suffered brain damage and had bleeding in both eyes, which led to epilepsy and the fatal fit when he was 13 months old."At the time of his death Isaac was significantly brain damaged," Nick Johnson, prosecuting, told the jury. "As a result of that brain damage he suffered from epilepsy and it was an epileptic fit that killed him." Wise was "criminally responsible for Isaac's death", he said.Johnson said Wise had long experience of dealing with very young children and had been employed by the couple following several weeks of problems with Isaac's feeding. Isaac was their second child - they have a daughter, Lily, who is now six. Isaac had difficulty feeding from birth and was referred to a paediatrician after a health visitor concluded that the baby had an unusually high palate, and that milk was collecting above his palate and then coming out of his nose and mouth. The prosecution said the couple took the decision that "the only sensible way forward" was to cash in their savings and hire a maternity nurse to help with Isaac. An agency put them in touch with Wise, and arrangements were made for her to start on August 14 2006 as a short-term measure to give the family respite.In September 2006, she agreed to look after Isaac while his parents stayed overnight in the Lake District.While the Rowlinsons were away, they rang home and spoke to Wise at 2.30pm and 7pm, and on both occasions were assured that Isaac was happy. At 7.30am the next day, Wise called the hotel to say Isaac had been taken to hospital with a temperature after she had phoned an ambulance for him, the prosecution said. A recording of the 999 call was played to the jury. In it, Wise could be heard telling the operator that the baby was "very floppy, he feels warm and his leg is trembling, his eyes seem spacey - he's moaning all the time. I just think there is something not right". When Wise was at the hospital and the couple were returning home, Paul Rowlinson spoke to her and she told him she heard a "strange cry" at 6.30am when she went to feed Isaac. But the prosecution said that did not correspond with a version she had given to the consultant paediatrician. "We suggest that it is clear from the evidence that Linda Wise was not telling the truth about what happened to Isaac Rowlinson overnight and in the early hours of the morning," Johnson said.The court heard that pictures taken by police of Isaac's room were shown to his mother, who was suspicious that a tube of arnica cream was on the changing table. Arnica cream is used to treat bruises.The jury heard medical evidence that Isaac had bleeding in both eyes, which was a sign of a non-accidental injury in small children. He also had bleeding under the brain, which was also interpreted as a non-accidental injury. Isaac was transferred to the Royal Manchester children's hospital, where he received treatment. Despite his severe brain injury he survived and was discharged to Royal Preston hospital, where a CT scan revealed he had bleeding all over the brain. The trial continues.