Young volunteers will help police flush out shopkeepers who illegally sell knives to children. Retailers across England and Wales face a "mystery shopper" crackdown as part of the drive to tackle knife crime. Government ministers and police chiefs want to stop dangerous weapons falling in to the hands of young people. Ten police forces in England and Wales, covering stabbing hotspots such as London, the West Midlands, Manchester and West Yorkshire, will take part. Volunteers aged under 18, supervised by plainclothes police officers and trading standards officials, will attempt to buy knives. Those caught selling the potentially dangerous weapons to children face a fine of up to £5,000 and a maximum of six months in jail. Anyone knowingly selling to an under-18 through internet sites, including eBay, would also commit an offence. Home Office minister Vernon Coaker said he is concerned about how young people can access knives. He has written to local authority bosses and the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) to ask for more to be done to stem the trade. Coaker said: "Knife crime is a complex issue which we all need to work together to solve. "Enforcement action is one part of the solution and that is why I am today calling on our partners in the police and trading standards to get tough with anyone illegally selling knives to under-18s. "I want to see more test purchasing operations like those being undertaken in Birmingham to catch any unscrupulous retailers." The move came just weeks after it emerged no one was jailed for selling a knife to a child in England and Wales in the five years up to 2006. Almost all of the 71 people convicted of selling knives to children were fined, but mostly less than £500. One person was given a community sentence. The figures were revealed after a series of parliamentary questions by the Liberal Democrats. Last month the Home Office launched the tackling knives action programme to help keep young people on the right track. The 10 areas involved in the knife sales crackdown are responsible for 70% of violent knife-crime, a spokesman for the department said. They are: London, Essex, Lancashire, West Yorkshire, Merseyside, the West Midlands, Greater Manchester, Nottinghamshire, South Wales and Thames Valley. Earlier today it emerged that the number of people charged with possessing a knife in London has fallen by half in the past four years. Scotland Yard said 2,810 people were charged with possession of a knife or bladed article in 2004, but in the 12 months to April this year the number fell to 1,361.The shadow home secretary, Dominic Grieve, said "concerted action" is needed to tackle the knife crime crisis, not isolated campaigns. He said: "A one-off crackdown is all very well, but Labour are still failing to enforce the knife laws we already have. "They talk tough about increasing penalties but in the last five years for which figures are available, not a single person has been sent to prison for selling knives to children."The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Chris Huhne, said unscrupulous shopkeepers have been able to profit from selling knives to children for too long. He said: "Ministers must ensure that those caught in future are given more than just the pathetic fines seen in recent years." 