An urgent review was launched by social services chiefs today after two young brothers were found dead in their Manchester home hours after police had visited the property.Four-month-old Delayno Mullings-Sewell and two-year-old Romario were discovered at the house in the Cheetham Hill area of the city just before 6pm yesterday. Their 21-year-old mother was arrested near the scene on suspicion of murder. She is being held under the Mental Health Act. Manchester social services confirmed that the family were known to their workers and offered "sincere condolences'' to the boys' relatives."I can confirm that this family were known to children's services," said the director of Manchester children's services, Pauline Newman."I am currently involved with my senior staff team in urgently considering the nature, extent, and appropriateness of children's services' involvement with the family.''She said the city's social care officers were "not currently involved with the family" but they did receive community support services including nursery and childminding, and the mother was attending higher education classes. The killings took place on the day the government launched an inquiry into the care of children in the London borough of Haringey following the murder of a 17-month-old boy, known as Baby P.Greater Manchester police confirmed today that the brothers' bodies were discovered when officers visited the home for a second time in three hours. The Independent Police Complaints Commission confirmed it was launching an investigation into the police handling of the case.Police were first alerted by a person concerned for the family's welfare at 2.50pm, the force said in a statement."No one was at the address so officers searched the nearby. They were not able to trace the residents," the force said. At around 5.45pm the police received a subsequent call and returned to find the bodies.Det Supt Shaun Donnellan told journalists that police were waiting for postmortem results but at least one of the boys received stab wounds to the abdomen. He said the mother was known to the police and that officers had visited the house within the past "year or two".He said the initial call to police was about fears for "the state of the demeanor of the woman" and fears "for the family unit". Officers arrived at the scene within around 20 minutes but did not enter the house as no one was at home. They searched around the back and continued in their attempts to trace the family.The children's father is being comforted by police liaison officers.A family friend, Melissa Bell, said the mother was Jael Mullings and described the killings as a tragedy. Family members paid tribute to the "two beautiful, innocent children''. "Everybody is completely devastated. We hope that wherever the boys have gone to they are at peace,'' the family said in a statement.The police spokesman said the initial checks included a visit to a grandparent of the children, but no one was at home.He said: "While we were making these inquiries we got a 999 call which suggested that the children were back in the house, dead." An IPCC spokesman said a neighbour told the officers who attended the first time that the mother had left the property with the two children."The next call they got was that the children were dead," the spokesman said. "We'll be asking what the police were told, what the concerns were, what the officers did, and decide whether there's anything there to take forward into an investigation."Forensic experts are carrying out a detailed examination of the property.Cheetham Hill is about two miles north of Manchester city centre. It is undergoing regeneration and has a large proportion of council housing.