The motherHanim Goren, 45, an illiterate woman from south-eastern Turkey, was "given" to her husband Mehmet at the age of 15 and had little choice but to obey him. The family came to Britain illegally in 1995. Terrified of her controlling husband, who beat her as well as their children, she initially told police the lies Mehmet had told her to tell. But she later found the courage to tell the truth and agreed to testify against him "even if he kills me". Despite this, she has never been able to bring herself to say that Mehmet murdered Tulay, instead using the words "Mehmet swallowed her" or "disappeared her". At one point while giving evidence, she turned to her husband and screamed: "Look at my face. What did you do to Tulay? Say it, say it."The fatherMehmet Goren, 49, is a violent thug and convicted robber with links to the Kurdish terrorist group the PKK (The Worker's Party of Kurdistan). In court he insisted he did not believe in the "honour" code, adored his family and fought for women's rights in Turkey. But he was jailed in Saudi Arabia for robberies carried out on behalf of the PKK. A brutal bully, he once tried to gas his whole family to death and on another occasion to inject his wife, Hanim, with rat poison. He made life "hell" for his children, Tulay, Nuray, now 29, and Hatice, who died in a car crash in 2006 aged 20, and his only son, Tuncay, now 19.The boyfriendFactory manager, Halil Unal, now 41, is a Sunni Muslim from a family of farmers in eastern Turkey. He arrived in Britain as a political refugee in 1992. He began work at the Techron Trading clothing factory in Feltstead Street, Hackney, in 1997 as a machinist and cleaner and worked his way up to become manager. When he met Tulay she told him she was 16. Two week after Tulay's death, Mehmet attacked him with an axe and was later jailed for grievous bodily harm. In court, where he gave evidence behind a screen, he said: "I don't care if the girl's family kill me now, it is not important to me. I have waited 10 years for this and to be here."