Police searches have to go up to get crime down. That, at least, is becoming the received wisdom. The argument has largely centred on London where searches fell by 88% in the five years to 2001, although nationally they rose by 3%.Meanwhile, crime overall rose slightly from a low in the mid-90s, but this included a dramatic increase in recorded street crime. Driven largely by school-age children taking each others' mobile phones, the problem is proving as intractable as it was unforeseen, and has begun to induce symptoms of political panic.Research suggests that sudden drops in police searches tend to be followed by a rise in recorded crime. These falls, however, may often be a proxy measure for a more general withdrawal from proactive policing. It cannot simply be assumed that a fall in searches will cause a corresponding rise in crime, although there is an obvious appeal in the idea that swapping the two sides of this spurious equation will provide an answer to any given type of crime. This idea is not only simplistic, but dangerous. It risks short-circuiting informed debate about how to resolve serious tensions between the use of search powers and their potential for collateral damage. It is generally accepted that searches are essential for the "prevention and detection of crime", in the words of the Macpherson report. Yet searches have long been recognised, both in the research literature and on the streets, as a running sore in the police's relations with young people generally and black people in particular. It is essential to pinpoint how searches can contribute to tackling crime and whether some could be dispensed with because their potential for damage outweighs their positive contribution. Most arrests for carrying offensive weapons (including firearms) and going equipped (to burgle, break into cars, etc) come from searches. It is obvious that arrests of this kind may prevent offences, but they account for only about a quarter of the total. Searches for stolen property are much more numerous, but, contrary to received wisdom, they detect only a minority of street crime offences. By far the largest number of searches in London are for drugs. They made up nearly half the total in 2000/1, a higher proportion than five years earlier. They dropped by 66% over the same period, but searches for stolen property fell by 115%, and for "going equipped" by 131%. When I looked at them in 1999, the vast majority of drugs arrests from searches were for possession of small amounts of cannabis. The Lambeth experiment seems to indicate that using police resources for this purpose may actually detract from the ability to tackle crime. There are other ways that searches can, and do, contribute to tackling crime and these partly explain the value the police place on them. Information from searches can be an important source of intelligence on suspects' whereabouts, appearance and associates. The search power mainly used requires officers to have "reasonable grounds" for suspicion that the search will uncover stolen or illegal articles. However, a high proportion of arrests from these searches are for other reasons, for example when the person turns out to be in breach of their bail conditions or (like the Yorkshire Ripper) to be wanted for another offence. To use the power strategically for these purposes seems questionable at best; and creative interpretation of the statute has tended too easily to shade into harassment of people "known" to the police. It is arguable that officers could produce the same results without needing to search people. So there are strong arguments for increasing the minority of searches for offensive weapons (including firearms) and for "going equipped". The trade-off between delivering on crime and collateral damage to the community, though, is more finely balanced in the case of searches for stolen property. And there is probably still considerable scope for cutting back on drugs searches. A lot of the "added value" produced by searches might be realised, and possibly increased, if officers simply spoke to more people. Ironically, nothing seems better calculated to undermine this approach than proposals which would require officers, when they stop and question members of the public without any intention of searching them, to ask them their personal details, including their ethnic origin. This would increase the potential for conflict and produce a mass of probably inaccurate statistics which it would be impossible to interpret. We need a more systematic approach to gathering intelligence. It is also important to be able to monitor the activities of individual police officers, who are unsupervised in their encounters with members of the public on the streets. But the most that it is sensible to expect is that officers will offer those they stop a card with their name and number on it and the place and time of the stop. · m.fitzgerald@lse.ac.uk is a visiting research professor at the LSE and a former head of race relations research at the Home Office.