Detectives investigating the murder of Sally Anne Bowman today said they had been given 50 names in their search for her killer.Police received around 150 calls from the public after an appeal from Ms Bowman's family, along with previously unseen CCTV footage, was broadcast last night.Her sisters Danielle, 24, and Nicole, 22, appealed on the BBC's Crimewatch programme for information about her killing. CCTV footage showed the 18-year-old model spending a Saturday night out in Croydon, south London, a few hours before she was sexually assaulted and murdered on September 25.She was seen chatting with friends in Lloyds bar, in central Croydon, and was wearing a short denim skirt and white corset top. The footage showed she left the bar shortly after 1am and stood outside for around 10 minutes, talking. It is known she then went to a friend's house but later returned to the area outside Lloyds bar shortly after 2am after taking a taxi back into the town centre. Her ex-boyfriend Lewis Sproston, who is not a suspect, picked her up from outside the bar and dropped her off at her Croydon home. Her killer is thought to have attacked her between 4.15am and 4.30am, shortly after Mr Sproston left. She was stabbed several times. A series of e-fits of a suspect, picturing a 5ft 9in to 6ft tall white man in his 20s or 30s, clean-shaven and with short dark spiky hair, were also released today.They were compiled with the help of a 36-year-old woman who was robbed and beaten with an iron bar an hour before Ms Bowman was attacked. Detectives believe the same man - believed to have strong local connections - may have been responsible for both attacks. Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Cundy today said he was pleased with the public response to the appeal. "It's 50 different names, and it's going to take a long time to work through this," he said. Police last week said Ms Bowman's murder had been forensically linked to a sex attack in the area in 2001, and may also be linked to at least six other assaults. Mr Cundy said that "perhaps most significantly", officers had received a call from a woman who believes she may have been attacked nearby by the same man in 2000. "That is obviously a link," he said. "We are in the early stages, and have to make inquiries to establish whether it is the same individual." The e-fits also brought calls from women who had been "unnerved" by men who had followed them through parks in the Croydon area or had flashed at them. Officers said mass DNA testing of local men was a possibility that could not be ruled out in the future. They yesterday announced a £20,000 reward for anyone with information leading to the "identification, arrest and prosecution of the person responsible for her murder". The Sun newspaper has said it would match that reward.