The granddaughter of an elderly couple murdered in their home has said no sentence would ever be enough for their "vile" killer.Giuseppe and Caterina Massaro, who moved to the UK from Naples in the 1960s, were attacked by Ireneusz Bartnowski, a 22-year-old Pole who was found guilty of two counts of murder and jailed for life at Wolverhampton crown court.Miss Booth's sister, Katie, 19, said: "Bartnowski was just lying through his teeth. He is just evil."We just want him to feel what he put on our grandparents. That fear that he put into them in their last moments, we want him to feel that."Their brother, Richard, 23, said the Massaros' relatives in England and Italy had been devastated and traumatised".During the trial the court heard that Bartnowski, who was staying with his sister and brother-in-law next to the Massaros, was captured on CCTV as he took two televisions from the couple's home and drove away in their Peugeot car. He returned to the house twice more to steal from the property.Granddaughter Lindsey Booth said: "If he rots in [prison] for the rest of his life, if I am honest, it is never going to bring them back and it will never be enough."Whether he got sentenced to death or sent into space or plunged into hell or to live in a raft in the middle of the ocean, it's never, ever going to bring them back."Booth, 24, said she suffered daily flashbacks of the moment she discovered the bodies. She said she sensed an "eeriness" as soon as she let herself and her mother into the house, prompting her to dial 999 before searching for her grandparents.She was speaking to an emergency services operator when she opened the door to her grandparents' bedroom and saw them lying on the floor, having been stabbed and attacked with a claw hammer.Recalling the discovery, she said: "I went there [the bedroom] and I didn't know if I was going to have to do any CPR, and I just touched them and they were just cold and I was like 'No, they have been killed. Get me the police here right now.'"Literally they were there within two minutes. I gave the ambulance person my postcode and walked down the stairs and out of the house and they had all pulled up."It was traumatising to see anything like that, and I think it is something that will always stay with me. I went into shock."You know if you have an accident and you can't feel your injuries yet? That's what it was like. It's still a mental image in my head. I always think about going in and seeing what I saw."Booth, who sat through Bartnowski's denials in court, said: "I think he is a vile human being – if you can call him a human being – because not only has he killed two people, but he can't even admit it."He is a liar. He has got up on the stand and blatantly lied in court, under oath."We're just glad that he is going to lose a huge portion of his youth, based on his own actions … It's his own fault.I hope what he did torments him."