A group of barristers met up after work at a pub off London's Gray's Inn Road last Thursday to celebrate the 'end of term'. Similar gatherings were taking place all across the Inns of Court, London's legal district, as the profession prepared for its extraordinary 'long vacation' that lasts until October. But the group downing beers in the Duke of York had more to celebrate than most - they had just won a series of landmark cases which marked them out as the most dynamic group of lawyers working in Britain today.Among them was Ben Emmerson, the dashing young advocate and colleague of Cherie Booth at the fashionable Matrix Chambers. Admirers say that if Colin Firth's human rights lawyer in the film Bridget Jones's Diary wasn't based on Emmerson, then it should have been. Twice in a week Emmerson had given the Government a bloody nose. First he won the right for 900 prisoners to be released after the European Court decided that prison governors could no longer add days to a sentence as a punishment. Then, last Tuesday, he was part of the team that persuaded a panel of judges that the Government's detention of nine terrorist suspects arrested after 11 September was unlawful, a devastating blow for David Blunkett's anti-terrorism legislation. Keir Starmer, who was made a QC in March, was also there from Doughty Street Chambers, the powerhouse of the liberal legal establishment. Starmer famously represented the McLibel Two in a 315-day trial against the fast food giant. He also acts for renegade MI5 officer David Shayler, whose trial in October will challenge the very heart of the British establishment, the Security Service itself. Celebrating too was Phillippa Kaufman, another Doughty Street lawyer, who sits with Emmerson on the inquest lawyers panel that helps investigate deaths in police and prison custody, and is also a respected philosopher. All under the age of 45 and many already 'Queen's Counsel' - the title given to the select band of top barristers judged to be the best in their field - the group is united by a commitment to civil liberties and a willingness to represent the sort of clients that high-flying barristers once wouldn't have dirtied their hands with. Terrorist suspects, transsexuals, protesters - society's dissidents and outsiders - are their meat and drink. But critics of these new stars of the civil rights world accuse them of riding the civil liberties gravy train following introduction of the Human Rights Act and using European and international legislation to undermine the fabric of Britain's ancient laws. Although members of the group are known to let their hair down at the Duke of York from time to time, these young 'silks' are a far cry from the high-living, champagne-swilling lawyers of old. The ordinariness of their personal and family lives is in marked contrast to the pyrotechnics of their court appearances. This tight network of civil rights barristers, which could also be said to include two other star QCs from Matrix chambers, Clare Montgomery and Rabinder Singh, sees itself as the vanguard of a new type of law which argues about principles and ethics as well as the nitty-gritty of English case-law. They take their inspiration from an older generation of lawyers who fought civil liberties cases before it was fashionable to do so: names such as Louis Blom-Cooper and Geoffrey Robertson. John Wadham of the civil rights organisation Liberty has instructed many of the new breed of civil rights lawyers. He said: 'These young lawyers are a deeply impressive bunch, but the older generation was doing human rights and civil liberties work when it was much more difficult to do so and judges were just not interested.' Edward Fitzgerald QC, who at 48 straddles the two generations and has worked with most of the players, said it was difficult to overstate the excitement surrounding the Duke of York group. 'There is a tremendous ferment of ideas, rather like the French Enlightenment, with a great deal of interchange of ideas. It is a very stimulating time.' 'There has also been a shift in the attitude of judges, who have become more cynical about the police and government officials.' Fitzgerald said his good friend Emmerson was 'an intense and extremely forceful advocate' who was utterly committed to the cause of civil liberties. His wife, Anne Shamash, a brilliant lawyer in her own right, is said to complain that he finds it difficult to relax and is constantly running to the fax machine, even when on holiday, to check the progress of his cases. Baroness Kennedy, herself a QC at Doughty Street, said she was deeply impressed with the new generation: 'All power to their elbow. People like Ben Emmerson and Rabinder Singh chose to become human rights lawyers long before it was fashionable and it is heartening that their choice is now being vindicated.' She said the significance of last week's judgment on the detainees could have international implications, including in the US where hundreds of Muslims have been arrested. Experts are united in saying that Singh's performance before the Special Immigration Appeals Commission last month was a stunning piece of advocacy. He argued passionately that the measures in question were discriminatory because they only applied to foreign nationals. Fitzgerald said: 'It was a brilliant win. What he said was unanswerable and it was quite clear the Government was genuinely taken by surprise.' Singh, a quietly spoken but devastatingly effective barrister, said it was a great day that took even his client, Liberty, by surprise: 'We cited American cases, and arguments about equal treatment are central to US constitutional law. They simply didn't see it coming.' The son of a poor Indian immigrant, Singh said he was inspired by his father's passion for justice and was proud to be seen as part of a new wave of legal talent. 'There is definitely a new generation and that's partly due to the passage of time, with older people inevitably moving on. But the nature of legal education has also changed. You can study civil liberties and human rights law in universities now. Some of the ideas I used in the case of the detainees I learnt while studying human rights law as part of my masters at the University of California in Berkeley. 'For lawyers like me, commercial law has no attraction. You can make a lot of money at it but it's just not interesting.' If there is a point of difference between the human rights lawyers, it is whether they should also use their human rights skills to represent the so-called 'forces of darkness': governments, corporations or, in one case that continues to cause discomfort in the group, a South American dicta tor. There are those, such as Emmerson or Fitzgerald, who believe human rights lawyers should, wherever possible, choose to work for the under-represented and oppressed. But Singh believes in the traditional 'cab-rank' system, where barristers are expected to take whatever job comes along within reason. He has done a great deal of work for the Government and helped crush the appeal of the two Palestinians accused of bombing the Israeli embassy in 1994, a favourite left-wing cause. Clare Montgomery, the 44-year-old QC who has faced fierce criti cism for representing Chile's General Pinochet and the intelligence services, said: 'There is an important principle here. Both sides need to be well presented to resolve any legal dispute properly. The origin of this modern fad was a period when it was not thought respectable to represent suspected terrorists. Now it has completely turned around.' She said she had come to human rights law after beginning her career as a commercial lawyer. The boom in human rights work, she felt, had been driven by an explosion in extradition cases concerning global terrorist net works and white collar crime. She now believes that the argument over what should happen to the British prisoners in Guantanamo Bay, represented by her Matrix colleague Nick Blake QC, is set to be one of the most important tests of human rights. 'I have always found the battle between the individual and the state completely gripping,' she said. 'Now, at last, we are able to talk about constitutional principles, and because we have signed up to international treaties it is impossible for judges to ignore individual rights and liberties.' Like Singh she feels privileged to number herself among the group of human rights lawyers. 'I'd like to think that what unites us is that we are extremely professional, we have integrity and an academic rigour to what we do. I hope there are signs that the bar is moving away from being a job for the upper classes making speeches for the lower classes.' On the evidence of last Tuesday's judgment, the government has a lot to learn from this collection of fiercely intellectual, radical barristers who are determined to shake the foundations of our ancient legal system.