Tom Brown, a hard-working, mild-mannered BBC archivist with ambitions to become a cameraman, should have celebrated his 28th birthday on Sunday. Instead, his family, friends and colleagues were mourning his brutal and apparently motiveless murder.Mr Brown was stabbed to death early on Saturday morning, fewer than 200 metres from the house he shared with his brother, Jonathan, 38, in Southgate, north London. Detectives are baffled by the the vicious and apparently unprovoked attack. Robbery has been ruled out as a possible motive. Mr Brown's mobile phone and wallet, containing cash and cards, were still in his pockets. Police think the killer may have chosen Mr Brown at random. However, police are investigating the possibility that he might have been attacked after intervening in an argument. "He would come to the assistance of anyone in trouble, so it is one line of inquiry that he stepped in to help during a fight," said Detective Chief Inspector Keith Garnish. The previous night, he had visited two local pubs with friends before going to a friend's flat in Mayfair Terrace, Southgate. He left there just after 3am to go home. It was a familiar route, along well-lit streets, which he had walked many times before, and should have taken about 20 minutes. But as he walked along Southgate High Street, the killer struck suddenly and seems to have caught him unawares. He had no defensive wounds and there were no signs of a struggle. Mr Brown, who was wearing glasses, a blue zip-up top, beige jeans and black trainers, was stabbed several times and died at the scene. Police would not reveal the full extent of his injuries, nor could they be specific about the weapon. A passing motorist noticed him lying on the ground and phoned the emergency services from a callbox. He directed the ambulance to the scene and stayed until they arrived. Detectives are keen to speak to this man, who is black and of large build, and was driving an "executive" car, perhaps a BMW. They also want to hear from anyone else who saw Mr Brown on Saturday morning, or who has any information. Mr Brown's parents, both retired doctors, and his three brothers, Adam, Paul and Jonathan, and sister, Liz, are devastated. Yesterday, his brothers, Adam, 40, a Sky News producer, and 42-year-old Paul, a cameraman, fought back tears as they appealed to media colleagues to catch their brother's killer. "Tom was a son, brother and most of all, a friend," said Adam. "His philosophy was simple - do the right thing and always put others first. "He was enthusiastic about his career at the BBC and was hoping to eventually fulfil his ambition to become a cameraman."The dead man, a keen cricketer and Spurs fan, completed a politics degree at Southampton University last year.In some ways, Mr Brown's murder echoes other recent attacks in London, which is suffering an alarming surge of violent stabbings, many sparked by the slightest of provocations, a minor robbery or verbal altercation.