The Goan police officer who led the initial investigation into the rape and murder of British teenager Scarlett Keeling was yesterday dismissed after allegations that he mishandled the inquiry.Nerlon Albuquerque, a sub-inspector with Anjuna police, originally concluded that the 15-year-old from Devon had drowned after her semi-naked body was found on the beach at the Indian resort in February. A second postmortem, carried out at the request of her mother, Fiona MacKeown, recorded that she had more than 50 bruises and that she had been given ecstasy, cocaine and LSD on the night she died. Police then announced that she had been raped and murdered.MacKeown accused Albuquerque of malpractice during the first days of the investigation and campaigned for a second postmortem. Yesterday from her home at West Lodge caravan park, near Bradworthy, north Devon, she said she was "over the moon" at the news of the policeman's dismissal. She said: "I believe he initiated a cover-up in the case. He told me it was accidental drowning. He ignored the first autopsy so we had to get another one done."MacKeown had been travelling with her boyfriend and other children in the neighbouring state of Karnataka when her daughter, who had been allowed to stay in Goa, was killed. Her lawyer, Vikram Varma, confirmed that Albuquerque had lost his job but he had not yet established the reasons.Albuquerque was suspended last month and a more senior police officer from the Indian Central Bureau of Investigation took over the investigation. It also emerged that Albuquerque had been temporarily suspended four years ago when he concluded that a man had died of natural causes despite there being 100 injuries on his body. The man's wife and her lover were later found guilty of his murder. MacKeown has asked for a third post mortem examination and toxicology reports in the UK. She said she hoped to hold her daughter's funeral in about a month. Two men have been arrested in connection with the teenager's death.