A churchgoing father of two was stabbed to death in the stairwell of his block of flats after confronting a gang of youths and asking them to be quiet because he was trying to sleep.Steven Nyembo-Ya-Muteb, 40, tackled the group of up to 12 youngsters late on Sunday evening after they broke into the communal entrance of the flats on a council estate in Hackney, east London. Police said he managed to force most of the youths to leave but two returned, pulling a knife on the mature student.It is understood that a neighbour found Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteb bleeding to death on the stairwell. He was pronounced dead at nearby Homerton hospital.Simon Pountain, police borough commander for Hackney, said the dead man acted reasonably. "He did what any normal citizen should do. It just happens that one or more of the youths were such that they decided to go back and attack him."He warned members of the public against putting themselves in danger when confronting gangs but said Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteb had done nothing wrong. "We should all be able to challenge young people. But those who do that must take account of the risks involved."Jennette Arnold, London assembly member for the area, said: "At a time when people prefer to say nothing Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteb spoke out. We owe him a debt. He was a decent citizen."Mr Pountain said the father of two girls, five and six, was alone in the flat when he challenged the gang. "They came into the communal area and were creating the disturbance. After Steven successfully ushered them out, that was when one or more came back into the foyer, the communal area, and attacked him."Four youths have been arrested, including a 15-year-old and a 17-year-old.Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteb, from Congo, was in his third year of studying maths at university and regularly attended Edmonton Methodist church.Neighbours said the youths were smoking cannabis and probably gained access to the building by climbing through an unlocked first floor window. Forensics officers spent the morning dusting and collecting fingerprints. The window is below a CCTV camera and it is understood that the forced entry may have been recorded.One woman who lives in the building said that it was plagued with problems and that less than three months ago the entrance had had to be fitted with a metal door in an attempt to stop drug users and prostitutes coming into the stairwell. Another neighbour, Steven Morris, said: "It's just a constant trouble. Every night we have it. There's prostitutes, smackheads, people having sex on the stairs."Jeanette Hockley, 72, who lives in the building, said Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteb moved in four years ago with his wife and daughters. "He was a very nice man, very sociable and friendly."A noticeboard opposite the block of flats where Mr Nyembo-Ya-Muteb lived reflects the extent to which the area was troubled by antisocial behaviour. A police message says: "After successful operations in this area a large number of arrests have been made for drug dealing. The residents are actively working with us to identify those responsible. It will not be long before your identities are known and action taken against you."Eric Ollerenshaw, Hackney council's opposition leader, said residents had complained about antisocial behaviour. "The police promised to increase patrols and that did happen for a while but this will set everything back again. Community support officers work 9am until 5pm but the yobs are there around the clock."The killing will heighten anxiety about the risks of confronting antisocial behaviour. Peter Woodhams was shot in Custom House, east London, in August after he confronted a gang of youths causing trouble outside his home. Mr Woodhams's funeral took place yesterday.