CrimewaveFor police officers on the ground and for residents of central Bristol, it was a report which had no link to the real world. What good were meetings and monitoring in the face of a Yardie crimewave? (And, indeed, how could the Home Office attack the police when their immigration service was failing to stop the Yardies and the mules pouring through the airports, carrying an estimated 4.5 tonnes of cocaine a year?) How could they possibly enjoy the consent of the people they were policing if they started dancing to a political tune? Avon and Somerset officers wanted the report rewritten, but HM inspectors stuck to their agenda and insisted on publishing it without any significant change. Chief constables around the country were watching closely. Their concern was not just that Mr Pilkington was in danger but that all of them were in danger from a home secretary who was apparently willing to upset the delicate balance of power over their work. They had seen the danger dawning before Mr Blunkett took over the Home Office. Some of them had been deeply opposed to Mr Straw's idea of a new national police radio system, Airwave, the biggest capital investment ever made by the police in this country. They said it was unnecessary and overpriced but when they took their complaints to the supposedly independent police information and technology organisation, which had to make the decision, they found that Mr Straw's officials had gatecrashed and were insisting that the scheme must be adopted - because it was the biggest PFI scheme in the government's gift and, regardless of benefit, regardless of cost, it had to go ahead. And it did, in 2000. (The deal has subsequently been mauled by the public accounts committee as "disastrous", by the national audit office for its "lack of competition", and by some experts in pulsed frequencies as a health risk comparable to asbestos.) In the same way, as Mr Blunkett was closing in on Mr Pilkington, his officials were intervening in the supposedly independent police negotiating board, some of whose members report that, while they were attempting to strike a new deal for police pay in the normal way, the home secretary was dictating terms and using leaks to the press to undermine the board's position. "It was outrageous," one board member said. "There was one Sunday morning when we were pursuing our position with the staff organisations - and there in the Sunday papers was the home secretary putting completely different points. We are supposed to be independent." One result was that the home secretary forced a national cut in police overtime, even though that was the fuel police were using to hit his targets. But what worried them most was that the home secretary was top-slicing their money: instead of handing cash down to the 43 forces, he was holding more and more of it in the centre, inviting bids on which he and his ministers would make decisions. This stole power from the police authorities as well as the chief constables. And some of these central decisions were unwelcome. For example, Mr Blunkett wanted forces to hire community safety officers as a cost-effective way of putting uniformed patrols on the streets. This was popular with some of the big city forces which could provide rapid back-up to the CSOs, but it was despised by most chief constables who believed uniformed patrols were a politically popular waste of time and who feared that untrained CSOs could easily cause friction. And yet they needed the money, so they bid for the Home Office's pot of CSO cash. Kent, for example, bid for 18 CSOs even though its chief constable, Sir David Phillips, as president of Acpo, had said publicly that he thought they had "very little merit". Balance of power It was not just that specific decisions about deployment were being stolen by the Home Office. The top-sliced funds tipped the whole balance of power. Crucially, Mr Blunkett had made a great public splash about increasing the number of police officers, but all the money for these new recruits was held centrally and since every chief constable was desperate for more officers, all of them were vulnerable to Home Office pressure. (Not one chief constable would talk to us on the record about the Home Office for fear that their force would suffer. Even retired chief constables were worried. Almost all of them used the same word to describe the Home Office's attitude to them - "spiteful".) It was in this context of centralised power that the numerical targets became such a powerful tool. There was now a real risk that Avon and Somerset was about to have one of its BCUs taken over by the new police standards unit, that Mr Pilkington would be forced out of his job, that the whole community-based, problem-solving approach to the policing of Avon and Somerset would be crushed. The force decided to play the Home Office at its own game: it would accept all the recommendations of HM inspectors; it would rearrange its meetings and its monitoring and its audit trails; and it would let events prove the point for it. It warned Home Office ministers directly that unless they admitted that there was a national crime problem with Yardies and crack cocaine, not only would HM inspectors fail to help central Bristol but the government nationally would fail to reach its crime targets. The following summer, July 2002, HM inspectors published a draft follow-up report on the central Bristol BCU, in which they patted themselves on the back, crediting their first report as "a catalyst for change", and noted that the BCU had done all that had been asked. This time, they acknowledged that the BCU's similarities to the others in its family were "somewhat limited". This time, they acknowledged that new counting rules had had a "serious impact" on their figures but nevertheless used the figures to conclude that this was "what can only be described as a comparatively poor crime performance". This time, they noted "the influx of drugs into the Bristol area, mainly through couriers from Jamaica" and recorded the BCU's strong view that it could not do much unless the government did something to stop the Yardies entering the country. But nevertheless they went ahead and delivered the judgment which most worried chief constables around the country: the inspectors suggested that the police standards unit should be called in to the BCU. At this point, David Blunkett was finally confronted by one of the many significant differences between education and criminal justice: the police are organised. Acpo, in particular, runs a 100% closed shop, it has powerful political allies in Fleet Street and Westminster, and more than any other group of organised labour in this country, it has succeeded in infiltrating its employers by inserting its various subcommittees as national policy-making bodies. Acpo covers 43 forces, each of which has its own structure and philosophy, some of which have no time at all for problem-solving and geographic policing, but all of whom were threatened by what was happening to Steve Pilkington. Within days of the inspectors' follow-up report, the police standards unit was in touch with the local police authority in Avon and Somerset to inform it that it would be making "a formal intervention". Members of the police authority found themselves being phoned by MPs who were hostile to Mr Pilkington (several chief constables around the country report being "bullied into line" by local Labour MPs, apparently acting at the behest of the Home Office). Some members of the police authority were upset that they were being overridden: if the chief constable really was at fault, then it was for them to act, not the Home Office. Their chairman, John Christensen, insisted on meeting the head of the standards unit, former police superintendent and businessman Kevin Bond. Mr Christensen, knowing that this meeting could set a national precedent, took with him the head of the national Association of Police Authorities, Melanie Leech. Mr Bond listened to them and undertook to write to Mr Christensen to spell out what was happening.In the meantime, the then president of Acpo, Sir David Phillips, travelled from Kent to Bristol. According to Acpo sources, he left the city appalled at the naivety of HM inspectors and determined to stop the standards unit moving in. The Acpo machine started to mobilise. According to one source, they confronted senior Home Office officials with a passionate complaint about the Home Office's theft of power from chief constables and police authorities and with the specific prospect that if Mr Pilkington were ousted, he would be entitled to sue them. Behind the scenes, Sir David is believed to have visited HM inspectors at the Home Office, where he warned that they were on the brink of a move which could be counterproductive. Some in HMI were not keen to encourage the standards unit, which was trespassing on their patch. Sir David is believed to have pointed out that the standards unit could not intervene unless HM inspectors formally recommended it. Although they had written their report, the inspectors had not yet made the formal move. And they never did. At the standards unit, Kevin Bond never wrote his promised letter to the Avon and Somerset police authority. HMI's follow-up report was stamped "confidential" and, unlike the original report - and in breach of HMI's stated policy - it was never published. Steve Pilkington, who had been hanging over the edge of a precipice, was hauled back to safety. Compromise As a compromise, the standards unit agreed to "collaborate" with the central Bristol BCU, offering advice and helping it to access new money, but not formally intervening. Since then, the Home Office's researchers have confirmed what central Bristol was trying to tell them, that there is a national surge in the black market for crack cocaine, which is jeopardising the government's crime strategy. In December last year the Home Office belatedly produced a national crack plan. In central Bristol now, the crime figures are falling again. Sticking to its problem-solving approach, Avon and Somerset sent officers to Jamaica and brought Jamaican police to Bristol to spot known offenders. Officers intercepted £10m of Yardie cash leaving the country; closed down the bogus college which was giving cover to Yardie mules entering the country as students; forged links with immigration and customs; and saw the Home Office belatedly bring in visas which may make travel more difficult for the Yardies. They also worked so closely with the community that they were able to put armed officers on the streets without losing their support. The result of their work is reflected now in a newsletter version of their annual report, showing sharp falls in the number of crime victims in the BCU, under the headline "Partnerships -the key to cracking crime". Nobody at Avon and Somerset wants to dig up the past. The head of central Bristol BCU, Mike Roe, stresses the good side of what happened: "It is true that we were disappointed with the HMI report, that they did not see our crime in its context and did not make the link to the Jamaican organised crime groups. But at the end of it all, you could argue that HMI did help us to do our job better and the standards unit also had a positive role to play. They did support us, they also got us extra funds." In the meantime, the performance regime has been tightened further. It has been recast into a new policing performance assessment framework which sets yet more targets under five new domain headings (it was six, but they cancelled Helping the Public), all still grouped into "families" of forces so that average performance can be compared. The government has just created a new national network of criminal justice boards, pulling together the chief officers of every criminal justice agency in every region to ensure that all of them meet their numerical targets. This year, at the behest of the Treasury, activity-based costing is to be introduced across the country, requiring that each year, for a three-week period, every police officer should pause every 15 minutes to fill in a card to summarise the work they have been doing so Whitehall can monitor efficiency. In diplomatic words, HM inspector of constabulary, Sir Keith Povey, noted in a recent report: "This can be regarded as absurd." This whole regime is enforced with engulfing bureaucracy. Police officers meet as a senior management team and work their way through service level agreements and tendering protocols, producing business plans with audit trails and budget codes and business scorecards to monitor the result. They bid for funds under dozens of different headings, wait months for approval and then scramble to spend the cash before the financial year ends. There are very few officers who do not expect to be held to account for their work. And they understand the importance of numbers - as a clue to crime patterns, as an intelligence tool to steer their work, not as a concrete overcoat. This year the chief constable of Thames Valley, Peter Neyroud, had the courage to announce publicly that he was setting aside Mr Blunkett's targets for burglary and robbery. He said they "fly in the face of reality" and threatened his ability to protect his community from other crimes. Other chief officers in mute rebellion have quietly adopted their own targets. On the ground there are people who know a lot about crime but who are running a criminal justice system which does not deliver results. In the centre there is a government which is desperate for results and therefore takes over from the people on the ground even though it knows just about nothing at all about crime and even less about the different needs of different communities. Pounding a system to deliver results which are beyond its reach, the outcome is that the Home Office is making the fight against crime more difficult. The symbol of David Blunkett's police service is a blue light wrapped in red tape. "Frankly, sir, with respect, this is crap." · Additional research by Tamsen Courtenay