Two sons said yesterday that they forgave the car thieves who ran over and killed their father on the forecourt of his family garage.Henry Raybould's son Paul, 45, who also tried to stop the thieves stealing the vehicle that ran over his father, paid tribute to the 75-year-old grandfather and asked that the killers be forgiven. Detectives launched a murder hunt after the attack, which happened at about 2.15pm on Thursday at the garage in Gornal Wood, Dudley, West Midlands, which had been owned by the family for generations. Four thieves drove up on to the forecourt in a stolen Vauxhall Cavalier and two jumped out and ran over to a Volkswagen Bora on which Mr Raybould had just finished working. The keys were still in the ignition and as they started the car the father and son ran over to stop them. The thieves reversed into Mr Raybould, throwing him to the ground and causing serious head injuries. He was taken to hospital, where he died. Paul Raybould grabbed the car window and was dragged along by the youths, but was unable to stop them. He told a news conference yesterday that his father had been a "gentleman" who was well respected by everyone in the community. He added: "His Christian faith was very important to him and this had a great effect on the way in which he lived his life." He went on: "The Christian faith is very important to myself also and my brother, and we would like to extend a hand of forgiveness to the people who did this act. We would like to see them brought to justice through the correct legal ways of this country." Mr Raybould was fondly remembered yesterday by friends and neighbours in the community. Councillor David Stanley described him as "a man that spent all his life working for the community. He was a very good Samaritan". Councillor Anne Millward said: "It is absolutely awful. I can't understand why he tried to stop them." Detectives appealed for the four car thieves to come forward. The two stolen cars were found abandoned yesterday afternoon, one in an area known for dumping cars. It is believed three men and one woman, all aged in their late teens or early twenties, were involved in the carjacking. Mr Raybould attended the local Methodist chapel. Yesterday the family-run garage remained closed and people were laying floral tributes in memory of the widower.