The chief constable of North Wales, Richard Brunstrom, is sometimes called Britain's most controversial police chief. Last week, he suggested on his own force's website that the general deployment of Taser stun guns in north Wales would be a good idea and that he would like to put the gun into officers' hands by the summer.This was misread as an indication of his desire to use the Taser 'to cope with the tourist rush', which is wrong. There is no special policy to harm tourists who visit the area for its resorts, bird life and outstanding scenery. The chief constable simply wants the weapon available for year-round policing in rural areas such as South Meirionnydd, where the arrival of back-up - armed police - can take a long time.It seems a reasonable decision. Both police and public need to be protected. But let's remember that violent crime in England and Wales is stable, having fallen 43 per cent since 1995 and, in other respects, the crime figures released by the Home Office six weeks ago show encouraging signs. North Wales is no exception, yet, from the number of times his armed response units were called, you could be forgiven for thinking that Brunstrom was policing the favelas of Rio de Janeiro or the gangland of the South Central district of Los Angeles. From 2001 to 2005, North Wales Police authorised the use of arms on 981 occasions. What may be concluded from this figure is that a gun culture has taken root in North Wales Police and that the Taser will be a welcome addition to the armoury.When criticised by Conservative and Plaid Cymru MPs, who noted a much greater deployment of armed police per head of population in the rural north compared with the cities of south Wales, Brunstrom came out with a standard defence. 'It is imperative,' he said, 'in this day and age that firearms can be deployed rapidly.' He offers not a reason but a context, which goes unchallenged because we have come to believe we are living on the edge of chaos and lawlessness.But to the credit of the government, and as Home Office crime figures make clear, we aren't. Though I cannot speak knowledgeably about the badlands of South Meirionnydd, I would guess that the use of armed police in North Wales has sometimes been wildly disproportionate and that to authorise the general issue of a Taser, which delivers a 50,000 volt shock, would be a disaster for the relations between police and public and for the general tone of society in North Wales.It is often forgotten that the tone of a society is just as much set by authority as by its citizens. Someone needs to tell Brunstrom that this American-style hysteria is completely unsuitable for policing the average problems of a mostly rural district in Britain.I have no objection to senior police officers voicing their opinions, because they help us understand their thinking about the problems they face. In Merseyside, the chief constable, Bernard Hogan-Howe, has been talking about teenage gun crime in the context of what is called 'Merseyside's total war on crime'. Since 2004, Merseyside has recorded a 25 per cent fall in gun crime, which has much to do with his policies. However, he explains that he faces a difficult task in as much as the victims of gun crime who survive are frequently too frightened to give evidence. He suggests that if they fail to help the police, they would commit an offence, which will certainly present problems of proof.More interesting was this speculation: 'When these children come from families where crime is an inherent way of life and the families have been content to harbour those with guns, I think action should be taken to exclude them from their community. Once taken away from the community, these families should be managed by those agencies involved in the criminal justice system and local authorities.'His problem is easily grasped but the idea that families who are merely associated with gun crime - whether they know it or not - are de facto guilty goes against all ideas of natural justice. Meanwhile, his idea of excluding and managing sounds unusually sinister.But the guilt by association - or proximity - which he suggests echoes new measures in the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act under which a person may be charged for simply being in a household when a serious crime is committed and failing to report it.The police have flourished under Blair and with the recent crime statistics, it may be said that both are doing better than they perhaps let on. But there is a problem with the awareness in the police of their own power, of them flexing their muscles in a way that suggests they are responding to a rapid deterioration in order when there is no such thing.We must not forget that since the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act came into force, the idea of wrongful arrest disappeared from the law. That greatly altered the relationship between the public and the police, particularly now that the government increasingly requires people to prove their innocence.However much politicians deny it, there is a presumption of guilt taking hold and with it the requirement that every citizen, as some duty to the state, must engage in an endless process of positive vetting. This is happening incrementally so most people don't notice, but it is no accident. If you read the literature on 'vertical citizenship' from the Department for Constitutional Affairs, you will see that this obligation to the state is described very well, albeit in chillingly Orwellian terms.Still, we are not yet at the stage when the people of North Wales, or in any constabulary for that matter, should be confronted by a bobby wielding a cattle prod. We are not yet at the moment, I hope, when families are removed to concentrated management by criminal justice agencies.henry.porter@observer.co.uk