Tony Blair today dismissed heated calls to sack his home secretary, Charles Clarke, as he faced an accusation of "completely losing control" of his government from the Tory leader, David Cameron.Ahead of a Commons statement by Mr Clarke announcing plans to toughen the law on the deportation of foreign offenders, Mr Blair said the home secretary could not be blamed for a problem that had existed for decades. Mr Clarke has been under intense pressure to resign since he revealed last Tuesday that 1,023 foreign criminals had been released without being considered for deportation.Since Mr Clarke's original statement a number of further revelations added fuel to the resignation calls:路 288 offenders were released after Home Office ministers were made aware of the problem, an increase in the rate of release. 路 Mr Clarke did not tell Mr Blair the scale of the problem for three weeks. 路 Five of the foreign criminals committed further serious offences. 路 A suspect wanted for the murder of WPC Sharon Beshenivsky was not deported to Somalia prior to her murder.Today it emerged that half of the 79 most serious offenders, wanted for cases of murder, rape and child sex offences, were still at large, while 32 had been tracked down and the deportation of nine had been ruled out. In his statement to MPs Mr Clarke said that, of the 1,023 cases in total, 574 cases were being considered for deportation, of which 554 have been completed, and in all 446 are to be deported. Mr Clarke said he would publish a consultation paper by the end of May to set up a new system where foreign criminals "should expect to be deported".Earlier Mr Cameron said: "This home secretary will forever be associated with the scandal of releasing prisoners on to the streets."While the prime minister keeps him in office, his claim to be tough on crime will be completely hollow. Aren't people now paying the price for the arrogant attachment to office of a leader who has completely lost control?" Mr Blair responded that the deportation system for prisoners had not functioned properly for "decades" but cases were now all being considered prior to release. "It is completely wrong to say that this problem was created or began under this home secretary," Mr Blair said, an answer branded "pathetic" by Mr Cameron. "This scandal has happened on his watch and he can't run away from responsibility for it. "The fact is, 1,000 people were released from prison and their deportation wasn't even considered."Half of the most serious offenders are still at large, it emerged. Mr Blair, sporting a red Hindu thread on his wrist, also claimed that the increase in the rate of release since ministers were made aware of the scale of the problem was due to new procedures by the immigration service. Making his second statement within a week, Mr Clarke today underlined his determination to stay in office with an announcement of plans to toughen the law on the deportation of foreign nationals. Mr Clarke was greeted with sarcastic jeers as he told MPs these were "significant proposals" which his department had been "preparing for some months". Tory MPs also sarcastically shouted "bye" as the prime minister left the chamber without listening to Mr Clarke's statement. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, mocked Mr Clarke for seeking "to make a virtue out of the fact that he has told us the facts". "Ministers have lost control of their departments," he added. "And they have introduced a new doctrine of ministerial responsibility: the bigger the mistake you make, the more you deserve to stay in your job." Mr Davis also reminded Mr Clarke that he had the power under the 1971 Immigration Act to deport any non-British citizen if he deems "deportation to be conducive to the public good:"Earlier the husband of WPC Theresa Milburn, wounded in a Bradford shooting that resulted in the murder of WPC Sharon Beschenivsky, demanded that Mr Clarke resign. He told the Yorkshire Post: "Charles Clarke has mucked this situation up. I would want to see tighter controls on immigration and anyone that has been allowed to stay in this country should be sent back if they are going to cause crime. "I think Charles Clarke should go. His position is untenable."