The stabbing of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor has been described all week as an exceptionally horrifying event. But even more chilling are new findings that assaults involving knives and guns are becoming an everyday experience for many children.New research obtained by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children into the childhood experience of young people found that 3 per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds had been attacked with a knife or gun as a child. Translated nationally, this means that as many as 150,000 children have had to deal with an armed assailant by the time they reach adulthood. 'We know that bullying is the single biggest concern among children today,' says Barry Graham, the NSPCC's Director of Education. 'But in certain communities a child is having to be prepared to deal with far more extreme incidents. On large inner-city estates, violence is a very common experience indeed.' As a result of its research, the NSPCC is now convinced that 'community violence' against children is a growing problem and is set to launch a campaign to alert adults to their responsibility to protect children outside the traditional environments of school and home. 'People think that bullying is a problem con fined to school,' added Graham. 'But more and more it's the journey to and from school that's the real problem, as the death of Damilola so tragically proved.' As The Observer reveals today, just 10 days before the murder of Damilola another Nigerian boy, 17-year-old Shola Agora, was knifed to death on the same North Peckham estate where knives are part of youth culture. An unpublished NSPCC report, Children, Young People and Community Safety , argues the full scale of violence encountered by young people has never been fully understood because the statistics are unreliable. Bullying among children is rarely defined as crime, and figures for attacks on young people are not systematically collated. The British Crime Survey does not question children.The report's author, Nicola Ross, argues that murders that result from bullying, though extremely rare, may hide what she describes as a 'pandemic' pattern of bullying in and out of school and attacks by siblings. Nigel de Gruchy, general secretary of teachers' union NASUWT, says the rise in violence is 'impossible to ignore. Where once the problem lay with adolescent boys it now spreads across the whole range of ages. Our members have noticed an increase in violence among children of infant school age, among girls. What is certainly noticeable is that more weapons, in particular knives, are being used.' He said that, where the blame was often laid at the door of schools and teachers, it was parents and even child-ren themselves that had to take responsibility. 'There is no doubt in this case that the chief culprits are the children who carried out the attack.' Children of Damilola Taylor's age group (five to 15-year- olds) are still the least at risk of being murdered in this country; babies and young men remain the groups most vulnerable to attack. But the NSPCC argues that although the murder rate of children under 15 has remained low - seven were killed last year - the figure has stabilised when it should have gone down. Child expert Dr Penelope Leach said there was too much speculation about levels of childhood violence without any hard facts to back up and conclusions. 'A lot of people believe that violence is on the increase, but we don't begin to have any idea whether it is true. We need good statistics and accurate research before we can begin to make judgments.' However, she added: 'What we can be sure of is that African and Afro-Caribbean children in London schools are treated far worse by teachers and children alike. They are far more likely to be bullied and perform badly at school.' The national average figures can also be misleading, because they underestimate the pockets of extreme violence around the country. A survey of 11 to 16-year-olds at one north London school found that nearly 90 per cent had experienced bullying. Around half had been threatened and 43 per cent had been hit or kicked. The national average is 15 per cent. All researchers seem to agree that, although young people are the group most feared by people of all ages, they are also the group most often victimised. At the same time, they are the group least likely to report crime or to be taken seriously. 'It's a vicious circle on the worst estates,' says the NSPCC's Barry Graham. 'There are places where parents feel unsafe to walk with their small children because of the gangs of young men hanging around. 'But the young men are often hanging out together to protect themselves from other gangs.' Related stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate  Stephen Lawrence family campaign