The murder of a young father in Canning Town, east London, was the second killing in the neighbourhood in the last 10 days, it emerged yesterday.The shooting of Peter Woodhams, 22, outside his front door after he had remonstrated with youths was the latest and most violent of the activities of a gang of about 30 youths. Mr Woodhams, who died in front of his fiancee and three-year-old son on Monday, had been slashed and stabbed in January in an incident which his family claim was not properly investigated.On August 14, following an altercation in a pub, warehouse manager Peter Jones was stabbed to death in the carpark of the Custom House Hotel, a few minutes walk from where Mr Woodhams was killed. It has taken two murders, claim locals, to get the attention of the police. Local shopkeepers say people no longer bother to report stabbings because they do not believe they will be investigated."There are about 20 or 30 of them just terrorising the whole place and the Old Bill are slow to react," said Pat, who was shopping in Freemasons Road, Custom House, with her friend, Jackie, neither of whom wanted their last names used. "People are frightened to say anything ... Most of it is schoolkids, and they have drugs or alcoholic parents who don't watch their kids. You can bet a lot of them will think this [murder] is a big joke. The police are not around but when you get the arms fair [the weapons exhibition at the neighbouring ExCel centre] you see them all over the place."Kenneth Lee, of the Talking Heads hairdressers on Freemasons Road, has been attacked and robbed three or four times. "I've been here 25 years and it's got worse," he said. "There's a big drugs problem here and the off-licence is always getting gangs going in. Normally, it's a knife thing and stabbings aren't reported because they're so frequent."Amsalu Getachew, who runs the local launderette, said attacks were frequent. "They come in, three or four of them with knives, and ask for money."He said the largest turnout of police he had seen came after he declined to give his name to a council officer who had asked him to identify himself but who had no ID herself."The next thing there were six police officers here, but if the kids are throwing stones you don't see them," he said.Mr Woodhams's neighbour John Quartey said: "There are a lot of youths hanging around, guys with little scooters going up and down in the middle of the night. It has been very intimidating and it has got progressively worse in the 12 years since I got here."Newham council is trying to regenerate the area, offering something apart from drugs and breaking into cars as entertainment. There are posters up advertising everything from cheerleading to car mechanics and dance lessons to boxing.Councillor Paul Schafer said: "I hate to think Canning Town is going to be looked at as a no-go area because these are good people here and we're doing the best we can."What we need is for the police to do their job and at the moment they're not. People don't report crime because they know there's going to be no attendance."Scotland Yard yesterday released security camera footage of Mr Woodhams visiting shops shortly before the confrontation with the youths on the night he died. The force hopes the footage will prompt witnesses to come forward. It shows him arriving at the shops in his Ford Focus just before 7pm on Monday. He disappears down the side of a supermarket and then reappears before driving off. Detectives have decided not to release footage of the actual altercation at this stage.