February 19: Shannon Matthews, nine, leaves her school, Westmoor Junior, at 3.10pm. She is later reported missing by her mother, Karen.February 20: Police appeal for information on Shannon, saying they are "concerned for her welfare". A search involving 200 officers begins. Shannon's schoolfriends make a video appeal on YouTube.February 21:  More than 250 officers and 60 detectives are on the case. Police report several unconfirmed sightings, and more than 200 houses within a half-mile radius are searched.February 22: Police release CCTV footage of Shannon taken the day she was reported missing, as well as pictures of her pink and grey Bratz furry boots.February 23: Police begin dredging a pond behind Dewsbury hospital. Special constables search Dewsbury Moor.February 25: Fifty specialist officers search bins on the route between Shannon's school and home.February 26: A coordinated search of 2,000 houses and open areas is carried out, and 1,500 motorists are interviewed. Around 100 people join Shannon's family and friends in a vigil. Flowers are laid outside her home.February 28: Volunteers distribute leaflets and posters of Shannon.March 1: Karen Matthews makes an emotional Mother's Day appeal for her daughter's return.March 4: One-tenth of Yorkshire police are now deployed in the hunt for Shannon - the biggest such operation since the search for the Yorkshire Ripper. Sniffer dogs trained to find human remains search more than 500 houses.Police build up a composite fingerprint from the missing girl's schoolbooks and other personal items, as well as a full DNA profile that may assist police in the long term.Shannon's stepfather, Craig Meehan, 22, denies any involvement in her disappearance.March 5: Police release a tape of the 999 emergency call made by Shannon's mother.March 14: Shannon is found alive in a flat at Batley Carr, about a mile from the family home. She is not immediately returned to her family as police investigate the circumstances of her disappearance.March 17: Michael Donovan, the 39-year-old uncle of Meehan, is charged with the kidnapping and false imprisonment of Shannon. He is remanded in custody.April 2: Shannon's stepfather is arrested and charged with 10 counts of possessing child pornography.April 4: Police arrest Meehan's sister and mother. Amanda Hyett, 25, is held on suspicion of assisting an offender, while 49-year-old Alice Meehan is detained on suspicion of attempting to pervert the course of justice.April 7: Police say they have arrested a 32-year-old woman in Dewsbury on suspicion of perverting the course of justice. A source connected to the investigation confirms the woman is Shannon's mother, Karen.April 8: Police are granted an extension allowing them to question Karen Matthews until mid-morning on April 9. It is reported that Matthews was arrested over suspicion that she knew where her daughter was while police were searching.April 9:  Karen Matthews is remanded in custody at Dewsbury magistrates court charged with perverting the course of justice and child neglect.April 10:  Amanda Hyett and Caroline Meehan are arrested and bailed, along with their mother Alice Meehan, on suspicion of perverting the course of justice. (The three are no longer on police bail and have faced no charges). April 11: Shannon's stepfather is refused bail on charges of possessing child pornography.December 4: Sharon Matthews and Michael Donovan are found guilty of kidnapping Shannon by drugging her and tethering her to a wall in order to claim reward money offered for her safe return.