Another man has lost the plot, killed someone and got away with it. English courts are famous for telling wife-killers that they have suffered enough and letting them walk free; this time it was a Greek court and the man who lost the plot had killed not his wife, but the son he slung out of a fourth-floor window like so much rubbish, before grabbing his daughter and leaping himself. For the Greeks, the verdict of "Not guilty by reason of insanity" was a step in the right direction. The judge has ordered that John Hogan be kept for a short period in a hospital until he is no longer a danger to himself or others. Well, a man who cannot deal with conflict within an intimate relationship is always going to be a danger to himself and others, regardless of how meekly he can be got to behave in a hospital where he is not emotionally involved with anyone.Common humanity dictates that people who are insane are not to be held responsible for their actions, but was Hogan insane? What he did had a certain psychotic logic; he didn't run amok among perfect strangers. He didn't take windmills for giants. He wasn't deluded. He wasn't hallucinating. He wasn't even hearing voices. He now says that his son is in paradise. Apparently, throwing him out of a window was a way of getting him to paradise by a shorter route. If this is a delusion, it is one accepted by religious people everywhere, including those in positions of the highest responsibility. Believing in paradise is not, of itself, evidence of insanity.Hogan's insanity was no more than blind rage. Anyone can get into a blind rage, especially if they have been drinking. Had Hogan been drinking? No one seems to have asked. With whom was he in a blind rage? With his wife, who else? His rage has been described as a psychotic state, and the psychotic state equated, in terms of jurisprudence, with insanity, but people who use drugs deliberately to induce psychotic states are not therefore treated as insane. People who are depressed are not insane.What has reared its ugly head in the court in Chania is our old enemy, the provocation defence, hung about with masking irrelevancies. We are told, by way of explanation, that two of Hogan's brothers committed suicide and Hogan had been treated for panic attacks. None of these circumstances should have any bearing on deciding whether or not he was responsible for his actions. Suicide is not reliable evidence of insanity in the perpetrator; it can be no kind of evidence for the insanity of any person other than the perpetrator. Panic attacks have no demonstrable connection with homicide.What drove Hogan into his fit of madness, that is, his blind rage? Need you ask? His wife, that's what. The death of Liam Hogan was not John Hogan's fault, but his then wife Natasha's fault. If he had thrown Natasha out of the window instead of Liam, we would not now be hearing the callers to Radio 5 Live demanding the death penalty. If Hogan had killed his wife, the defence would have saved his miserable skin by vilifying her, moving the judge to tears with accounts of how she ridiculed his penis, or went on at him about taking out the rubbish, or whatever, until, after silently enduring months of limitless suffering, he finally snapped and beat her to death, or kicked her downstairs. The more frenzied the attack, the better the defence. Now we know why John Hogan, the insane, was sane enough to keep saying at his trial, "I did not plan to kill my children."As the victim was Liam rather than Natasha, the provocation defence had to be modified. There was no way that anyone could pretend that Liam got what was coming to him. The only way to make what John Hogan did even remotely forgivable was to argue that his wife made him do it. So Natasha was made responsible for her husband's actions. Even then, the defence couldn't come up with much, but you have to give them credit for trying. She was accused of choosing the wrong place to tell her husband she wanted a divorce. Because she chose a "make or break" holiday to tell her husband that it was "break" after all, she was judged to "lack emotional intelligence". Evidently, she was supposed to supply the emotional intelligence for both of them. John, we were told, was shocked when she told him she wanted out; even though sexual relations between them were a thing of the past and their relationship as dead as a doornail, her decision struck him "like an emotional earthquake". If Natasha lacked emotional intelligence, Hogan was an emotional imbecile.The tabloid press has weighed in with the information that when Hogan killed his son and injured his daughter, his wife was emotionally involved with another man and may even have had sex with him. As Hogan did not know of his wife's budding relationship at the time, the only point in referring to it is to reinforce the impression in the minds of an unreconstructed public that somehow Natasha is to blame for the bloody disaster that finally brought her failed relationship with John Hogan to an end. Tabloid emotional intelligence does not stretch so far as to comprehend that a man who cannot accept that a woman he loves does not love him is as implacable and dangerous as any stalker.The person who was tried in the court in Chania was not John Hogan but Natasha Steel. She had not only to relive the traumatic events of August 2006, but to witness her ex-husband being handled with kid gloves, stroked and reassured, and finally taken away for further cosseting. There was no prosecution worth the name. No one asked him or his handlers the hard questions. Small wonder that on the steps of the courthouse Natasha could only weep as though her heart would break.