A senior detective has denied claims that he could have prevented the suicide of the man questioned in connection with the death of Amanda Edwards.Detective Chief Superintendent Paul Howlett, head of Wiltshire CID, has defended the decision to release Ian Cortis, 48. The body of Ms Edwards, a 21-year-old nursery assistant, was discovered wrapped in packaging on Friday, eight days after she disappeared. Her body was found buried on a building site in Wiltshire. Police decided to release Cortis without charge after holding him for several days. The plasterer, a father of two, was found hanged just an hour after police dug up Ms Edwards' body. Cortis, whom police have still refused to name officially, was arrested on Monday. The body of the nursery assistant was discovered four days later. Police had previously taken Cortis, a convicted double rapist, to the Knoll in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, while he was under arrest - but claimed they did not have enough evidence to hold him in custody. Last night Det. Chief Supt. Howlett said: "I am aware that concern has been expressed regarding the release of the man held in custody last week and the subsequent discovery of Amanda's body. "The decision to release the man held in custody was not taken lightly and was taken after a review of all the evidence in our possession and it was agreed with the Crown Prosecution Service as being an appropriate course of action". He further defended the decision taken by police, saying: "The simple fact is that there was not sufficient evidence to allow any hope of obtaining a successful prosecution in relation to any charge concerning Amanda's disappearance." Ms Edwards' family, with whom she lived in Purton, near Swindon, have visited the site at The Knoll, Malmesbury, at their own request. Police said identification of the woman's body had been difficult because of the material in which she was wrapped. They also revealed that her handbag and other personal items were found alongside her, contained in a separate buried package. A post-mortem examination of Ms Edwards' body has proved inconclusive, revealing only that the death was not natural. Further forensic tests are to be carried out. An inquest into Ms Edwards' death is to open on Thursday.