Primrose Shipman, the wife of the serial killer Harold Shipman, is to appear before a public inquiry to answer questions about the deaths of two of his patients.Mrs Shipman, 54, who occasionally worked as a receptionist at Shipman's GP surgery, will speak for the first time about her husband, who was convicted last year of murdering 15 patients in Hyde, Greater Manchester. Mrs Shipman has so far refused to talk publicly - she has never been interviewed by police and has only given a general statement to the public inquiry. Lawyers for the inquiry now have evidence that Mrs Shipman went to the homes of two patients near the time of their deaths. They seek to ask her for a factual account of those incidents. Janet Smith, chairman of the public inquiry, yesterday rejected an application that Mrs Shipman should be allowed to give evidence in private or via video link. Mrs Shipman was said by her lawyers to be so "uniquely terrified" of appearing in front of the public and press, that she feared her evidence would come across badly and she would not be believed. Dame Janet said: "There has been intrusion into her private life and I accept there will be intrusion between now and the day she gives evidence. But I cannot accept the position will be any worse whether she gives evidence in private, in public or via video link." Dame Janet said Mrs Shipman was not suspected of any criminal act and would not be criticised by the inquiry. She would be asked "factual, mundane" questions and she would not be asked confidential details about her relationship with her husband. Mrs Shipman has been sent details of questions relating to three patients and will appear at Manchester Town Hall to give evidence on Friday. The inquiry heard last week that Mrs Shipman was present at the home of Irene Chapman, 74, a widow from Hyde who died in March 1998 after a visit from Shipman. Mrs Shipman was on Saturday morning reception duty at her husband's surgery in Hyde when Mrs Chapman phoned at 8:35am complaining of chest pains and requesting an emergency appointment. Later that morning, a neighbour saw Shipman leave Mrs Chapman's house and return an hour later with his wife. Mrs Chapman's niece, Celia Saxton, received a phone call from Shipman saying he had been present when she took her "last gasps". He said there was no need for a post-mortem examination and he would issue a death certificate. Police computer experts later revealed that Shipman had altered details of his visits to Mrs Chapman including the time of his visits. Mrs Shipman will also be questioned about Joyce Woodhead, 74, another widow who was found dead in bed at her home in Hyde in February 1997 after a visit from Shipman. Mrs Shipman was said to have been seen going into the house that day. A third patient, Elaine Oswald, told last week how Shipman had given her a potentially lethal injection at her home in Todmorden, West Yorkshire in 1975. Mrs Shipman was outside in the car. Mrs Shipman now lives near York, closer to Frankland prison, County Durham, where her husband is serving a life sentence.