It is obvious that Michelle, like any young mother, is besotted with her baby as she smothers her in kisses.But getting to this point has not been easy. Michelle found out she was pregnant two days before she started a five-month prison sentence for assault causing actual bodily harm. She had been addicted to heroin and crack for two years, and had been sleeping rough before she went to jail.A week before the end of her sentence she found out she had got a place in Naomi House in Bristol, one of only two mother-and-baby drug treatment services in the country for addicts.With the support she got there, she has been drug- and alcohol-free for 10 months and next month – on her 24th birthday – will move into a new flat with her daughter."Most women don't get a chance, people don't want to help women who use, they don't expect women not to be able to look after their children," she says, speaking in the light-filled therapy room in the Naomi House garden. "I was lucky enough to get this chance, I know I won't get another."Neither will others in her situation. At the end of February, Naomi House will close its doors, a victim of severe public spending cuts that have made its existence untenable."We held out, we explored every avenue but we just can't find a way of staying open," says Gill Nowland, the chief executive of One25, the charity that runs the service. "It's very sad, a lot of time and energy and passion have gone into Naomi House. But that effort has not been wasted. We've learned a tremendous amount and we will take that into the future."Naomi House is not a typical treatment centre. Its living room is filled with toys, and shelves bulge with cookery books. In the kitchen, someone is making brownies. When Michelle talks about Naomi House, she calls it "home".Pregnant at 15 by an abusive man five years her senior, she had two children by the age of 17 and suffered serious mental health problems that led to her being sectioned. When she left hospital nine weeks later, her former husband took the children and she was left homeless.In a hostel she was introduced to heroin and her life became increasingly chaotic. "I was robbing people, robbing shops. I slept with drug dealers … there was nothing I wouldn't have done to get drugs," she says.Thin, strikingly pretty and impeccably turned out, she smiles briefly, recalling her first sight of Naomi House, a comfortable, unremarkable four-bedroom house on the outskirts of Bristol. "I thought it was lovely," she says. "The sort of place you'd want for your child, you know, if you were in a position to have a house with your child."One25, which has been providing support for women exiting sex work and drug addiction in Bristol for 16 years, opened Naomi House in 2009. "We wanted to provide somewhere women could come and be safe while they were pregnant, and give them a chance of parenthood," says Nowland.During its short existence it has achieved startling results. Of the 18 women who have passed through its doors, 10 left drugs free and with their babies. The charity stays in contact with those who did not make it, guiding them back to recovery and keeping them in touch with their children.Compare this with the bleak situation of street sex workers in Bristol: according to a 2004 study, 99% were addicted to drugs or alcohol. And of those who had given birth, 79% had lost their babies. Nationally, only 30% of addicts who have completed drugs treatment programmes remain clean, according to government figures (pdf).The charity began to struggle when it lost two government grants, one from a now abolished quango, according to Josie Hill, One25's head of fundraising. "I'm not being political, but since May 2010 that type of funding has just not been there," she says.In an effort to change its funding model, Naomi House relaunched as primary treatment for 12-18 weeks rather than up to 23 months, but lost its ability to receive housing benefit from the local authority as a result and was unable to get a fast enough turnround of clients."It wasn't that there isn't a need or we weren't successful," says Nowland. "But you need more time. By the time a woman's about to have her baby, things are often too chaotic. Since Baby P, child services are under pressure to remove babies and put them in adoptive homes."Now women exiting addiction or sex work in the area will stand much less chance of keeping their children, says Nowland. Michelle herself believes that without the support she received – the parenting groups, life skills classes, therapy and drug treatment – she was incapable of looking after her baby."The way I talked and acted wasn't appropriate. I behaved in a way I'd had to to survive, but it's not what you want to teach your child," she says. "This place taught me another way. It showed me that people did want to help and that I deserved to be helped. You forget that."Nowland hopes One25 will be able in the future to open another safe house for mothers and babies.But everyone is grieving for the loss of Naomi House, including Michelle. "I feel sad because no one else is going to get to come here," she says. "Those people who would have kept their babies aren't going to now. Even if anyone wanted to give them a chance, there's nowhere for them to go."