Police who last month dropped an investigation into allegations of sexual assault and harassment against the MP Mike Hancock have admitted losing a crucial part of the evidence.A detective from Hampshire police has told the alleged victim and her solicitor that the force cannot locate discs which contained phone records of the MP for Portsmouth South showing the level of contact between them.The disclosure comes weeks after detectives informed the vulnerable woman, one of Hancock's constituents, that they had dropped their police inquiry into allegations that he exposed himself and assaulted her after sending dozens of text messages. The complainant, 39, is suing the MP in the high court.Hancock has denied the allegations and says he will fight the high court claim as well as a local council inquiry into his conduct.The alleged victim, speaking to the Guardian, said she plans to lodge a complaint with the Independent Police Complaints Commission about the loss of the documentation."The loss of these documents is outrageous. I want to get to the bottom of why the police appear to lose evidence which is good for my case. I need to know when they lost it, and if the loss happened before the police's decision to drop the case," she said.The messages between them are a crucial part of the high court case and it remained unclear last night whether the alleged victim will be able to retrieve all of the data that was on the discs.Hancock, 66, was arrested over the allegations in 2010. His solicitors have said that the allegations were examined by the Crown Prosecution Service but were dropped because there was no case to answer.However, the police reopened their inquiry this year following an inquiry into the affair by Nigel Pascoe QC which was commissioned by Portsmouth city council.Last month, the police announced that they had dropped their police investigation following discussions with the CPS.On Wednesday, a senior detective met with the alleged victim and her solicitor Harriet Wistrich in the central London offices of Birnberg Peirce.The officer told them that his staff were "ripping the buildings apart" to find the discs because their loss is "professionally embarrassing". He also told them that the material was not saved to a computer.Hancock has previously admitted sending dozens of text messages to her. He is said to have written: "Please give me a chance you never know my princess xxx", "… you are special and sexy to me xxx", "just got here and in bed alone my love xxx". When previously confronted over the texts by a journalist, Hancock said he had called her "sexy" because she had asked him to.Hancock, a local councillor and a former council leader, has been accused of forming an inappropriate relationship with the woman over a 10-month period after she approached him for help with noisy neighbours.The MP placed his hand on her breast, exposed himself and kissed her on many occasions without consent, it is alleged in high court papers. His actions amount to sexual assault, harassment and misfeasance in public office, the papers claim. It is also claimed that he sent her gifts including House of Commons mints, wine, clothes and perfume. He also gave her a House of Lords teddy bear he named Mike, it is alleged.Hancock has resigned the Liberal Democrat whip in the House of Commons until the case is resolved, so is currently an independent MP. However, he remains a Liberal Democrat councillor.A Hampshire Constabulary spokesman confirmed that a disc has been lost and that they do not have any other copy of the log of calls stored on the CD.However, he added that the phone records were examined by officers before the original decision was made to take no further action in this case."We are in the process of locating a disc that contains these phone records in our archives, and hard copies of the actual phone messages remain available to the police," he said.