Jealous wife Rena Salmon was jailed for life today after being found guilty of murdering her love rival.Mother-of-two Salmon, 43, of Great Shefford, Berks, admitted killing Lorna Stewart, 36, by shooting her twice with a shotgun at her beauty salon in Chiswick High Road, west London, in September last year. Salmon had denied murder and said she had gone to the salon to commit suicide and pulled the trigger in a trance-like state.The defence had urged the Old Bailey jury of 10 men and two women to clear her of murder and find her guilty of manslaughter. But they rejected her claims that she did not know what she was doing when she shot Ms Stewart, accepting the prosecution's case that she killed her in a fit of "anger and revenge". Ms Stewart had left her husband Keith Rodrigues to set up home in Iver, Bucks, with Salmon's husband, IT consultant Paul Salmon.The court heard that the Salmons had become friends with Ms Stewart and her husband because their children attended the same village school. But in January last year Mr Rodrigues told Salmon that their spouses had been having an affair.Salmon - who told the court that she had been abused by her mother as a child - was shattered and became obsessed with revenge.After discovering the affair, she tried to commit suicide, became clinically depressed, and suffered violent mood swings. She once hit Ms Stewart after confronting her in her kitchen. Paul Salmon said he had bundled his wife out - and saw she had scrawled the word "Whore" down the side of his mistress's car. Three days before the killing, Salmon said Ms Stewart told her they were planning a marriage ceremony and planned to have children. Her obsession with revenge reached its climax on September 10 last year, when she persuaded a lock-smith to open her estranged husband's gun cabinet then drove to London to confront her rival with a double-barrelled shotgun.Salmon, who had served in the Army for 10 years and was trained in using guns, remained calm during the shooting. She then made a "chilling" telephone call for an ambulance saying: "I have shot my husband's mistress." In a further twist, prosecuting counsel Peter Clarke QC revealed to the jury after they returned their verdict that Lorna Stewart was two months pregant when her love rival shot her. Salmon herself had apparently not known her husband's mistress was carrying the baby when she shot her dead with his shotgun, so it was ruled to be inadmissible evidence. But the jury did hear that Salmon had flown into a rage when she learnt that her husband Paul and Ms Stewart were trying for a baby. Ms Stewart, originally from Glasgow, was a successful businesswoman with a sharp brain. She ran Equilibrium, her salon in Chiswick, west London, while her husband, computer expert Keith Rodrigues, had helped her from home.