There is an old adage that you don't value something until you are in danger of losing it. This week we realised just how much we take social order for granted. The police service is at the heart of maintaining order but it cannot achieve that on its own. The maths are not in our favour. The average headcount of police officers to population in this country is about 1 to 1,000, if we permit sleep and rest. If we maintain a core 24/7 capability in every local area then it halves further the number of police officers available for deployment to critical incidents. It is possible, as we have seen, that police lines become overrun.Sir Robert Peel was far-sighted when he created the "modern police" in 1829. The fundamental principle of his unarmed constabulary was that "the people are the police, and police are to be the uniformed representation of the people". In other words the police can only achieve their objective if they have the mandate of the people and the support of the people whom they serve. If they don't have the former they abuse their authority. If they don't have the latter then they are on a fool's errand.One thing that has troubled me long before last weekend is diminishing support for the police as the arbiters of social order and equivocation about its role in maintaining the peace. Individual human rights have been asserted as superior to community rights and justice, and so our mandate has been steadily diluted. Unprofessional behaviour by an individual officer, like the baton strike on Ian Tomlinson prior to his death in April 2009, is held up as reason to limit the general powers and tactics that we professionals consider necessary for maintaining public order in the extreme.Many commentators have a view about what the police need to do their job: to scatter the mob and make arrests where appropriate, and to keep the majority safe from the mindless acts of a minority. You can keep your water cannon, plastic bullets, and curfews that are subjects of speculation at the moment. What would put greater power into the hands of the police is the wholehearted support and unequivocal mandate of the public, of which we are simply the uniformed element. The irony of this week is that I think we can now count on it. The prime minister has been clear. Newspaper editorials are a rallying call and our own friends and family give us their "advice". My officers are prepared to carry out your will within the law.Even in the midst of this unprecedented blitzkrieg of lawlessness, policing tactics are getting sharper to better protect you. We do not need more kit. The value of water cannon on the continent and in Northern Ireland is in clearing densely packed areas of mass disorder. We have practised with them. They are slow, lumbering things that are used in a static or very slow-moving situation: absolutely hopeless for the smash and grab behaviour we are witnessing.Baton rounds (or plastic bullets) are already a part of our armoury. Their real value is in keeping a distance between a crowd and the police lines. Shooting someone in the back running away with a pair of looted trainers is not the situation that they are designed for. Van tactics have been refreshed in London to clear streets and barricades. This was a tactic police employed until, in the 80s, an individual was crushed in a deployment. I now hear support for the sensible and proportionate use of vehicles.If the disorder continues, you will see more "running lines" of police officers rapidly quelling disorder and clearing an area. I wager that more than one person will cry police brutality and overreaction. The question for society in general is whether you want the street cleared or not. We do not need the army, we do not need fancy new weapons, we just need to hear the unequivocal voice of our public. 