Two brothers, aged 10 and 11, were charged with attempted murder and robbery today after a vicious attack on two boys aged 11 and nine in an isolated former railway cutting in South Yorkshire.The brothers, who have been remanded in secure care, appeared before magistrates at Doncaster Youth Court this afternoon accused of attacking the other two boys at Brick Ponds in Edlington, on the edge of Doncaster on Saturday.The pair, who cannot be named for legal reasons, stood in the dock with three security officers. The older boy wore a red England shirt and his younger brother a grey Umbro T-shirt as the charges were read to them. Neither showed any emotion during the hearing and were remanded into secure accomodation until April 14 when they will appear at the same court.During today's appearance the younger brother, who strained to see over the bar of the glass-fronted dock, the pair stood only to answer brief formal questions by District Judge Jonathan Bennett. There was no application for release on bail.Each faces four charges of trying to kill and rob the boys, who are recovering in hospital. The older boy spent two days on a ventilator in intensive care after the attack.The boys are continuing to make a slow recovery from serious injuries said to have been inflicted by bricks, a knife and cigarettes.The 11-year-old was moved to a high dependency ward at Sheffield children's hospital yesterday while the younger victim is in Doncaster royal infirmary, where he has had two operations on a deep cut to one of his arms.The charges were announced by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) after detectives from South Yorkshire police questioned the brothers for nearly two days. Magistrates granted two extensions of custody after their arrest, in allotments near the semi-wild railtrack and land reclaimed from a brickyard and former quarry, which has been flooded to make a fishing lake.Chris Hartley, the head of the crown court unit of South Yorkshire CPS, said: "We have now authorised the police to charge a boy aged 10 and a boy aged 11. Each boy is charged with an offence of attempted murder for each victim and each boy is also charged with an offence of robbery against each victim."Doncaster council said yesterday that the brothers had recently been placed with foster parents. They are expected to appear in juvenile court shortly. They cannot be named for legal reasons.Police found the older victim semi-conscious after the younger one wandered, dazed and covered in blood, on to the housing estate where both boys live. Police said their families had thanked neighbours and officers for their support.In a statement issued through South Yorkshire police, the parents of the 11-year-old said: "We would like to thank all the community for their help in finding our son and for all their continued support through what is a very traumatic time. We are hoping that our son will continue to recover from his ordeal and ask that the media will continue to respect our privacy."