One of the most enduring expressions in British policing is the phrase "helping with inquiries". A delicate euphemism, it can usually be taken to mean the exact opposite of what it says. Help is very much at hand this week with arrests in two of the most consuming investigations of our time: the cash-for-peerages inquiry and the continuing hunt for would-be terrorists. Some members of the government have accused the police of leaking damaging information to the media in the inquiry and in the past of over-egging the case against newly arrested suspects in alleged terrorist cases.So what is the role of the police in giving information to the media while a major investigation is under way, and should they be saying more or less about those arrested than that they are "helping with inquiries"? In the US, police are happy to spell out the evidence against a suspect, sometimes accurately, sometimes not, at the time of an arrest, often with a degree of candid detail that amazes British reporters. In contrast, many European countries do not even allow the publication of the name of an accused until after conviction. Britain hovers in the limboland between these two extremes.The police are very conscious of the enormous pressure in a competitive media society like Britain to provide some indication as to whether or not an arrest is meaningful and likely to lead to prosecution, and even a small detail that may have emerged during the course of questioning or arrest. Like politicians, they are dependent on the media for the way in which they are viewed by the public, although, as they often remind us, they always rate higher in public approval ratings than politicians or journalists. They know, as do politicians, that information is a strong currency and, when dispensed selectively, can create a healthy deposit in their credit account.They are also very aware that lawyers are watching to see how much damaging information about a defendant has been allowed into the public domain and how much this could potentially influence a trial. They do not want to scupper the chance of conviction because they have helped journalists too much with their inquiries at the time of arrest.Politicians are well aware of the benefits of briefing journalists, of handing them a bone, however small, that they can loyally drop at the feet of their news editors. Equally, the police, whether as a public body or as a lone detective, know the importance of having their side of the story put at the earliest possible stage. Sometimes that information is provided with full knowledge of events and the best of honest intentions in presenting the facts speedily to the public. On other occasions, as with their political counterparts, the great British art of spin is exercised in a way that would take Monty Panesar's breath away.Politicians may argue that the police have a duty not to pass out any information, either formally or informally, from their investigations, while at the same time briefing heavily and anonymously about the motives or prejudices of the police's investigation.Defence lawyers will, rightly, object when partisan and unproven information against their clients appears in the media and can have come from only one source. While this is reprehensible, verdicts in recent high-profile trials involving alleged terrorism indicate that jurors still listen to the evidence as presented rather than entering the court with a pre-cooked judgment based on damaging information that may have been leaked.So, just as the three words "helping with inquiries" are an essential part of the police vocabulary, there are also an essential two words for viewing every leak and hint and claim at the time of a high-profile arrest. The best advice, for journalists and public alike, remains: never assume.duncan.campbell@theguardian.com