Police hunting for a 35-year-old man wanted in connection with two brutal murders are focusing their attention on a housing estate in Middlesbrough as part of an operation involving more than 100 officers from two forces.At a press conference on Friday, Chief Superintendent Gordon Lang, of Cleveland police, made a direct appeal to James Allen to hand himself in.Allen is wanted following the deaths of Colin Dunford in Middlesbrough on Monday, and Julie Davison in Whitby, North Yorkshire, on Wednesday. Police confirmed yesterday that Allen knew 81-year-old Dunford as he was his former next-door neighbour in Middlesbrough.Allen is known to police, and members of the public have been urged not to approach him but to contact police immediately by dialling 999 if they encounter him. He is described as 5ft 7in, bald, with tattoos on both arms.In a direct appeal to the fugitive, Lang said: "James Allen stop now. Do the right thing. Consider the consequences. You have inflicted terrible injuries and death on two families. Stop and hand yourself in."He said Allen was on court bail for an undisclosed offence. He had contact with the probation service and was being investigated for other alleged offences, which Lang wouldn't reveal.Lang said Allen, who had previous convictions for violence and was a known drug user, was probably "confused and chaotic". There had been a number of reported sightings in Middlesborough, Whitby and Scarborough.The senior officer urged members of the public to look out for elderly neighbours and put safety first; they should "lock their doors, lock their windows and check who's knocking on your door. Clearly this is … a dangerous man but we are putting absolutely everything into finding him, tracking him down and bringing him to justice."He said the two police forces were "absolutely working in partnership with one goal and that is to find James Allen and arrest him".Cleveland police confirmed that officers were searching for Allen in the Pallister Park district. Detectives were also investigating an alleged offence at Allen's address in Lothian Road over the weekend.Lang said Allen, originally from Blackpool, knew Dunford when he lived next door to him around a year ago. He is not believed to have known Davison.Robbery was a possible motive for the attacks, but Lang stressed he was keeping an open mind. One line of inquiry was that he could have tricked his way into Davison's home.Officers are keen to trace a black bicycle which Allen had at both addresses. They believe it was feasible Allen cycled the 30-odd miles (50-odd km) between Middlesbrough and Whitby.Neighbours of Allen said they saw him there at the weekend.Adeel Baig said he last saw Allen get in a taxi on Sunday evening. "He was a normal bloke. Always polite. I thought he was trying to sort his life out."He also saw him on Saturday with a baby whom Allen said was his granddaughter. "I was surprised. I thought it was his daughter. She was only about six months old  … On the Sunday he had knocked on my door and asked to borrow some pots and pans."Baig said armed police arrived at the house on Friday morning after he returned from the school run. "Six or seven police vehicles arrived and officers got out with their weapons and ran to the house. They asked me to go to the bottom of the road. They were walking towards the house with guns," he said.An elderly man in the house came out of the property with his hands in the air and was taken away by officers. Baig said the man had lived at the property for about 20 years.Mohammed Salim Afsar said he saw Allen about four days ago."He said he was a bricklayer and asked if I wanted any work doing. He said he was going to Scarborough. I recognised his photo and rang the police yesterday."Davison, 50, who lived alone, was found dead by her sister at her rented flat in Church Square. She had suffered serious head injuries, police said. Friends said she attended bingo twice a week and had won £40 on Tuesday.North Yorkshire police said they wanted a man with a dark-coloured mountain bike to come forward after he was seen near her flat at around 6.30am on Wednesday.A postmortem examination on Dunford, who also lived alone, revealed he had suffered serious head injuries as a result of a significant assault.He was found dead at his house on Monday after he failed to appear at his favourite working men's club opposite his home. It is believed members became concerned about his welfare and called police.Detectives said there was no sign of forced entry at the house. Neighbours described him as popular and a "true gentleman".