The government is considering introducing powerful new conspiracy laws to tackle up to 200 master criminals who are effectively untouchable because current legislation does not give the police enough powers to tackle them.Senior police officers have urged the Home Office to pursue initiatives similar to the anti-racketeering act in the US, which was credited with crushing the mafia . The Racketeer Influenced Corrupt Organisations Act (Rico) allowed federal agents to target the organising entity behind a crime, "not merely the act" itself. By concentrating on the conspiracy behind a crime, investigators were able to target mafia bosses as well as their footsoldiers. Sir David Phillips, chairman of the Association of Chief Police Officer's policing committee, has supported the use of laws modelled on Rico in private advice to the Home Office, believing they could prove an essential crime-fighting tool. The Guardian has learned the Home Office is now circulating a classified consultation paper titled the Prosecution of Organised Criminal Conspiracy to gauge reaction to Rico- style laws from agenciessuch as customs and excise and the crown prosecution service, before deciding what to do. Concern in Whitehall that a premier league of criminals is prospering with impunity was bolstered last year with the findings of a confidential UK threat assessment report, compiled by the national criminal intelligence service (NCIS). An abridged version of the report was given to the media but the full document was only presented to ministers. An investigation into organised crime published in today's Economist newspaper claims to have uncovered further confidential details about the extent of criminality in the UK. The Economist says it has seen classified NCIS documents that refer to a group of 150 "core nominals" - intelligence-speak for crime bosses - and around 750 lieutenants who work for them. It says the number of such criminals increases by a third every year. NCIS yesterday denied that these figures were part of its confidential threat assessment report. Nevertheless, it has warned repeatedly about the increasing threat of organised crime in areas like drugs smuggling, illegal arms sales, and immigration rackets. The willingness of the Home Office to consider new powers for the police became apparent yesterday when it emerged that a leading criminologist, Professor Michael Levi of Cardiff University, was asked to prepare a paper on methods used by other countries to tackle organised crime. His report highlighted the effectiveness of Rico laws in the US, but also questioned whether such laws would work in the UK. Sir David Phillips, the chief constable of Kent, has advocated the use of similar laws to Lord Justice Auld, who is preparing a report on root and branch reform of the criminal justice system. "The bottom line is this," said a Home Office spokes man. "We want to prosecute these top criminals and make them 'touchable'. _ At the moment, there is no real consensus on Rico-style laws, though the police are generally positive. We hope to publish the findings of the consultation later this year." Last month the home secretary, Jack Straw, unveiled a new law to use civil powers to confiscate ill-gotten fortunes worth £220m. The draft proceeds of crime bill, to be introduced later this year, would set up a criminal assets recovery agency charged with the task of hunting down cash, houses, cars and other wealth accumulated through criminal activity.