Following the horrible murder of teenager Amar Aslam, the Yorkshire town of Dewsbury is getting a simplistic media walloping, organised on the principle of threading together a run of grim stories to make a pattern called - as per yesterday's Times - "the town that dare not speak its name".Nobody in Dewsbury yesterday was cowed into renaming the place - what? Far Batley? Huddersfield Parva? - but the textile analogy says it all. Dewsbury rose to prosperity on shoddy, the term for rags used to make the local speciality of felt. It has a head start in understanding shoddy treatment. What have Aslam, Shannon Matthews, the London bombing ringleader Mohammed Siddique Khan, and an unsubstantiated story about a five-year-old boy being hanged from a tree got in common? A link with Dewsbury, nothing else.Real Dewsbury has a handsome town centre with one of those Victorian town halls designed to enclose a choral society and symphony orchestra belting out Handel's Messiah. It has a minster with Saxon stonework, ranking with York, Selby and Beverley. It has human monuments of equal majesty: Baroness Boothroyd, Eddie Waring and - model stoic for the current bad patch - Wallace Hartley, bandmaster on the Titanic.Hartley has a memorial in the Arts Council's HQ for Yorkshire and the Humber, which chose Dewsbury instead of more obvious rivals such as pretty York or humming Leeds. Why? It is central, linked by rail, bus and motorway to everywhere else, and in 1990, when the office opened, offered budget office rents in return for a regeneration hand.Staff there fearlessly speak Dewsbury's name. "Everything you need to do at lunchtime, you can do in Dewsbury," says Diane Horton, "and you can do it quickly and cheaply." Like lots of locals, the Arts Council posse swears by the West Riding Refreshment Rooms, which scored a rare 10/10 in this newspaper's national gastropub guide. Those who patronise Debbie's Pie Nights (Tuesday) or the Curry Nights (Wednesday) at the Rooms either like the town for its own merits, or because it's cheaper than Leeds. You can walk into the countryside or along the Calder and Hebble Navigation. Dewsbury won Britain's best outdoor market vote last year, and Ken's Fruit & Veg stall is to die for. Saville Town has any exotic ingredient Ken doesn't stock.It also has the Markazi mosque, which houses 4,000 worshippers, and serves as European headquarters for Tablighi Jamaat, revivalists who fear "contamination" of Islam as an embattled minority in the west. This is certainly an issue, with the risk of separate communities developing, but it is one that people in Dewsbury engage with. Far too simple to talk about "parallel lives".One hero of the Shannon situation was Mumtaz Hussain, a councillor who organised the printing of search leaflets in Urdu and Hungarian, as well as English. British Asian taxi drivers waived fares for volunteers delivering them. The councillors for Dewsbury West, which covers Shannon's largely white estate, are all called Hussain and none of them is trying to convert the place to Islam.Crunching statistics doesn't bear out doomsville theories either, any more than it did in Bradford, one of Dewsbury's predecessors as a coconut shy for generalised accusations. Dewsbury's 55,000 people bump along just below the national average on most indicators. Worse is the low-wage economy, but we are not talking bottom of the heap.Do the people of Dewsbury care? They do. At the height of Shannonmania, they held a celebration feast for the place at the town hall. They can also laugh. Current word has it that the Dewsbury-bashing has got to be organised by Batley, next door, and therefore disparaged even more than London.martin.wainwright@theguardian.com