The father of Becky Watts has said Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare should “lose their lives” for the murder of his teenage daughter. Darren Galsworthy, Matthews’s stepfather, said he had treated the killer like his own son but he now hated him. On Wednesday Matthews was convicted of murdering his 16-year-old stepsister. His partner Hoare was convicted of manslaughter. The pair will be sentenced on Friday. Becky Watts murder trial: Nathan Matthews found guilty Describing the moment he and his wife, Anjie – Matthews’s mother – were told by police that he had been charged with Becky’s murder, Galsworthy told the BBC: “Anjie just went into shock. You could see it.” His wife said: “I was just devastated. I just couldn’t accept it. He has never lied and always been open and honest with me. He seemed fine, loving.”Becky’s father continued: “Nathan was so arrogant he thought he could get away with it. That’s probably why he chopped her into small pieces and tried distributing her body parts all over the place. “I loved him like he was my own son. I don’t now, I hate him. But at the time I loved him like my own son. They need to be put away and not let out. Clearly there is something psychologically wrong with the pair of them. “There is only one way of paying for the sort of crime they have done and that is by losing their own life. Every night I expect her [Becky] to come through that door. ‘Cook us some tea, Dad’, but she never does. That’s when the thoughts start happening and it’s not something you want to keep thinking over and over in your head – it destroys your life.”Recalling Becky’s disappearance, Galsworthy said: “It’s horrendous, hell on earth. I was so desperate to get her back. I’d have done anything. It was ripping your heart out and stamping all over it.“I lost nearly four stone in weight. I couldn’t eat and I could barely keep water down. The anxiety of thinking that she was out there, getting abused or assaulted, and your imagination runs riot with horrible things that could be happening to your little girl. “She was my youngest and the devastation and heartbreak is indescribable, and I don’t have the vocabulary to describe that feeling we had. It was a darkness that wouldn’t leave the house. I couldn’t put my worst enemy through it, it was that bad.” Becky vanished from her home on 19 February. Her remains were discovered 12 days later. Galsworthy said that when police informed them Becky’s body parts had been found “I went into a state of shock and I was sat on the bed rocking violently backwards and forwards. I wanted to kill him, I was punching the floor, I just lost control for a few seconds. “I couldn’t believe what I was hearing, that I never believed all the way through it that she was dead. I always believed she was going to be saved.”