Michael Howard today reopened the row over racism within the police by pledging to scrap the "politically correct" requirement on officers to record the ethnicity of all people stopped on the street.The Conservative leader made the controversial call in a speech on crime in Middlesbrough aimed at putting "clear blue water" between the Tories and Labour on the issue of law and order in the run-up to next year's likely general election. Such is the importance the party is attaching to the keynote address, which covered all aspects of law and order, that Mr Howard flew back from a holiday to give the speech. He said the police had been undermined by political correctness and would receive backing for "zero tolerance" policing under a Tory government. Measuring inequalityMore controversially, Home Office plans to give all people stopped by police a receipt detailing their race and why they were stopped would be scrapped in the event of a Tory victory at the next general election.The receipt scheme was recommended by the Macpherson inquiry into the racist killing of black teenager Stephen Lawrence as a way of discouraging police from using "stop powers" disproportionately against black and Asian people. It has been piloted in seven areas of the country and is due to go nationwide by April 1 next year. Overall race totals will be monitored in a bid to crack down on officers who stop too many black people and Asians; at present records are kept only of people who are stopped and then searched. Mr Howard's speech came just a month after the police were accused of "Islamophobia" when figures showed the number of Asians targeted by stop and search powers had risen 302%. The number of overall searches increased dramatically, but the figures showed Asians saw the highest increases in stop and searches under the Terrorism Act powers, rising 302% from 744 in 2001-02 to 2,989 in 2002-03. Black people were also six times more likely to be stopped and searched by police than whites, the figures revealed. Shades of HagueMr Howard's speech was remarkably similar to one made by William Hague in December 2000 - also just months before a general election campaign - in which he defended the right to stop and search and said the Macpherson report had been used to dub every police officer a racist.Even before Mr Howard's speech had been delivered, it attracted a chorus of disapproval. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said Mr Howard appeared determined to "make the situation worse". He said: "There are some corners that cannot be cut. Last month the government admitted that too many people from ethnic minorities were being stopped and searched. Michael Howard seems determined to make this situation worse." Simon Woolley, director of Operation Black Vote, which encourages ethnic minorities to participate in the democratic process, accused Mr Howard of "sanctioning the demonisation of black and Asian youth". The Tory policy was "deeply disappointing", he said. Mr Woolley attacked the system of stop and search as a "draconian, humiliating, 'sledgehammer to crack a nut' approach to crime". The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, also defended the use of receipts, saying it aided community relations.'PC mumbo jumbo'In a wide-ranging speech, Mr Howard pledged to scrap the electronic tagging programme, which allows prisoners out of jail early.Mr Howard said 3,500 crimes, including nine serious sex crimes, had been committed by tagged offenders since the tagging scheme was introduced in 1999. "I have had enough of the culture of political correctness," Mr Howard said. "The clear distinction between right and wrong has been lost in sociological mumbo jumbo and politically correct nonsense."Pledging to increase prison capacity, he said: "It's not a question of if we build new prisons, it is a question of how many new prisons we build and what kind of prisons they are." Mr Howard went on to dispute the accuracy of the British Crime Survey, which the government claims gives the most accurate picture of crime trends in the UK.The Tory leader noted that the survey excluded an estimated 12m crimes a year. Recorded crime statistics showed crime in England and Wales had risen by 85% in the last five years and violent crime by 83%, Mr Howard said, suggesting that these statistics were "the most reliable". Personal responsibilityHe said there had been a "dramatic decline" in personal responsibility and he disputed the validity of the term "antisocial behaviour" to describe activities such as drunkenness, intimidation and overturning litter bins. "That behaviour is not just antisocial - it's wrong ... and people shouldn't be allowed to get away with it," he said. "Many people now believe that they are no longer wholly responsible for their actions; it's someone else's or something else's fault: the environment, society, the government. "All too often, teachers cannot discipline pupils let alone expel them from school," he added."We will introduce enforceable home-school contracts that spell out both parents' and pupils' responsibilities, and we will give heads complete control over expulsion. "If they decide to expel a disruptive pupil, they will not be second-guessed by an outside panel." The Tories would introduce a "strong legal presumption" in favour of equal rights for parents in a child's upbringing so that more families could benefit from a father's influence, Mr Howard said.