Police in east London are investigating an incident in which four men were stabbed during a fight involving more than a dozen people.Officers were called to Findhorn Street in Poplar on Monday night where they found a man with knife wounds. Three other men who had also been stabbed were later discovered. All four men remain in a stable condition in hospital. No arrests have been made.Residents were told to stay indoors as the police attempted to break up the fight. Samuel Elliot, 32, a nurse who lives nearby, said he saw about 15 youths being held in the road by police as officers cordoned off the road.He told the Evening Standard: “The police officers had cordoned off our house but they were not saying what was going on. There was a long line of youths outside. It looked like they were not being allowed to move. At first my reaction was, because I’m a nurse, whether I could do anything to help. But there was a sense from police that I may make it worse.“There has been a recurring problem of issues in that area. I felt insecure about what was going on. It made me feel uncomfortable in my own home.”The incident occurred amid a Metropolitan police crackdown on knife crime, which coincides with new sentencing guidelines.“Tackling knife crime is a key priority for the Met,” said DCS Dean Haydon, head of the Trident gang crime command. “The people of London can expect to see lots of coordinated and intelligence-led police activity over the coming week. We will be carrying out a variety of operations including weapon sweeps and stop-and-search, as well as targeting known offenders.”The Met said sweeps would take place where intelligence suggested offenders were hiding knives in public areas. As part of its prevention strategy the force is also investigating the supply of knives to young people. The force will work with trading standards officers and young people from the police cadets to identify retailers who sell knives to under-18s. There will also be efforts to stop large shipments of knives entering the UK.“Knives are being ordered over the internet through retailers in the UK and overseas, so we are looking at where they are coming from and where they are going to, with a view to preventing them being used in knife crime,” a Met spokesperson said. “We are working closely with UK border forces to trace and target larger consignments of knives.”Data published last month shows that knife crime increased in England and Wales for the first time in four years, with the proportion of assaults with blades rising 13%. The Office for National Statistics said the 2% rise in all knife offences in the 12 months to March marked the end of a downward trend but the total remained more than 50% below its peak six years ago.Under a new “two strikes and you’re out” mandatory prison sentence for repeated possession of a knife or blade, adults convicted of being in possession of such a weapon for a second time will face six months to four years in jail. Young offenders aged between 16 and 17 will face a minimum four-month detention and training order. More than 1,000 extra offenders are expected to be jailed every year under the measure.