Three detectives were suspended yesterday after a disastrous murder investigation led to five men walking free from court this week because they had been illegally bugged.Senior officers and relatives of the dead man, who was shot and then dumped 150 miles away, are desperately looking for ways to revive the case after its dismissal by Mr Justice Newman at Nottingham crown court. Eileen Corley, whose son Mark was allegedly "executed" after a row over a fight in rural Lincolnshire, said that she would lobby in London and Europe to see her son's killers brought to book. The officers - Tony White, a detective chief inspector, Roger Bannister, detective inspector, and Steve Thorn, detective sergeant - have been taken off all operational duties by the Lincolnshire force while the police complaints authority conducts an inquiry. The police, smarting from the judge's condemnation of their "flagrant breaches" of criminal procedure, have also begun a check on the papers. John Stoddard, an assistant chief constable, said: "We are disappointed at the outcome of the case, having spent many months of intense investigation." The body of Mr Corley, 22, was hidden in a field near Darlington, Co Durham, five months after he was shot in the back of the head. Five men were accused of conspiring to kill him, after detectives carried out a surveillance operation in the Lincolnshire towns of Grantham and Sleaford. Robert Sutherland, 36, of Bathgate in Scotland, had pleaded not guilty to murder and conspiracy to murder together with four Grantham men - John Smith, 27, Gary Self, 36, Danny Gray, 21, and John Toseland, 59. They all denied conspiracy. The five were due for trial at Nottingham two weeks ago, but the case was dismissed on Tuesday by the judge after prolonged legal argument before the jury was sworn in. Freeing the men, he said detectives had flouted the law and court rules by secretly taping the five talking to their lawyers at Grantham and Sleaford police stations. The judge said: "The consequence of the police having deliberately obtained confidential information [in] the inquiry has led to a position where they have compromised the trial process." Mrs Corley, 48, said yesterday that the ruling had devastated her family who felt completely let down. "I feel as though the judge has turned a gun on me and my family. I am not giving up. I am going to take this as high as I can," she said The judge told the court there was no doubt that Mr Coley had been "executed by a brutal shooting". The prosecution would have argued that it followed claims that one of the defendants had been attacked earlier by Mr Coley and felt that a subsequent court hearing had denied him justice.