Eight people accidentally named as police informants in the Stephen Lawrence report have asked to be re-housed, their local authority said yesterday.One family have already been moved from their home because they were afraid of being attacked after being identified in the appendix to the main body of the report published last week. A week after the fiasco in which a list of people who helped the police after the black teenager's death was published as an appendix to the report of the Macpherson inquiry, Greenwich council revealed that one family in Eltham, south London, where the killing took place in April 1993, have already been moved from their home because they were afraid of reprisal attacks.Five others are in the process of being rehoused, while two more have asked to be relocated outside the borough, the council confirmed after an investigation by BBC Radio Five Live.One of those named is understood to have received race hate mail, although no other serious incidents have been reported.With about 80 people in total affected by the blunder, many of whom have asked for repairs and improved security for their homes, the council is considering seeking compensation from the Government to cover the costs. A team of council workers is working around the clock on the problem, assisted by a Home Office official.Clive Efford, the local Labour MP, is among those considered potential targets whose home is being watched over by police.  "The police are keeping a close eye on people they consider to be vulnerable in the area and as someone who has a high profile here they are paying attention to me as well," he said.Meanwhile, the parents of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence last night launched a bitter attack on a decision to deny their lawyer access to the only police disciplinary inquiry to arise out of the botched investigation of their son's death. As proceedings against Detective Inspector Benjamin Bullock were opened and adjourned, Neville and Doreen Lawrence denounced a decision to allow them but not their solicitor Imran Khan access to the full hearing as "tokenism". The family also criticised the decision to adjourn the proceedings, which are not open to the public or the media, until June 21 to give Mr Bullock and his lawyers more time to prepare their defence. Outside the hearing, Mr Lawrence said: "We didn't want this thing to be adjourned. Our views were not taken into consideration. Mr Bullock's representatives have had enough time, over five months, to listen to all the charges that have been brought. I don't see why they need more time."  Mrs Lawrence added: "We were just ignored in there. What is the point? It is a waste of taxpayers' money to go through procedure for the end result to be the same as its always been." The family is now considering a judicial review of the decision not to allow Mr Khan to accompany them to the hearing.  Mr Bullock, who was second in command of the botched murder investigation, is the only officer involved to face disciplinary charges. Other officers criticised in the report who would have faced proceedings retired before any action could be taken, but Mr Bullock delayed his retirement in order, he claims, to clear his name. In Sir William Macpherson's report into the racist killing in Eltham, south east London in April 1993, he was heavily criticised for failing to process vital information and for being passive and "not up to his job". 