A British holidaymaker shot dead in Venezuela in what appeared to be a botched robbery was a "real adventurer", a family friend has said.Thomas Ossel, 28, from Bedfordshire, was fatally shot in the jaw while his younger brother was stabbed in the back but survived. Jack Ossel, 21, was taken to hospital and received stitches before being discharged.Jacqueline Baxter, a friend of the family, paid tribute to Thomas on Wednesday, saying: "He was a real adventurer, a real character. I spoke to Jack last night. He's been coping remarkably well. He was very lucid. I'm sure it will hit him when he comes home."The men's father, Ben, flew to the Venezuelan capital, Caracas, on Tuesday night to join his surviving son. Both men will receive protection, Baxter said.On Thomas Ossel's MySpace page, he referred to his love of travel. Describing his interests, he wrote: "Have been to nearly 40 countries now … would love to make it 100 one day! Enjoy riding my motorbike fast, can't wait to get a new GSX-R in the summer!"He also described himself as a Liverpool FC fan and a keen cook and photographer. "Photography is cool, have taken over 7,000 pics of my travels," he wrote.He and his brother were staying at the Posada Casa Rosa hotel on Margarita Island when gunmen burst in on Monday. A Venezuelan police official, Luis Garavin, told a local radio station that officers believed the gunmen were trying to rob the pair and opened fire when they resisted.The Foreign Office confirmed Thomas Ossel's death. A spokesman said: "We can confirm the death of a British national on Margarita Island in Venezuela on 18 July. We are providing consular assistance for the family."Friends paid tribute to Thomas Ossel on Twitter. One, with the username @princessgwynn, said: "Sad and shocking news ... RIP Tom Ossel ... u will be missed ... love and thoughts go out to ur family and friends :( xxx"Another, @Venkman_Project, said: "Woah. Just heard some genuinely shocking news. Old classmate shot and killed in Venezuela. RIP Tom."Foreign Office travel advice warns that street crime in Venezuela is high and that armed muggings and "express kidnappings" – opportunistic abductions to extort money from families– are regular occurrences. It adds that resistance to robberies has resulted in people being shot dead.Thomas Ossel was a firefighter for the London fire brigade, based in Chiswick, and had been living in the capital. The London fire commissioner, Ron Dobson, said: "We were shocked and saddened to learn of Tom's untimely death. I know he will be sorely missed by his fellow firefighters. Our thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues at this sad and difficult time."