Detectives investigating the theft of a woman's remains from a graveyard arrested two men today.Staffordshire police said the suspects were detained at addresses in Wolverhampton and Coventry at around 6.30am, as part of the inquiry into the desecration of the grave in Yoxall of Gladys Hammond, who died aged 82. Officers have suggested that animal rights extremists may be responsible for digging up the remains. Mrs Hammond's son-in-law helps to run a farm breeding guinea pigs for medical research and her family has been repeatedly targeted by animal rights activists.A police spokesman said: "In a pre-planned operation between Staffordshire police and West Midlands police this morning, officers have arrested two men. Warrants were executed in Wolverhampton and Coventry, resulting in the arrest of a 41-year-old man in Coventry and a 34-year-old man in Wolverhampton. "The men were taken to police stations in Staffordshire, where they will be interviewed. Officers are currently conducting searches and forensic tests at the addresses." The damage to Mrs Hammond's burial plot was discovered last week at St Peter's Church in the Staffordshire town. The area was cordoned off for a forensic investigation and police later announced that most of her remains had been removed.It is thought that at least two people were involved in digging up the grave, some time between last Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Mrs Hammond, who died in 1997, was the mother-in-law of Chris Hall, one of two brothers who run Darley Oaks farm in Newchurch, Staffordshire. The Hall family have been subjected to a long-running campaign by animal rights activists, suffering hate mail, malicious phone calls, hoax bombs, a paedophile smear campaign and arson attacks. Detective Chief Inspector Nicholas Baker, describing the incident as "a quite despicable act", said on Tuesday he was keeping an open mind about whether the desecration was the work of animal rights protesters.The Conservative MP for Lichfield, Michael Fabricant, blamed the attack on local animal rights extremists. But Sarah Dixon, spokeswoman for the Save the Newchurch Guinea Pigs campaign, said the group had no part in the desecration.