The lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, is to appoint a close friend and his former pupilmaster - responsible for trainee barristers - to one of the top four jobs in the judicial hierarchy, against the wishes of the four top judges.The appointment of Sir Mark Potter to replace Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss as president of the high court's family division, will be announced by the government today. The choice of Sir Mark, who has a background as a commercial lawyer and has little or no experience in the family division, raises echoes of Tony Blair's appointment of his old pupilmaster, Derry Irvine, to the post of lord chancellor when Labour came to power in 1997. Dame Elizabeth and the other four heads of high court divisions, including Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, who usually have the most influential say in senior appointments, are all under stood to have recommended Sir Mathew Thorpe, a senior court of appeal judge who started as a family division judge and who has years of experience of family cases. Sir Mathew will become deputy head of family justice instead. Sir Mark is universally liked, clever and media-friendly, but family judges and barristers are up in arms at the choice of a judge from outside their ranks and with comparatively little experience of family law and the difficulties of family cases. He will have to cope with the resentment of appeal court judges who spent years in the family division and who would have expected the appointment to come from one of their members. But the family justice system, which the judges themselves concede is failing, is set to undergo radical changes and the government is expected to argue that it needs a new broom to sweep away outdated practices. Fathers' pressure groups are pressing for more equality between separated parents in the wake of changes in society and Sir Mark is expected to look critically at the tradition of behind closed doors hearings which has cloaked the family division in secrecy and, some argue, made it less accountable than other parts of the court system. Sir Mark, who is married with grown-up children, will take over next April when Dame Elizabeth reaches retirement age and steps down. Sir Mark, 64, whose father was founder and dean of the law faculty at King's College, London, was educated at the Perse School, Cambridge and Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, where he wrote the college revue with David Frost. He did national service in Hong Kong and met his wife, Undine, when she was an art student at Cambridge. While in practice at the Bar, he was counsel for Richard Branson in the early days of Virgin Records, and prosecuted Last Tango in Paris on behalf of Mary Whitehouse. He is a practising Anglican. A long-time resident, like Lord Falconer, of Islington, north London, he describes himself in the Gray's Inn magazine Graya as "irredeemably metropolitan". A barrister who knows him well but is not a family law practitioner said: "He's a bright man, a very approachable man, very sensitive and I think he would be a breath of fresh air in the family division. "I saw one report describe Dame Elizabeth as a Dickensian figure and he is the complete opposite of Dickension. I think it's very exciting news. He's got intellectual robustness, the compassion to deal with family issues, and will take on all the issues raised by the various interest groups. It's a great move to introduce new reforms. "I think he would really spot the shortcomings in the family division and make it more responsive to modern needs and demands. He's not an old fuddy-duddy and he's connected to the modern world." Sir Mark was also the former pupilmaster of the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith. All three practised from the elite Fountain Court chambers when they were at the bar. Last March Sir Mark was one of three judges who handed David Blunkett an embarrassing defeat in the appeal court when they held that the then home secretary had acted "inappropriately" and "unlawfully" in certifying a man jailed without charge at the high security Belmarsh prison without charge as an international terrorist.