A new court fee system for barristers and solicitors has been condemned as an incentive to lawyers to pressure clients into pleading guilty because they can earn more in fees.The fixed-fee system was designed as a cost-cutting exercise to counter attacks on the amount of time and money consumed by courts. It replaces the traditional submission of solicitors' and barristers' bills on a case by case basis. The Legal Services Commission, the government agency which is piloting the reform in Manchester and five other areas, says that it is designed "to make the trial process more effective". But the practical effects of the new structure were condemned yesterday by a range of solicitors and Liberty, the human rights group. A Liberty spokesman said: "The move to a fixed-fees system has already put barristers under pressure to get the job done quickly. It would be regrettable if some clients were to receive poor or hasty advice because of this pressure." A solicitor with 27 years of criminal law experience said: "This is a scam and widely recognised as such within the profession. Its purpose is to reduce the number of trials and to reduce the acquittal rate. Lawyers are required to advise defendants of the benefits of an early guilty plea but they never advise them of the financial benefits - often substantial - which accrue to themselves if they persuade defendants to change their pleas to guilty." Lawyers who put pressure on their clients to plead guilty so they can earn more money are nicknamed "pleaders". Analysis of the fee tariff set out by the commission's criminal high-cost cases unit suggests that a solicitor who presents four guilty plea cases to magistrates in one day will earn much more than a colleague who spends the same amount of time on one not guilty hearing. Similar ratios apply to barristers' fees for preparation and presentation of guilty and not guilty pleas. Rhys Vaughan, an advocate who has appeared in Manchester crown and magistrates courts for 28 years, said: "There's always been a premium on guilty pleas, but the financial incentives are now more pronounced. This new system will provide further encouragement for lawyers to get their clients to plead guilty." A northern circuit barrister said: "If I put in 200 hours of preparation on a case at £70 per hour - the new rate - and then plead guilty, I will receive £14,000 for the prep-work plus £210 for my one day in court. My fee for a similar not guilty trial, lasting an average five weeks in court, will be £19,000 or less." Richard Collins of the Legal Services Commission said: "There will be a consultation paper and the six pilots will be evaluated at the end of 2004. Any lawyers who feel that undue pressure is being put upon them will be able to comment. "It's not the intention of government or the commission to put pressure on solicitors or barristers to act in a way that is not in the best interests of their clients. The overriding obligation of solicitors and barristers is to advise clients in their best interests." e.allison@theguardian.com