Antisocial children are at serious risk of lifelong social exclusion and are a significant drain on the public purse. The biggest cost is crime, followed by the need for special educational provision, foster and residential care, and state benefits.These findings, published in the British Medical Journal, should give policy makers and legislators pause for thought. Perhaps the most important finding, in public policy terms, is that simple early intervention, in the form of parenting training, can prevent serious problems in later life.Stephen Scott, a senior lecturer at the Institute of Psychiatry, and colleagues tracked the costs to the public sector of 142 children with different levels of antisocial behaviour, from age 10 to their late 20s. By the age of 28, those seriously antisocial individuals were costing public services at least 10 times as much as those without problems. And Mr Scott says that figure is likely to be an underestimate because of many hidden costs, such as lost employment, undetected crime, costs to victims or the knock-on effect on their families and their subsequent need for public services, for example because of domestic violence.Children with serious behavioural problems known as "conduct disorder" - tantrums, lying, fighting, stealing and destructiveness - tend to end up as aggressive adults, with few friends, violent relationships, lacking in skills and with poor employment prospects. They are excluded from the social mainstream. Mr Scott also points out that: "Ninety per cent of juvenile offenders had conduct disorder in childhood."But Mr Scott and his team have also evaluated a structured and straightforward parenting teaching programme, originating from the US, called Webster-Stratton. Using weekly training videos and group discussions, supported by therapists, parents of "highly aggressive and anti-social" under-10s were shown the right and wrong ways to deal with situations.The researchers found that the children of parents who underwent the training showed a "large reduction" in antisocial behaviour - unlike a control group who did not improve.Honor Rhodes, head of family and community care at the Family Welfare Association, which uses the programme in some of its Sure Start projects for pre-school children, is a firm advocate. "It's a very cost-effective way to deal with children who, by teenage years, will be intractable," she said.Rob Hutchison, chairman of the Association of Directors of Social Services children and families committee, welcomes the research for highlighting "the costs of bad outcomes to society, as well as the relatively cheap alternative methods to avoid bad outcomes".He points out that there are now several government initiatives, such as Sure Start and the children's fund that aim to prevent deprived children from becoming socially excluded. "What we need is continuing heavy investment in what works and coordination of the different projects to achieve good outcomes for children."Government officials have little to say at this stage about the implications of the research. "We haven't seen the research but it does sound interesting," says a spokeswoman for the social exclusion unit. Meanwhile, Ms Rhodes says that, the voluntary sector needs to start employing such evidence-based parenting programmes that are cheap, simple and effective."We can say [to parents]: 'Come and join and in 12 weeks' time there will be a real difference,'" she said. "It's very unusual that you can say that in social care."