The white youths acquitted of the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence would not stand trial again if the double jeopardy rule were abolished, according to the former high court judge who conducted the official inquiry into his death.Sir William Macpherson, in an interview with the Spectator magazine published today, said there was no new evidence that could be used to prosecute the Lawrence suspects again. "There is no further evidence. If there is clear, new, evidence, it hasn't emerged so far. Of course, if someone discovered a bloodstained knife under the floorboard in the Acourts' house, or a bloodstained jacket, that would be different, and the department of public prosecutions might make an application. But there is no question of them being retried on the evidence as it stands," Sir William told his interviewer, Boris Johnson. Sir William made clear his strong support for the change to the double jeopardy rule proposed by the government in its white paper on criminal justice, saying it was ridiculous in modern conditions to argue that the rule was 800 years old and so should not be disturbed. "The discovery of DNA testing makes it ridiculous, and confessions make it ridiculous. People get hot under the collar about double jeopardy, and the risk of injustice, but I get hot under the collar at the thought of compelling evidence which the high court thought ought to be put before a jury. That's an injustice, isn't it?" The former high court judge also dismissed the claim that changing the law on double jeopardy would encourage the police and the crown prosecution service to try their luck with half-baked cases, saying that the appeal court would dismiss those that were based simply on sloppiness. He did, however, concede that if new and compelling evidence did come forward in the Lawrence case the appeal court would have to consider whether it was possible for the Lawrence suspects to get a fair trial a second time around after the Daily Mail had printed their pictures and branded them murderers.