A man found guilty of murdering a toddler by shooting him in the head with an airgun pellet was yesterday jailed for life at Glasgow high court.Mark Bonini, 27, shot two-year-old Andrew Morton on March 2 this year as the boy was looking at a fire engine with his older brother.The shooting led to a nationwide campaign to have airguns outlawed, and last night the Home Office said it would not hesitate to bring in further airgun controls if necessary.Bonini admitted firing the shot that killed Andrew, but denied murder. He entered a plea of culpable homicide - the Scottish equivalent of manslaughter - but a jury at Glasgow high court took just 2½ hours to find him guilty of murder.The trial judge, Lord Brodie, told Bonini: "I have only one sentence available to me, and that is a sentence of life imprisonment." Lord Brodie will decide at the end of the month how long he must spend in prison.Outside the court, Andrew's mother, Sharon McMillan, 35, and father Andy Morton, 30, spoke of their relief at the verdict. Ms McMillan said: "It doesn't really matter because it's not going to bring Andrew back. He [Bonini] is an animal, he's a menace to society. But he can't harm any more children now."She said she would be continuing her campaign to have airguns banned. "Most people think that they're toys, but they're lethal weapons."Last year the government raised the minimum age for owning an airgun from 14 to 17 and made it an offence to possess such weapons, unloaded, in public, while the most powerful gas cartridge models were banned. On March 4, two days after Andrew was shot and the day he died, Scotland's justice minister Cathy Jamieson contacted her Westminster counterparts to discuss further changes to the law.A bill now before MPs includes raising the minimum ownership age to 18 and banning the "indiscriminate and reckless" firing of airguns from private property.Last night the Home Office condemned the misuse of air weapons and said it was "determined to tackle the problem", citing the new bill's provisions.A spokesman added: "Following the tragic shooting of Andrew Morton in Glasgow and other recent incidents in Scotland, the government is working closely with Scottish ministers to see whether other controls might be needed to tackle air weapon misuse."The government will not hesitate to bring forward whatever further measures it is agreed are necessary."The court heard that Bonini had intended to hit Andrew's older brother, Brian McMillan, 13, when he fired the airgun from an open window. In evidence given via a CCTV link, Brian said he had gone with his brother and a friend to a chip shop when Andrew spotted the fire engine. "Andrew wanted to see the fire brigade. He was pointing and going, 'fire brigade, fire'. He had wee toys of fire brigades."We went up to watch them. He was still in my arms, but he was turning around to look at the fire brigade. All we heard was a pop. Andrew touched the back of his head and there was blood coming out."The court also heard from Bonini's cousin, Kevin Bonini, who said the accused had fired several shots from his house that night, including one at a passing woman and another at firefighters.