Two small Victorian jails, Leicester and Reading, were yesterday named by the government as failing prisons and told to shape up within six months or face privatisation. The prisons minister, Beverley Hughes, named Leicester local prison and Reading young offenders' institution, which once held Oscar Wilde, as the two jails "most in need of improvement" in England and Wales. Reading was selected because of its "track record in delaying the implementation of change"; the poor disciplinary record of its inmates; and concern over staff attitudes. Leicester was singled out by the director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, because of its high level of attempted suicides and assaults; a failure of the prison staff to engage with inmates, including a harsh regime for prisoners and overcrowding with the jail holding 50% more prisoners than it was built for. Both jails are believed to have strong branches of the Prison Officers' Association. The Prison Governors' Association yesterday criticised the threat of privatisation to improve standards and penal reformers were doubtful that any private sector operator would take over either prison without significant subsidy from the taxpayer. The threatened privatisation of Leicester and Reading follows a similar threat by the former prisons minister, Paul Boateng, over the future of Brixton prison. In the event no private prison company was willing to bid for Brixton. A report published yesterday by the Brixton board of visitors said there has been some improvement in conditions at the jail but there are still no workshops or education centre. But it is believed that an internal prison service review - the unpublished Carter review - identified Reading and Leicester as prime development sites which could be sold off or contracted out to the private sector. But both jails have recently had "innovative new governors" appointed and the prisons minister expressed hope yesterday that the "performance testing" exercise would turn them around: "They are required to develop a plan for improvement within a fixed period. They will operate a service level agreement with strict monitoring of delivery against its proposals," said Ms Hughes. "If unacceptable, the prison would face closure or contracting out to the private sector. "The emphasis on performance testing is on pulling up the poorest performers to the standards of our best. There will be no compromise on this and staff, governors and all of us concerned with improving standards must work together towards this end." David Roddan of the Prison Governors' Association said: "We have expressed our concerns about using the threat of privatisation to encourage better performance. We do not think it is necessary. We believe Reading and Leicester will reach the required standards in the six month period." Frances Crook of the Howard League for Penal Reform agreed that both prisons were in need of improvement but doubted that any private prison company would take over "unless they were bribed in the form of a subsidy from the taxpayer". She said that although similar "sabre rattling" over Brixton had produced an improvement in relationships among staff its fundamental problems had remained. Reading prison was opened in 1844 and took on its present role as a young offenders' institution in 1992. Leicester prison is older, dating back to 1825, and holds 300 inmates.