A woman pleaded with onlookers to protect her one-year-old child as she was repeatedly stabbed by her former partner during a trip to a museum. Seventeen-year-old Laura Bailey cried out "help me ... the baby" as Kevin Howard plunged a kitchen knife into her head and body in front of the couple's son, Joseph.Passersby grabbed the toddler while others tried to help Ms Bailey during the attack at the World Museum in Liverpool last November. Howard, 21, jumped from the museum's fourth floor walkway, killing himself.Ms Bailey, a student from Toxteth, Liverpool, was stabbed with such force that she suffered a broken rib and puncturing to her skull. She was taken to hospital but died the same day.Yesterday Liverpool coroner's court heard that Ms Bailey and Howard had split up shortly after the birth of their son and that she had subsequently found a new partner. The pair had agreed to meet at the museum to allow Howard access to his son. But he had come armed with a six-inch kitchen knife.Detective Inspector Richard Salter, of Merseyside police, told the court Ms Bailey entered a covered tunnel area of the dinosaur exhibition on the fourth floor, "with her child toddling behind her"."No one sees what happened next but a witness heard Laura shout, 'Help me, the baby, help me! He's stabbed me - Kevin Howard'."Visitors rushed to help the mother and child, as blood poured from her wounds. Mr Salter said a man was seen running away. A knife was later recovered from the scene.Laura's mother, Pauline, and extended family were in court and heard a postmortem report say she had been attacked from behind.They were also told that Howard, from Kirkby, Merseyside, would have been charged with murder had he survived.Home Office pathologist Dr Richard Shephard said: "[Ms Bailey's] death was caused by multiple stab wounds, in particular to the lower back. It had been inflicted by an individual standing behind Laura ... The force is described as severe."Recording a verdict of unlawful killing, Liverpool coroner Andre Rebello said: "It is absolutely essential Laura's life is celebrated, not withstanding the tragic events of her death."Make her life her lasting memory and lasting memorial. Particularly bearing in mind her young son, who has to have stories of his young mother in the future."Recording a verdict of suicide on Howard, Mr Rebello said he had died as a result of multiple injuries.The inquest was told that Howard had been referred for psychiatric examination.But Mr Rebello said there was no firm evidence to support suggestions that he had abused drugs and alcohol in the months before his death.He added: "There is no reasonable explanation for this action other than that he wanted to end his own life and therefore I am satisfied that he wanted to kill himself."