The mothers of the five men accused of killing Stephen Lawrence yesterday broke their six-year silence in a remarkable interview declaring their sons to be innocent. The women spoke with passion and apparent sincerity, defending their sons as only parents can. But after two hours, there were no new facts to consider, and no fresh alibi to back up their defiant and often desperate words.Stephen Lawrence was murdered because he was black and, despite their pleadings, they are the mothers of the men who remain his most likely killers. Pam Knight, Patricia Acourt, Pauline Dobson and Theresa Norris have not spoken in public since Stephen was stabbed in April 1993. They broke their silence when they met John Humphrys, the presenter of Radio 4's Today programme, at a hotel in Bexleyheath, south London, to tell their side of the story. The decision to give the interview was extraordinary, even though the pressure on them has been increasing - Sir William Macpherson's independent inquiry into the catastrophic police investigation is due next week, and an ITV film about the killing, The Murder of Stephen Lawrence, was screened on Thursday. Lawyers advising the families have consistently told them to say nothing, and the public relations guru Max Clifford warned them recently that if the men - Gary Dobson, David Norris, brothers Neil and Jamie Acourt, and Luke Knight - had anything to say, they should say it themselves in a live television interview. However, the mothers decided to go it alone, ringing the editor of Today, Rod Liddle, at the BBC within two days of receiving a speculative letter from him a fortnight ago requesting an interview.They met Mr Liddle and Mr Humphrys for a prelimary chat in a pub, then agreed to be interviewed without preconditions, payment or editorial control. No solicitors were involved. 'They said they were fed up, and that it was time to put the record straight,' said a BBC source. The mothers were very nervous beforehand,and their anxiety spilled over once Mr Humphrys started asking questions. They said their sons were innocent, were not racists and were victims of a political conspiracy. They used words like 'scapegoat' and phrases like 'sacrificial lambs.' They said their families had been persecuted by the press and that they had received death threats. Their lives had been 'ruined' by the outcry against them. 'I've got a daughter who is anorexic because of this, another daughter suffers from her nerves because of this,' said one. 'What has happened to us, I wouldn't have believed if I saw it on a film. I would have said it was far-fetched.' 'Our sons are innocent, and none of this is right, we need someone to help us. There's never been anyone to put our side of it.' Their answers to direct questions were impassioned, but implausible. Referring to a covert police film which showed their sons using horribly racist language and acting out violent fantasies, Mr Humphrys pressed the women for explanations. 'You say your sons aren't racist. But we've all seen the video that showed them using the most appalling racist language and behaving in the most appalling way.' 'It was bravado,' came the reply. 'They were hitting back in their own home against 18 months of prosecution, that's all it was... I have heard a lot of young boys at that age saying silly things and that's all it was.' The women complained the video showed edited highlights from tapes taken over three-weeks. Mrs Acourt refused to accept that a section which showed her son boasting how to stab a black man 'suggested violence'. 'Well, I don't think it did. They were playacting. You could see that on the camera. It upset me terribly. It did, and I feel... all I can say is that they was just acting. They wasn't hurting nobody.' Mrs Acourt admitted the video made her feel ill, but insisted the boys were just 'messing around with each other.' The women maintained that if the five men's safety, and a fair hearing, could be guaranteed, they would be prepared to go into a witness box and give evidence in any libel action against the Daily Mail, which in a 1997 front page report branded them 'Murderers.' Yet all five refused to answer questions at Stephen's inquest, in February 1997. The jury decided that the eighteen-year-old was unlawfully killed in a 'completely unprovoked racist attack by five white youths' The men tried to avoid appearing at the subsequent public inquiry, and when their legal challenge failed, made a mockery of proceedings by refusing to provide meaningful answers to any of Michael Mansfield's questions. Their reticence was not, said the mothers, because their sons had anything to hide. 'They done that on legal advice. We go into court where we don't understand everything that's going on. We're ordinary people. We take our legal advice. It's as simple as that... now after six years, we've had enough.' The women said they had wanted to sue the Daily Mail but couldn't because of the costs involved.  'Every week I pray to win the Lottery, and it's a rollover, because I would sue every single one of them,' said one of the mothers. The Mail challenged the families to do so yesterday, saying they would fight any action vigorously. Asked what they would say to Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's mother, one of the women said: 'I feel for her, being a mother myself. 'But I know that she also knows this case as we do. There's no evidence on our sons, our sons are innocent.' Another said: 'It's terrible for anyone to lose a child, anyone, and it's terrible for our children to get blamed for something they haven't done.'