For the vast majority of black fathers in this country, like most parents, bringing up a child is perhaps the single most amazing thing you can do. For example, the unparalleled joy of watching your child discover the intricacy of a spider's web has to be experienced to be believed. And in spite of the tremendous and thankless hard work involved in raising children, what we receive as parents in return is priceless.It is therefore disappointing that far too many black fathers are relinquishing their responsibility of fatherhood, and missing out on its joys. We should be clear that not taking responsibility might be very different from being absent. You may not live with your child, but you still have a responsibility. Furthermore, it is right for political leaders such as David Cameron and Barack Obama in the US to point the finger and implore all fathers to take seriously their parenting responsibilities. Black community workers – particularly church leaders – have been telling young black men: "It's easy to father a child, but it takes a man to raise one."Crucial to this debate, however, and I'm pleased that Cameron highlighted it, albeit fleetingly, is the lack of equality and racial discrimination. I imagine that if you took any poor area in the UK you would have similar problems with fathers not taking full responsibility. Our approach to solving this problem must therefore be holistic. We must demand better from our young men, but equally we must ensure their life chances are dramatically improved. Government figures out last week showed that young black men are seven times more likely to be stopped and searched than white men. Worst still, at every juncture in the criminal justice system – being charged, given custody, sentencing, parole – there is a race penalty. If, as many suspect, these race penalties occur in other areas of life, particularly education and employment, we should not be too surprised if other areas of their lives become dysfunctional.Those of us who feel a weight of responsibility to tackle this problem would not dream of hiding behind disadvantage. We subscribe to the school of thought that tells young men, "If I knock you down, that's on me. If I come back a month later and you're still on the ground, that's on you." Once they're up, we'll help them. That is what the government's Reach project is about too: setting up after-school clubs; helping parents have a closer, more collaborative relationship with their children's schools, and empowering community groups with resources to deliver the services that poor areas often need. Perhaps Boris Johnson's ex-deputy mayor Ray Lewis had to go, but his one-to-one work with young men who are losing their way must continue.Yesterday, along with the secretary of state for local government, Hazel Blears, I helped launched the search for 20 national role models. It's not the sole answer, we know that, but the 20 could inspire 20,000, and 20,000 could inspire a generation of young black men to be the best they can be, including being good fathers.