Cherie Blair stood up and declared this week that the huge increase in prison numbers and the prevalence of short-term sentences was crippling the prison system.Her Prison Reform Trust speech followed a Downing Street seminar two months ago at which she and her husband had listened to Martin Narey, the director general of the prison service, attack the courts' "continuing love affair with custody" and warned them: "We cannot simply keep building ahead of this thirst for custody." Mr Narey suggested to the Blairs that removing those who get sentences of six months or less would reduce the prison population by 6,500 at a stroke. They have not been the only senior political figures recently trying to persuade the courts to send fewer people to prison. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, and the home secretary, David Blunkett have repeatedly tried to "talk down the prison population". Indeed, Mr Blunkett is the first home secretary since Douglas Hurd in the late 1980s to declare that prison does not work and that alternatives to custody have a much better chance of reducing crime. This month Mr Blunkett told an international crime conference in London: "We have had an increase from 40,000 to 71,000 over the last seven years in the number of prison places and a fat lot of use it has been in reducing crime and disorder." You would not have heard either Michael ("prison works") Howard or Jack ("prison works for some") Straw making such a speech. Indeed, you would have to go back to Mr Hurd whose 1989 criminal justice white paper famously stated that "prison was an expensive way of making bad people worse" to have found a precedent. Mr Hurd was determined to bring down a then record prison population of 45,000 to 40,000. He succeeded but it took several years and the development of "punishment in the community". David Blunkett is now finding out what Mr Hurd painfully learned: that it is easy for home secretaries to sound tough on crime and "talk up" the prison population but it is far harder to "talk it down". That is especially true if from time to time you want to give a much tougher message on violent crime such as this year's "crackdown" on street crime. The remorseless rise in prison numbers from that Douglas Hurd-inspired low of 40,000 in January 1993 to the record 71,000 today has been accompanied by a succession of home secretaries - from Kenneth Clarke to Michael Howard to Jack Straw - who have persistently "talked tough" on crime. The turning point coincided with the tragic murder of James Bulger which propelled crime in Britain to centre stage of the political debate which it has never left. Each home secretary introduced at least one and sometimes two new criminal justice acts each containing a wholesale package of reforms, most of them urging the courts to use longer sentences of one sort or another. Mr Blunkett has not yet had a chance to introduce his first major criminal justice bill. His attempt last autumn was knocked off course by the need to introduce anti-terrorism measures following September 11. He has promised a battery of new measures designed to reduce the prison population and develop alternative rigorous community penalties. They have tough sounding names, custody plus, custody minus, community custodial orders (weekend prison), but if they work they should, as Mr Narey suggested to the Blairs, remove the prisoners serving sentences of six months or less. Instead they will undergo "tough" community penalties under the supervision of a much expanded probation service. The details of those measures will be published next Wednesday and the bill will be introduced in the autumn. But while the 12 months has passed the prison population has accelerated. It stood at 66,800 when Mr Blunkett became home secretary and has now risen to 71,480. Home secretaries cannot instruct magistrates and judges on sentences but they can shape the political atmosphere and, sometimes, the media coverage of crime that fuels the public thirst for tougher sentences. The detailed prison figures show that the biggest increases have taken place in the number of prisoners on remand. There are 12,400 unconvicted people inside awaiting trial, a rise of 16% in the last 12 months. That is one in six of all prisoners and a majority of them do not go on to receive a prison sentence. The number of women in prison is also rising sharply. This weekend there are 4,428 women in prison. Ten years ago the number was 1,577. Much of the increase is due to drug-related offences. Building new prisons has not solved the overcrowding crisis. In the last 10 years, 19 new prisons have been built - 14 of them are already overcrowded. This weekend there are 14,000 prisoners who are doubled up two to a cell designed for only one. In 1994 the Home Office produced research showing that the "incapacitation effect" of locking up criminals meant that a rise of 25% in the prison population was needed to cut the overall crime rate by only 1%. In the past eight years that research has been put to the test. Crime has fallen by around 33% over that period but the contribution that prison has made probably accounts for only 3% to 4%. The rest came from a well-targeted crime reduction campaign involving the police and the public that produced the biggest falls in burglary and car crime.Prison may satisfy the public - and the tabloids' - lust for retribution but it does precious little to actually cut crime. As Tony Blair argued when he was shadow home secretary, it is not prison but "increasing the chances of detection and conviction which will have the greatest effect on criminal behaviour." It may be time to stop being "tough on crime" and start being "smart about crime" instead.