No action is to be taken against any police officers as a result of the controversial arrest of a young woman outside a Sheffield nightclub which was captured on CCTV. The decision was greeted with dismay by the woman and her legal team, who said it would "fuel public concern" about the use of force by the police.In a report published yesterday, the Independent Police Complaints Commission concluded that the police used "justified and proportionate force" in the arrest of Toni Comer in July 2006.Comer alleged she had been assaulted by two police officers during her arrest on suspicion of causing criminal damage outside the Niche nightclub in Sheffield. The arrest was captured on the nightclub's CCTV, passed to Guardian Films by the Monitoring Group North organisation and broadcast on BBC Newsnight last March. It showed Comer being punched five times by an officer."The CCTV footage clearly shows officers using force during an arrest," said Nicholas Long, IPCC commissioner for Yorkshire and Humberside. "This incident received extensive media coverage and provoked much debate about alleged police aggression and racism. However, this was an incident in which police officers were dealing with a person who had been causing criminal damage and did not want to be arrested. Police officers are entitled by law to use justified and proportionate force to arrest someone who is being aggressive and actively resisting arrest. I must stress that no complaint of racism was made by Ms Comer or her family."The IPCC upheld Comer's complaint that "the review of her detention in custody was conducted outside the required timescale".South Yorkshire police welcomed the IPCC's findings. "Officers deal with difficult and dangerous situations every day and this incident shows just how difficult their jobs can be," said Deputy Chief Constable Bob Dyson.Comer's solicitor, Peter Mahy, said the decision "is bound to fuel further public concern about the police's use of force ... Ms Comer has never had any confidence in the police complaints system and her scepticism has proved to be well-founded, given today's decision."Separately, defence lawyers on the advisory board of the IPCC resigned yesterday, claiming that, after four years working with the commission, they felt "dismay and disillusionment" about the way it was run. In a letter to the IPCC, Raju Bhatt and Tony Murphy of the Police Action Lawyers Group complained about the "consistently poor quality of the decision-making process at all levels of the IPCC".