When a hot new contender comes along in any genre, it's usually bad news for established talents. However, Michael Moore's arrival in the field of polemical documentary has been oddly beneficial for Nick Broomfield, an earlier political film-maker who made such award-winning pieces as The Leader, His Driver and the Driver's Wife - about South African racist demagogue Eugene Terre Blanche - and Biggie and Tupac, his investigation of hip-hop killings.This boost to Broomfield has come because of what detractors had previously disliked in his work: they saw hints of vanity and egotism in the fact that, though he styled himself as a director rather than a reporter, he delivered the commentary and frequently appeared in the corner of the frame. This was considered a fault when measured against the long tradition of the invisible documentarian. Broomfield's intrusions - padded headphones around his neck, boom mike on a stick, handsome tanned face in profile - became such a visual signature that he was able to use them as a joke in an ad campaign he made for Volkswagen cars. But now, when it comes to putting the film-maker up front, Broomfield seems like a church mouse beside the King Rat of Moore, who has stretched the documentary-maker's presence to include shouting in front of the camera in a big hat. Apart from what now seems like relative modesty, Broomfield's case is also helped by the fact that, in his latest film, he has reason to be seen: he is a player in the story. Aileen: Life and Death of a Serial Killer is a continuation - until the full stop indicated by the title - of a 1992 documentary about a Florida prostitute sent to death row for murdering eight of her clients. Aileen Wuornos was one of the very few female serial killers; it's a deviation dominated by men. Broomfield's sequel arose because the first film became evidence - and its director a defence witness - at Wuornos's final legal appeal before Governor Jeb Bush was able to attach her to the Florida grid and throw the switch. Her new attorney hoped to prove the incompetence of her first lawyer, who claimed in Broomfield's 1992 film to have smoked seven joints before making a key legal decision. The evidence the director gives simultaneously strengthens this project and weakens our perception of his previous ones. Screened in the courtroom, scenes from the earlier documentary show Steve, Aileen's first lawyer, smoking furiously through what he describes as a "seven-joint" car journey. This feels like an apotheosis for Broomfield: not only is the sequence surreal and funny, like the best of his work, but it's about to stop Jeb Bush from frying someone. Then, however, the prosecution lawyer stands and proves through freeze-frame that the driver wears two differently coloured shirts during the drive, and therefore the trip cannot be continuous. This is a startling moment - documentary television's equivalent of the bit in the OJ Simpson trial when it started to go wrong for the cops. The moment can be entered as a defence against charges of the director's egotism because, while putting him in the middle of the frame, it is potentially damaging to his reputation. Broomfield, though, merely blusters, arguing that the lawyer "must have changed his shirt" during the drive, although he has no precise memory of this happening. Subsequently, the mystery of the pot-smoker's clothing is left flapping like a schoolboy's shirt-tail. It is never addressed in Broomfield's commentary. Is this because the weight he wants the moment to have is to show that Florida lawyers will stop at nothing to enact a death sentence? Or because he's such an agonised liberal that he wants us to have doubts about his practices? Or because he never got round to finding the unedited footage and sorting the issue out? The latter has to remain a possibility because the second recurrent controversy about Broomfield's work is his apparently shambolic approach. The director's docs usually consist of him wandering around a subject asking ingenuous questions, like a better-looking Inspector Clouseau. In Biggie and Tupac, where his witnesses may have had knowledge about murders, this at times made us fear for his life. In Aileen: Life and Death of a Serial Killer, he is protected by 15 warders and bullet-proof glass, but continues his practice of blurting out questions and trusting what the interviewees tell him. The polemical agenda of the latest film is that the Florida governor, President Bush's kid brother, executed a woman who was mentally ill. Broomfield has always been a film-maker with a talent for access and this is again demonstrated when Aileen chooses to be interviewed by him in lieu of the final press conference to which she is entitled. This astonishing encounter decisively proves that Aileen couldn't be trusted to tell the electric chair from a dentist's chair. She reveals that her mind is being controlled by radio waves and that her prison food is being poisoned. Finally, she turns on the director himself, screaming that he and the rest of the media are "going to get your nukes some day soon... you're going to get your fucking asses nuked". At this point, Broomfield makes two decisions that increase the viewer's unease. We hear his off-screen voice saying "I'm sorry, I'm sorry" as Aileen is led away for her final meal. The implication of this is that he has failed her, but it's clear by now that this is a woman who might accuse her milkman of being head of the secret police on the planet Lala. He then gives considerable weight to Aileen's "confession" to him that she killed all her victims in self-defence but refuses to say this in court because the system has now made her desperate to die. This statement is treated as reliable fact, but this is a woman who has also confided that aliens are controlling her brain. It is a weakness of Broomfield's ad-libbed, non-journalistic style that there is no method for weighing the veracity of competing claims. Like Michael Moore, Broomfield first flourished in television before choosing to release his films as movies. The position of factual films in cinema remains complicated. The main justification for them being there is editorial rather than artistic: Moore's Bowling for Columbine and Broomfield's Biggie and Tupac, if shown on TV, could never achieve the impact that comes from a presence on the big screen. The documentarians certainly show few signs of seizing the visual possibilities of cinema. Broomfield captures memorable images - such as Aileen brushing her hair with her hands in the reflection of the security glass between them before beginning her interview - but they would generally sit as well on a 20in TV as on the wide screen. Only one shimmeringly sinister shot of the satellite city of transmitter vans outside the prison on the day of the execution suggests sweat over composition, and even that has been bettered in "death row" movies such as Dead Man Walking and The Life of David Gale. Most directors have a brand-name angle or calling-card set up in their visual style, but Broomfield's is perhaps the most unusual: his pieces are punctuated with views of America caught through the smeared windscreen of a hire car. Like much in his work, this habit can be read in two ways. It can be seen as lazy and cheaply poetic: why doesn't he just get out of the car before switching the camera on? But it can also be seen as honourable, the dirty glass of the car reminding us that everything in the film is being filtered through the eyes of a director who has just driven into these lives. These ambiguities are what make Broomfield a compelling director but also an infuriating one - although, as has to be acknowledged these days, less so than Moore.· Aileen: Life and Death of a Serial Killer is released on November 21.