Police recruits will have to pass a "grip test" test to ensure they are up to it when it comes to "feeling collars" and restraining suspects under a new national police fitness test to be introduced in April.The tests are part of a drive by the Home Office to ensure that police recruitment standards are the same across the country. Those thinking of joining the force are advised to get into training immediately. The Home Office specification for the job-related fitness test is designed to ensure that new police officers are fit enough to chase suspects, run to an incident, arrest and restrain struggling or fighting individuals, and have enough "push and pull power" to be useful in policing demonstrations and other incidents. The West Midlands police force believes the fitness test is the most feared part of its recruitment process, particularly among female recruits - 10% of whom regularly fail. The Home Office said that while every candidate must pass the physical fitness test it will give each recruit three chances to pass it, and even if they fail it on their third attempt they can try again 12 months later. But the official advice is that if they train two to three times a week for a total of about three hours, there should no reason for a recruit to fail. The average hand grip of a 20-year-old male is 52 kgs. Recruits are told to train by rolling up a couple of sheets of waste paper into a ball and crushing the ball as hard as possible. The national test developed by Loughborough University includes: 路 Speed and agility: to ensure the new recruit can chase a suspect on foot or run quickly enough to arrive at an incident speedily. Recruits are asked to combine straight line sprint ing over 13 metres with running around a course of cones in 27 seconds or less. 路 Grip strength: to ensure recruits can lift heavy objects or people and restrain suspects, they need to grip a dynamometer machine in their strongest hand, exerting a force of 32 kgs. 路 Dynamic strength test: to ensure recruits can arrest and restrain struggling or fighting individuals which can involve pushing, pulling and grappling. The test involves five push ups with an average force of 34 kg and five pull ups with an average force of 35 kg. 路 Endurance test: to ensure recruits can chase suspects on foot, climb stairs and carry out public order duties they have to take a "beep test" on a 15 metre track, running back and forward to a series of audio beeps. The test gets progressively faster from 5mph to 7mph over about an eight minute period. Recruits have to run for as long as possible, until they can no longer keep up with the beeps. The Home Office minister, John Denham, announced the new fitness tests in a Commons written answer. They follow a decision last October to relax some of the criteria to join the police, including the ban on those with minor criminal convictions. Some of the more arcane restrictions, such as height, have already been swept away. The ban on foreign nationals joining the police is to be abolished and medical and eyesight requirements are also being revised.