The Clydach case will be remembered not just for the ferocity of the killings but for the embarrassment and suspicion it cast on South Wales police.Just over a year after the four killings, the investigating force arrested two of its serving officers - twin brothers, a sergeant and an inspector - and a former constable on suspicion of murder and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. Their subsequent release 96 hours later led to allegations of a police cover-up and meant it was not until 21 months after the murders that they arrested the killer, Dai Morris. South Wales police has refused to comment on its arrest of former WPC Alison Lewis, her husband, Stephen, and his twin Stuart, since the brothers have lodged a complaint with the police complaints authority. It is also being sued for false imprisonment by Ms Lewis, who retired on the grounds of ill-health in 1993.In its defence, Ms Lewis's DNA was found at the scene and the Lewises were each other's alibis. Detectives wondered if Stephen Lewis had known of his wife's affair and had erupted in anger. Stuart Lewis was the first senior officer to arrive on the scene, but left within five minutes. This is now the subject of an internal investigation. The police case would not hold, however; even Ms Lewis's DNA being explained by the fact that she and Mandy Power had had sex twice in the 24 hours before the murders. The force was stuck without a prime suspect, despite the efforts of 50 detectives, a Cracker-style psychologist, 4,596 statements and 3,735 exhibits in a £6m investigation. A stroke of luck finally traced the murderer. A friend of a cousin of Morris gossiped to an off-duty police civilian worker that the builder had "shagged Mandy Power". Morris had no alibi and a chip of paint on a gold chain found at the murder scene matched his kitchen cabinets. Police realised they had their man. To many, the force's slowness in alighting on Morris was surprising: he had convictions for violence and knew Ms Power.