Oxana Rodionova arrived in the UK on a student visa to study English at a language college in Paddington. Although she enrolled and filled in all the necessary forms, she attended no lessons, instead spending her time working as a high-class prostitute from her Maida Vale home. Having paid several thousand pounds to Russian mafia men to facilitate her passage and to gain clients once she had arrived in the UK, she found herself deeply in debt. But, thanks to her high earnings, she still managed to send money back to her family. In March, she was found strangled in her flat and police suspect her death may be connected to a simmering turf war for control of the lucrative vice trade. Until recently, the business had been in the hands of the Russian mafia, but in the past two years, increasing numbers of Albanians have moved in. Although some of those who end up working as prostitutes travel to London with full knowledge of what they will be doing, hundreds more are brought in under duress and forced to work as sex slaves. A special Metropolitan Police squad has been set up to target the 24 ringleaders of London's sex and human trafficking trade with particular attention being paid to the Albanian element.In Europe, Albanian gangs have first established themselves in the vice trade and then moved into other areas of criminality, including heroin trafficking. They have a fearsome reputation for violence, and police fear that unless they can nip the gangs in the bud, there will be bloody clashes with the Turkish and Pakistani gangsters who currently control the UK heroin market. Albanian gangs have been linked to 70 kidnappings in the past 12 months and there are also fears that blood feuds from the homeland may erupt in the UK. The murder of asylum seeker Denis Ceka, whose body was found wrapped in bed sheets on a building site near Heathrow Airport, and the killing of Perparim Jalaj, who was stabbed to death in Luton, have both been linked to blood feuds emanating from Albania. Ceka was believed to have been involved in a shooting a year before his death. Albanian tradition, which dates from the fifteenth century, holds that 'blood should always be avenged by blood' if one man kills another, and a feudal code lays down precise rules for how the revenge should be taken. UK community: 30,000Asylum applications: 1,435 Active criminals: 200+