Tributes have been paid to a 17-year-old boy who was stabbed to death in Bristol. The teenager, named locally as Shamus Mcnama, died in Southmead hospital on Sunday morning.Police were called to a house on Stothard Road in the Lockleaze area of the city at 5.50am following reports of a disturbance.The teenager was taken to hospital with knife wounds but died of his injuries.Police have arrested two men aged 18 and 19 in connection with the incident and they remain in custody. Formal identification has not yet taken place but neighbours and friends said the victim was Mcnama.Tributes laid at the scene paid tribute to the teenager, who is believed to have attended Orchard school and Filton high school before starting an apprenticeship.A teenage girl, who did not wish to be named, wept next to tributes left at a police cordon at the scene. “I can’t believe it – it is unreal,” she said. “He just had the biggest smile and he was so, so loved by so many people. You won’t find anyone with a bad word to say about him. He had so many friends. If you look on his Facebook it is full of people’s comments, there are at least 100 on there – paragraphs and paragraphs. They’re all saying RIP and how much he will be missed.”A schoolfriend, who did not wish to be named, added: “It’s such a terrible thing to happen to anyone but to happen to someone like Shamus, who was such a nice guy – it’s unbelievable.“I feel so sorry for his mum, she would never have thought that something like this would happen. He was just such a great guy. His funeral is going to be tragic but it will be packed.”The girl said Shamus was stabbed in the neck, although police were unable to confirm that detail.A 24-year-old man, who also did not wish to be named, brushed away tears as he read tributes left to the teenager. “He was such a nice person,” he said. “He would have done anything for anybody. He had lots of friends. He was a very likable person.”Senior investigating officer DI Richard Pegler said: “This investigation is at a very early stage and we are doing everything possible to determine how the young man died. A postmortem examination will be carried out by a Home Office pathologist in due course.” 