The parents of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence yesterday won the backing of the South African high commissioner in their battle for compensation from Scotland Yard.Doreen and Neville Lawrence are suing police over their bungled investigation into the 1993 racist murder. Both sides have been in protracted negotiations about the amount and Scotland Yard want the case thrown out. Mrs Lawrence yesterday presented the former South African president Nelson Mandela with a lifetime achievement award at the South African high commission in London. After the ceremony the high commissioner, Cheryl Carolus, called for a settlement that was acceptable to the Lawrences. She said: "We would like to see a resolution and would like to have a resolution where the Lawrence family will feel that their own personal grief has been addressed and that Stephen's spirit has been honoured in a manner that it ought to ... and in a manner which holds out fresh hope for people of colour in Britain and around the world. The Lawrences believe that a meeting with Mr Mandela in 1993, two months after Stephen's murder, was crucial and led to police arresting the five prime suspects for the killing, for which no one has been convicted. Ms Carolus said Mr Mandela was still monitoring developments in the Lawrences' six-year struggle for justice. "Mr Mandela has been in touch with my office, [asking] where the case is, he has taken a really keen interest and is following it." Presenting Mr Mandela with the ethnic multicultural media award for lifetime achievement, Mrs Lawrence said that his intervention in the case in 1993 had been vital. She told him: "I hold you very dear to my heart. Back in 1993, just after my son was killed, you were the only one of any stature who recognised the plight of my family and spoke out." She said that if they had not met in 1993 an inquiry into the murder would not have taken place. Lawyers acting for the Lawrences have issued writs for damages totalling £500,000 against the Metropolitan police and 26 officers, including the former commissioner, Sir Paul Condon. Mr Mandela, 81, said there was an increasing bond between the people of South Africa and Britain. "When we see Doreen Lawrence we recognise our collective fate and our determination to stamp out racism wherever we find it," he said. After receiving his award Mr Mandela said: "I'm sure that I can speak for all South Africans, black and white, that this award is recognition of their struggle for peace and democracy in our country."