Two 15-year-olds were found guilty today of killing suspected paedophile Robert Daley.A 15-year-old boy was found guilty of murder while a 15-year-old girl was found guilty of manslaughter. Both decisions were 10-2 majority verdicts.Daley, 45, was stabbed five times at his home in Brixton, south London, on 23 April. The prosecution at the Old Bailey said the defendants – then both 14 – had gone "to teach him a lesson".Earlier that day, Daley had been told the CPS was dropping a sex allegation case against him – the girl, her 15-year-old sister and a woman had complained to police that he had abused them.Soon after receiving a call from police telling him lawyers considered there was a lack of evidence, Daley rang the older girl. She texted him back telling him to stay away from her, branding him "a pervert".She wrote: "Stop calling and texting me. I really don't want anything to do with you. You are a perverted man."The court heard that she then rang her younger sister and the boy, the father of the baby she was expecting.Soon after the 14-year-olds arrived at his home a struggle broke out in the kitchen and Daley was fatally injured when two knife wounds punctured his heart.The teenagers had denied the charges and told the jury Daley had grabbed the girl round her throat and was trying to indecently assault her.They said the boy started jabbing him with a knife to try to free the girl as she struggled with Daley, who is 6ft 1in (1.85m).The girl told the court she had been indecently assaulted twice by Daley when she was 12. She wiped away tears and took a sip of water before adding: "He touched me."Her sister had phoned her on the day Daley died to say he had telephoned and was "talking s***". She had asked the defendants to collect her clothes from Daley's flat and seemed agitated.The boy told the court: "I saw him pinning her to the worktop. He had his left hand on her throat and his right hand was trying to touch her."She was trying to get his hand off her throat and also trying to keep him from touching her."He added: "I told him to stop, screaming at him. He was not paying any attention."The youth claimed he continued to "poke" Daley until he managed to free the girl.Jonathan Rees, QC, prosecuting, told the jury the evidence suggested Daley was something of a "Jekyll and Hyde character". But he warned that "this is not a vigilante society". People were not allowed to take the law into their own hands."He is not here to answer allegations which were not proceeded with," said Rees. "The question you have to deal with is not whether he deserved what he got but whether he was murdered."We maintain that following the telephone call, the defendants set out to teach him a lesson using violence."Robert Daley was subjected to an unprovoked knife attack in his kitchen. There was no sexual assault or grabbing round the neck."The teenagers were remanded in custody for sentencing on 17 November.The victim's mother, Inez Marks, said in a statement to the court: "It feels like I have been stabbed in the heart. I don't think I will ever get over it."A CPS statement about the case said: "The CPS advised the police that no further action should be taken against Robert Daley on 13 April."We decided there was insufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction because of conflicts in the evidence."A police source said: "The CPS played it by the book. The woman withdrew her allegations and the defendant did not make a formal statement."