A single mother who staged an elaborate fake burglary to cover up the arson killing of her baby son walked free from court yesterday after serving the equivalent of a two and a half year jail sentence.Danielle Wails, 22, was given three years' probation and a string of behaviour conditions after a judge heard details of her postnatal depression and desperate attempts to win back the baby's father.Newcastle crown court heard that Wails had called police in August last year, claiming that two masked men had tied her up and set fire to her rented two-bedroom terrace house in Cowgate, Newcastle upon Tyne. The screams of her four-month-old son, Alexander, could be heard in a tape of the 999 call.She told detectives later that she had only managed to dial by using her tongue to press the buttons, triggering a brief manhunt until forensic evidence revealed the story to be what the judge called "ludicrous". In fact, said Paul Sloan QC, prosecuting, she had started the fire herself and put Alexander close to it as she made the call. "She told the operator she could not reach the baby because of the fire and the smoke. It makes harrowing listening, Alexander's shrieks all too audible," he said. "Neighbours then heard her shouting through the letterbox: 'My house is on fire. My baby, my baby.'"Judge David Hodson said: "Courts do take a special approach to this particular offence. The recognised approach now is that the court should give such support as it can to the defendant in cases such as this." The court was also told that it was very rare for the appeal court to uphold prison sentences for infanticide, which Wails admitted in August when a murder charge was dropped.Mr Sloan said the arson was the culmination of attempts to win back Alexander's father, Robert Gallon, after a breakup. Wails, who had been given her tenancy by a charity after the split, sent 40 text messages to Mr Gallon in two and a half hours before starting the fire.She had previously staged illnesses and accidents, and the day before the fire she texted Mr Gallon, saying: "You hurt me so bad I can't think of anything else to do. I am sorry I hope you remember me and the bairn love you. It is best to leave this way. I love you and always will always have."Alexander was rescued by firefighters from the burning house and was taken to Newcastle general hospital, but died from burns soon afterwards. Wails escaped with minor bruises and grazes.Consultant psychiatrist Adrian East told the court that he was satisfied Wails was suffering from postnatal depression and had been diagnosed with the symptoms before the killing. She had invented stories to friends about being attacked in Newcastle city centre and about previously losing twins and triplets. She also claimed that health and social services had let her down, but records showed that she had failed to keep appointments or return calls.Brian Forster QC, defending, said that she was alone with the baby in a small house and no one else to rely on. "One quickly comes to the view that she was very much dependent upon him [Mr Gallon]," he said. "In the end she saw no way, no future for herself or for her child and this terrible incident, wicked as it was, came about. She has to live with the consequences for a very long time."Judge Hodson, the recorder of Newcastle, told Wails that the time she had spent in prison on remand had been the equivalent of a two and a half year sentence. He ordered her to live at a bail hostel and banned her indefinitely from working with children.Detective Superintendent Barbara Franklin said Wails had triggered a short but huge police hunt for the non-existent burglars. She said: "Alexander was a lovely, perfectly healthy little baby who suffered terrible injuries inflicted by his mum, the one person who should have been there to protect him at all costs. She has never shown any real grief or remorse over the death of her baby."Mr Gallon, the child's father, said: "There is no justice in it. I could hunt her down and kill her. You would get punished more for doing a burglary. She should have got life."