Marik is too scared to open his door to strangers. Until last year, the octogenarian was a gregarious man with a dandyish taste in clothes and a keen interest in politics. Now he hides behind a front door bristling with locks, peering at the world from behind half-closed curtains.It was last August that Delroy Grant robbed and sexually assaulted Marik. The old man, a Polish emigre, lives alone in Thornton Heath, south London. But although isolated, Marik's home is not an obvious target for a rapist and robber: with its raised, exposed front steps and bare driveway leading on to a busy road, a stranger breaking into the house without the preparation of prolonged surveillance runs an enormous risk of being spotted.Yet meticulous planning was, police now say, Grant's forte. So it was that, at 3am on 13 August 2009, Marik heard someone forcing his front door open and walking into the hallway."It was the second time he had come," Marik recalled. "The first time, around a year earlier, he broke in, dressed in black with his face all covered up. But after I challenged him, he left. I think it surprised him that I was not asleep."The second time, he told me he wanted money. I gave him what I had but then he said he wanted something else."Despite being traumatised, Marik is one of Grant's less physically damaged victims. During his 17-year career as a serial rapist, the father-of-seven was often appallingly violent: the first rape he has been accused of, in October 1992, was so brutal that the 89-year-old woman nearly died.Whether he horrified himself with his own savagery or whether there are dozens of other victims, too ashamed and overwhelmed to come forward, there was a lull of five years after the 1992 attack before Grant's DNA began turning up again at crime scenes.In 1997, however, there was a flurry of assaults across south-east London; sometimes he was striking five times a week and, with every attack, Grant's brutality increased. In 1999, an 88-year-old former bookkeeper was twice raped in her home in Orpington. Five years after the attack, she told the Sunday Times how she passed out as she was being raped for the first time."Afterwards, he threw a towel at me to dry myself," she said. "Then he came at me again. I said, 'No, please, can't you go to a prostitute? Why pick on old ladies of 88?' But he did it again."Four hours later, after Grant had left, Rose managed to crawl to her Carelink alarm. She was rushed to Bromley hospital with extreme blood loss.Her internal injuries were too severe for her to be taken to the special rape unit in Beckenham. Instead, she underwent an emergency operation to repair her perforated bowel. She was in hospital for a month and a nursing home for a further two months."That man did awful things to me," she said. "I still have terrible mental and psychological scars to show for it. This man has taken my life away from me."From the start, Grant had a distinctive modus operandi from which he rarely strayed. Most of the victims lived on their own in the Shirley or Orpington area of Croydon. Over the years, he targeted three houses in the same street. Only once was he reported to have offended outside Greater London.His victims described being woken up by a black-clad figure wearing a balaclava who shone a powerful torch into their faces. In some cases, the electricity had been cut off at the mains and telephone lines disabled.But while he was frequently brutal, Dr Julian Boon, a forensic psychologist who worked with the police in the early days of the investigation, pointed out that Grant sometimes showed perverse flashes of tenderness, often spending hours speaking to them before the assault, rationalising what he was about to do and attempting to establish some sort of relationship with them.One victim told of how he gently kissed her cheek and said he was sorry and wouldn't do it again. He took the pulse of another. A third related how he carefully lifted her into a position where the pain of the rape would be minimised. A fourth felt so sympathetic to Grant after the hours he spent talking to her that she thanked him after the attack for being gentle with her.But although Grant could overpower his victims with ease, when his victims confronted him he often fled from the house. One woman escaped assault after she asked him what his mother would think. Another chanted the Qur'an at him until he left. He also appeared to have a conscience: after demanding money from one victim, he refused to take the coins from a plate in her hallway after she told him they were for her church collection.But as time went on and Grant remained at large, he became more careful and sophisticated.Visiting the homes of his victims, the evolution of his technique is clear. The first known robbery and rape in 1992 was risky: the front door of the house in Shirley, Croydon, opens on to a wide, busy main road. Even in the early hours of the morning, traffic passes the front-facing door in a steady stream, exposing anyone staking out and forcing entry to the bungalow to the chance of being seen by many eyes.A few years later, however, Grant had finessed this approach. He began targeting pensioners living in sleepy, safe and apparently secure, suburban side streets.The home of the 81-year-old retired secretary whom Grant indecently assaulted and tried to rape in September 1998, for example, lies in a peaceful close behind a village green. There is a church with a noticeboard dedicated to the activities it provides for the elderly.Then there is the street on which the half-blind widower with Parkinson's disease lived before Grant broke into his bedroom in the early hours of early July 1999 and indecently assaulted him. Half-timbered bungalows with low walls and meticulously maintained gardens conspire to give the impression that nowhere could be safer than this quiet road of manicured shrubs and lace curtains.But prettiest of all is the square where Rose was twice raped and left bleeding almost to death. It's like stepping back in time: hanging baskets and potted geraniums frame the bow windows of the white-washed bungalows – windows opposite which Grant is now known to have lurked, watching Rose and plotting his attack.Still undetected, Grant refined his technique further. He began seeking out bungalows he could break into from the back with minimal risk of being seen.From summer 1999, Grant preyed on pensioners whose back gardens led onto other gardens or otherwise empty plots of land.This modification of his technique suited him. Now he could take advantage of the peaceful front roads to spy on his prey, before slipping around the back or side of the house and breaking in.The impact of his crimes continue to echo across the communities on which he preyed. Almost 11 years after Grant sexually assaulted her 88-year-old neighbour, one elderly woman in Shirley still locks herself into her bedroom every night. Another told the Guardian she rarely goes out any more and will not open her door unless the caller has rung beforehand."I have spent the last 15 years fearing every knock on the door and every bump in the night," said one elderly woman. "That man might be safely behind bars but terror of the outside world is now ingrained into me. I have forgotten what it is to feel safe."• All names of victims have been changed