A three-year-old girl was under police guard last night after a gunman burst into a house she was in and shot dead three men and wounded two women in Bishop's Stortford, Hertfordshire.Detectives were last night hunting two Asian men who witnesses said had driven up to the house just before the shooting. One is described as entering the house, before returning to the red car where an accomplice was waiting. The vehicle then sped off. Neighbours described hearing a series of bangs at about 9.30pm on Tuesday evening.Police say the victims had been targeted by the gunmen, whom they probably knew. Police did not name those shot but official records and neighbours said the house was occupied by Keith Cowell, 52, a taxi driver for a firm based at nearby Stansted airport. His 17-year-old son Matthew is also believed to have been shot dead as well as a 33-year-old man.Two women were left seriously wounded. Official records show that Mr Cowell's wife, Nicole, 46, lived at the house, and neighbours said the other wounded woman was the girlfriend of Matthew Cowell and the mother of the three-year-old child. The family dog, a pit bull called Glorious, was also killed.Last night the girl was being cared for by family and detectives are waiting to see if she saw anything of the attack and whether she can recall any details.Chief Superintendent Al Thomas, the area commander for east Hertfordshire police, said: "We don't underestimate the impact of these murders. We share the concern and sense of shock within the community. Early information suggests this was a targeted incident and not a random attack."Chief Constable Frank Whiteley said witnesses had described seeing two young Asian men, aged in their late teens to early 20s, driving away from the scene in a small red car towards the M11. Mr Whiteley added: "We are fairly confident that there was some knowledge between the victims and those responsible. Gun crime is low in Hertfordshire. We are a quarter down on gun crime in total this year."Gary Sanderson, spokesman for East of England Ambulance Services, said: "The three males were pronounced dead almost immediately. The women were treated rapidly and were taken to hospital with serious injuries. The little girl was carried out of the house and she was fine."This is one of the largest scale incidents we've ever seen involving firearms."Neighbour Richard Guy, 19, who was at home when the shooting happened in Plaw Hatch Close, said: "At about 9.30pm or 9.45pm last night me and my dad heard a crash or a bang and a car reversed away quickly and sped out."I don't know if it was a shot bang or a car bang. I thought nothing of it but then I came back from the pub at about 12 and then this had happened."Police refused to discuss a possible motive for the attack, but one resident linked it to drugs. Dean O'Connell, 20, said: "You don't expect it somewhere like this, but this estate is renowned for a little bit of drugs. Most of the trouble here, I imagine, is because of drugs. If it is drugs, the extent that it's gone to is mental."Roy Hinson, a relative of Mr Cowell, laid flowers at the scene, and said: "Keith was a great guy and so was Matt."Rosie Knight, 13, who used to walk the family's pet staffordshire bull terrier, said: "They were a lovely family. You had Keith living there with his wife and then there was their son Matty and his girlfriend Clare whose daughter Angel lived with them."Matty and Clare were on the point of moving out. They had found their own house. It was a chance for them to start a new life together on their own."