The shooting dead of a 16-year-old boy in London was the latest in a number of high-profile gun and knife killings involving teenagers in the capital this year.February 3: James Andre Smartt-Ford, 16, of New Malden, Surrey, died after being gunned down at Streatham ice arena in south London. He was shot in front of hundreds of people attending a disco at the ice rink. So far no one has been charged with his murder, but four teenagers are on police bail.February 6: Michael Dosunmu, of Diamond Street, Peckham, south London, was shot dead by gunmen who broke into his home days after he celebrated his 15th birthday.Police believe Michael, a regular churchgoer, was a victim of mistaken identity. Two men have been charged with his murder, and three other men and a 16-year-old boy are on police bail.February 14: Billy Cox, 15, was shot dead on the doorstep of his home in Fenwick Place, Clapham, south London.The football-loving teenager was serving a 12-month supervision order for a burglary offence and was electronically tagged and restricted to a curfew from 7pm to 7am. One man is currently on police bail in connection with his murder.March 14: Kodjo Yenga, 16, died from a single stab wound to the heart after being attacked in Hammersmith Grove, west London. Eight teenagers aged between 13 and 16 have been charged with his murder.March 17: Adam Regis, the 15-year-old nephew of the Olympic sprinter John Regis, died from a single stab wound to the chest in Plaistow, east London, on his way home from the cinema.No one has been charged with his murder, but 10 boys and men aged between 16 and 20 are on police bail.April 6: Paul Erhahon, 14, was stabbed to death in Leytonstone, east London. A second boy, 15, was left critically ill in hospital following the attack.Seven teenagers have been charged with Paul's murder, and with attempted murder and grievous bodily harm relating to the 15-year-old.Also in April, Scotland Yard launched a hard-hitting "blood on your hands" campaign aimed at turning children away from gun crime and encouraging them to speak to the police.June 23: Annaka Keniesha Pinto, 17, was shot during a fight in the Swan bar in Philip Lane, Tottenham, north London, in the early hours of the morning. Three people were arrested in connection with the death and later released on bail.Later the same day, Ben Hitchcock, 16, from Penge, south London, was stabbed to death in a fight involving up to 40 youths in Beckenham. Fourteen teenagers were arrested in connection with the incident and later released on police bail.June 26: Martin Dinnegan, 14, was stabbed to death in Islington, north London, after being pursued by a group of up to 20 youngsters.July 26: A 16-year-old boy was shot dead after apparently being chased by a gang of youths on bicycles. He was killed on the Stockwell Gardens estate in Stockwell, south London, in the early hours of the morning.