It was an early-hours call to me in my flat in London from the home secretary informing me that those who had bombed London two weeks earlier on 7 July were from Leeds that raised fears of reprisals. The home secretary advised me to get the first train back to my Leeds West constituency as hundreds had to be evacuated from their homes at 8am that morning. The police had discovered a bath of potentially lethal acid in the front room of a bomb factory in Burley. Over 450 people were to be turned out of their homes and he told me "get back home and just do what you can to keep things calm".My fear at the time was not only a major house explosion among the inner-city terraced streets of Burley – but reprisals, including personal attacks on Asians, their shops and the local mosques. Encouragingly, I got back to find residents did not need the emergency facilities provided by the council at Kirkstall sports centre – people across the street just opened their homes and took in their neighbours – even though many had hardly spoken previously. The local community rose to the crisis, cutting straight through ethnic, religious and family barriers.Knocking on doors to check things were all right on the second morning I found Joe – an older single man, previously a bit nervous of his Asian neighbours – there in the front room of the Hindu family opposite, sitting looking out of the window with a mug of tea. When I said: "Oh, you're here Joe. You can go back home now," he replied: "Do I have to?"Though the neighbourhood was overwhelmed by police and the world's media, the neighbours looked after each other. This in a constituency that the Sun caricatured as "white-van-man land plus the Asians". Nor were there reprisals against Muslims or the mosques. After appearing on Newsnight on the first evacuation day outside the family home of one of the bombers to argue against a Dutch politician pressing for total segregation policies and defending British Muslims as part of our community, I can remember as I moved away from the interview in the dark people in their white Pakistani clothes spontaneously streaming out of their homes to thank me for reassuring them that they still belonged in Leeds. One said: "You have let us come out again, we were so afraid."Two days before the bombings I had presented a memo to the prime minister advising that more investment in "interfaith relations" needed a sharper focus on two aspects: deepening the dialogue beyond tea and samosa meetings (and Leeds Concord has an excellent interfaith relations track record going back 30 years, drawing all faiths together) but also focusing on young people under 25 years' old.That memo was not aimed specifically at young Muslims, but it reflected the need to move off a "war on terror" and to listen and engage with young people in a constituency like mine where there is low-paid service sector work but few facilities for young people and a significant ceiling on job opportunities for young people of Asian origin. Their great grandfathers came – invited – to work in West Yorkshire's mills, their grandfathers set up family corner shops, their fathers were taxi drivers and the first fully educated generation were now hoping and looking for a chance at better jobs and further education.In the five years since that fateful crisis, local neighbourhood relations have actually been calmer and more open than before. Rather than random interfaith cultural expeditions and visits to open days at the mosques, not only have all the mosques made a real effort to positively open up regularly but also to go out to others. The Armley mosque, for example, has developed a strong relationship with the nearby St Bartholomew's Anglican church. Bright, new, young leadership at the local mosques has stepped forward with challenging demands for shared community facilities (including football) for young people, coming out confidently at last with demands on their own terms and demonstrating a real capacity to work in relationships with others. New, highly professional and trained imams (one is a young lawyer) are now making a real impression on the life and power structure of the city.That has been the shift in the last five years – the emergence of younger, confident and professional leadership in the local mosques, well able to reach out and in nobody's political or economic back-pocket. And this new leadership, capable of engaging with the authorities, is inspiring old members of the community themselves to "come out" When the char of the mosque picked up the teapot at the healthy living open day and went round pouring out everybody's tea with a huge smile and friendly word, he did more for enhancing local community relations than a million words or a thousand leaflets. The remaining ongoing task, of course, is to practically address the economic realities that leave young Muslims locked out of job opportunities and dreaming of a different life.