With the gap between capacity and numbers having closed inexorably week on week and prisons now reaching their bust limit, we are now witnessing a classic example of crisis management (Reid prepares for emergency measures to ease pressure on prisons as only 125 places remain, October 9). Some months ago the Prison Reform Trust wrote to the home secretary with a seven-point plan to end needless overcrowding.Several of the recommendations detail the importance of tackling the causes of crime. A national network of court diversion schemes allied to a range of mental-health facilities would stop prisons being used as asylums. Residential drug-treatment places would be a far better use of public funding than locking up drug addicts and hazardous drinkers. Nor should prison be used for vulnerable women involved in petty offences. Local authority secure care, specialist fostering, intensive supervision and mentoring would avoid creating colleges of crime for children, whose reoffending rates on leaving prison are more than 80%. "Supersizing" sentences for drug mules should be urgently reviewed - they do not affect drug barons, the real villains.The last two recommendations call for strong, courageous political leadership. Properly funded, locally run community sentences, promoted with confidence and backed by a graduated set of sanctions for technical breaches of orders and licences, should be a top priority. Finally, ministers need to act to reduce, not inflame, public fear of crime, making prison work to cut serious and violent offending. Without such a strategic approach we will continue to lurch from crisis to crisis, with the inevitable and futile drain on the public purse. Geoff Dobson Deputy director, Prison Reform TrustIn today's global market, why isn't the Home Office looking overseas for the prison places it urgently needs? Surely it is within the spirit of the EU for us to rent spare capacity within our partners' facilities. The private sector has been only too eager to "offshore" some of its tasks; why is the public sector lagging behind? John Risley Harrogate, North YorkshireAccording to Lord Phillips, the lord chief justice: "It's madness spending £37,000 a year [jailing someone] when by spending much less on services in the community you can do as good a job."It's nice to find yet another person saying that those who jail others have a tendency to insanity, especially as he comes from within the asylum of lawyers. Sean Goodsir-Cullen NeathI am happy to keep a prisoner in my cellar for a payment of rather less than £37,000 per annum. If they can do it on Wisteria Drive, we can do it over here. A few more like me and we can solve the prisons crisis overnight. David Anderson Birmingham