A Malaysian student who was allegedly robbed by bogus Good Samaritans during the summer riots knew what was happening but was powerless to stop it, a court has heard.Ashraf Rossli, 20, described how blood was pouring from his mouth as a games console was stolen from his rucksack.He had been in Britain for a month when he was set upon as looting swept the UK.The accountancy student had been cycling to a scared female friend when his jaw was broken in two places as he was punched in the face by an attacker on 8 August in Barking, east London.John Kafunda, 22, and Reece Donovan, 24, then allegedly stole from Rossli after posing as Good Samaritans.The incident was recorded on a mobile phone and received widespread publicity after being posted on YouTube. The footage showed two men rifling through Rossli's bag after helping him up.The trial at Wood Green crown court heard from Rossli's police statement in which he said a Sony PlayStation and 10 games were taken, at a value of £500."I was sat on the pavement with blood pouring from my mouth," he said. "I remember being approached by a male who asked if I was OK. I remember being pulled to my feet, then I felt someone again tugging at my rucksack."I was not in a position to defend myself and was still suffering from the effects of being hit. I knew they were stealing from me but I could do nothing. Once they had taken what they wanted they left."Kafunda, of Ilford, and Donovan, of Romford, east London, both deny robbery, theft and violent disorder. Donovan also denies burglary at a Tesco.A man and a woman who identified Donovan and Kafunda as the two men in the video after watching the incident on television gave evidence from behind a screen and using voice-distortion technology.The male, who was given the pseudonym Kieran Thomas, identified Donovan as the white man in the video taking something from the victim's bag and walking away.He said he had known Donovan for "a long period of time" and recognised his Nike Air Max trainers, black New York Yankees baseball hat and Ralph Lauren jacket. He said he identified the defendant by "the way he walked" but was unable to describe it.Gideon Cammerman, defending, asked: "Are you here to tell the truth or are you here to point the finger at Reece Donovan?"The witness replied: "I'm here to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth."Cammerman went on: "Could there be a reason you're not telling us about why you don't like Reece Donovan?"Thomas replied: "No."The jury heard the witness had convictions for offences including burglary, theft and threatening behaviour.Cammerman said to him: "You have shown a tendency to behave dishonestly."He replied: "Yes, but this isn't about me."The other anonymous witness, given the pseudonym Sarah Bishop, said she recognised Kafunda as the other man involved. She had known the defendant for nine years and recognised "his side profile" in the video.She added that "the fact that he was actually helping him [the victim] to begin with" was another reason why she identified him.Bishop agreed with the prosecutor Christopher Hehir's suggestion that he was "a helpful person".Ignatius Fessal, defending Kafunda, said: "I don't call you a dishonest witness. I suggest to you that you may be wrong in your recognition of that person being John. Might I be correct?""I don't agree," Bishop replied.The court also heard extracts from the defendants' police interviews.Kafunda told officers that he was "a million percent" sure that he was not the man in the footage seen talking to Rossli while a white man started to search his rucksack. "If that was me I would physically stop them but that isn't me there [in the video]. I'm not going to let you get hurt and robbed at the same time," he said.The trial was adjourned.