Tens of thousands of burglars, shoplifters and petty drug offenders would be forced to work in the community instead of being given "the cushy option" of prison under plans announced by the Liberal Democrats yesterday.Up to 20,000 non-violent criminals currently on probation would mend street lights, build roads or repair bus shelters in the areas where they had committed their offences. And at least 10,000 prisoners serving short sentences would be put to work. The plans - which will form part of the Lib Dems' manifesto - won immediate approval from the National Association of Probation Officers, who said that up to 90,000 offenders a year could eventually be eligible, but warned that they would need an extra 3,000 probation officers. "If this could be combined with teaching offenders skills, it could have a major impact on reducing crime," Harry Fletcher, the union's assistant general secretary, said. But the government and the Conservatives described the plans as "dangerous" and hypocritical, given the Lib Dems' opposition to the criminal justice bill which proposes that offenders should be given tougher community sentences, tagged and sent back to jail if they breach any one of a list of conditions. The prisons minister, Paul Goggins, said: "It's outrageous to say that career burglars, class A drug offenders and organised criminals should not be punished for their crimes with jail sentences, and it sends out a dangerous message." The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said: "People who are victims of burglary find it a pretty traumatic experience and if I'm next the home secretary I shall not want to be responsible for giving a signal that society doesn't much mind about such trauma. The long-term answer to overcrowded prisons is a more orderly society, not a signal that society doesn't care." Simon Hughes, MP for the London seat of North Southwark and Bermondsey, and the Lib Dems London mayoral candidate, said a "new moral agenda" on crime was needed that would offer due reparation to victims, and ensure criminals were not just given the "cushy option" of prison. "We have to have a change in culture that says prison is the tough option and community service the easy one. "In fact, prison is a very easy life in many ways for lots of people. They're watered, kept warm, in all-expenses paid accommodation with three meals a day, a gym, pool table and a telly. It's actually a cushy number," he added. Under his scheme, eligible offenders would instead be tagged and put to work under probation officers. "Local councils... should identify local jobs that need to be done - renovating neglected parks, clearing litter, removing graffiti," he said. "I want people to get used to the sight of seeing teams of offenders doing this work, demonstrating that something constructive is being done about crime." Offenders would also be required to give an explanation and apology to their victims and agree to a programme of reparation, should the victim agree to such contact. "Most offenders fail to realise the hurt they have caused because the current system is so impersonal" he added. Mr Hughes stressed that the system was not for violent or sex offenders or for residential burglars if they committed their offences while their victims were present. He said the scheme would need a significant increase in the probation service manpower but said savings would be made elsewhere.