There is something about Michael Howard and the way phrases cling to him. I refer not to his nightliness, but to his "prison works" mantra. He first said it in 1993, adding: "It ensures that we are protected from murderers, muggers and rapists – and it makes many who are tempted to commit crime think twice..." That year the prison population duly rose. The trend continued under New Labour, and crime almost halved. Yesterday it was Theresa May's turn.Ken Clarke, in his green paper, puts forward the alternative view that prison might work, but pretty much anything else you can think of would work better. He advocates better treatment for offenders with mental health issues, rehab for those with addictions, a better use of restorative justice, essentially anything that doesn't involve bars. "I've never had a popular policy to implement in my life," he told the Commons justice committee today, to guffaws.True, this is by no means the least popular thing he's done – probably not even the least popular thing he's done this year (cuts to legal aid will certainly throw up more injustice, once they've taken effect). Nevertheless, imprisonment – whether or not to do it, and for how long – is the greatest fissure separating conservatives: those like Howard, who insist that prison works, refuse to ask why; those like Clarke, who want to reduce prison populations, are terrified of sounding as if – heaven forfend – they have soft hearts.Of course prison works. If you're going to have a judicial system, then it needs armoury more than verbal censure. Imprisonment, like democracy, is the worst possible idea until you consider all the others. The number of crimes goes down when the prison population is high because inmates have their criminal activity curtailed through the pesky fact that they are in prison.There are problems with the way crime is measured: Clarke said, rather indolently, to the justice committee that "you can argue it either way, and you can't prove it either way". I would argue that it doesn't matter whether a high prison population reduces crime. It's like having a herd of rampaging elephants: you can tie them all to trees, and they will cause less damage, but you cannot deduce from this that the answer to your elephant problem is to plant more trees.The only sensible measure of prison's efficacy is in recidivism. Again, the figures are vexed. A study in 2003 showed offenders on community sentences were slightly less likely to reoffend than those in custody (43% to 55%). When Clarke made his first speech as justice secretary in May, he said that Labour's policies had increased reoffending. This was sleight-of-hand – reoffending had gone up between 2008 and 2010, but the drop was so substantial in the eight years beforehand that Jack Straw was right when he said last June that it had gone down overall – by 20% among offenders and 24% among young offenders.Rates of reoffending always make politicians gape at the idea that anybody would devise a system in which more than half the offenders saw their sentences merely as a hiatus in a life of crime. I wonder why nobody is more amazed at the number of prisoners who come out and don't reoffend. These are people who had already reached an accommodation with the moral implications of criminality; who were OK with the stigma of being on the wrong side of the law; who certainly didn't come out of prison any richer than they went in, or with more to lose. And yet 45% come out and eschew crime anyway. How is it possible that the prison system, devised on the hoof, in a spirit of desperation and vengeance, could have such a socially beneficial impact on nearly half the people who pass through it?Where prison does work, it is for these reasons: that it addresses and solves a prisoner's addiction problems, where they exist; that it endows the prisoner with skills, both cognitive and practical; and that it is near enough to a prisoner's family that there's a chance of returning to a stable life at the end of the sentence. So any justice secretary with any enthusiasm for reform would be looking to replicate these benefits in a non-custodial context. Schemes have been conceived to do this, and have been found not to work – the rightwing thinktank Civitas brandishes the figures somewhat triumphantly.But all this shows is that non-custodial sentencing doesn't have the teeth to enforce its own requirements. The rates of recidivism roughly correlate to the proportion of offenders who drop out before completing a course. As with so much education, courses on anger management, enhanced thinking skills and rehab only work if you show up.The diametric opposition that Howard insists upon – where the tough-minded insist upon prison, and the woolly-headed beg for community service in fluorescent tabards – is totally specious. The prison service realised three decades ago that the punitive element could never be the main point of incarceration, only a side issue. Ken Clarke's aim – to change offenders' lives through education and rehab – marks no great departure in criminological philosophy, merely an attempt to graft the successes of the prison service on to a cheaper, non-custodial process.And Michael Howard's ideal of prisons as dank hellholes that really teach bad people a lesson – these are a figment of his imagination.