A man who killed his six-year-old son by cutting his throat and beating him around the head with a brick was found dead in his prison cell yesterday, having apparently electrocuted himself.Dafydd Field, 52, was discovered by prison staff at Lewes prison just before 7am. Staff and paramedics tried to resuscitate him but he was pronounced dead at the scene.Field's son Jethro was discovered in his bedroom at the family's home in Farncombe, Surrey, last Wednesday. The boy, described by neighbours as "friendly and quietly spoken", had suffered head and throat injuries.Last night his mother, Stevie, who had moved out of the house with Jethro a week before the murder, said: "We will for ever miss Jethro. He was such a special boy and no words can express how sad we feel. We will all miss his happiness, inquisitiveness, sense of humour, strength and love. Be at peace, darling."After killing his son, Field, a teaching assistant, drove 250 miles to Tywyn, near Barmouth, north Wales, where he had spent much of his childhood. There he called the police, telling officers he had murdered his son and asking them to go to the house before his wife came to collect Jethro.A police spokeswoman said: "Mr Field handed himself in to Tywyn police station in Wales at around 12.40pm on Wednesday, where he was arrested on suspicion of the murder."Mr Field was interviewed at Guildford police station on Friday but refused to answer police questions.On Saturday he appeared before a special court at Dorking. He was taken to Lewes prison and had been due to appear at the Old Bailey in July.Yesterday neighbours said Field, who was nicknamed Superdad because of the time he spent with Jethro, said he had struggled to cope with his recent separation from his wife.Police said that although Jethro had gone to live with his mother Field still had regular contact with the boy. "There were also no court custody arrangements and the couple had an amicable agreement whereby they both looked after Jethro," a spokesman said.Yesterday neighbours described Jethro as a friendly polite boy who was "always smiling". Jean Hogram, 57, said: "It is truly shocking, no one would ever have thought [Field] could be capable of something like this."They seemed like such a lovely family, and we just don't know how Stevie is going to cope with losing both her son and her ex-husband in such horrific circumstances." The Home Office said yesterday that Field's death was under investigation, adding: "Indications are it was self-inflicted and appears to be electrocution." A spokesman added that Field was not on suicide watch when he died.