A new criminal offence is to be created by the home secretary, David Blunkett, in an attempt to deal with the problem of Britain's secret slaves who are brought into the country by wealthy families and virtually imprisoned in their homes.He made the announcement as official figures showed that nearly 91,000 people from the new eastern members of the European Union, including Poland, registered to work in Britain from May to September, making a collective £120m contribution to the British economy and paying a further £20m in taxes and national insurance. Immigration critics claimed that the figures showed that the numbers who have come had far outstripped initial academic estimates but the Home Office said that 45% of those who had registered were already in Britain before the May 1 accession date and had used the workers' registration scheme to legalise their status. A further significant minority - including 60% in agricultural jobs such as fruit picking - have already left the country having come only for summer jobs. The home secretary said the figures showed that claims earlier in the year that he was "opening the floodgates" by introducing one of the few schemes in Europe to allow new EU members to work in Britain had proved to be completely wrong. Mr Blunkett announced his decision to introduce the new criminal offence to curb domestic slavery during a speech to a Trades Union Congress conference on migrant workers. He revealed that the need for the new offence had been highlighted for him this summer when the Home Office suddenly received asylum applications from 220 Eritreans in one month who were trying to escape from their wealthy employers in Britain. "These wealthy families are bringing their own domestic slaves into the country," he said. "They are literally keeping them in slavery by holding onto their passports and other identity documents so they could not leave or change jobs. They are being held virtual prisoners in circumstances that are totally unacceptable." The home secretary said the new offence will make it a crime punishable by up to two years imprisonment for anyone, including employers, to hold onto passports or other identity documents not belonging to them without good reason. David Davies, the shadow home secretary, made clear yesterday that he intends to use the figures showing the impact of new EU workers on the British labour market as a major general election issue. He claimed yesterday that the 91,000 who had registered in the first five months of the scheme was an indication that the immigration system was still a shambles with many more working illegally. But Mr Blunkett said the scheme had been successful in curbing illegal working and that countries such as Germany and France, which had not provided a legal route for the new EU workers, were facing much greater difficulties in tackling illegal working. He said that legal migrant workers were needed in Britain to fill the 600,000 vacancies in the labour market.