Tony Blair yesterday dropped a heavy hint that the hostile public reaction to David Blunkett's plan to impose a £5-£30 surcharge on fines - to help boost victim support funds - might force the government to drop it.During a local radio phone-in, Mr Blair stood by the Home Office's determination to make criminals pay compensation to those they harm. But he was warier of the £5 surcharge. He told a caller - "Kate from Holloway" - who protested that people paying fines should "not pay for other people's crimes": "What was published yesterday was a consultation, so the decisions haven't been taken. We're obviously going to listen to what people say." He said it twice. Though Mr Blair and the caller were concerned with motoring offences, the home secretary's plan to raise an extra £25m for victim support envisages surcharges on a range of crimes, including those such as drug offences where there is no conventional "victim". Yesterday's furore, in which motoring organisations and the pro-car Conservatives were joined by victim charities "uncomfortable" with the idea, was led by the Daily Mail. Downing Street later reinforced the prime minister's message. A spokesman said: "Some people are trying to suggest that speeding is not very important. Speed does kill. It creates victims." But he added: "Let us consult and let us see what the reaction is." Since Mr Blair's appearance on the London radio station LBC during the morning was part of Labour's big conversation initiative to engage voters, he is likely to listen more carefully than in the recent past. The Home Office is seeking to persuade the drinks industry to help fund the compensation for £7.3bn worth of alcohol-related crime. It also wants to shift the cost of work-related crime to employers. Mr Blunkett is unlikely to give ground without the kind of fight he relishes. On LBC, Mr Blair said those who committed crimes should be made to compensate victims, to the point of having their earnings and benefits attached "to the fullest extent" to ensure payments were made. "I personally think there is merit in that, but some people will say to you're going to put particular families in poverty, and all the rest of it." The trouble was, he added, that in some crimes - such as hit-and-run accidents - no offender was identified, let alone convicted. Hence the Blunkett plan. As for people being able to pay fines rather than accumulate penalty points on their driving licences, Mr Blair said the courts would retain their ability to say "we're not going to give you another fine, we're going to ban you". The prime minister also fielded questions on fathers' rights of access, university tuition fees, the future of Iraq, and benefit claimants.