The faces of Britain's most dangerous criminals are being put on the internet in a modern version of the Wild West's "Wanted" posters. The FBI-style Most Wanted website, run by the Crimestoppers charity, will allow police to appeal online to the public for information about major incidents.An alleged double murderer and a man believed to be an international fraudster are among those featured on the website, http://mostwanted-uk.org. It will carry photographs, CCTV footage and descriptions of suspects detectives are seeking.Among those featured yesterday during the launch were Ayub Khan, wanted in connection with the shooting of an uncle and nephew in east London in August 2003, and Joseph Oduguwa, sought by Scotland Yard's economic unit for questioning over a substantial fraud.If people recognise any of the individuals, they can provide information anonymously by calling police or Crimestoppers, or filling in a secure online form. The new website also allows the public to give anonymous tip-offs via email. The technology on the site will strip emails of all the sender's details.Visitors to the site will be able to search the huge list of suspects by crime type, or even by using information such as hair or eye colour. They will also be able to ask the website to list the top 10 most wanted criminals in their local area.It will be up to individual police forces to place appeals on the website and take them off again as suspects are caught.The list of the top 10 criminals will be continually updated as new appeals are posted.Mick Laurie, Crimestoppers' chief executive, said it was a valuable first for police to be able to receive anonymous tip-offs via the internet. Crimestoppers has been testing the website with key forces for some time and says police will carefully assess the suspects they want to feature so that no "trivia" appears.Detective Superintendent Sean Cunningham, from the Metropolitan police, said the Most Wanted site provided the opportunity for the public and police to work together to make communities safer. "Having this source of information will make it easier for the public to assist police and it will help all UK police forces find named individuals as well as identifying unknown, wanted individuals," he said.Nick Ross, presenter of the BBC's Crimewatch programme, hailed the website as the "biggest advance since the 'Wanted' poster"."It is astonishing this has never happened before," he said. "Apart from Crimewatch, there is virtually no way of getting national publicity for most cases and even the police had no effective way of communicating the huge number of wanted suspects. Many wanted people could just disappear - until now."Crimestoppers receives an average of 6,000 calls a month, and about 20 people are arrested and charged every day as a result of information given to the charity. It has received more than 700,000 calls since it was set up in 1988, leading to more than 64,000 arrests, the recovery of £86m worth of property and drugs worth £114m.The website launch did not proceed without a hitch - so many people tried to view the list of most wanted criminals at once that it was unable to cope with the demand, forcing a temporary closure of the site.