David Davis today promised to end the "carousel of crime" with a new prison-building scheme and a focus on education and drug rehabilitation within jails, as the Conservative conference turned the spotlight on law and order in Bournemouth.The shadow home secretary also revealed that the Tories would be publishing a radical cost/benefit analysis of immigration which will lay out future Tory party policy in the next few weeks.The defeated leadership candidate, formerly a territorial member of the SAS, also made a mild jibe at the party leader, David Cameron, saying he agreed with Mr Cameron's advice to "hug a hoodie", only "I might just hug a little harder and longer". After admitting to the Guardian today that it was electorally difficult to oppose ID cards, he insisted to delegates that "fundamental liberties are a source of our strength". Mr Davis also reiterated that the party would bring in a British Bill of Rights to replace the EU-based Human Rights Act - which has come under fire recently - and would continue to oppose any government plans to increase detention without trial. Gordon Brown has hinted he would try to reintroduce the government's original plan of allowing the police to hold terrorist suspects for 90 days without charge. The last attempt to do so saw defeat for the government, but still resulted in a compromise increase from 14 to 28 days. The Lib Dems also oppose any further increase.Mr Davis began his keynote speech by quoting from a letter sent to him by a teenage rape victim, despairing of British justice after her attacker received a sentence under which he could have been released within four years. Criticising both the "'walk on by' society" and the "distracting navel-gazing initiatives" of the government, Mr Davis paraphrased a catchphrase made famous by Michael Howard, the former Tory home secretary, telling delegates: "Prison can work." "It's just not working at the moment," he added. Promising to end the 'carousel of crime' by which half of all crime is committed by ex-convicts, Mr Davis vowed to expand drug rehabilitation schemes and education programmes to make prisoners literate.But he insisted that, under a Conservative government, muggers and violent criminals would be brought before the courts and "treated like the criminals they are" rather than receiving what he called "the equivalent of parking fines". "We will provide the prison places to do this," he added, in a section his aides confirmed would mean a large increase in current prison capacity.He pledged that his dual approach would make prison "tougher not softer." In the other main policy announcement of his well-received 20-minute address, he promised to bring immigration "back under control" in the wake of a new Tory report."Unlike the Labour government we're not afraid to talk honestly about immigration. "In a few weeks Damian Green and I will publish an analysis of the benefits and costs of immigration. And we'll lay out the principles on which Conservative policy will be built."That would appear to pre-empt some of the policies likely to be part of Mr Cameron's 18-month policy review, whose six groups report back next summer. However, it is likely that the Tories' hand has been forced by the government's equivocation over unrestricted access for workers from Romania and Bulgaria joining the EU in January.