As you are aware, the House of Lords has amended the sexual offences bill to give anonymity to defendants in rape cases in the same way as anonymity is granted to the complainant. I hope that the principle of the amendment will be endorsed by the Commons.It is an important pillar of our system of justice that most criminal trials are public events. This ensures that prosecution is not secret persecution, and that the participants must accept public scrutiny of the process. But there are limits. I support, as you do, that anonymity should be granted to complainants in rape cases - without it many find it impossible to come forward.Defendants face, however, similar problems. The rise in the number of allegations of rape stems not from an increase in rape by a stranger, but from the growth in complaints of rape by a defendant known to the complainant. The public interest requires that they should be tried and the guilty punished. But we know that these are often difficult cases for a jury to resolve and the acquittal rate is high. We also have ample examples of the way the lives of acquitted defendants may be destroyed by the publicity. Giving an unconvicted defendant the possibility of anonymity is not, therefore, just a balance to the protection given to the complainant but a recognition of the consequences of the process to him if not guilty. Such protection existed without problems from 1976-88, and if there are circumstances where it should not be granted then provision can be made in the bill. Yours ever, Dominic I agree that anybody who is charged and then acquitted goes through a difficult time, made worse by the media. In fact, though, mud does not seem to stick. The famous people recently in that position got their jobs back, and the public sympathises with their suffering. People are named so that the public can take extra precautions. The problem is that, before trial, nobody knows whether the defendant is guilty. Thus, the balance between public safety and privacy is hard. However, there is no case for changing the rule for rape cases alone. The impact on a reputation is no worse than an allegation of beating an old lady or murdering a child. The rape conviction rate is 5%. That isn't because 95% of men and women complainants are lying. They face a harrowing court experience. The inspectors of constabulary reported last year that most drop out before trial because the justice system doesn't give them support. This seems to mean that many rapists get away with it. They are often serial offenders - and that includes those who get into a relationship to commit their crime. Serial rapists are a threat to other women. Yours ever, Vera While I share your concern that cases of rape may go unconvicted and unpunished, this cannot justify abandoning due process. Juries properly acquit when they are not sure of guilt and you have not, I am glad to see, yet suggested that they should do otherwise! The high acquittal rate is clearly not linked to the existing lack of anonymity for a defendant, so there is no reason to suppose that acquittal rates will somehow rise if anonymity is usually granted. I have always accepted that there may be cases where anonymity is removed to protect the public. But granting anonymity would properly reflect the fact that the vast majority of those being prosecuted are not being convicted, and provide some mitigation to the harsh exposure of details of their private lives. I also disagree that the impact of rape trials on reputation is necessarily no worse than that of other grave allegations of criminality. Precisely because the issues may be so difficult to resolve it leaves a taint that may be as damaging as it is undeserved. Yours ever, Dominic It is a strange argument that because the conviction rate is low you should make it worse by labelling rape complaints as likely to fail. This low conviction rate is already self-perpetuating. The criminal justice agencies have low expectations of cases and have put in less effort. Police and the crown prosecution service are trying to break that cycle. How it would undermine those efforts to declare that parliament, too, has low expectations of conviction. The amount of quality support a complainant receives increases the likelihood of conviction. If there is a local sexual assault referral centre (Sarc) where a complainant will be treated by doctors who are sex offence specialists, and will be counselled, the conviction rate will be higher. Where she has to take her chance in a police waiting room until a forensic medical examiner comes out, hours later, the conviction rate is lower. There are only seven Sarcs but there will be more. Parts of the current bill will also help complainants. If anonymity is linked to low conviction rates, will you have the defendant named where there is a Sarc and not where there isn't? Will you change the rule when more Sarcs lead to more convictions? What is the right conviction rate to justify the lifting of the right to anonymity? The low conviction rate in rape means that guilty people are acquitted. How can you justify anonymising this group of defendants? Vera I can see no reason why granting anonymity to defendants downgrades the complaint. It certainly did not do so when I was first practising at the bar and anonymity existed. It might, on the contrary, ensure that more cases are sent to trial. The abnormally low conviction rate reflects evidential problems - not an unwillingness by juries to take rape allegations seriously. This is further complicated by the fact that there are well-documented instances of false allegations, which is inevitably going to make juries even more cautious. I welcome the work of Sarcs and hope that this leads to a higher conviction rate for the guilty. But I see this as going hand-in-hand with anonymity for defendants. Far from being a signal that parliament is giving up, it would indicate that we acknowledge the problems that surround these cases. Yours ever, Dominic There are lower conviction rates in child sex abuse and domestic violence cases, but you don't propose anonymity for those. You refer to the 70s, when there was anonymity. That was an era when rape in marriage was not an offence, complainants had to be corroborated because they were seen as unreliable, and rape by acquaintances was rarely reported. Anonymity was in place because women were commonly believed to make false allegations against men. We have moved on - anonymity went out, in 1984, when the criminal law revision committee found that it sent out wrong signals. There are known to be false allegations in between 5% and 6% of rape cases, which are invariably weeded out at an early stage. Clearly, you hope for more convictions of the guilty. There have been notable cases when publicity has brought out additional complainants, too scared to report on their own. They have contributed to convictions from what might otherwise have been acquittals. Lack of support plays a major part in low conviction rates, evidenced by the high drop-out rate long before trial. Evidential problems have a lesser role because so few cases get to court. Yours, Vera · Dominic Grieve, a barrister and MP for Beaconsfield, is the Conservative frontbench spokesman on criminal justice. Vera Baird QC is Labour MP for Redcar and sits on on the sexual offences bill standing committee.