Vanessa George began work at Little Ted's nursery in September 2006. There are no records of the post being advertised, nor is there any evidence that references were taken up or that a formal interview took place.It was a privately-run community nursery and new staff were often friends of managers or trustees. However, George did undergo a criminal records check and was found to be of good character.Her fellow workers generally talk of George as a popular member of staff and – as one of the older workers – she quickly came to be seen as a figure of authority.George's behaviour began to change from December 2008. The married mother-of-two was described from then on as "always seeming to be on the internet and chasing men".Staff heard that George had offered a man sex for doing her car MOT and that she had sex on the moors for money. She also began to show images of adult pornography that were on her phone to other members of staff. Staff were embarrassed and worried – but did not take action.The serious case review reported: "Her position of power within the staff group was such that although staff became increasingly concerned about her crude language, discussion of extramarital relationships and showing indecent images of adults on her phone, they were unable to challenge her."There were other problems at the nursery. A child was once found in the road after the gates of the nursery had been locked. A parent complained that when he arrived to pick up his child he found the gate unlocked and children playing unsupervised in the courtyard.One area of the nursery was described in the report as "cluttered" and when the serious case review panel visited the nursery it was "shocked" at conditions in another part and thought they were "not suitable for young babies".Though Plymouth city council's early years service was concerned, officials felt there was no mechanism by which they could warn Ofsted and the nursery received reasonable reports from the inspectors. The early years service worked closely with Little Ted's – but had no power to take action against it.Despite George's bad behaviour, the review found no evidence that she was sexually interested in children until she met Colin Blanchard on the internet. She has claimed the Manchester businessman encouraged her to abuse children and take images of them.Her modus operandi, the review reveals, was to assault infants in a toilet with her back to other staff. George claimed that using the main nappy changing area in full view of staff hurt her back.George was arrested in June 2009 after an image of a child that included a glimpse of a Little Ted's T-shirt was found on Blanchard's computer. She was given an indeterminate sentence at Bristol crown court last December. Blanchard is expected to be sentenced later this month. Little Ted's nursery remains closed.