Charles Clarke broke two months of political silence last night to unleash a calculated attack on the policies and style adopted by John Reid since taking over the Home Office after his own removal as home secretary in May.In an interview with the Guardian, timed to coincide with a lengthy defence of his handling of the foreign prisoner crisis that triggered his fall, a frustrated Mr Clarke said Mr Reid had been wrong to make sweeping criticisms of the Home Office's performance. As for the recent waves of bad publicity which hit the department, they were generated by Mr Reid's tactics, not by Mr Clarke's legacy, he insisted."It was wrong to describe the Home Office as not 'fit for purpose', it's not true. Many aspects are good and getting better, though there are dysfunctionalities between the prison and nationality departments," said Mr Clarke. He also questioned Mr Reid's apparent tendency to be "too media-led".In what amounts to one of the most public rows among senior Blairites since 1997, Mr Clarke rejected claims that recent bad publicity showed he had lost control of his department. "I disagree. I argue that the way it's gone is a direct consequence of the way the current home secretary has conducted his responsibilities," he said.In his feud with Mr Reid, Mr Clarke pointedly said it was "right to listen to the media, including what the tabloids have to say", but that his own style was "not to criticise the judges, police or prosecution" - as Mr Reid has done. He calls himself "tough but not populist"."Making remarks such as 'not fit for purpose' [to MPs] or 'I am the enforcer' [to the Mirror] are the wrong approach to deal with it. They have not made it easier for him to carry through reforms. It's his responsibility, not mine, but I mind if my stewardship is blamed," he said from Brussels where he was addressing the socialist group of MEPs.Mr Clarke was more forgiving of the prime minister, who removed him in the May reshuffle. He said Tony Blair should stay on as prime minister until 2008. But he should stay only if he can first recover his "sense of direction, leadership and purpose", Mr Clarke warned."We are rather becalmed and need a sense of leadership which we do not have. The solution at the moment is for Tony Blair to stay on until 2008, so he can recapture his sense of direction, leadership and purpose to complete the manifesto on which we were elected in 2005."Mr Clarke's comments came as the prime minister launched his most overt challenge yet to critics within the Labour party. Writing in today's Guardian, he calls for an open debate about the future direction of the party and government."The time for coded references and implied critiques is gone. This isn't in the end about my leadership. It's about our common direction. I will not be leading Labour into the next election but I will do everything in my power to ensure that Labour wins it. I believe that means renewing New Labour, not dumping it."He spoke after sending the Commons home affairs select committee a detailed defence of his handling of the foreign prisoner row. Mr Clarke insisted in a five-page letter that he had only been made aware in March 2006 of the failure to consider some foreign prisoners for deportation at the end of their sentences."When we were aware of this, action was then taken."In a series of radio, television and newspaper interviews, his first since leaving the cabinet seven weeks ago, Mr Clarke made plain that he wishes to stick to issues, not personalities.But in a pre-recorded interview with BBC2's Newsnight, broadcast last night, he said Mr Blair had been "wrong" not to let him have three or four years to sort out the Home Office, though he added that he was "not angry with him as such".BBC viewers saw him repeatedly say that Mr Reid had been "fundamentally wrong" in his analysis of the Home Office's failings at a time when Mr Clarke had just installed fresh leadership. In a sustained assault, he said Mr Reid was wrong to confuse his sophisticated structural reforms with "woolly liberalism", implicitly mistaken to attack judges and wrong to postpone his plans to merge police forces - "of course I think it's wrong to delay it".Mr Clarke's decision to talk to the media prompted weekend predictions that he was about to "do a Geoffrey Howe" on Mr Blair and turn from loyal ally to become his destroyer - as Lord Howe did to Lady Thatcher in 1990. Instead, Mr Clarke used the interviews to disclaim that option.Mr Clarke is not out to criticise Mr Blair or replace him immediately with Mr Brown, as some Blair critics had hoped."It's neither pro- nor anti-Gordon," Mr Clarke told the Guardian. If Mr Blair can get his act together - "that depends [on him] and it's a big depends" - then he should deliver on his manifesto, "then hand over to the new leader, presumably Gordon, to develop the manifesto for 2009-10", he said.Mr Blair has told friends that he would like to see Mr Clarke return to the cabinet in a future reshuffle conducted by him.Mr Clarke has spoken to Mr Blair three times since his departure, twice in person and once by phone, and does not expect to return to office while he is still prime minister. "It is not a condition of my life that I should serve in a government again - in any form," Mr Clarke told Newsnight.