The grandmother of a five-year-old girl mauled to death by a pit bull terrier today admitted in court that she was responsible for the tragedy.Jacqueline Simpson, who denies the manslaughter of Ellie Lawrenson by gross negligence, accepted it was her "fault" that the child had been attacked.Simpson had been babysitting Ellie in the early hours of New Year's Day when she let the dog into her house in St Helens, Merseyside. The powerfully-built pet later attacked the youngster, shaking her for 20 minutes and inflicting 72 injuries.Appearing at Liverpool crown court today, Simpson, 45, was asked whether she accepted responsibility for Ellie's death."Yes, because I let the dog in," she said. "If things had gone the way they should have that day, I wouldn't have had the kids anyway. I opened the door and it's my fault. I never thought the dog would do anything to Ellie." Cross-examining her, Neil Flewitt QC, said: "You let that child down, didn't you?" "Yes," she replied.Earlier today, Simpson told the court how her son, Kiel Simpson, and other family members had abused the animal.She described how the 24-year-old had once lashed out at the illegal pet, called Reuben, 10 minutes before it launched a ferocious attack on her daughter, Kelsey. On other occasions, Simpson said 20-year-old Kelsey would deliberately torment the animal."Kiel was in a mood and punched and kicked the dog [shortly before its attack on Kelsey]," she told the jury. "He then left the house. I had never seen him do that before. He punched him in the head and kicked him on his back leg. The dog yelped."Simpson also claimed she had not broken any family rules by allowing the animal into her home.She said family members had only agreed that the animal should not be allowed near her newborn grandson, Joshua, who was four months old at the time of Ellie's death."The decision was made by me - I didn't want Reuben near him," she said. "He was a little tiny baby and Reuben didn't know him. Everybody said the dog wasn't to come in when Josh was there. That was the rule."Simpson - who admitted drinking two bottles of wine on the day of Ellie's death - said she knew Reuben was a powerful and banned dog.However, she denied being worried that local authorities in St Helens would discover she was keeping an illegal pet in her home and added that a vet had told her son that the animal needed behavioural classes.Mr Flewitt asked her: "You have a strong, powerful dog you know is banned by the law - a dog that should have but wasn't getting behavioural classes - and you knew that in the summer of 2006 before Josh was born?" "Yes," she replied.Her barrister, John McDermott QC, asked: "As far as you were concerned, was there anything that concerned you about the dog and Ellie?" "No," she replied.Mr Flewitt went on to suggest that if Simpson had considered Reuben's exceptional strength and the attack on Kelsey, she must "have realised it [the dog] could have killed a five-year-old girl".She said: "I wouldn't have thought it could have done that to a baby it had grown up with. Kelsey tormented it, but Ellie never."Yesterday, the jury of seven men and five women heard how police officers arrived at the house after the attack to find it "awash with blood."The court was also told that Simpson, who smoked up to 10 cannabis joints a day, had been almost twice over the legal limit for drinking and driving at the time she had been babysitting Ellie.She had around 140 milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood in her system - the legal drink-drive limit is 80 milligrams - and had also taken sleeping tablets and was on medication for depression.In April, Ellie's uncle, Kiel Simpson, 24, pleaded guilty at Liverpool magistrates' court to having a pit bull terrier in his possession, contrary to section one of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991, and was jailed for eight weeks.The case continues.