Paedophiles convicted of downloading images of child abuse from the internet are not receiving rehabilitation treatment because the sentences they are given are too short, public protection experts warn today. A dossier collected by the probation union, Napo, reveals that typical sentences given to online paedophiles often fall far short of recommendations made by court-appointed experts who prepare pre-sentencing reports for judges.Together with leading politicians, the union said that it feared failure to provide treatment for people who access images of child abuse means they are more likely to reoffend. "In all cases seen by Napo, participation in a rehabilitation programme was essential to reduce the risk of reoffending," said Harry Fletcher, the union's assistant general secretary."Most court reports recommended two to three years' intensive supervision in the community, with participation in a 12-month programme. However, we have gathered numerous examples where convicted offenders received short custodial sentences preventing such participation."Typical cases featured in the dossier, which will be distributed to MPs this week, include that of a man convicted of possessing 21,000 paedophile images, of which 1,000 involved sadistic behaviour towards a child. He was sentenced to 18 months in prison but came out automatically after nine months and was not given treatment . Nor was another man found in possession of 24,000 images, who was sentenced to 12 months, but came out at the halfway stage, meaning he spent six months in jail and again received no treatment. In only two of the 60 cases detailed in Napo's dossier did an offender receive treatment. The dossier suggests that paedophiles convicted of accessing child abuse images are typically receiving custodial sentences of up to 18 months.A typical sex offender treatment programme consists of as many as 250 hour-long sessions while a specialist internet offender programme runs for 70 hours. With the average offender completing between one and two hour-long sessions a week, it means that only those who serve at least a year in prison can be placed on a rehabilitation programme.In 2006, David Middleton, the government's then head of sex offender strategy and programmes, emailed parliament's home affairs select committee warning that changes to the 2003 Sex Offenders Act meant "we have lost the ability for courts to make short prison sentences followed by long licence on sex offender cases unless they are 'serious risk of harm' cases".Middleton, professor of criminology at De Montfort University, Leicester, said it was vital that people caught accessing images of child abuse were properly assessed and, where appropriate, placed on rehabilitation programmes. A study he published in the Journal of Sexual Aggression showed the programmes have a significant positive impact on underlying behaviour.Edward Garnier, the shadow attorney general, said it was vital courts saw that people downloading child porn were perpetuating child abuse. "It is not a victimless crime," he added.Internet paedophilia is a relatively new phenomenon, making the threat it poses difficult to gauge. Around a third of the approximately 1,200 people placed on the sex offenders register each year have accessed child abuse images.Donald Findlater, director of the Lucy Faithfull Foundation, a child protection charity, said lack of rehabilitation treatment for convicted offenders had resulted in a surge in paedophiles paying his foundation to attend courses designed to curb their behaviour. "For people with serious addictive problems, locking them up for a short period then letting them out and saying 'don't do it again' is not going to work," he said.