A 17-year-old was today found guilty of the racist axe murder of black teenager Anthony Walker.Michael Barton, the brother of Manchester City midfielder Joey Barton, initiated the confrontation with the 18-year-old A-level student and supplied the ice axe that was used to kill him. Barton's cousin, 20-year-old Paul Taylor, who has admitted causing the fatal blow, had pleaded guilty to killing Mr Walker before the start of the trial. Barton had denied murder but his claims that he was not involved were rejected today when a jury at Preston crown court, sitting in Liverpool, convicted him after three days of deliberations.Both Barton and Taylor will be sentenced tomorrow. They face higher minimum tariffs to their mandatory life sentences after trial judge Mr Justice Leveson ruled that the killing was racially motivated. In law, the minimum tariff on a life sentence is doubled if the murder is racially motivated.Mr Walker, a devout Christian who wanted to become a lawyer, was waiting at a bus stop in Huyton, Merseyside, with his white girlfriend and black cousin when Barton began shouting racist abuse at them from outside the Huyton Park pub.Mr Walker did not react aggressively, but said the three were waiting for a bus and would soon be gone. Barton shouted back: "Walk, nigger, walk," and the three decided to wait at another bus stop, taking a short cut through the adjacent McGoldrick park.They were then ambushed by Barton and Taylor outside the park. Mr Walker's girlfriend, 17-year-old Louise Thompson, and his cousin, Marcus Binns, 18, managed to escape but Mr Walker was struck on the head with the axe.The blow was so fierce it drove the weapon more than two inches into the 18-year-old's skull. He died in hospital five hours later.Barton and Taylor then fled to Amsterdam, taking a cross-channel ferry from Dover to France. They returned voluntarily five days later, and Barton told police Mr Walker's cousin had started the confrontation and that the axe had been lying outside the pub.He changed his story in court, claiming he had never been involved in a confrontation outside the pub and saying the first time he saw the axe was after it had been in Mr Walker's head. Earlier, he had given police a detailed description of the weapon, correctly describing its weight and appearance. Gee Walker, Mr Walker's mother, sighed heavily outside court and said she would forgive Taylor and Barton for her son's murder. "At the point of death, Jesus said: 'I forgive them, for they know not what they do'," she said. "I have got to forgive them. "My family and I still stand by what I believe, forgiveness. It will be difficult, but we have got no choice but to live on for Anthony."Another of Mr Walker's cousins, Daniel Okoro, said the family was satisfied with the verdict but would not be jubilant."Anthony was a devout Christian, and the world is a worse place without him today," he said. "Our lives will never be the same again."Anthony posed no threat to these people. They chose to kill him purely because of the colour of his skin."Mr Walker's murder was the highest profile racist killing in Britain since the death of 18-year-old Stephen Lawrence in a knife attack in Eltham, south-east London, in 1993. No one has been convicted of his murder.His mother, Doreen Lawrence, travelled to Merseyside to offer her support after Mr Walker's killing.Visiting the makeshift shrine left in the park, she said: "How many young people have to die before society sees and makes changes?" Mrs Walker said the police had "learned their lesson" from the failure to bring Stephen's killers to justice.Detective Chief Superintendent Peter Currie, who led the investigation, worked closely with the Walker family. "I said right from the outset it was a racially-motivated attack," he said. "I still firmly believe that - all the way through our inquiries there is nothing that has shaken me from that belief."