A former Russian army soldier and his accomplice were jailed for life today for murdering a Lithuanian migrant worker whose severed head was found on a beach.Vitas Plytnykas, 41, was told he must spend at least 28 years in jail for the "monstrous" murder of Jolanta Bledaite in Angus, Scotland.Aleksandras Skirda, 20, will have to serve 20 years before he is eligible for parole, the high court in Edinburgh heard.The pair bound, gagged and suffocated their 35-year-old victim at the flat she shared with Skirda in Brechin, Angus, on 29 March last year, after forcing her to give them access to her savings.The killers then chopped up Bledaite's body and dumped the remains into the sea. Her head, which was in a plastic bag, was found washed up on Arbroath beach by two young sisters.Her hands, also wrapped in carrier bags, were later discovered by police on the same stretch of beach.Last October Skirda admitted murdering Bledaite and gave evidence against his co-accused, who was found guilty following a trial last month.The men thought the victim had up to £10,000 in a bank account and believed that no one would know she was missing.At court today the judge, Lord Pentland, said: "Your intention all along was to murder Jolanta Bledaite and then to mutilate and dispose of her body in an attempt to cover your tracks. Jolanta Bledaite must have suffered a terrifying and lonely death."Pentland told Plytnykas – who was sentenced to seven and a half years for an earlier killing in Germany in 2001 – that his actions were "particularly evil".Sentencing him Pentland said: "You have no respect for human life or decency. You may indeed never be released."Turning to Skirda, the judge said: "You played a full part in the execution of these dreadful crimes, a willing participant. I'm not persuaded that you have expressed any genuine remorse."The court heard that Skirda was "cold, calculated and grimly determined".Pentland said Skirda would have been detained for 24 years had he not admitted his guilt earlier. Both men would also be recommended for deportation.Bledaite's family did not attend any of the court appearances. Her father, Salunas Bleda, died before hearing the outcome.During Plytnykas's trial, the jury was shown CCTV footage of him and Skirda on a bus to Arbroath, carrying a plastic supermarket bag which contained their victim's head and hands.The trial also heard from witnesses who said that the murder had been planned weeks in advance.At the high court today, defence counsel Paul McBride said Plytnykas was on hunger strike. He said the Lithuanian had not accepted responsibility for the murder. But he added: "It does appear that they both acted together."Skirda's defence counsel, Mark Stewart, said: "He does show in respect of these matters regret and remorse."He assisted considerably with the trial procedure. His evidence allowed this trial to be cut short."Outside the court today, Sue Smith, a friend speaking on behalf of Bledaite's family, said: "Nothing is going to bring back Jolanta. I don't think in murder there is any closure."Vitas Plytnykas also had a child who will grow up without a father. There are a lot of families affected by this."She said the victim's family could not come to terms with the relatively comfortable conditions the two killers will experience in jail.She added: "They can't understand how they have TV in prison. The family don't even have electricity."