The grandmother of Ellie Lawrenson, the five-year-old who was mauled to death by a dog banned in Britain, was today cleared of the child's killing.Jacqueline Simpson, 45, was acquitted of manslaughter by gross negligence by a jury of seven men and five women at Liverpool crown court, after a six-day trial. Ms Simpson had denied failing to take proper care of Ellie by allowing the pit bull terrier - which had previously attacked a family member and another dog - in the house when she knew it was dangerous.Ms Simpson was babysitting Ellie at her home in St Helens, Merseyside, early on January 1 when the dog attacked the girl, causing 72 injuries, primarily to her head and neck.The dog, called Reuben, was owned by Ellie's uncle Kiel Simpson, and was banned under the Dangerous Dogs Act.On hearing the jury's verdict, Ms Simpson wiped her eyes.Speaking to the jury, the judge said: "This is an unusual case which had given rise to very strong emotions. Suffice to say, the greatest sentence passed in this case is a life sentence of regret this lady has passed on herself."On hearing the verdict, Ellie's father, Darren Lawrenson, 31, a self-employed leaflet distributor, stormed from the court. He declined to answer reporters' questions.Afterwards, the Crown Prosecution Service said no further charges or appeal was being considered. A spokesman defended the decision to bring such serious charges against Ms Simpson and said it would always be for the jury to decide on what constituted "gross negligence"."Manslaughter by gross negligence was the appropriate offence. The facts were largely agreed in this case. It [gross negligence] requires a high level of culpability. The critical activity was allowing the dog into the house with the child," the spokesman said.During the trial, family members told the jury it was a rule that the dog was never allowed in the house, but Ms Simpson said they had only agreed that the animal should not be allowed near her grandson, Joshua, who was four months old at the time of Ellie's death.In transcripts of a police interview Ms Simpson described how she let the dog in when she found it whimpering at the door."It just looked scared - not like it normally looked. It was just quivering and moaning at the door, so I let him in," she said. She told Ellie they were going to bed. Then there was a bang and the dog started barking and running around, and "then it got Ellie there on the chair".The jury was told that the dog, at 34kg, was twice the weight of Ellie, who was knocked off her feet at the start of the attack and "didn't get up again".Police arrived at 4.27am and found Ellie's body lying on the floor and the lounge covered in blood. Ms Simpson, who had drunk two bottles of wine, taken anti-depressants and smoked cannabis in the hours before the attack, suffered serious bite injuries to her right arm and thumb as she attempted to fight off the dog, the court heard.She said every time she closed her eyes she "relived" the attack. "I don't want to be here," she said. "Our Ellie was the light of my life and now she has gone. I never thought you could have a broken heart."The court heard that, a month before the fatal attack on Ellie, Reuben had suddenly attacked Kiel Simpson's 19-year-old sister, Kelsey, in an unprovoked incident when he jumped up and moved to block her path.The court heard that Kiel Simpson bought Reuben at the end of 2005 when the dog was four to five weeks old. The animal was small and playful but grew quickly and was so strong that "only Kiel could take him for walks", the prosecution said. The jury heard that Ms Simpson was also charged with possession of heroin, which was found in her home after police searched it in the aftermath of Ellie's death. Neil Flewitt QC, prosecuting, said it was not in the public interest to pursue the charge.In April, Kiel Simpson pleaded guilty at Liverpool magistrates court to having in his possession a pit bull terrier contrary to section one of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991. He was jailed for eight weeks.A police marksman shot the dog.