From small beginnings as a West Country carpet salesman, Timothy Robinson rose to prominence as one of Britain's most successful and flamboyant lawyers.But yesterday, with the conclusion of a 10-year investigation by the Serious Fraud Office and three police forces, he was thrust into a new spotlight as the mastermind of the biggest legal aid fraud in British judicial history. After a series of trials that can only now be made public, details have emerged of how Robinson financed his defence practice and an unashamedly lavish lifestyle with bogus legal aid claims that may have earned him £3m and his firm £8.5m. He was sentenced to seven years in prison after being convicted at Bristol crown court in 2001 for conspiring to systematically defraud the legal aid system over a period of almost six years. He was also ordered to pay more than £1m in compensation and costs. Having served half of his sentence, Robinson, 60, of Badgeworth, near Cheltenham, was released on parole in July. The solicitor sprang to national attention in 1996, when he represented Tracie Andrews, who killed her boyfriend and claimed he had been the victim of a road-rage attack. Details of Robinson's conviction and the racket that enabled him to amass such wealth were released yesterday at the end of legal proceedings involving a former employee. Press reporting was previously banned by Judge David Smith to avoid the risk of one trial prejudicing the outcome of the next. Since Robinson's conviction, there have been five trials and a further 21 of his former employees have pleaded guilty or have been found guilty of involvement in the conspiracy. Some have received prison sentences of between nine months and four years. Only five employees were acquitted, and charges against two have been allowed to lie on the file. The investigation and trials are themselves thought to have cost around £3m. Detective Inspector Paul Yateman, senior investigating officer, said the investigation had exposed "a den of corruption." Robinson was always a brash operator with an eye for making money. As a young man launching his carpet shop in Cheltenham, he "declared war" on the competition by hiring a tank and driving it around the town. His approach to the law was no less direct. The scam centred on so-called green forms, the documents used by solicitors to claim reimbursement from the Legal Aid Board. The court heard that up to 90% of the green forms submitted by his office in Cheltenham were fraudulent. Time spent with clients was exaggerated, prison visits were claimed for twice and clerks billed for cases that never existed. Crimes that clients mentioned informally were used as the basis for further claims. A police search unearthed 197 forms that were signed by clients but were not filled in and were therefore as valuable as blank cheques. Clients who cooperated were rewarded with cigarettes. Clerks hired on salaries of £10,000 a year earned £4,500 a month in overtime by making green form claims. They drove Mercedes cars with personalised number plates such as 4LAW and 7LAW, and Robinson sent them to find work in poorer areas with the cry, "Where there's muck there's brass". They received ties depicting the scales of justice, the serial number of the forms they exploited and the letters GEAF and KEH, which reminded them of Robinson's approach to clients: "Give 'em a fag" and "Keep 'em happy". But according to Margaret Leith, a clerk who received a suspended prison sentence after admitting her part in the conspiracy, the inflated salaries came at a price. "It was a miserable existence," she said. "You worked long hours and, on top of the anxiety that you might get caught, the pressure got more and more." When another employee, Richard Hill, began forging clients' signatures, the Law Society became suspicious and an inquiry was launched in 1993. Investigators took more than 3,000 witness statements and seized 21 tonnes of documents. Ian Glen QC, prosecuting, described Robinson as "a mini-Maxwell, obsessed with power and money". He said: "I have no doubt he was charming in his style, someone who pleased his clients. But inside Mr Robinson was a business tycoon. The businessman got the better of the professional." Robinson's QC, David Etherington, said his client was a broken man. "His reputation is utterly, completely ruined." Before the Legal Services Commission (LSC) was created in April 2000 to tighten up control of legal aid, any law firm could do legal-aid work. Provided a client passed the means test - administered by the solicitor - the green-form scheme could be used to provide advice, help or assistance on almost any legal problem, short of going to court. Now only firms with contracts with the LSC can do legal-aid work, under tight controls and audits. Robinson succumbed, but he was not alone. In 1997 a Worcester solicitor, James O'Malley, and his business associate, Michael Pattrick, were jailed for three-and-a-half years and five years respectively for fraud after obtaining more than £330,000 in less than six months by sending canvassers to ask tenants in rundown areas to sign blank forms. In 2000, Alan Pritchard, from Worcestershire, whose firm fraudulently claimed £2.25m in one year, was jailed for five years. He was said to have used legal aid as a "licence to print money".