The lead singer of a group described as "the most exciting band in London" has been left in a critical condition in hospital after he was attacked on the street. Billy Leeson, 19, frontman of the band Les Incompetents, was assaulted as he got off a bus in Islington, north London.The singer was returning home with his girlfriend from a gig at the Barfly club in Camden when he was punched in the head by a man who followed him off the bus. He hit his head on the pavement, fracturing his skull. He was taken to the Royal Free hospital, where his condition was described as critical.Fans have posted hundreds of get-well messages on the band's section of the Myspace website. The manager of the group, Phil Halliday, said: "The messages are what's holding Billy's family together."Leeson's brother, Stan, is keeping friends and fans updated on the singer's condition on the website. On Thursday Stan revealed that the singer had undergone an emergency operation to remove a piece of skull which had been putting pressure on his brain. His bulletin warned: "The next 48 hours are critical."Les Incompetents are an indie band "hotly tipped" by Radio 1 for success over the summer. They had enjoyed an increasingly high status - supporting Pete Doherty's Babyshambles, and appearing on Rob Da Bank's Radio 1 show.They were due to perform alongside Massive Attack at the O2 Wireless festival in Hyde Park on the day after the attack.Another band member, Fred Macpherson, said: "Although the next 24 hours are critical, we're still positive. Billy is an incredibly strong, friendly person with an amazing personality. People ... don't forget him."Halliday added that everyone involved with the group was praying for his recovery. He said: "The band had just come back from a nationwide tour and played a great gig at Barfly. They were really looking forward to playing at Wireless. We're all distraught."His attacker was described as white, about 28, with dark hair and a possibly an Australian accent - the Australia-Croatia World Cup clash was the same day. The attacker is said to have run off laughing.Detective Inspector Lorraine Dillon of Islington CID said: "The suspect and victim are believed to have exchanged words on the bus before the assault took place after the suspect made advances towards Billy's girlfriend. Billy then got off the bus on Camden Road. The suspect got off at the same stop and assaulted him, punching Billy in the jaw."She added: "The suspect was laughing as he left the scene, so he may well have bragged to friends about what he has done. If so, I need those friends to come forward and speak with me."