A paedophile who walked free from court after a prosecutor labelled his 13-year-old victim as "predatory" has been ordered to serve a two-year jail sentence.The decision to increase Neil Wilson's punishment demonstrates the increasing determination of the higher courts and the attorney general, Dominic Grieve QC, to overturn sentences deemed "unduly lenient".Three judges at the court of appeal in London ruled that the non-custodial term originally handed to Wilson, 40, in August did not reflect the severity of his crime. He had been given a sentence of 12 months, suspended for two years.Remarks made during the original sentencing hearing in August at London's Snaresbrook crown court provoked a public outcry. There was criticism of both the prosecutor, Robert Colover, who described the young girl as "predatory" and "sexually experienced", and the judge, Nigel Peters, who said he was taking into account in his sentencing how the girl looked and behaved.The new lord chief justice, Lord Thomas, and two other judges quashed the suspended sentence and ordered Wilson, who was not present in court, to surrender to police in York by 6pm on Tuesday evening. Wilson formerly lived in Romford, Essex.Thomas said that how the prosecuting counsel "came to make the remarks he did is not a matter, as he is not present, we can investigate ourselves".He added: "But in any event it is the duty of the court to sentence on the facts before it. Counsel is there to assist. The fact that counsel makes a fundamental error in introducing a factor that is thought to be relevant cannot in any way affect the power of this court in determining what is the correct sentence."Thomas went on: "This is a case where there is no dispute as to what actually happened. It is simply a case where the judge and counsel were in error that it was relevant, as a mitigating factor, that the sexual activity had been initiated by the victim. That was wrong."He stressed that the law was there to protect under-16s from sexual abuse, and agreed with the attorney general that children who encouraged sexual activity needed "more protection, not less".Thomas said: "There were other aggravating factors to this case. First of all, the offender must have known, as the judge said, that she was under 16. By his plea he accepted that. The fact that she may have looked more than her age is irrelevant."He must have appreciated her vulnerability. She was in school uniform. She had absconded from school and was asking for cigarettes on the street in Romford. The offender plainly preyed on her vulnerability and encouraged her by buying her cigarettes and inviting her to his flat and he gave her his mobile phone."He sent her "sexually explicit" text messages and it was "plain he had a sexual interest in children". Thomas said: "The only mitigating factor is his guilty plea."Last month the Crown Prosecution Service announced that Colover had agreed to resign from the CPS rape panel of advocates after admitting that his description of the girl was inappropriate. The CPS said at the time that he would "remain on our general advocate panel and will still be instructed in other criminal cases".The Judicial Conduct and Investigations Office is still considering a number of complaints about remarks made during sentencing by Peters.Grieve said after the hearing: "Neil Wilson exploited a young and vulnerable girl. He pleaded guilty to sexual activity with a child, making indecent photographs of a child and possessing extreme pornography."I asked the court of appeal to examine whether the sentence was appropriate, given the seriousness of the offences, and I am pleased that they have found that this sentence was unduly lenient and have imposed an immediate sentence of imprisonment."Wilson had pleaded guilty to an offence of sexual activity with a child as well as offences of making indecent images of a child and offences of possession of an extreme pornographic image.Under the Criminal Justice Act of 1988, the attorney general's office has the power to refer sentences passed in certain cases to the court of appeal for review if they conclude that the sentence was unduly lenient.A sentence will only be unduly lenient if it falls significantly below the sentence that any judge could reasonably have passed. Cases can also be referred by the CPS, victims, their families, members of the public or MPs.