It is being hailed as the Archers for young people. Monday sees the launch of an online audio soap opera created and made by eight young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. Half are young offenders.In four weeks, they came up with the characters, storyline and script for the first five episodes of the soap, which was recorded on location in a pub in south London. The aim is to encourage debate among young people about knife crime and gang culture, and the difficulties young offenders face.Out of the Gate is set in Hamgate, a fictional deprived borough in London. It tells the story of Josh (played by Aml Ameen, who is AJ in Silent Witness), who comes out of prison determined to go straight but discovers that his best friend has been stabbed. Will Josh avenge his friend's death and get pulled back into gang life, or will he manage to stay straight?"This drama's very relevant in my life and I think we've shown that life can be difficult, but there's a reason to keep going," says Shiezel Wilson, 21, one of the scriptwriters. "We want to show people that it's doable to turn your life around," says Fahd Abada, 22, another scriptwriter.The soap also features a lot of music – each episode contains rap and songs – with lyrics written by the young people. Young music producers such as Aiden "Skitz Beatz" Hogarth and Kevin "Blemish" Ababio created beats for the raps and songs. "My role was just structure and leading discussions, helping them with cliffhangers and so on," says Lucy Hannah, the producer who devised the idea for the soap opera.As well as writing the script, all of the young people took on additional roles. Two of them have got small parts, one was an extra, another a runner, one did script changes and one focused on the lyrics.The project is funded by the British Council, BBC writersroom, Unlimited and the St Giles Trust.Hannah is a keen advocate of entertainment-educational radio soaps. "I was the writer in residence at HMP Rochdale young offenders' institute and so I saw the potential of music and drama," she says. "I spent the last two years doing audio soap operas in war zones and when I came back I wanted to do something here."One thousand CDs of the soap are going to schools to be used in discussions on gangs and knife crime.The first five pilots will run every day next week. If successful, the intention is to raise money to continue the soap opera for an entire year. "I want the young people to be employed as writers on the series," said Hannah.• Out of the Gate can be downloaded  from Monday 6 July.