A 22-year-old British student has been arrested in the US for allegedly using fake ID to buy a gun for a dare. Stephen Jackley was arrested after he fled from the Vermont gun shop when the owner became suspicious and called the police.He is currently in custody awaiting a court appearance over firearms and driving offences.British officials are looking at extraditing the student to England after a "suspicious package" was found in his university accommodation. Jackley is a first-year student at the University of Worcester, originally from Sidmouth, Devon. He was picked up on Monday last week by Vermont police. He had been trying to buy a weapon at Parro's gun shop in Waterbury, Washington County, when the owner realised his ID was fake and alerted police. The student fled from the shop to a car, which he reversed into another vehicle while leaving the car park, local police said. Officers finally caught up with him a mile away. Vermont state police senior trooper Robert Lucas said Jackley had been arrested for trying to buy the gun using fake documentation and leaving the scene of an accident. Trooper Lucas said: "He told me that he had been bet £100 that he could not buy a gun over here. "When realising it was fake ID, the store owner called the police department and Mr Jackley fled the building, got into a vehicle and, in the process of exiting the parking lot, he backed into a vehicle." Officers from Vermont's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives found Jackley's student ID card and alerted West Mercia police to the young man's offences. Bomb disposal experts last Friday cordoned off and evacuated the university halls of residence where the student had a room after police searching his belongings found a "suspicious package". It was later declared harmlessThis afternoon, police said officers were in discussion with the CPS over the possible extradition of Jackley from the US to face questions in the UK. A police spokesman stressed that neither incident was linked to terrorism and that British officers were investigating "potential firearms and other offences". He said: "We are continuing to work with our colleagues in the United States of America - and with other police forces nationally and internationally - and are following a number of lines of enquiry. "Officers will be looking to interview Mr Stephen Jackley, but it is not yet clear whether this will be in the USA or the UK. "We are discussing with the CPS the possibility of Mr Jackley's extradition to the UK."