David Blunkett is seeking special powers to allow the staff of a private company access to the police and criminal records of millions of applicants for teaching, social work and voluntary posts.The home secretary has tabled amendments this week to the criminal justice bill aimed at giving Capita, the company running the criminal records bureau under a £940m contract, the right to process the compulsory vetting of applications for millions of jobs. The move was condemned by the Public and Commercial Union yesterday as a "short- term fix to get the government out of trouble" after the failure of the criminal records bureau, which was unable to cope with the volume of work. Thousands of teachers were unable to start their jobs last autumn because the agency could not process their applications in time. Other work, such as the vetting of care workers, had to be postponed because the agency could not cope. The amendment gives Mr Blunkett the right to delegate "as he thinks fit" to Capita, and any other private company that might bid for the bureau, powers to access the police national computer (PNC) to vet applications. The bill also imposes new penalties, including fines of up to £1,000 and a year's imprisonment, if staff are caught leaking information they have obtained on applicants. A spokesman for PCS said yesterday that the Home Office's decision would blur the distinction between civil servants and private staff. Civil servants have to be vetted before they can access the PNC. The spokesman added: "There is a real concern that private staff might sell the information or use it for other purposes." The Home Office rejected suggestions that private staff would leak information on individuals. A spokeswoman said: "Capita does vet its staff so this should not be a problem." She said that David Blunkett had decided to give new powers to Capita after an independent report by the millionaire Patrick Carter earlier this year recommended changes in the bureau so that it could cope with its job. The published summary of the Carter report said: "Both the systems and processes were inadequate to cope with demand and a backlog of applications built up. "Operational difficulties were aggravated by pressures of vetting all new teachers prior to the start of the new school year."