The Tottenham Hotspur manager, Harry Redknapp, has told the jury trying him on allegations of tax evasion that he has always paid his taxes, and would rather overpay than underpay them.Asked about his attitude to tax by his barrister, John Kelsey-Fry QC, Redknapp said: "I have always paid my tax. I have always gone to the best available people."He said he employed a top London accounting firm to look after his financial affairs, adding: "I would rather pay too much tax than not enough tax."Redknapp also told Southwark crown court that he had hit it off immediately with the former Portsmouth owner, Milan Mandaric, who is also accused of two counts of cheating the public revenue."We got on great from the first moment," said Redknapp, recalling their first meeting over a cup of tea at a New Forest hotel.He described their relationship over recent years as variable, but said he remained hugely fond of Mandaric. "We had our ups and downs — I was a bit volatile, perhaps, but there is no one I would rather have gone out for dinner with.I love his company even now."Redknapp also provoked a laugh in court when Kelsey-Fry said that Mandaric's barrister, Lord Macdonald QC, may have suggested he may not have been a very good player. "Well, he's an Arsenal supporter, isn't he?" said Redknapp.Earlier, Mandaric denied paying a "greedy" Redknapp bungs totalling £189,000 as a bonus on the sale of Peter Crouch, to reward him for the club's success, or to stop him defecting to another team.Giving evidence on Wednesday, Mandaric brushed off prosecution suggestions that he had had to make extra payments to keep Redknapp happy, saying his then manager was well paid with a contract valued at "millions of pounds". Mandaric said he had paid the money into Redknapp's offshore account in Monaco to help him establish a portfolio. "This money had nothing to do with anything else than the friendship that developed beyond football," he told the court.John Black QC, prosecuting, disputed Mandaric's assertion, saying the payment was in fact made to compensate Redknapp for receiving 5% on the sale of Crouch rather than the 10% he felt he was due. "This money, Mr Mandaric, was money given to your friend Harry Redknapp offshore, particularly as a bonus for the Crouch sale, wasn't it?"Mandaric denied that was the case, saying: "You are correlating … I don't understand where you are coming from."Mandaric said Redknapp was "absolutely not" greedy and had a contract worth millions. He said, as an owner, he was always concerned that a successful manager could be poached, but said he had not paid the Monaco money to keep him at Portsmouth. "To keep Harry happy with £100,000 in Monaco; Harry would look at me and say, 'What's wrong with you?' A few million, maybe ..."Both Redknapp, 64, of Poole, Dorset, and Mandaric, 73, from Oadsby, Leicestershire, deny two counts of cheating the public revenue.The case continues.