Police marksmen shot the barrister Mark Saunders at least five times during a gunfight at his west London home, an inquest heard today.Saunders fired at neighbours in Markham Square, Chelsea, before turning his shotgun on armed police who surrounded his flat during a five-hour siege.After three exchanges of fire with officers, police stormed the flat and found the 32-year-old divorce specialist seriously injured. Despite medical attention, his main lower body artery had been badly damaged and he died shortly afterwards.He was shot in the head, heart and liver, according to the pathologist Dr Nathaniel Carey in a report read to the inquest, which opened this morning at Westminster coroner's court."The external and internal gunshot-related damage is consistent with a minimum of five shots having hit the deceased," Carey said. "The nature of the wound and the projectile material recovered from the body suggests that more than one type of bullet has hit the deceased."Saunders died of multiple gunshot wounds, he concluded. None of the wounds had been caused by his own gun, which the former member of the Territorial Army held legally.The Independent Police Complaints Commission investigating officer Paul Craig said inquiries were continuing, but a full report into Tuesday evening's killing would take up to six months to complete.He told the inquest: "It would appear that there were three separate exchanges of gunfire between Mr Saunders and various police officers who were at the scene. The incident concluded following the last of these exchanges when an intervention was made to the property by police officers and Mr Saunders was found to be seriously injured."He was taken from the house to the pavement outside where medical support was provided, but despite the best efforts of all those concerned Mr Saunders tragically died."The Metropolitan police commander Stuart Osborne, of the directorate of professional standards, told the court: "The death of any individual is regrettable. In such circumstances as these it makes it even more traumatic for those involved." The coroner, Dr Paul Knapman, adjourned the inquest until September 9.Saunders was believed to have had a drink problem and suffered from depression. Neighbours reported seeing him drinking on Tuesday afternoon.The incident is believed to have arisen after an argument between Saunders and his wife, Elizabeth Clarke, also a barrister. In a statement released yesterday by QEB, the central London chambers where they both worked, she said they were "deeply committed to each other".She denied reports she had been in their rented £2.2m flat before the incident, saying she got home from work to find the street cordoned off. "This is a very distressing time for all of Mark's family, who loved him dearly, and especially for Elizabeth, who much appreciates the support she has received from friends and family," the statement said.Saunders' father, Rodney, 64, said the shoot-out was an "absolute mystery" and has reportedly questioned the Met police's handling of the siege.