The mother of the terminally ill 10-year-old boy who was suffocated by his father with a pillow after she left him alone in the house denied yesterday she knew that her husband intended to kill him.Giving evidence at the trial of Andrew Wragg for the murder of their son Jacob, Mary Wragg said: "I didn't expect to return to find Jacob dead. I didn't leave the house so that Andrew could kill Jacob. I was not complicit in the plan." Mr Wragg, 37, a former SAS soldier, killed his son at the family home in Worthing, West Sussex in July last year. After the killing he called 999 and told the operator he had killed Jacob. He later claimed it was a "mercy killing". Under cross-examination by Michael Sayers QC for the defence, Mrs Wragg said she thought her husband wanted her to leave the house and take their other son, George, now seven, to her mother's so that they could have some time alone to have sex. Although Jacob, who suffered from the incurable genetic disorder Hunter syndrome, was almost deaf, George may have heard them and would also have woken early the next morning, she said. Despite their turbulent marriage and Mr Wragg's alleged drink problem, Mrs Wragg told the court: "I still loved him and still wanted to spend time with him." Instead, she returned home to find her former husband cuddling their child who was lying dead on his bed. "I just said, 'oh my God what have you done?'" she told the court. "I went in and I just knew he was dead." Mrs Wragg, 41, who is a witness for the prosecution, told Lewes crown court that on the day he killed Jacob Mr Wragg telephoned her from the working men's club where he spent much of his time and said he would "take Jacob away". "He insinuated that he would end his life which was, I thought, another one of the ways that he talked about coping with Jacob if he felt things were getting too difficult." Mrs Wragg did not take his comments seriously because he had spoken of ending Jacob's life several times before. "He was of the opinion that Jacob's life was not worth living." But Mr Sayers read passages from her police interview which he implied showed that she had known of her husband's intentions. He told her: "You knew perfectly well when you left the house what Andy had planned." Mrs Wragg responded: "I did not believe that he would harm either of our children. If I had known or if I had thought he would, I would have called the police. I had no more reason to believe that this time he was going to carry out things that he had said than at any other time in our relationship." The night Jacob died, she got a call from Mr Wragg asking her to take George to her mother's home. She was initially reluctant but agreed when she realised their younger son was still awake. She told the court that she asked Mr Wragg if he was still thinking of what he had said earlier, but he either did not answer or denied it so she put it out of her mind. Mrs Wragg kissed Jacob, who was asleep, and left the house, telephoning Mr Wragg from the car to tell him to hurry. She said she thought he was nearby but she did not see him as she drove away. She drove to a local garage where she stopped to buy a bottle of sparkling wine, two bottles of squash for Jacob and a drink and a packet of crisps for George. After opening George's snack for him she sat in the car unsure what to do next. She opened the bottle of wine and had a drink. Then the phone rang. "It was Andy," she said. "He said something like I've killed Jacob. He said he was going to call the police." She asked him to wait and he hung up. He rang again a few minutes later and didn't say anything. "I just heard him crying," she said. Mrs Wragg dropped George with her mother and returned home to find her husband in Jacob's bedroom, which was in darkness. She asked Mr Wragg whether he had hurt Jacob and said he replied angrily: "Of course I didn't hurt him, he was asleep." Mrs Wragg described holding Jacob's hand, kissing him and stroking his hair for some time before the police arrived and took her husband away. She said officers attempted to resuscitate him even though she told them he was dead and asked them not to touch him. "It was extremely upsetting to see people trying to pump his chest and pull him on to the floor," she said. "It was more than I could cope with." She became hysterical and was arrested for breach of the peace. Andrew Wragg denies murder but admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. The trial continues.