Many police officers feel they are over-stretched, under-paid, and under-appreciated. Are they right?As recently as 1996, 64% of people told the British Crime Survey that the police did an 'excellent' or 'good' job. The latest figure for 2001/02 has fallen below the halfway mark to 47%. But looking at the record of the British police, it is surprising that public confidence has remained so high. Since 1950, the likelihood of a crime being cleared up by the police has decreased by 46%. In 1950 45% of recorded indictable crimes were cleared up; by 1999/2000 the clear-up rate had dropped to 24%.For some crimes the deterioration has been well below the average. Since 1950, the clear-up rate of burglaries has decreased from 33% in 1950 to 13% in 1999/2000. And for robberies, since 1950, the clear-up rate has decreased from 54% to 18%.During that period, crime (recorded by the police) rose rapidly from about 500,000 crimes in early 1950s to a peak of 5.6m in 1993. Today the figure is 5.2 million, ten times the 1950s rate. A major explanation for falling police performance is that they have simply been overwhelmed by the amount of crime. If we go back a little earlier to 1931, there were three crimes per year in the whole of England and Wales for every police officer (59,000 officers had 159,000 crimes to deal with). By 1971 97,000 police officers had 1.6m crimes to tackle (17 crimes each) but by 2001, 126,000 police officers had to contend with over 5 million crimes (44 crimes each). However, the police have made matters worse by the manner in which they use the scarce time at their disposal. A common response has been to focus on 'serious' crime and to leave 'trivial' offences to take care of themselves. This understandable reaction turned out to be the diametrically wrong thing to do. And just how wrong was demonstrated by the New York police in the 1990s. Few cities faced a bigger crime problem than New York in the early 1990s. Its lawlessness had become a taken-for-granted feature of movies of the period. In 1991, for example, there were 99,000 robberies in New York City. But within a few years a rapid reversal had been brought about, so that in 2002 there were only 27,000 robberies. New York's annual robbery rate (540 per 100,000 population) is now less than London's (620). The revolutionary change in police tactics associated with Mayor Giuliani and police chief, William Bratton, became known as 'zero tolerance' policing but its essence was not police strong-arm tactics. Bratton preferred to call it 'community policing' and George Kelling, the intellectual who inspired the reforms, called it 'broken windows' policing. What did they do? An increase in police numbers was important. In 1993 there were 28,700 police officers. Giuliani was elected in 1994 and had increased the number to 30,500 by the end of the year. In 2000 there were over 40,000 police officers. With the larger number of officers at their disposal, Giuliani and Bratton re-policed 'harmless' quality-of-life social nuisances and 'victimless' crimes that nevertheless were the seedbed of those crimes that did have victims. Among those targeted were prostitutes soliciting on the streets; people taking and selling drugs on the streets and in the parks; graffiti artists; drunken youths; loud users of 'foul language' in public; unauthorised street sellers; squeegee men; aggressive beggars. It was found that fare dodgers were also pick-pockets, aggressive beggars spent part of the day begging and part shoplifting, and drug dealers pursuing a 'victimless' crime were quick to use violence when crossed. Getting prostitutes off the streets reduced the atmosphere of disorder that provided cover for drug dealers, who left. Prostitutes' clients, who would not want to tell the police they had been robbed, were easy targets for muggers and car thieves, who also left. The streets were once again occupied by people who wanted to go about their own lives, respectful of other people's rights to do the same. Washington Square Park was typical. It was dominated by prostitutes and gun-carrying drug dealers so that no ordinary person went there, except by mistake. The police put a permanent command centre in the park and it became available once more for use by local students from NYU, residents, office workers and tourists. The police in Britain have been reluctant to learn these lessons. One police officer who did implement them in Hartlepool and Middlesborough was hounded out by senior colleagues. However, Ray Mallon had become a local folk hero and was quickly elected as Mayor of Middlesborough, where he has had a good deal of initial success and popular support in pursuing this approach once again.The most typical response of the police service to its diminishing achievements has been to enforce performance measures of every description. As the Observer special crime supplement (27 April) showed, the life of a police officer is dominated by targets and budgets. But do the targets lead to an improved service? Ironically, the danger of focusing on 'activity' targets was seen at the very outset of modern policing in 1829, when Sir Robert Peel framed nine principles of policing for the new London police force. The ninth principle has been forgotten by today's aficionados of performance targets: "To recognise always that the test of police efficiency is the absence of crime and disorder, and not the visible evidence of police action in dealing with them." Show it to modern Chief Constable, who has worked his way to the top by demonstrating mastery of management jargon, achieving target response times on budget, achieving 'step-change' to schedule, or writing elaborate proposals for 'joined-up' working practices, and you get a blank look. When ACPO meets this week, perhaps they should take a look at the 1829 principles. David G. Green is Director of Civitas: the Institute for the Study of Civil Society. This article draws on The Failure of Britain's Police by Norman Dennis, director of community studies at Civitas. The Nine Principles of Policing can be found online at www.civitas.org.uk/pubs/policeNine.php