Kidnap, torture and death are as much a part of journalists' lives in many parts of the world as the communities they cover. Last year 70 journalists were killed, making it a record year, while so far this year the toll stands at 67 deaths. In all around 1,000 journalists and their staff, such as drivers, fixers and translators, have been killed in the last 10 years.It is against this backdrop that a group of reporters, cameramen, photographers and broadcasters met in London last week to discuss ways to increase the safety of journalists, and those who support them, in hostile environments. The issue is not just one of personal safety. Some countries such as Somalia are so dangerous for foreign and local journalists that very little news escapes at all. That's bad for their people, and the chances of a more stable government.This was one of the main points made by Allan Little, a BBC special correspondent and veteran of many conflicts who addressed this session of the International News Safety Institute (INSI). It was a closed session, and therefore operated under the Chatham House rule, to enable people to speak freely. Sensitive details of individual incidents, especially relating to kidnap, are best kept secret to protect strategies for future use. The sadness is that you know there is going to be a "next time".The objective of the session was to review safety advice and training issued by INSI since it was set up in 2003, by the news industry and organisations that support journalists and press freedom, as a specialist safety network. The Guardian has a special interest in INSI. It was a founding member and is now one of only two UK newspapers that belong – the other is the Financial Times. For the sake of full disclosure, I am a vice-president.The aim of INSI is to "create a global safety network of advice and assistance to journalists and other news-gatherers who may face danger covering the news on international assignment or in their own countries". That last is also pertinent as it is not just conflict and natural disasters that provide a dangerous environment for journalists. Covering corruption and crime on the home front can be deadly too. According to the International Press Institute's Death Watch, Mexico is the most dangerous country in the world for journalists. Eleven have been killed so far this year. Last week journalists based in Ciudad Juárez wrote an open letter to President Felipe Caldéron, who was visiting the city, demanding that government takes on the responsibility to safeguard journalists and press freedom.Luis Carlos Santiago Orozco, 21, was shot leaving a photography workshop with fellow El Diario de Ciudad Juárez photographer Carlos Manuel Sánchez Colunga. The newspaper ran a front-page editorial openly asking the drug cartels how it might cover news in a way that reduces the risks to journalists.At the Guardian, two members of staff have been kidnapped in separate incidents in the last five years. The first was in Baghdad for 36 hours and the second in Afghanistan last Christmas, when a reporter and two freelance colleagues were held for six days. The death of Linda Norgrove, an aid worker killed in the Kunar Valley, is a desperately sad reminder of what can happen. The Guardian was extremely fortunate to get its people out alive and well.Just as INSI is reviewing its 20 key tips for safety in conflict, so did the Guardian earlier this year carry out a review of safety for journalists in the wake of our second kidnap incident. We now have a more detailed process for assessing risk. This is written in a safety log that must be completed before each trip to the areas of greatest danger.All journalists who travel to such places should have been on a hostile environment course, which teaches first aid and basic rules to follow.One of the important aspects of INSI's work is the training of freelances and journalists who may not be able to afford the sort of courses available in the developed world. Funding is a constant battle for the INSI staff as media organisations pull in their horns in a recession.As INSI says on its website, reporting can never be made completely safe – but it can be made safer.