The prime minister's apparent obsession with extending the 28-day period of detention for questioning terrorist suspects is becoming increasingly incomprehensible. He may be able to wave away the opposition from what he regards as the predictable bunch of critics - Justice, Liberty, various human rights bodies, all of which have provided cogent evidence and arguments which Mr Brown would be irresponsible to ignore. But can he remain uninfluenced by last week's crop of opponents, which included the former lord chief justice Lord Woolf, the former attorney general Lord Goldsmith, and the director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken MacDonald?And who has Brown got in his corner? Mainly Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner, not always noted for his impeccable judgment, and the Association of Chief Police Officers.But even they admit they have not yet required a longer period. No terrorist has escaped justice because 28 days was not enough. The whole police case is based - they do not deny it - on the argument that, although they may not have needed the extra time up to now, they are likely to want it at some future indeterminate time.That is not a good reason. To give the police powers of such magnitude, unheard of in any other democratic state, on a "just in case, you never know when we might need them" basis, is unsound in principle, open to abuse and offends against basic principles of criminal justice. Brown has offered some safeguards in an effort to win over doubters, but the proposed extension remains both objectionable and unnecessary.Somewhat lost in last week's barrage of bad news for Labour was a legal defeat in Britain's highest court, the House of Lords. Five law lords ruled unanimously that the Labour party was guilty of race discrimination against a former councillor of Pakistani origin when it refused to re-adopt him as a candidate.The ruling ended a 10-year fight by Raghib Ahsan, a councillor for Birmingham's Sparkhill ward between 1991 and 1998. Ahsan had been named in sensational newspaper allegations that councillors were helping Pakistani residents jump the queue for housing grants, and implying other irregularities. A Labour inquiry found no evidence of any impropriety by Ahsan, but the selection panel, in December 1997, turned him down in favour of a white candidate. The panel said that they wanted to avoid what might be seen by the electorate as a "problem" in the ward, arising from the adverse publicity.Lord Hoffmann rejected the argument that it would be acceptable to discriminate against a Pakistani candidate, even if the selection panel held no racist views but thought it was better not to have such a candidate because of the public's perception of a problem within that ethnic community. "It is nothing more than the old plea that you have nothing against employing a black person but the customers would not like it," Hoffmann said. "In essence, it is a defence of justification based on political expediency." That was not acceptable.