Is hate crime a much bigger problem than it seems? While the police record just under 43,000 hate crimes a year - about 1% of all recorded crimes - another source suggests that the real figure could be more than six times that amount. There are two main methods for testing the amount of hate crime each year, with one of those being the offences recorded by police. The other is the Crime survey for England and Wales (CSEW), which tries to gauge the number of crimes both reported and unreported. The Home Office published a report today looking at both of these sources. They are not directly comparable as the police figures are based on financial years and the sample sizes of the CSEW are so small that they have to combine 2011-12 and 2012-13 figures to give a yearly average.Nevertheless, the CSEW suggests that there are actually about 278,000 hate crimes a year, which is way above the number recorded by the police. Admittedly, the CSEW says that only 40% of these crimes are being reported, which is a similar level to most crimes. However, 60% of 278,000 is much more than 43,000. So what's going on?What is hate crime and how does it break down?When police are recording an offence they have the chance to tick a box saying one of the five "strands" of hate crime was a motivating factor. Those five-strands are race, religion, sexual orientation, disability, and gender-identity.The CSEW figures at first glance suggest that the police figures do not reflect the true spread of hate crime. While in both sources race is the predominant hate crime motivation, the disability and religion numbers take up a much bigger proportion of crimes in the CSEW. Religion is particularly interesting because if the CSEW figures were to be believed, the prevalence of religious hate-crime would have increased from 39,000 a year to 70,000 between 2009-10 and 2012-13. How does hate-crime break down?The single biggest source of hate-crime offences reported by victims in the CSEW was assault with minor injury or no injury, responsible for 40% of all crimes.The report suggests that its dominance may be the reason that the proportion of crimes being reported to police has dropped by 11 percentage points since 2007-8 and 2008-9. Assault with minor injury or no injury tends to have a much lower reporting rate than other forms of crime. The breakdown of crimes actually reported to the police is very different. Over half of those that were handled by officers last year were public order offences, such as causing fear, alarm or distress. This points out a further difference between the CSEW and the police figures; as the report explains:  A key difference for hate crime offences is the coverage of public order offences in police recorded crime but generally not in the CSEW, as many of these offences will not involve a specifically identifiable victim. As previously shown, around half of all police recorded hate crime is for public fear, alarm or distress, a public order offence.Why do discrepancies between the reports exist?It's first worth pointing out that those estimated crime figures could be quite far off the mark. This is primarily because it is based on such a small sample size, the people surveyed in the CSEW who said they were victims of hate crime.Because of this, the report's authors estimate that there could be 66,000 more or fewer hate crimes than the 278,000 total given. The report also points out that a victim could view a crime as both religiously and racially motivated, while police mark it down as one or the other. There are three other big reasons they give for the numbers differing so much:Misunderstanding of survey questions by the victim. For example, a disabled victim who felt vulnerable because of their disability may have said the crime was down to thatDiscrepancy between what victims thought was a crime and what was recorded by the police as a crimePolice might not have asked whether the victim thought the crime was motivated by hateThis data reveals the huge challenges in trying to figure out the reach of hate crime in the country especially with so much of it going unreported. However, like with most crime, the official police figures underestimate the extent to which it exists. Get the data here and tell us what you think in the comments below. 