For the best part of 15 years, Andrew Adams survived in prison on the strength of those who loved him; at noon last Friday, about two dozen of them were gathered in the bare stone lobby outside the cells at the Royal Courts of Justice.There was an anxious wait as Adams and his lawyers dealt with the paperwork that is required when a wrongful conviction for murder is quashed. Adams emerged to a mighty cheer and embraced Clare Brayson, the woman who was with him in bed on the morning of his arrest in 1992.'I know the months that lie ahead are going to be tough,' Adams said later, clutching a celebratory glass of pink champagne. 'But I've had time enough to think about how to handle it. I owe it to Clare and everyone here to get it right, and I think I'm ready.'At almost 37, he looked little different to the passionate, bright-eyed man I first interviewed in Wakefield prison in 1994. His conviction for murdering Jack Royal, a retired science teacher, in a shooting in the Tyneside suburb of Sunniside had taken place the previous year, and, as he outlined the flaws in the prosecution case, he was persuasive.It seemed apparent that the evidence given by the main prosecution witness, a former schoolmate of Adams named Kevin Thompson, was both improbable and tainted.As the Crown now accepts, the police had offered him a deal: by testifying against Adams, Thompson escaped a prison sentence for tying up an elderly couple and robbing them in their home at gunpoint. Even then, in 1994, it also appeared that Adams had been woefully served by his defence lawyers.Last week, the Court of Appeal finally agreed, and along the way made legal history: this was the first case in which former jurors gave evidence, while the main reason the judges gave for quashing Adams's conviction - the shortcomings of his trial defence - is extremely unusual.But when the euphoria wears off, Adams could be forgiven for feeling bitter, for his losses, aside from the years of his youth, are irrecoverable.Most of the evidence that led to his release was available and should have been heard at his trial, the Appeal Court said. In 1995, after months of investigation, I wrote a long article in The Observer questioning Adams's conviction, and, as he approached his first appeal, Adams's hopes were running high.The court agreed that the way the police had dealt with Thompson showed 'inexcusable and serious irregularities', but decided in January 1997 that they did not affect the verdict. 'We thought we had some good arguments,' Adams said. 'When that appeal was knocked back, I was absolutely devastated. Determined as he was to keep on fighting, 'I never imagined it would take another 10 years'.Worse was to come. When we met in Wakefield prison, Adams sat flanked by his parents, Joan and Bill, then the proprietor of the aircraft engineering firm where Andrew worked, Little Wings.Joan died two days before Christmas 1998, 'of cancer and a broken heart', according to her friend Anne Laws. Andrew was allowed just 20 minutes with her as she lay in hospital - before being taken away by armed police who claimed that, despite his shackles he was planning to use her illness to escape. Bill, whom I remember as a quiet, focused man ready to do anything he could to secure his son's release, could not be in court last week, having succumbed to early-onset Alzheimer's.'I know there are four people I owe my freedom to more than anyone,' Adams said on Friday. One is his solicitor, Ben Rose, who worked on his case for nothing for years after his first appeal, pursuing it with obsessive dedication.The second is Anne Laws, dubbed by Rose 'the Miss Marple of Tyneside', who kept on visiting Andrew after Joan's death and made sure his friends did the same, and carried out myriad inquiries as Rose's unofficial investigator. The third is Scott Marcroft, the official assigned to examine the case by the Criminal Cases Review Commission after Rose submitted a dossier. It was Marcroft's relentless investigation that led to the case being referred back to the Court of Appeal.The last is Clare Brayson. 'After he lost the first appeal, Andrew told her she had to move on with her life,' said Laws. 'She tried, and for a while they weren't in contact. But they were soulmates. In the past few years, she has been his rock.'When Adams first went on trial, the failings in his defence stemmed in part from the case's complexities.The first barristers selected to defend him withdrew just 11 days before the start of the trial. Their replacements, the late Robert Fordham and Andrew Menary QC, told the trial judge that they had enough time to prepare. In this, said the Appeal Court, they were mistaken: 'We find that not all of the essential preparatory work was carried out... we have no doubt they did their best... but in our judgment they underestimated the time needed to complete the work.'The result, said the court, was that vital evidence that was available was never even considered. This would have raised severe doubts about the claims made by Thompson, and revealed much more about his deal with the police. Adams's alibi would have looked much stronger.This week, Ben Rose said, Adams will be meeting his lawyers to consider suing for compensation.Yesterday I reached Andrew and Clare by telephone at the West End hotel where they spent the night. 'I still can't believe it. I'm lying here on the bed, looking at Andrew's property bag that still has a tag with his prison number on it, CLO 314,' Clare said. 'At last, he's not a number any more. He's just popped out for some paracetamol - his first walk on his own for nearly 15 years.'Andrew was back five minutes later. 'There are no words to describe how I feel. It just feels surreal to be relaxing and reading the newspapers that say that this thing is over. To be in a hotel where everything is fresh and clean and nothing stinks of jail: it's wonderful.'