The father of a Qatari teenager who died after an argument outside a takeaway flew his son's body home yesterday as police confirmed they had been warned of trouble brewing between foreign visitors and locals an hour before the attack.Mohammed al-Majed, who was 16, suffered a head wound outside a fried chicken and kebab house in Hastings, East Sussex, just before midnight last Friday. He died in hospital the next day. A postmortem examination showed he died from injuries sustained from falling over and hitting his head on the ground.Detectives, who are treating the attack as racially motivated, have arrested four local men - two 18-year-olds, one aged 17 and one aged 20. All have been interviewed and released on police bail pending further inquiries. Majed, who was a student at EF International Language School in Hastings, had been in the town for about five weeks and had been due to return home next weekend. Detective Chief Inspector Graham Pratt, who is leading the murder investigation, said the incident had started as an argument between Majed and his fellow students, and some locals."We believe Mohammed was trying to get away from the situation when he fell and hit his head on the pavement, sustaining serious injuries," he said. "We are now trying to establish how he came to fall and hit his head in this way - was he assaulted, punched or pushed?"This is a murder inquiry, and we are seeking to establish to what extent race played a part in what happened."At a press conference yesterday, Inspector Martin Mann confirmed that the owner of the kebab shop had earlier told passing police that he was worried about the behaviour of a group of young locals. "A police patrol car did stop at the kebab shop earlier in the evening, and officers spoke to the owner, but no crimes were being committed at that time," he said. "There were officers on the scene almost immediately after the trouble started, as this is a highly patrolled area."Remzi Tanriverdi, 43, who runs the takeaway, said he had told officers he feared trouble would break out when he saw the locals outside his shop."I asked them to leave, then noticed a police car pull up outside, so I went over and spoke to the officers. I asked them to keep an eye on the boys, and they said they would - then left."Pratt appealed for witnesses and said officers were particularly keen to speak to a man in his late teens or early 20s who was wearing a short-sleeved green T-shirt, and a heavily built woman with blond hair in her late 30s or early 40s.Majed's father, Abdullah, said: "Mohammed was a young student who was loved by his family, friends and teachers. He was a charming, loving boy and there is nothing that can replace our loss. All of those involved in committing this crime should be punished for this crime on a young, innocent 16-year-old boy."Mann described the attack as an isolated incident, but said police had stepped up their patrols around Hastings. About 35,000 foreign students visit Hastings each summer, many from the Middle East.