A 27-year-old man appeared in court in Luton today accused of stabbing to death the policeman Jon Henry and attempting to murder two other men in the town.Tennyson Obih, a Nigerian national who lives in Luton, was also charged with an aggravated burglary in the town earlier the same day. He was remanded in custody by magistrates until June 26.He is accused of stabbing PC Henry twice in the chest as the policeman followed up reports that two window cleaners had been stabbed in Luton's George Street, shortly after 7.15am on Monday.Although he was wearing a stab-resistant vest, the 36-year-old constable, who had only just gone on duty for the day, died soon afterwards at the Luton and Dunstable hospital.Mr Obih is also charged with the attempted murder of Steven Chamberlain and David Knight. Mr Chamberlain was stabbed in the back and is in a serious but stable condition in the Luton and Dunstable hospital. Mr Knight suffered a minor injury to his arm.Mr Obih, who was granted indefinite leave to remain in the UK after arriving in 2000, spoke only to confirm his name and address at the five-minute hearing.Yesterday, PC Henry's widow, Mary, described him as "fun-loving, a true friend, a loyal and devoted father". The couple have a daughter, Maggie, who turns one later this month."It was a tragic thing that happened and no one could have foreseen it," she told a press conference."He died, unfortunately, but he died doing the job he loved. My only feelings are grief and, of course, missing him, and concern for our child."PC Henry's younger sister, Georgina Henry-Brock, described her brother as a great man."He was a kind, loving, family man. He had a great sense of fun and had the gift of putting people at their ease and making them laugh in any situation," she said."My brother loved his wife more than anything on earth. They were soulmates, a pair."Ms Henry-Brock said her brother had been a wonderful father who had been devoted to his daughter. "They were the same. She will never know him. Never feel his touch again. Never hear his laughter ring out and fill the room. Never delight him with her laugh, her smile."He saw her first steps but will never hear her first words. Never see her first school play or sports day. Never see her fall in love or grow or run and jump. She will never know her dad, the gentle giant. He was a lovely man, nothing more nor less."She said members of the family had visited the town's war memorial early yesterday and had been touched by the floral tributes to her brother.