A murder investigation was launched today after a young woman was deliberately set on fire in the countryside outside St Helens, Merseyside.The woman, who suffered horrific burns, knocked on the door of a cottage in Rainford last night begging for help. It is thought the woman, who was in her early 20s, may have been set alight using petrol. Paramedics were called to out after 9pm. The badly-burnt woman was taken to Whiston Hospital where she later died. Police said they have launched a murder inquiry and are trying to establish who the woman was. A spokeswoman for Merseyside Police said: "Police are treating her death as suspicious and a murder inquiry has been launched. Police have revealed they have no idea who the dead woman is but they believe she had blonde hair. Speaking at a press conference, detective chief superintendent Peter Currie said the woman managed to stagger 150 yards with horrific burn injuries from head to foot to raise the alarm at a nearby cottage. He said: "Obviously she was in a terrible condition. She collapsed on the doorstep and the couple who live at the house were asking who she was. She said something like Monica, Veronica or Larnia." The couple, who immediately called for help, are said to be extremely traumatised following the incident. Mr Currie said the woman's clothing had been completely burnt off and the only identifiable items were two distinctive pieces of jewellery - a ring thought to be gold on her right ring finger and a pendant shaped like a ship's steering wheel. He said he could only speculate on any potential motive, but it is thought the woman does not live in the area. Detectives believe a vehicle brought her to the remote country lane and dumped her at a passing point before setting her on fire. A van was found burnt out about a mile from the scene, but police do not believe it is connected to the murder. Mr Currie said: "We need to find out who this young girl is, that is the main piece in the jigsaw. "This is absolutely horrific, she was a young girl with her whole life ahead of her, it's really tragic. "This is a really callous and vicious attack. She is only small and quite possibly could not defend herself." Police said the area where the girl was found was relatively quiet but was close to main roads heading to both Liverpool and Manchester. They are appealing for anybody who knows who the girl is or recognises the distinctive items of jewellery to contact police.