Government plans to merge the prison and probation services are "ill-thought out" and will cause "chaos", the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo) said today.The union claimed that current proposals by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to combine the two bodies would prove a "bureaucratic disaster".The aim is to subsume the two services into the new National Offender Management Service (Noms) by June 1. But Napo's assistant general secretary, Harry Fletcher, said such a rapid transition could only lead to "chaos and even more bureaucracy".He added that a reduction in the prison population would be better achieved by cutting the length of sentences imposed by the courts. Mr Fletcher said: "Napo strongly believes that the National Offender Management Service, as currently envisaged, will not work. The case for merging prisons and probation has not been made. "The government could achieve its objective of reducing the prison population by lowering sentence lengths."The union also opposes government plans for Noms to contract out some probation services to the private sector. It said that the reform had been rushed and was underfunded. A spokesman said there appeared to be no mechanism allowing parliamentary scrutiny of the proposed reforms, and added that the Home Office had breached Cabinet Office guidelines by failing to consult with trade unions and other bodies before key decisions were taken. There had also been only six weeks of consultation rather than the standard 12.The union also outlined its opposition to the merger of the prison and probation services less than three years after the creation of the current National Probation Service.It said: "These proposals have been hurriedly announced and appear ill-thought out and lacking in detail."The union will hold a rally and lobby of parliament on May 14 as part of its campaign against Noms. The government has predicted that the creation of the new combined service could reduce the projected 2009 prison population from 93,000 to 80,000.A Home Office spokesman said: "The home secretary has set out the principles that will underlie the changes - implementation is not firmed up yet. "The Home Office and Noms want to hear the views of all key stakeholders, including the unions and individual members of staff. "The start date of June 1 for Noms is very much the start of implementation rather than the finish date. Some of the changes are likely to take a number of years."