Every so often, I get a call from TV or radio asking for my take on race relations in Britain. I say things are a bit sticky at the moment. Recession made folks grouchy and austerity hardly fosters benevolence. Institutions have a deal of work to do to ensure that everyone gets a fair shake. The figures – jobs, criminal justice etc – suggest that is not yet the case. But put it in context. The improvement in race relations in the UK, even in the past 10 years, has been like watching a reality show played at double speed. Some will say this is the result of legislation, with various race relations acts shaping attitudes. Some say people working together, living together and inevitably getting sweaty together has resulted in generational change. There are new norms. We misbehave from time to time, but we have come to know collectively what is and isn’t acceptable.The affair at Dee Dee’s jazz bar, in the south-east London suburb of Herne Hill, sums up pretty well where we are. It is a popular local venue and there have been, according to reports, some complaints about noise and disruption. So far, so predictable. Until the morning that staff – half of whom are black – arrived to find the words “No Niggers” painted across the front wall. The culprit is unknown. And we hesitate to point the finger at those who have been complaining because we know that most people, even aggrieved, would not stoop to racist graffiti. But you can never account for the actions of individuals. We know of that phenomenon we have referred to here as hair-trigger racism – when otherwise decent people use racism as a weapon in anger. Minority traffic wardens have many tales to tell about that. So the culprit could have been anyone with a spray can, betraying overt prejudice that has been marginalised but still exists.Consider, though, what happened next. Very quickly, the graffiti was obscured. Outraged locals covered it up with blankets. The local council was summoned and it was painted over. CCTV was sent to the police who – armed with the theory that the racist was a visiting tourist – are investigating. The saga, which would hardly have caused a ripple a decade ago, ended up in the Evening Standard and then the Times.The affair at Dee Dee’s says it all; reasons for vigilance and signs of hope.