 Eight men suspected of grooming a young girl and passing her around for sex have been arrested in pre-dawn raids by 140 officers across addresses in east London and one in Hertfordshire after a four-month investigation into child sexual exploitation.The men, aged between 21 and 24, were arrested from nine addresses by teams of officers who forced their way into their homes on Wednesday. They were taken into custody on suspicion of the rape of a girl who is under 16. She went to the police last year and it is understood she alleged she had been groomed and passed around for sex by the men. Detectives from the Sapphire command in the Metropolitan police, which specialises in combatting sex crimes, began an investigation that led to Wednesday's raids.Commander Peter Spindler, head of the specialist crime command at the Met, said: "We are absolutely committed to tackling this type of offence and are using significant numbers of officers to do so."The suspects were arrested at 5am from properties in Newham, Redbridge and Havering as well as an address in Hertfordshire, police said. The investigation centres on allegations from the girl that she was passed around and raped by the men between May and November, it is understood.Detective Chief Inspector Adam Lowe, from the Sapphire command, said: "These arrests are part of an investigation into rape and serious sexual assault carried out by a group of men in Newham and the wider east London area. Our enquiries continue."Lowe urged other girls who might have been victims to come forward. During the raids a quantity of cash and drugs was also seized by police.The arrests come as the director of public prosecutions outlined radical new ways in which prosecutors and police should tackle child sexual exploitation prosecutions. Keir Starmer said the cases of Jimmy Savile and several other cases, including the street grooming and rape and sexual abuse of vulnerable young girls, had shown that many victims still did not have the confidence to come forward with allegations nor faith in the criminal justice system. He added that there had been an over-cautious approach to prosecutions.A report by the deputy children's commissioner for England last year called for agencies to actively look for cases of child sexual exploitation and on-street grooming of young people by gangs of men. Sue Berelowitz said evidence submitted to her inquiry suggested that from August 2010 to October 2011 at least 2,409 children were sexually exploited by gangs and groups across England.She identified that each of the children had consistently displayed warning signs that they were being harmed: some were repeatedly going missing; others self-harming; some repeatedly contracted sexually transmitted infections; many suffered physical injuries; their appearance deteriorated rapidly; some engaged in offending; and others were misusing drugs and alcohol. Berelowitz said that when professionals were alert to these signs, victims were identified.The inquiry also identified that at least 16,500 children showed three or more warning signs linked to child sexual exploitation from April 2010 to March 2011.One girl, "Rochelle", said she was sexually exploited by a street gang over two years. They would routinely steal her mobile phone and then tell her that if she wanted it back she would need to meet them. When she did so, she would have to perform oral sex and was raped. Instances of abuse were filmed and she was threatened with this footage being circulated around her school. The young men abusing her would communicate using an instant messaging service, and use it to invite other members of the gang to take part in the abuse.Berelowitz said: "Waiting for children to tell will not suffice. Many children are quite rightly frightened for their personal safety, and the safety of their families. We have spoken to children who have physical injuries, who have been threatened with weapons, and who live their lives in constant fear. These same children have also said that there were clear signs that they were being abused but that nobody asked questions. It is imperative that professionals, parents and carers ask and listen to children whoever they are, or wherever they come from."The eight men arrested on Wednesday were being held in custody at a police station in east London. Two women and a man were also arrested on suspicion of fraud during the raids.Detectives appealed for any other young people who were affected to come forward and contact police on 0208 217 6531 or Crimestoppers on 0900 555 111.• This article was amended on 7 March 2013. The original referred to Sue Berelowitz as the deputy children's commissioner for England and Wales.