Three people suspected of carrying out an audacious scam involving a laser gadget at a London casino are being allowed to keep their £1.3m winnings.Scotland Yard, which has spent nine months investigating whether the Hungarian woman and two male Serbian friends used the equipment to con the Ritz Casino in London, said yesterday it had closed the inquiry after failing to find evidence that any crime had been committed. Officers who seized the cash have handed it back to the gamblers and told them they are free to return home. According to reports from Budapest, the Hungarian woman was well known at the capital's top casinos and had been banned as a result. But on March 16 when she walked into the Ritz accompanied by her two friends, aged 33 and 38, she did not initially raise the suspicions of croupiers. The 32-year-old woman, said by police sources to be "chic and beautiful," watched as the roulette ball settled on her selection then cashed in her chips for £100,000. The following evening the trio returned to the roulette table. This time they won £1.2m. The club's management suspected they were using a scanner inside a mobile phone which measured the speed of the ball as the croupier released it and calculated where the ball would settle. By the time the ball made its third spin - when all bets have to be placed - the information would have been flashed on to the phone's screen in time for the three to place their bets. The Ritz, owned by the Barclay brothers, suspected it was the victim of a sting and called the police, who arrested all three at the casino. Officers seized their mobile phones and searched the rooms of the hotel opposite where they were staying. The three were released on police bail and have been reporting to a central London police station. Officers examined the Ritz's CCTV footage but Scotland Yard said yesterday the case had been stamped "no further action". A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "All the money retained by police at the beginning of the inquiry has now been returned." Tommy Lloyd, director of the Ritz Casino, was unavailable for comment yesterday.