An "evil" father who murdered his sons in revenge when his wife fled nine years of violence was jailed for life at Birmingham crown court yesterday.Steven Wilson, 44, initially confessed to slitting the throat of Brad, 7, and stabbing a struggling Brett, 8, in the neck with a screwdriver. The former soldier later tried to blame his 26-year-old wife, Denise Williams, for the deaths. But yesterday Mr Justice Hughes told him no one could believe his story that she had set gangsters onto him and they had stabbed the children. Wilson's daughter by his first marriage punched the air in triumph as she left court and described the verdict as "excellent". "That man should never walk the streets ever again. He is the most evil man you could ever meet," said Stacey Banner, 23. The jury took 50 minutes to reach unanimous guilty verdicts on both murders and a further charge of assaulting Ms Williams on the same night in February last year. "You took those boys' lives to revenge yourself on your wife," said Mr Justice Hughes, jailing Wilson for life for the murders with a concurrent 12-month sentence for the assault. Wilson, from Great Barr, Birmingham, interrupted: "I didn't kill them, my lord." The judge continued: "The manner in which you killed them was brutal. It was a dreadful and wicked thing to do. You have tried ever since to pin responsibility on her. It was patently dishonest. Nobody who heard you give evidence could believe more than the occasional word." Ms Williams, who is divorcing Wilson, wept and smiled as the verdicts were announced. She married the 18-stone former soldier at 16 because she saw him as a father figure. But within months he was assaulting her and he forced her into prostitution so that he did not have to work. He beat and kicked her, punched her in the face and tried to strangle and smother her. On one occasion he broke her nose and left her temporarily unable to walk. He told her he had been in the SAS and knew special ways of killing people. In fact, he had spent just 138 days in the regular army 25 years ago. "Everyone else lived in fear of him," said Konrad, his son by his first marriage. But his wife was his greatest victim and whenever she tried to leave him - fleeing to refuges eight times - he tracked her down. "He said if I ever left him and took the children, he'd come after me - he'd kill me, kill the children and kill himself," she said. After she escaped he murdered their sons on a remote golf course in Handsworth. He attacked Brad with such violence that the blade of the knife snapped, before plunging the screwdriver into Brett's throat. He claimed to have tried to commit suicide, but did not have serious injuries. Even when he phoned his wife, Konrad and the emergency services to announce what he had done, he lied about his whereabouts so that no one could save the children. When he was interviewed by police he claimed he could not remember what had happened, and later alleged that Brett and Brad had been attacked by Albanian gangsters who were angry that money and drugs had disappeared from a brothel where his wife worked. He claimed Ms Williams had encouraged them because he had left her and she wanted to return. Detective Inspector Mick Moore, who led the investigation, described Wilson as an "evil, violent man who dwells in the depths of inhumanity". He added: "Denise is upset, bewildered and frightened and those tragic incidents will always be in her mind."