Alison Saunders is not someone to insist on legal solemnity. Phoned at 3am during the London riots of 2011, she was asked if more prosecutors were available for overnight hearings. None was, so she headed off to Highbury Corner magistrates court to take on the extra casework herself.Such hands-on involvement and dedication to crime-fighting may explain why the 52-year-old has this month become the first insider from the Crown Prosecution Service to assume the exacting position of director of public prosecutions. She is not, though, the first woman: Dame Barbara Mills was DPP for six years from 1992.Saunders starts her £195,000-a-year job at a time of turmoil within the criminal justice system. While the number of recorded offences has been falling steadily, deep cuts to the budget of the CPS and reductions in legal aid are demoralising criminal barristers and solicitors.Born in Aberdeen, she read law at Leeds University and worked briefly at Lloyd's of London; she has since confessed to finding the insurance world a bit boring. In 1986, Saunders joined the newly established CPS and began her steady rise through the ranks.She was appointed branch crown prosecutor for Wood Green, London, in 1997 and chief crown prosecutor for Sussex in 2001, where she oversaw the successful conviction of Roy Whiting, who had murdered the eight-year-old schoolgirl Sarah Payne. Saunders took two years out from the CPS to work as deputy legal adviser to the attorney general, then returned to become chief crown prosecutor for London in 2009.That she is the first insider to become DPP at a time when many senior criminal barristers are casting about for alternative employment is a testament to her unique skills. It may also signal that the role is becoming more specialised or that the incessant pressure – for example, demands that the CPS deliver an immediate decision about whether it will launch prosecutions in the notorious Plebgate case – renders it an increasingly thankless task.One of her rivals for the post is understood to have been another senior CPS lawyer, Alison Levitt QC, who is legal adviser to the DPP.Saunders is already battle-hardened through nearly three decades of experience of the most high-profile and gruelling cases. She led the CPS team for the original prosecution in the Jill Dando killing and was involved in the conviction of the "railway rapist" David Mulcahy, one of whose victims was a 14-year-old girl.She has said she is good at "compartmentalising" her life, putting aside distressing memories of some of the most horrific crimes. Her relations with police officers have been good; she is appreciated for rolling up her sleeves and getting engaged in the details of crime reports.Saunders was closely involved in the 2011 to 2012 retrial, and conviction, of Gary Dobson and David Norris for the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence. It was her decision to go to the high court to reopen the case under new provisions of the double jeopardy laws.She subsequently told the Guardian: "We knew that this might be our one and only chance. I was thinking – are we going to get any more evidence in the future or is this the high point? Do we have all the material? Can we ensure there will be a fair trial?"This was 18 years' worth of investigation. There was a lot riding on it … we couldn't afford for it to go wrong." She admitted it was the one time in her career that had given her a sleepless night. Saunders said she was eventually relieved that Lawrence's family "have got some justice".A cheery-faced mother of two sons who is married to another lawyer, Saunders has an infectious laugh. She moved to London when young, attended primary school in Brixton and still lives in south London. She is certainly well prepared for the challenges ahead.Her priorities for her five-year term, she told The Guardian on Friday, involve improving communications with victims, upgrading the quality of casework and investing in training and development inside the organisation."How we deal with victims is one of the key issues," she explained. "We have quite a lot of contact with them in and around court and also out of court. We will deal with them in a way that is respectful, empathetic and professional."Sometimes we don't always explain things in the way we should. We are looking at having a central, professionally trained staff who will write the letters and talk to them on the phone in a way that makes the experience much easier for them."Violence against women is one area on which she intends to concentrate. Saunders plans to spend a day soon with third sector and voluntary organisations who work with women who have been targeted. "I'm going to one of Victim Support's call centres to see how they train up their workers."In terms of general casework, she believes "we need to make sure our quality is good across the board. A lot of our cases are very good but you only need one to go wrong and those headlines will undermine all the good work. Even with the reduction in our resources, we have improved our performance."The third priority, she said, was to make sure staff are given development training. Asked about the significance of the fact that she is the first CPS career prosecutor to head the organisation, she replied: "It shows the CPS has come of age. We are now seen as an organisation of good performing people. We have some really good lawyers and we are now able to produce our own leader. The service is very different from when I first joined."She has enjoyed holding a variety of CPS jobs, including tackling organised crime. "For me it's also about an element of public service, about providing a service for witnesses and victims of crime who have not chosen to be involved."What will be her biggest challenge? "Maintaining my sense of humour for the next five years," Saunders shoots back before adding: "Improving our performance and ensuring that we and the legislation keep up to date with developments like social media."The CPS, with a staff of 7,000, handles 800,000 prosecutions across England and Wales every year. Facing cuts of 27.5%, it has been criticised for saving money by reducing use of experienced external barristers. The Law Society Gazette, quoting a Cabinet Office survey, said the CPS scored low marks compared with other government agencies and departments in responses about whether management motivate staff.Individual cases have attracted criticism, such as the one involving the barrister Robert Colover, who described a 13-year-old victim as "predatory"; the CPS has since removed him from its panel of advocates dealing with rape cases.Saunders's predecessor as DPP, Keir Starmer QC, made reforms to the way sexual offences are prosecuted one of the priorities of his time in office. In the aftermath of the Jimmy Savile scandal, more attention has been focused on how vulnerable victims are handled and ensuring their accounts are believed.Saunders herself has pledged to improve the current 63% conviction rate in rape cases that go to court, partially through a new network of victim liaison units. Asked why she thought sexual offences have become one of the main issues on the criminal justice agenda, she said: "Previously, perhaps, victims may not have felt they had the confidence to report crimes because they would not be taken seriously and didn't believe anything would happen."There's been a sea-change and now we have demonstrated that we will take victims seriously and will pursue their cases through the courts. We won't judge [victims] because of their vulnerabilities and will really look at their evidence. All those things have helped make victims more confident."In this year's New Year honours, Saunders was appointed Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) "for services to law and order especially after the 2011 London riots".She is, no doubt, prepared for more phone calls in the night, not perhaps about riots but because of those intermittent thunderstorms of media and political expectations that build up and crackle with disapproval over controversial cases.Potted profileAge: 52Education: School in Brixton, south London. Read law at Leeds, 1979-82.Family: Married, with two sons.Career: Following a brief period working in insurance, she has dedicated her professional life to fighting crime and worked her way up through the ranks of the Crown Prosecution Service.High point: Conviction of Gary Dobson and David Norris of the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence in 2012.Low point: Making the wrong decision in not proceeding against a police officer over an alleged racist incident, a decision she subsequently reversed.What she says: 'It never ceases to amaze me what humans can do to each other, and how awful some humans can be.'What they say: 'I am particularly pleased that Alison is the first head of the CPS to be appointed from within its ranks as proof of the high quality of the professionals that work within the service.' – Dominic Grieve QC, attorney general'Alison Saunders is a first-class lawyer with great experience and a thorough understanding of the way the CPS works. This appointment is not only good for Alison, but good for the CPS too.' Stephen Parkinson, head of criminal law at solicitors Kingsley Napley