 The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday June 5 2006 The Home Office budget will not be cut by 5% a year for three years from 2008, as was stated in error in the following news feature on the structure of the Ministry. The chancellor announced in this year's budget that Home Office finance would be frozen in real terms from 2008-09 (a cash increase of 2.7% per year). The 5% cuts also announced in the budget applied to other departments, including the Treasury, Revenue & Customs, and the Department for Work and Pensions.At the end of another dismal week for the Home Office, John Reid offered staff a cuddle as well as a kick. The home secretary and his permanent secretary, Sir David Normington, issued a "global message" which tried to heal - or at least justify - wounds from the criticism they had made of the department to MPs."Too often we are falling short. There is no disguising that there are problems which we need urgently to address," they told staff. "This is not a reason for despondency but should be a spur to our determination to get it right. Our departmental reputation needs rebuilding and you are all part of that endeavour."This after Mr Reid had condemned the department as "not fit for purpose", and "averse to a culture of personal responsibility", and said he had not been given "a fact or figure in the past fortnight that has not been revised quickly in a very short space of time".His withering assessment rang true for one former minister, Lord Rooker, who is still furious at the way civil servants treated him, particularly over a case four years ago involving a North African who had been jailed for sexually assaulting women and children."I had no choice but to release the man as he had served his sentence. I have no idea what has happened to him but I was furious about the way civil servants in the Home Office handled this."Others were infuriated by Mr Reid's characterisation of the department. Martin Narey, the former director-general of the prison service, said he was shocked about the way the Home Office had been "traduced just for the sake of a few cheap shots ... I don't how he is going to work with people after this."Robert Hill, a former Home Office special adviser, added: "I don't see how you will motivate a department to solve the problems for you by telling them they are all hopeless." Despite another bruising week, insiders spoken to by the Guardian say that Reid and Normington have - so far - managed to retain the confidence of people around them. There is recognition that there are no easy solutions for a department that the former Tory home secretary Kenneth Clarke described as "probably the most dangerous in politics".Its core beat - police, prisons, and immigration - covers the key high-risk areas. Priorities change and decisions made in haste can come back to haunt ministers and officials for years afterwards. Policies can take years to plan and be ripped up by judge's rulings week after week. It spends £19bn a year and employs, or funds, 200,000 people - many of whom, several officials have told the Guardian, are just not up to the job. "[The Home Office] basically has to do everything that doesn't fit anywhere else," said a senior official who has regular contact with the department."It is the historic dumping ground. The thing to bear in mind is that it is incredibly arrogant. People talk about the Treasury and Foreign and Commonwealth Office but there are people in those departments that have a lot to be arrogant about. They are clever and they are capable. The Home Office doesn't get the best because it is not seen as being the most powerful."Jonathan Baume, general secretary of the First Division Association which represents leading civil servants, says: "There are some first rate people in the Home Office but the pressure is pretty remorseless. There is a big job now to restore and maintain morale after what's happened or we'll find that people will say that they've had enough, its time to move on."Mr Hill added: "The Home Office is like the rest of the civil service. It has some brilliant, exceptional and committed people but it lacks strength in depth. There is too much mediocrity." Though staffing is an issue, others spoken to by the Guardian identified a host of problems that had weakened the department in recent years. One source pointedly criticised David Blunkett, home secretary from 2001-2004. "Jack Straw left after the election saying 'it's been wonderful to work with you' and Blunkett came in and said 'you're all crap'."The official says Mr Blunkett tore up the old management structure and brought a new team from outside. "They were very good at policy-making but had no experience of the Home Office. You can take it too far."Shami Chakrabati, the director of the human rights group Liberty and a former Home Office lawyer, said she witnessed how the best officials tended to gravitate towards the reactive and eye catching pieces of legislation and then neglect the mundane. "There is too much legislation, too much high politics and not enough priority governance and administration. Over the past 10 to 15 years Home Office politics has almost begun to dominate politics. Home affairs take precedence over everything."John Tincey, national vice chairman of the Immigration Service Union, says staff at the IND, targeted for so much criticism, are "punch drunk"."There are lots of consultants and lots of buzzwords. We are managed by project. There are no managers in charge. When you need to do something you set up a project and they are run by individuals whose objective is to complete the project and get promoted. There are ... multiple priorities all of which are top priority and staff don't know what they should be doing. The more you fail to achieve a target, the more the targets are pushed. They concentrate on the target of the day and thereby fail to achieve all the other targets. People are being hit left right and centre."There has been talk over the last month about dividing the sprawling Home Office into two departments, or devolving responsibilities away from headquarters. But Mr Baume said: "I think the last thing that's needed at this stage is big structural reform."Mr Hill agrees. "If the Home Office were broken up as a department, prisons would be in a ministry of justice and IND in a ministry of interior. The problem of foreign prisoners is about the interface between the two. A new structure might in fact make solving the problem more difficult."Much more serious could be an already-agreed real terms cut in the budget of 5% a year for three years, from 2008. "If you were a young, ambitious civil servant," says one insider, "you probably wouldn't be thinking about the Home Office right now."