An obsessed woman who stalked the comedian Ken Dodd and posted a dead rat to his home was remanded in custody yesterday after she admitted arson and harassing his girlfriend.Ruth Tagg, 34, from Bristol, pleaded guilty to stalking Mr Dodd and his long-term partner Anne Jones and setting fire to his home in Knotty Ash, Liverpool. The fire in October 2001 caused an estimated £11,000 damage to the ground floor of the property. Preston crown court heard she had shoved burning rags through the letter box while the couple were away from the house. Tagg also sent 12 threatening letters and cards and three T-shirts which carried offensive messages directed at his girlfriend, along with six indecent photographs. All the letters and cards were opened by his partner. The court was told that Tagg, who is being detained in a psychiatric hospital under the Mental Health Act, regarded Ms Jones, Mr Dodd's girlfriend of 13 years, as a love rival. A more serious charge of arson with intent to endanger life was dropped by the prosecution yesterday after Tagg admitted the lesser charge of arson being reckless as to whether life was endangered. Tagg had admitted sending a dead rat through the post at an earlier hearing, but had initially denied harassment. Mr Dodd, 71, was given the freedom of Liverpool two years ago. He received an OBE in 1982. He is celebrated for his marathon comedy sessions, his Diddymen, jam butty mines, tickling stick (a feather duster), nonsensical use of the English language and the catchprase: "How tickled I am." He travels widely in an effort to play to every theatrical venue in the UK. He was charged with 11 counts of tax evasion in 1989 after he was said to have stashed £700,000 in off-shore accounts and in shoeboxes under his bed. During a five-week trial, barrister George Carman described his client as a shambolic oddball with a poor grasp of accounting. Dodd was acquitted, although his legal bills almost drove him to bankruptcy. He appeared frail as he attended court yesterday with his girlfriend to give evidence. However, this was not necessary because of Tagg's guilty pleas. Tagg had been arrested by Merseyside police in May last year on a day the comedian was due to perform his Laughter Show at New Brighton, Wirral. She admitted sending offensive mail to the couple over a 10-month period, starting in July 2001. She had also upset the couple by attending several of Mr Dodd's performances, between July 2001 and July 2002, and deliberately sitting in a prominent position so she could be clearly seen. Ms Jones, who is Mr Dodd's business manager, also sings as part of the Laughter Show and is said by friends to be the key to his happiness. Remanding Tagg in custody, Mr Justice Morland said: "Clearly, Miss Tagg needs detailed psychiatric assessment. I'm satisfied from what I know that it would not be practical for that assessment to be carried out except when she is remanded in custody and I am satisfied that all the evidence indicates she remains a potential risk, certainly to Miss Jones, possibly to Mr Dodd and others." She will be sentenced at a later date after psychiatric reports are carried out. After the judge adjourned sentence she said: "I understand, thank you." The judge said he hoped she would be sentenced before Easter. Mr Dodd refused to comment as he left the court building.