Good laws are rarely born out of chaos, and yet that seems to be the starting point as the prime minister trails yet another - early but as yet unspecified - recasting of the criminal justice system. The week began with the paedophile Craig Sweeney being sentenced to life, although with a theoretical possibility of parole after five years. John Reid attacked this as lenient before the lord chancellor made public his displeasure at the intervention. Wednesday's prime minister's questions saw David Cameron accuse Labour of letting dangerous criminals walk free, while Tony Blair responded that the Tories "talk tough but vote soft". Yesterday No 10 continued talking tough, although Lord Falconer was offering a cooler and better-informed analysis.This parliamentary Punch and Judy show saw Mr Cameron and Mr Blair betray a disregard for the facts about incarceration. There are 77,642 prisoners in England and Wales. This is up by more than a half in the past 13 years, with a steeper rise in the count of prisoners serving long terms. It represents one of the world's highest imprisonment rates, with more people serving life sentences here than in the rest of western Europe combined. If more and longer sentences were the route to security on our streets, Britons should be feeling safer. Yet, in spite of reduced crime, the evidence shows that over the past decade fear of crime, which for most people is more of a problem than crime itself, has remained stubbornly high.How do we end up in this paradoxical position? Paedophilia and other serious crimes will always generate real anxiety. The flames are fanned by media reports that are so selective as to distort, and by politicians who follow rather than lead the debate. The public are often left without the full facts. Few will have gathered from the press, for example, that Craig Sweeney was convicted for sexual abuse, rather than rape, which in general carries a lower sentence.But public indignation is also fuelled by the aftermath of botched reforms. The drive for minimum sentences means there are now many more prisoners than the system is designed for. This ends up being managed by early-release schemes that can seem arbitrary. One of the impulses behind the 2003 Criminal Justice Act was to force judges to be tough. Yet, perversely, it was prescriptive rules hampering discretion that left the judge in the Sweeney case feeling compelled to offer a full 30% discount for a guilty plea.A number of disparate ideas are being floated for the system's next overhaul. None offers any significant improvement. It is suggested unanimity be required before parole boards release prisoners, though the large majority of boards already achieve unanimity. The treatment of guilty pleas could be reviewed, but discounts are essential to avoid overloading the system, and so they will have to be retained in some form. Likewise, the workings of parole could be reassessed - though a system serious about rehabilitation must always offer prisoners some hope.The most alarming sign about the direction of policy came in a parliamentary answer from the Home Office minister Gerry Sutcliffe. The tone suggested the ground was being prepared to delay a reform to replace sentences of less than a year with partially custodial punishments. Short prison stints serve little purpose: dislocation for the offender is not matched by any prospect of rehabilitation. So delay would be a travesty. If there were linkage between any delay and the media frenzy, it would show how alarm about one issue, like sex crimes, can end up creating a generalised panic that scuppers the good governance of the whole system.Recent crackdowns have too often reflected political positioning rather than a real strategy to tackle crime. The changes now being mooted risk fitting the same pattern.