Detectives investigating Britain's biggest cash robbery have arrested and bailed two people who worked for Securitas, the firm that fell victim to the £53m heist, police said yesterday.Adrian Leppard, assistant chief constable of Kent police, said two agency workers - a man employed by Securitas and a woman who had previously worked for the company - had been arrested and released as part of the investigation. Both were freed on police bail.High-level criminals, some of whom could now be abroad, may have spent up to a year planning the Tonbridge raid, but detectives believe they could not have carried it through without the help of inside knowledge of the depot's layout and security procedures."The staff and employees of Securitas will clearly form part of our investigation," said Mr Leppard. "Of the arrests we have already made, two members of staff, a man and a woman, who are agency staff sub-contracted to Securitas have been arrested and released on police bail." He refused to comment on suggestions that they were cleaners, adding: "I am not prepared to go into their roles at the depot."Kent police have arrested 17 people since the robbery in the early hours of February 22. Four men and a woman have been charged and are in custody awaiting trial. Two were released without charge and the remaining 10 were freed on police bail. Officers have recovered about £20m of what they believe is the stolen money. About £9.6m was found in a car repair workshop in an industrial estate in Welling, south-east London, and about £10m in a rented lock-up garage in Southborough, about five miles from the robbery. They also found £1.3m together with handguns, balaclavas and body armour in a transit van recovered in a hotel car park two days after the heist, and about £140,000 during a search at Elderden farm in Staplehurst last week.Mr Leppard said some of the stolen money was traceable - although he would not specify how much - and that Kent police were working with the Bank of England and financial institutions to put tracking methods in place.The arrests and cash finds so far have been within a 40-mile radius of the Tonbridge depot. But police are examining CCTV from relevant road routes and Mr Leppard said some of the suspects and the money could be abroad. "We are looking at a wide range of people in a wide range of areas. A lot are in this country, but not all of them are in this country."He said it was too early to tell how many people were involved but added that the £2m reward offer had drawn valuable intelligence. Detectives were trying to piece together a huge amount of information, witness statements and forensics. There have been more than 21,000 calls.Mr Leppard said the high profile of the case and the speed of the police inquiry was forcing the gang to make mistakes. "The scale of this investigation and the pace of the inquiry has put the criminals under enormous pressure," he said. "Although this was a well-planned criminal enterprise, people are making mistakes and where they are making mistakes we are seizing the opportunities."