As public concern about the tragic increases in knife crime gathers pace it is important that we do not seek to tackle the growing incidence of teenage murders as somehow divorced from the incidence of violence generally within our communities.At such times the temptation of politicians and a voracious press is to look for simple and immediate solutions. However tempting, it is critically important that we do not rely on solutions that have historically failed to tackle problems that are hugely complex.Divorcing youth violence, from community violence generally, for example from domestic violence, adult alcohol-fuelled violence and child abuse, is a fundamental error. The current Tory agenda as articulated by both David Cameron and London's new mayor, Boris Johnson, reflects the reactionary politics of the past with its emphasis on tougher police enforcement through huge increases in the levels of stop and search, longer prison sentences, " boot camps" and more mentors for young people.Interestingly boot camps and mentoring schemes were deemed to be completely ineffective by the US surgeon general in an in-depth report assessing the effectiveness of youth violence reduction strategies employed by US cities over the last 10 years. Johnson's new initiative of publishing "crime maps" will simply depress residential property prices, blight whole communities and deter much-needed business investment in those deprived areas where crime hotspots are identified.During the mayoral elections, Ken Livingstone was accused of ignoring the issue of teenage violence. Nothing could have been further from the truth, as evidenced by Livingstone's massive expansion of police officer numbers and the £78m investment we announced in out of hours school youth provision.The campaigning mantra from the Tories was that we were complacent, out of ideas and that Johnson would fix the problem. This will come to haunt the new mayor over the coming months and years. We now see a tactical retreat as the sheer scale and complexity of the problem confronts the mayor's office. Ray Lewis, the deputy mayor for youth, warns us there are no "magic solutions". There is a growing consensus across the political spectrum, from Cherie Booth to Johnson himself, that something must be done.The question is what exactly?I believe there is a solution to be found but it requires us to start at entirely different places, and they are accident and emergency departments and GPs' surgeries and schools. Whilst serving as Ken Livingstone's director of policing I worked hard to tackle youth violence. Initiating funding for youth projects, establishing forums for those working with young people on the ground, securing investment for youth services, and arguing for tougher sentences for those caught in possession of a weapon in addition to establishing a resettlement scheme for ex-offenders coming out of prison.Throughout this work what always struck me was that hospitals and schools did not own the problem of youth violence in particular or indeed community violence generally. In the many committees concerned with community safety both were nearly always silent at the table or more often absent from the debate.This was and remains a huge weakness in what is being proposed to tackle violence. The reality is that a significant number of victims of non-fatal violent crime do not report these crimes to the police. This unreported criminality provides a broader context through which a community interprets official violent crime statistics. The inclusion of these unreported incidences of suspected violent injury provides a much more reliable basis to asses the real extent of this kind of criminality.In claiming official violent crime statistics do not reflect the true level of violent crime, Cherie Booth was, for once, absolutely right. Communities instinctively know the real level of violence they face and are unimpressed by claims that violent crime is falling.The failure to deal with unreported violent crime is one of the key weaknesses of our present approach. Having a comprehensive community-led anti-violence strategy that kicks in at the point of medical treatment provides a real starting point to a sustained assault on violence generally.The time to convince someone to do the right thing or dissuade them from doing the wrong thing is at the point they receive treatment for injury.Some victims present at hospitals or surgeries having decided that they will not report matters to the police as they were injured during while committing crimes. Others are victims but are hell-bent on retribution and want to take matters into their own hands. Still more lack confidence in the ability of the police to successfully investigate crime and protect them or their families from victimisation. Some suffer violence within the family or a close personal relationship and feel unable to press charges.I found that by and large schools did not want to become engaged in the debate, often preferring to ignore the problem of the violence in the wider community and focus on containment and behavior within the school itself. This is changing, but almost imperceptibly. Meanwhile the sirens blaze and the body counts increase as pupils are discharged onto dangerous streets. Tackling and preventing violence should be central to the missions of our wonderful health service and educational institutions nationwide.As the former chair of the operation trident independent advisory group I became aware of just how serious this underreporting problem is in relation to gun crime. Officers would attend a crime scene where someone had been shot, or shots were fired, streets would be cordoned off, forensic teams would be dispatched, and potential witnesses would be interviewed.Thousands of police hours and huge sums of public money would be spent on the preliminary investigations.The victim would routinely be provided with armed police protection and their families risk-assessed. Then these gunshot victims would refuse to cooperate with the police, refuse to talk or make a complaint, and walk away. Inevitably they would be either become a repeat victim, or they or their associates would be involved in violent retribution against those they believed responsible. In dealing with victims of violent crime, hospitals, schools and communities need to be brought into a new public health coalition that offers victims of violence a range of support services, from gang-exit schemes, to assessing their social and mental health needs. This should include trauma counselling, conflict resolution, youth diversion schemes, educational, employment, housing and relocation support.We need to capture all information on violent crime, whether it's reported to the police or not. Research conducted in three Glasgow hospitals in March 2004 suggests that violent crimes are under-reported by at least 50%, possibly nearer 70%. And 55% of the individuals who came into accident and emergency departments during the period of another recent study stated they would not report their assault to the police.In order to get an accurate assessment of the level of community violence we must start where the action is: at the point of treatment, all violent injuries must be reported to the police. Schools must be champions of the violence-prevention agenda and both must work with community organisations.Injury surveillance pilot projects started by the government are now being run in Wales and Scotland and early indications are that even at the level of simply capturing and sharing data they are effective in reducing and preventing criminality. The government should build on this success.Whilst healthcare professionals, GPs, teachers and the wider community remain outside the community safety debate, we as a society stay in the dark about the true level of violence. If we are looking for effective means of reassuring the public about the current levels of violence we need a bold vision from government. A violence prevention initiative that starts in schools and hospitals is the right the place to start.