The widow of a police officer who was stabbed to death paid tribute to her husband yesterday as a man who was the "light of her life". PC Jon Henry was fatally wounded in the centre of Luton after responding to reports that two window cleaners had been attacked as they arrived for work.His widow, Mary, yesterday described him in a statement as "fun-loving, a true friend, a loyal and devoted father. My husband, my world, my best friend. There are a million other words I can say and then there are none".PC Henry had been committed to his career and his one-year-old daughter, Maggie, she said. "It was a tragic thing that happened and no one could have foreseen it ... He died, unfortunately, but he died doing the job he loved. My only feelings are grief and, of course, missing him, and concern for our child."PC Henry's younger sister, Georgina Henry-Brock, described her brother as a great man."He was a kind, loving, family man. He had a great sense of fun and had the gift of putting people at their ease and making them laugh in any situation," she said. "My brother loved his wife more than anything on earth. They were soulmates, a pair."Ms Henry-Brock said her brother had been a wonderful father who had been devoted to his daughter. "They were the same. She will never know him. Never feel his touch again. Never hear his laughter ring out and fill the room. Never delight him with her laugh, her smile."He saw her first steps but will never hear her first words. Never see her first school play or sports day. Never see her fall in love or grow or run and jump. She will never know her dad, the gentle giant. He was a lovely man, nothing more nor less." She said members of the family had visited the town's war memorial early yesterday and had been touched by the floral tributes to her brother.Last night police charged a man with stabbing PC Henry. Tennyson Obih, 27, from Luton, is accused of murdering the police officer as well as the attempted murder of two other men.He also faces a charges of trespass with intent to steal while in possession of a weapon.Mr Obih is expected to appear before Luton magistrates' court this morning, said Bedfordshire police.Detective Superintendent Keith Garwood, who is leading the investigation, said PC Henry had been responding to an emergency call about 20 minutes after beginning his shift on Monday morning. Det Supt Garwood said: "PC Henry received two stab wounds to the chest, which proved to be fatal."Two members of the public intervened in the incident. One of the men was wounded in the left arm.