An Italian prosecutor has asked the nation’s highest court to definitively condemn Amanda Knox and her former boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito for the murder of British university student Meredith Kercher, saying the pair undoubtedly played a role in her brutal death in 2007.“All the characters in this story are part of a perfect reconstruction, like in a [Henri] Cartier-Bresson photograph where every detail has its corresponding place,” argued Mario Pinelli, the chief prosecutor.The panel of judges, who will rule on whether to uphold Knox and Sollecito’s convictions on Friday, listened attentively as details of the murder were rehashed for what could be the last time, from the defendants’ alleged attempt to clean up the murder scene and stage a break-in at the home where Knox and Kercher were housemates, to Knox’s initial statements to the police, in which she falsely accused a black pub owner she worked for of committing the crime.The long-awaited hearing in Italy’s court of cassation in Rome could seal the fate of both Knox and Sollecito in the Italian justice system, following multiple trials and appeals. If their convictions are upheld, Italy will likely seek the extradition of Knox from her native Seattle, where she is currently living, back to Italy to serve her 28-and-a-half year jail sentence. Sollecito, who will be 31 years old on Thursday, would likely be arrested right away if his conviction is upheld. He has been sentenced to 25 years in prison.Although observers in the case initially believed a verdict could be announced as early as Wednesday evening, the presiding judge in the case, Gennaro Marasca, said the hearing would continue at 9am on Friday.Carlo Dalla Vedova, Knox’s attorney, said he was confident justice would prevail, even if his client was less certain. “She’s worried,” he told reporters shortly before the hearing began. He said he would be calling her with updates.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Raffaele Sollecito arrives at court. Source:Both Knox and Sollecito deny any wrongdoing. Sollecito arrived in the high court on a rainy morning in Rome with his girlfriend, Greta, and father and sister. He looked bored at times – more consumed by a hang-nail than the long monologues offered by various attorneys in the case.One thing that remained unclear on Wednesday was what might have motivated the vicious crime. While some accounts have suggested that the murder was the result of an alleged spat between Knox and Kercher, and others said that she was killed after a sex game had gone wrong, the prosecutor on Wednesday said, in effect, the motive was irrelevant. Hypothesising on the issue, Pinelli said, was a slippery slope. Sollecito’s lawyer, Giulia Bongiorno, is seeking a formal separation between her client’s case and Knox’s case. While Bongiorno said before the hearing started that she hoped the case would be annulled because it was “littered with errors”, it is extremely unlikely that the Italian court will throw out the charges.The two most likely scenarios are that the panel of judges will either uphold both convictions or send one or both cases back for retrial. Dalla Vedova shrugged off any suggestion that separating Knox’s case from Sollecito’s could isolate and hurt the American’s chances of an eventual acquittal. In fact, such a move made sense for Sollecito’s team, he said, because there was less evidence being held against him than against Knox. “Sollecito is a shadow,” he told reporters. The long-running trial has been criticised in international press as a circus, but in Italy, where the case is less closely followed than in the UK and the US, it was business as usual.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Raffaele Sollecito leaves the court of cassation in Rome on 25 March after the hearing to examine an appeal against conviction for the murder of Meredith Kercher in 2007. Photograph: Massimo Percossi/EPAThe trial was originally slated to be conducted in a small hearing room until – more than an hour into arguments – the top judge observed that many of the attorneys and their staff did not have adequate seating. Even Sollecito had trouble finding a seat initially.The hearing was then moved into a larger venue, where court police kept a close eye on journalists trying to use their mobile phones – which is against the rules – and issued stern threats that they would be confiscated. The hearing also attracted some of the people who profess to be supporters of the defendants. An American named Michael from Hawaii – he did not want to give his last name – and a German woman named Anke Ahlbrink held signs that said “Raffaele and Amanda are innocent” in front of the courthouse. Amanda Knox is a witch? Sorry, are we living in 1486? | Joan Smith Ahlbrink said she had been attracted to the case because of the witchhunt to which Knox, she said, had been subject. “It is like in the Middle Ages,” she said. The pair followed Sollecito into the courthouse and gave him a pastry that was wrapped in a bag that had the word “innocent” on it. Michael said it was a birthday gift. Diya “Patrick” Lumumba was also present in the court. He was the owner of a pub whom Knox initially accused of the crime in a statement that she later retracted. The accusation was false and Lumumba was exonerated after it was clear he had an alibi. Knox has said she would have to be dragged “kicking and screaming” back to Italy to complete her prison sentence if her conviction is upheld. The pair were believed to have acted in concert with Rudy Hermann Guede, a drifter from the Ivory Coast who was found guilty of murder following a fast-track trial. He has already served about half of his 16-year sentence in the case.