There are storm clouds looming ominously above Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner. Though much has happened during his first year in the most important policing job in the country, the achievements struggle for recognition against the run of incidents that leave him vulnerable today. The latest gaffe was his speech at a meeting of the Metropolitan police authority last week, in which he described the media's reporting of murders as institutionally racist and said that he could not understand why the Soham killings had become such a big story.He replaced Sir John Stevens (now Lord Stevens), a man whose reputation cast him as a hybrid of Jack Regan - the fictional no-nonsense thief-taker in The Sweeney - and Field Marshal Montgomery, who could take tired men into battle with just a few stirring words. Following that seemed to many an impossible task. And so, to date, it has proved.Sir Ian is not in crisis, but he is close to crisis. There is no appetite in Downing Street or at the Home Office to move against him just yet, but one more calamity could prove fatal. People like their police commissioners imbued with superheroic qualities. They don't want Mr Magoo.It is surprising that he is stumbling so readily into potholes, because he appeared to have taken the job knowing that they would be there. "You don't come into here without a pair of copper-bottomed trousers," he said on taking command at Scotland Yard. "This is a very tough place."But he should have realised that it would be a tougher place for him than for anyone else who has risen to the position. His first few months as the first avowedly liberal commissioner were going to be uniquely turbulent.For the reactionaries in the force and their friends in the press have long memories. They recall the Lawrence inquiry, the defining moment in British policing, when the racism and incompetence they took for granted was laid bare before an astonished public; and they remember above all that as they sought to defend their disreputable positions, they saw Sir Ian on the other side of the barricade. In 1999, after the Met had suffered the agonies of the Lawrence inquiry hearings and shortly before Sir William Macpherson's report was published, Sir Ian - then chief constable of Surrey - spoke publicly of the "immensely powerful" working culture with its "mores of a white culture" that ran throughout the police. He dismissed it even then as "quite frankly now old-fashioned" and insisted that it had to be changed.Things have begun to change, but those who liked the certainties and inequalities of the pre-Macpherson years were hardly likely to embrace the leadership of a man they saw as having consorted with the enemy. He was seen then as he is seen now, as a quisling. Sir John Stevens did much to implement the Macpherson recommendations, but the reactionaries forgave him as a traditional copper doing what he had to in an era of political correctness. But Sir Ian, then deputy commissioner and head of the diversity directorate, has always been viewed by the disgruntled right as an ideologue, a well from which the troubling philosophies spring.It is not surprising then that his path has been strewn with landmines. The surprise is that he is surprised. The surprise is that he has spent a year walking down dark alleys with the Daily Mail, the Sun and the Daily Telegraph, seemingly oblivious to the obvious fact that their dearest wish is to kneecap him. Few would now advocate the excessively muscular press strategies that New Labour made their trademark, but at least they came to office knowing where the snipers were positioned and with an appreciation of the difficulties they would face. By contrast Sir Ian has wandered into bandit country without his flak jacket.He should not become paranoid, but he should realise that there are elements in his force and in the media that really are out to get him. They won't fall behind him just because he is the commissioner. They are interested in the man, not the title, but most of all they are interested in the politics. They see the reforms that he views as merely desirable and practical - more diversity, elevating the concept of the police "service" - as intensely political. He may yet get them to move towards his vision of a 21st-century police force. But he should recognise that they will only do so kicking and screaming.He must also recognise that he needs to raise his game. No more incautiously worded public statements, less thinking aloud in public forums, fewer gifts to his opponents. If the inquiry into the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes finds him culpable he may have to resign, but if he survives it will be vital that he pursues the reform agenda with a focus and clarity of leadership that has eluded him hitherto.His career is at stake, but so is the future of a kind of policing that many of us would like to see succeed. When Sir Ian puts his foot in his mouth, as he has done once too often, he makes fools of us all. hugh.muir@theguardian.com