A serial bride who duped a string of lonely hearts victims and stole more than £250,000 from their credit cards was jailed yesterday, in spite of claiming that she suffered from an uncontrollably split personality.Operating under four false names, Emma Golightly practised raiding her mother's and grandmother's bank accounts before a two-year spree at the expense of men whom she had begged to cosset her before she died of a non-existent cancer.Allegedly in the grip of a "good me and a bad me", the unemployed 19-year-old ran a fraud so complex and risky that it astonished police when they finally unravelled her dealings.She convinced a succession of men that she was a multimillionaire businesswoman with a terminal condition, while fishing surreptitiously in their credit and savings.Luxury cars costing up to £78,000 were on her shopping list, Newcastle crown court was told yesterday, as well as £800 worth of shoes on one shopping trip and a narrowly failed attempt to buy a £500,000 house.Although followed by a trail of bounced cheques, she was so persuasive that one victim married her and a second unwittingly organised a bigamous wedding with 100 guests which only failed because Golightly had not contacted and paid for a registrar. The £12,000 "wedding" ended in farce at a luxury hotel when a lay preacher among the guests had to "bless" the couple in the absence of the registrar.A friend of the cheated "bridegroom" said: "It was a very rushed wedding and others felt it was happening too fast. She was calling herself Chelsea Taylor and claimed to having terminal cancer. What she did to him was really appalling."Now 22, she was sentenced to two years after Judge David Wood told her that "over a period of quite a long time you befriended a number of men and pretended to them you were rich, terminally ill and in need of a husband". He said the scale of fraud and deception left no alternative to prison. "These are serious breaches of trust and there are large amounts of money involved."Golightly, of Walkerville in Newcastle upon Tyne, admitted theft, deception and attempted deception over a two-year period after leaving home in 2004.She walked out when her mother discovered that £7,000 was missing from bank accounts and later received an unexpected £3,500 credit card bill.Golightly's skill at extracting pin numbers and account details was then turned on four men, met through newspaper advertisements or on the internet. Tim Gittens, prosecuting, said: "For all these gentlemen history repeated itself. The total property and service obtained with their money, including the more grandiose attempts such as those to obtain vehicles, amount to just over £254,000. The vast majority of the offences relate to a campaign of finding a man and using his financial ability, through credit cards and bank accounts, to dishonestly fund a lavish lifestyle." In every case, Golightly got lavish presents for the men, who only later discovered that they had paid for them on credit.She was unmasked when her final victim told police of his suspicions and she broke down and gave detectives details of more than 88 separate frauds. The victims' embarrassment and Golightly's skill at breaking down in tears and confessing to "moments of madness" prevented her spree from ending earlier. After her arrest, she told police that she had not been taking medication for her condition and her other personality had taken over.Her counsel, Peter Schofield, said in mitigation: "She has a long term and deeply unpleasant personality disorder which for a girl of 22 years will take a good deal of professional intervention to improve. She said it was almost like being another person and having an alternative ego - as in a film where you have got a bad person and a good person saying 'do this and do that.' It was not and never has been a calculated attempt to obtain goods and deceive people."