A senior nurse charged with the murder of three patients and offences involving 13 more has been found dead at her home in Lancashire.Anne Grigg-Booth, 52, was due to go on trial next April. Detective Superintendent Phil Sedgewick, of West Yorkshire police, said it was possible she could have killed more than three people: "We just don't know. Now we'll never know for sure."A neighbour found Ms Grigg-Booth dead at her home in Nelson, Lancashire, early on Monday. She was accused a year ago of killing three women at Airedale General Hospital, near Keighley, West Yorkshire, where she had worked for 25 years. She was also accused of attempting to murder a fourth patient and faced 13 counts of unlawfully administering poison to 12 other patients.She was alleged to have injected them with high doses of painkilling drugs such as morphine and diamorphine - the same drugs that serial killer Harold Shipman used - while working on the night shift.Mr Sedgewick said the Crown Prosecution Service had decided to charge her with three murders because it had proved difficult to prove exactly how many very ill and elderly patients might have died as a result of her actions."We looked at a lot of deaths at the hospital and picked up a number of suspicious cases," he said. "We eventually concentrated on between 15 and 20 cases and brought experts in to look at these."Ms Grigg-Booth was charged with the murder of June Driver, 67, on July 14 2000; Eva Blackburn, 75, on November 13 2001; and Annie Midgley, 96, on July 22 2002.She was also accused of trying to kill 42-year-old Michael Parker in June 2002, and administering morphine, pethidine and diamorphine to 12 patients between June 2000 and July 2002. She was initially suspended on full pay in February 2003. An inquiry was launched after managers carried out a routine audit of deaths at the hospital and studied the medical records of Annie Midgley.The youngest of the alleged victims is believed to be Lorraine Boddy, who was 18 in October 2000 when she was taken to the hospital suffering severe pain from a cyst on her ovary.After an operation she remained in hospital for a week before being allowed back to her home in Keighley but her condition worsened and she had to return the same day.She stayed in hospital for almost two weeks and her parents were warned that she could die. Ms Boddy was unable to return to her job as a nursing home care assistant for two months afterwards.Ms Grigg-Booth was originally from London and moved from West Yorkshire to Lancashire after she was charged because bail conditions were imposed which barred her from Keighley.A spokeswoman for West Yorkshire police said Ms Grigg-Booth's death was not being treated as suspicious. A postmortem examination was due to be carried out yesterday.