As we mourn the death of Rhys Jones (Report, August 25) and political pundits seek to analyse the apparent rise in juvenile gun and knife crimes, we also celebrate increasing exam success. Pupils in England are the most tested in the world, so it is unsurprising that they and their teachers become experts in the process. However, we should also think about the consequences of tests, and of failing schools tests. From the age of seven, 20% of the nation's children are seen, and see themselves, as failures as they perform below the expected levels for their age groups. This must have a damaging impact on their morale and expectations of their future. Violence is an expression of hatred toward oneself and others. Might there be some correlation between school failure and youth violence? Shirley FranklinAssociate tutor, Institute of EducationIf fantasy images of gratuitous violence presenting human lives as valueless commodities were controlled in the same way as hard pornography, and media controllers persuaded to report similar "real life" events in a less sensational way, perhaps fewer young people would be inclined to emulate behaviour which, in their view of the world, offers them instant macho/star status. How can we expect youngsters to grow up with any sensibility or ability to distinguish between fact and fantasy when so many are fed on a diet of violence and murder as "entertainment"? David MountBrightonIt has been reported that GCSE English examiners are perturbed at the current trend for graphic violence shown in creative writing exam papers, the favourite title being The Assassin. My small publishing firm holds an annual competition for short stories and poetry. The 2006 entries, for short stories in particular, showed a marked increase in subjects involving warfare and terrorism. There was little graphic description but plenty of intelligent concern about current and recent international trouble, and its effects. Should we be worried about the trend for street crime and graphic violence in English exam papers? From the hundreds of adult short stories I have read, I'd suggest the teenage fixation with fictional urban crime will mature into a healthier concern for current and factual war crimes. Hemingway said there's no point in writing unless you have something to say. Maybe our kids are saying more than we realise when they pen so many stories all called The Assassin. Brian ListerEditorial director, Biscuit Publishing