The gang which carried out the biggest cash robbery in British history discarded banknotes worth millions of pounds as they fled from the scene of the crime, it emerged last night.The money was found in a van which gang members abandoned outside a hotel near the Eurostar terminal in Ashford, Kent, after kidnapping a security depot manager and his family and snatching up to £50m.It was unclear whether the cash was dumped in haste, or because they were all new notes which could be easily traced. One theory being explored by detectives is that other gang members had been expected to return to the van and recover the cash.Eyewitnesses told how police officers laughed and joked with each other as they struggled to lift two large polythene-wrapped packages from the back of the white Transit van yesterday afternoon.One said: "It was unbelievable. Two very beefy policemen man struggled to lift these packages. They must have weighed about 150kg. They were surrounded by armed cops - they weren't taking any chances."Police have now recovered four vehicles used by the gang.Three people who had been questioned by police following their arrests on Thursday were released on bail. One, a 41-year-old woman, had been detained after attempting to open a new building society account using around £6,000 worth of notes which were in a wrapper from the Securitas depot in Tonbridge.Two others, a 29-year-old man who works as a hairdresser and a woman aged 31 who works as his assistant, had also been questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to commit armed robbery, police said.Police released an efit yesterday of one gang member who posed as a police officer during the kidnappings before Tuesday's night's raid. The robber, who impersonated a patrol officer to trick the manager of the depot into one of the gang's cars, is thought to have been wearing a false beard.Meanwhile, the boy who was kidnapped by the gang along with his mother and father was marking his ninth birthday yesterday. Craig Dixon was said to have been traumatised by his ordeal, while his mother Lynn, 45, and father Colin, 51, who manages the depot for the Swedish company Securitas, are also said to have been disturbed. Adrian Leppard, assistant chief constable of Kent, said: "His family are trying to make it special for him. He's had some presents and we are getting together some presents of our own. He's had all the support we can give, as you can expect."Mr Dixon has told police that the man posing as a police officer had dark eyebrows, suggesting he may have been wearing a false beard. After being handcuffed in the car, he was told that his family would be shot dead and that he too would be murdered unless he cooperated.The raiders were then able to bypass all the security measures at the depot, tie up 14 members of staff and load a 7.5 tonne truck with up to £50m in new and used notes.It is now believed that Mrs Dixon and her young son had been taken to a location in Faversham, Kent, before being put into the back of a red van which appeared to have Parcelforce markings. They were then driven to a rural location, put into the back of the white lorry and taken to the depot.Mr Dixon, who was flagged down at around 6.30pm and later put into a dark-coloured vehicle, was also taken to a rural location, believed to be a farm building reached by a rough track.Mr Leppard said: "We believe that both were taken to a building in a rural location and we believe it was the same building."Police have yet to determine exactly how much money was taken. Forensic examination of the depot is holding up an audit by Securitas and the Bank of England. The money belonged to the bank, but under the terms of its contract with Securitas it will be reimbursed in full.Police renewed attempts yesterday to persuade people on the fringes of the gang to inform on them and claim the £2m reward, thought to be the largest offered in the UK.Mr Leppard said: "There are people out there who know who committed this crime, and the reward could be yours. I know you might be fearful of ringing in. We are used to dealing with witnesses of this type of crime and we will look after you."