A senior police officer is to be drafted in to help a chief constable who said last month he might "farm out" murder inquiries to other forces because his own force was so stretched, it was revealed today.The deputy chief constable of West Midlands police, Chris Sims, will be seconded to help the chief constable of Nottinghamshire police, Steve Green, who prompted a political row by telling a newspaper his force was "reeling from murders".Mr Green's remarks prompted the home secretary, Charles Clarke, to order a report into the Nottinghamshire force by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC).A four-page summary of that report was made public today, which recommended that, starting next week and lasting for an initial three months, a senior officer should go on secondment to Nottinghamshire police. The HMIC report, written by the inspector of constabulary, Denis O'Connor, said it was clear after Mr Green's comments that Nottinghamshire police needed "intensive support" to improve. The report said the force should carry out a comprehensive review of its murder and cross-county crime investigations. Mr Green had caused controversy by claiming his force was so stretched he was preparing to "farm out" Category C murder investigations to other forces. But Mr O'Connor concluded in his report that, while the force had been pressed by an increase in the number of murders in the area by 30% over the past year, the force was not overwhelmed.His report said the "heart of the problem" did not concern the level of resources available to the chief constable but rather "how to structure and utilise resources, skills and expertise to best effect". However, Mr O'Connor did say in his report that, if the seconded officer [Mr Sims], made a case for "further resources as part of improving the force's approach to tackling ... [cross-county] crime then that would obviously need to be considered". Mr O'Connor said he would consider the circumstances of the force again in three months' time. In the days after talking to the Sunday Telegraph, Mr Green expressed regret that he had depicted a crisis in the force and said the interview was not his "finest hour". Today Mr Green defended his force's record. He said Nottinghamshire police had put many dangerous gun criminals in prison and significantly reduced the number of shootings in recent years. Mr Green said: "I am pleased that the report acknowledges the real progress on reducing crime, capping drug trafficking and reducing shootings. The report says that has not been the case in relation to murder and organised crime. "While we want to examine every option in preventing murders we would argue that the excellent work of the Operation Stealth team and significant reductions in shootings prove we have been anything but passive in this area."