Let our knees not jerk. David Blunkett is routinely described as a home secretary so rightwing he makes Michael Howard look like a wet liberal. So when he announces yet another crackdown on anti-social behaviour, the instinctive reaction of much of the left will be contemptuous. There he goes again.This reaction is so wrong it needs to be fought with every sinew. Anti-social behaviour is not some hysterical invention of the rightwing press (though their reporting of it is hardly responsible). No, anti-social behaviour is real and it's regular. It is - quite literally - a pain that can blight lives, inhibit freedom and spread fear.Respect, order and self-discipline were once the watchwords of the progressive left. They were inherited from Chartists, the friendly and temperance societies and the union movement. Postwar politicians like Beveridge and Attlee, Cripps and Bevan, all took it for granted that, alongside state help, citizens would retain an intolerance of crime and yobbishness, and an instinct for self-help and saving. So when Blunkett tells the Guardian that his job "is to provide some stability and order" and that "anti-social behaviour is actually at the foundation and root of instability" he is talking Labour language, and progressive language too. The problem with New Labour and crime so far is not that it has been too tough, or too rightwing, but that it has been too ineffective. "Tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime" remains a great aspiration, not simply a soundbite. But it has been undermined by a lack of effective policy. There has been too much easy sloganising and not enough follow-up of the measures introduced. True, Tony Blair's notorious promise that the police would frogmarch young thugs to cashpoint machines and make them pay on-the-spot fines seemed risible, but what happened to parenting orders, reparation orders, tagging for juveniles on bail, and pagers to alert the parents of truants that little Jimmy had gone awol again? In most cases, the courts and the local authorities have not used the powers available to them. As to the causes of crime - the right denies that unemployment and crime are closely linked, but we know they are. This is not to say that the 50-year-old woman who loses her job is likely to turn to mugging; but young men who have dropped out of education and cannot enter the job market, are. So there are good grounds for arguing that the most effective anti-crime home secretary New Labour has had is in fact Gordon Brown, with his employment initiatives. Beyond that, though, the record has been mixed. Ministers have wrestled with police and court reform, but only to modest effect. The prisons remain crammed, and the lack of good educational and rehabilitative programmes inside them is the despair of every sensible person. So far, Labour's dream of safer streets has foundered on the reality of turgid administration and reactionary special interests. So more police powers, more fixed penalty fines, more injunctions and more remedies for the sub-police, in this case environmental health offices - will these work where earlier initiatives failed? It's easy to dismiss them as yet more gimmicks, but in reality Blunkett has no choice but to try again. For crime, particularly mugging and burglary, affects the old, women and working-class people more than it affects society's winners, and always has. Blunkett famously blames the judiciary and legal profession for much of what has gone wrong. It is true that, when lawyers and judges sonorously lecture us on the constitution and liberty, we should check just how much money they make from their high moral stand. But the far harder nut to crack is police reform. There are excellent chief constables and go-ahead police forces. But overall, the police have been resistant to change and successive governments of right and left have been too frightened to take them on. Yet the route to safer streets and lives is through a far more effective use of police manpower, as well as proper rehabilitation of offenders. The good news is that there aren't that many yobs. This is not, as some social commentators would have us believe, the problem of an entire generation of lawlessness caused by 60s do-gooders. It is about a limited number of serial offenders, a small number of families who are out of control, and some violent organised gangs. According to police figures, half of all robberies take place in 20 local council areas, 14 of them inner London boroughs. More money, well targeted on the hardcore, would have a huge effect on society as a whole. Tackling louts, truants, drunks and noisy neighbours isn't demonising children or the most marginalised members of society. Nor is it marking a return to reactionary populism. It is simply saying that if we want to live in a liberal, tolerant society, everybody has to understand the rules. So I am delighted that Blunkett is sounding tough. Though I don't suppose that will stop a good many knees jerking to kick him. · jackie.ashley@theguardian.com