A man who murdered his ex-wife and hid her body in her own bed, where it lay undiscovered for three weeks, has been jailed for at least 16 years.Daniel Spencer beat and strangled Jane Wiggett at her home in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, before placing her body in her bed with pillows and blankets tucked over and around her.Spencer told friends and family that she had gone on holiday and when some of them grew suspicious and searched her home, they failed to find the body. It was only when they officially reported Wiggett missing to police that a detailed search took place and an officer found the body after pulling back the duvet.Mr Justice Hamblen jailed Spencer for life and told him he would spend at least 16 years in prison before being considered eligible for parole.The judge described him as "jealous, possessive and with a need for control". He said nobody knew what happened on the day of his ex-wife's death "because you deprived Jane of her voice and you have chosen not to use yours by denying the crime and not giving evidence". He said the way he hid her body and the lies he told prolonged the family's agony.Spencer repeatedly shouted at the judge during his sentencing remarks, telling him: "That's not true judge" as Wiggett's family wept in the public gallery. "Why don't you just put a bullet in my head?" he called out . "Why don't you just give me a death sentence? I've done nothing, nothing."In a victim impact statement, Wiggett's sister, Jackie Regan, said the family felt as though they had "let Jane down". "The thought that she was in her flat all that time alone and we listened to his convincing lies that he was in contact with her, makes it worse," Regan said. "She was such a kind, generous, loving person who didn't deserve to be hurt."Afterwards, James Ward, of the Crown Prosecution Service, said the case highlighted how domestic abuse could escalate after the break-up of a relationship."Nothing will compensate Jane Wiggett's family for their loss but I hope they will find at least a degree of comfort knowing Daniel Spencer is required to spend the next 16 years of his life in prison before being eligible for parole," he said.Richard Smith QC, prosecuting, had told the jury that Spencer was a jealous and violent man. During the couple's 30-year marriage she had twice reported him to the police for grabbing her by the throat, before they divorced in 2005.Smith said Spencer, 59, visited his 57-year-old ex-wife in July last year at her flat and that something had happened to anger him. A postmortem examination found she had been beaten before her death before being strangled and traces of Spencer's blood were discovered under his victim's fingernails, indicating she had fought back.Smith said he then put Wiggett's body in her bed, lying on her back. He said: "Her face was covered with a pillow, her quilt was then carefully put over her." He told friends and family she had gone on holiday to Cornwall and claimed she was in contact with him by phone.When worried friends and family searched the flat two days after the murder, they did not find the body. On 15 August they reported that she was missing and police found the body early the next morning.Spencer attempted to flee the country but was arrested in a hotel near Birmingham airport. He denied having any part in Wiggett's death during a 12-day trial at Bristol crown court but a jury unanimously convicted him of murder after three hours of deliberation.Outside court, Wiggett's family released a statement to pay tribute. "Jane was very private and would have hated all the attention but she was popular, funny, sensitive, kind, loyal and very protective of her family," they said. "We hope she can now rest in peace knowing that she has been listened to and justice is seen to be done."