"We decided compulsory smart cards were a pretty dumb idea and shelved it. Now it seems that Sir Humphrey has dusted it down and persuaded David Blunkett (of whom I expected better) to swallow it as gullibly as Jim Hacker".Peter Lilley,commentary, The Observer, 30 June"The distinction between voluntary and compulsory is... a distinction without a difference. If the aim is to find asylum-seekers who have disappeared, British ethnic minorities will, inevitably, be hassled. If they don't carry ID at all times, they'll have repeated trips to the cop shop. If the rest of the population has to produce the cards to prove our entitlement to hospital care or social security, then the poor who depend on public services, will need to carry them most if not all the time". Nick Cohen, commentary, The Observer, 30 June"[ID cards] touch our deepest instincts about what it is to be British. Mr Blunkett has a real fight on his hands... Will the public accept ID cards if they have to be paid for by doubling the cost of passports and driving licences? And can a Government that fouled up the census, presided over the great passports fiasco and brought you the Dome manage such a technologically exacting system?' Daily Mail, editorial, 4 July.'What is being suggested is risibly impractical... Those who mislay their cards might be turned away from hospital, refused benefits or denied the right to leave the country. Yet cards can be stolen and even the most careful, conscientious person can lose track of documents. The scheme is expensive, confused, unworkable and unrealistic. Back to the drawing board, Mr Blunkett'. Daily Express, editorial, 4 July.'The huge cost of cards would be better spent on more police and customs officers to keep unwanted immigrants out. If we did that, we wouldn't need ID cards. The Tories dumped this idea when they realised it was a dud'. The Sun, editorial, 4 July.'Just about everybody in this country has all sorts of proofs of identity. They include national insurance number, credit cards and endless information from banks, utilities and various organisations. So what is the problem with having an identity card, too? None that the Mirror can see for any honest person'. Daily Mirror, editorial, 4 July.'Like people in many other countries, we have IDs in today's democratic South Africa. We do not carry these on our persons at all times, and nor are we required to do so... There is nothing intrinsically wrong or threatening about identification documents... It all depends on what they are used for and what the intentions of a government that is planning to use them are'. Kaizer Nyatsumba, commentary, The Independent, 4 July'It is hard to see how the scheme Mr Blunkett is proposing, if it has any substance at all, is anything other than a national identity card in all but name... What comes out of the document is much woolly thinking, an acknowledgement that it would be a decade from now before universal coverage was achieved even for a simple card, and a frank recognition that the more valuable the card, the bigger the target it would become for organised crime... It is an idea that, at least for now, should be put back in its box'. Financial Times, editorial, 4 July.'The Home Office is not institutionally racist, but it is institutionally illiberal. The very name "entitlement card" is odious, implying as it does that our liberties are in the gift of the state. Has Mr Blunkett forgotten that in Britain, uniquely, people sing they never, never, never shall be slaves? That in Britain everything that is not prohibited is permitted?' Daily Telegraph, editorial, 4 July.'Home Office ministers failed to produce a convincing case for introducing an ID card... Mr Blunkett wants a national debate to let the people decide. What this suggests is that the cabinet is divided, the Treasury is opposed and the cost has been camouflaged'. The Guardian, editorial, 4 July."The details outlined in yesterday's consultation paper do give cause for concern on libertarian grounds... failure to register details of one's life on the Government's database would lead to the denial of services citizens currently enjoy... [Mr Blunkett] risks creating an instrument which, were it to fall into hands less liberal than his own, could be used for mischief'. The Times, editorial, 4 July.'Any minister who proposes identity cards in Britain must have some kind of death wish. He will provoke the Guardian and the Daily Telegraph into rare alliance... On this, as on much else connected with civil liberties, the government's critics from the left are profoundly confused. They cannot, on the one hand, argue for a regulating, beneficent state - delivering universal public services and demanding minimum standards from private firms - while denying that state the information and power to carry out such duties'. New Statesman, editorial, issue of 8 July.