The family of a mentally ill black man who died after being restrained by police were angered yesterday when a high court judge quashed an inquest jury's verdict that he was unlawfully killed.Roger Sylvester, a 30-year-old manic depressive with drug problems, was naked and throwing himself on the ground outside his home in Tottenham, north London, in January 1999. Police handcuffed him and took him to a psychiatric hospital where officers held him down for 20 minutes when he became violent. He had a heart attack, lapsed into a coma and died a week later. Last October, an 11-strong inquest jury unanimously found that he had been unlawfully killed. But this was challenged by the eight officers involved, and yesterday, Mr Justice Collins overturned the verdict on the grounds that the coroner, Andrew Reid's summing up was inadequate and the jury was confused. Seven of the officers are still with the Met and were suspended after the inquest but have been reinstated, while the eighth has transferred to the West Midlands force. Mr Sylvester's family did not attend yesterday's hearing but protested outside. His brother, Bernard Renwick, said the family was withdrawing from the legal process with a "bitter taste in our mouth". "We have followed the due legal process in this criminal justice for almost six years and feel it is now time to opt out. We merely wanted truth and where necessary, justice. Instead, we have had obstacles, delays, anguish, smoke and mirrors. And justice? Where is the justice? Mr Sylvester's mother, Sheila, 70, said: "God is the ultimate judge. I don't know how they [the officers] sleep." Deborah Coles, of the deaths in custody campaign group, Inquest, said: "Roger Sylvester was a healthy young black man who died because of fatal restraint used against him by police officers. Yet seemingly no one is to be held accountable." Mr Justice Collins said: "I can see no reason why the family should want the matter further reconsidered at vast expense. I am satisfied that no jury would be likely to convict any officer of manslaughter." Colin Reynolds, solicitor for the eight officers, said they hoped the judgment would end almost six years of allegations. "The officers' attempts to restrain Mr Sylvester, who was 18st and suffering cannabis-induced delirium, were not only necessary but observed throughout by members of the public, and at the hospital, trained medical staff," he said. "Not a single witness criticised the manner or length of the restraint." Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said the officers and their families had had to endure "wholly unfair public vilification".