The health secretary, Alan Milburn, is widely expected to announce an inquiry into the Shipman case when he speaks in the Commons today.The government will scrutinise the GP system in unprecedented detail, and push through reforms that, under the circumstances, the profession may find itself hard put to resist. The British Medical Association and the Royal College of General Practitioners will not dare to argue against an inquiry, but their notion of what needs changing is at odds with that of the government. The BMA says it has campaigned for more than 30 years for reform of the antiquated system for certifying death and disposing of bodies. It was far too easy for Shipman to cover his tracks. He altered patients' records and attributed sudden deaths to natural causes. He parcelled out cremation certificates, which each needed the signature of a second doctor, to GPs in other practices, none of whom was required to see the body. And he disguised the huge amounts of morphine he was prescribing - more than any other GP in the country - by becoming a high prescriber of all kinds of drugs, including the most expensive modern treatments. The department of health wants to advance its crusade for better performance and quality control among doctors. In the direct line of fire are single-handed GP practices. Because the doctors work alone and are independent contractors, not the salaried employees of the health authority, they have been pretty much a law unto themselves. There are 2,847 single-handed practices in inner cities and rural areas of England and Wales, looking after 7m patients, and they tend to be popular with patients who like to know they will always see the same doctor. But their isolation makes it easy to fail to keep up with developments in medicine. In larger practices, standards among family doctors have also been patchy, from brilliant to bad. Only recently has the profession's disciplinary body, the General Medical Council, changed its procedures so that it can order failing doctors to retrain - or strike them off the medical register. The pace of reform in the profession, which has traditionally regulated itself, has been too slow for ministers. Before Shipman's arrest, the government had been working on a new system of audit, appraisal and disciplinary procedures for doctors which culminated in a consultation paper from the chief medical officer, Liam Donaldson, in November. The royal college and the BMA are hostile to many of his recommendations. But the furore about the Shipman case will strengthen the government's hand in pushing through the changes. That this is the government's agenda was made clear at a briefing last week by a health minister, John Denham. He wanted to outline the "range of work on quality and clinical governance and how it fits in with the Shipman trial". Murder allegations against doctors were unusual, he said, but they raised "wider issues of how we minimise poor practice and malpractice in general". In a whistlestop tour of the government's NHS reforms, Mr Denham spoke of primary care groups and primary care trusts which bring GPs together, of clinical governance - the systems for ensuring that all doctors are up to scratch - the commission for health improvement which is supposed to be inspecting every GP surgery in the near future, and Professor Donaldson's controversial document on weeding out bad doctors. Under the Donaldson proposals, GPs would have to take part in clinical audits, assessing their results against others, and they would face regular appraisals. Health authorities would have powers to suspend doctors if it was suspected they could be a danger to patients. But none of these measures would have been likely to have caught Shipman, who was a mass murderer but not a failing GP.