A killer who savagely battered a man to death in the false belief that he was a paedophile was jailed for life yesterday.Brian Kearney, 21, cried as the recorder of Newcastle, Judge David Hodson, said he would serve at least 21 years before any chance of parole. His assault "was as about as ferocious and savage and sustained an attack as I have ever heard tell," the judge said. Newcastle crown court heard that Kearney put on a "killing suit", a hooded jacket and a joiner's belt filled with mallets and hammers, to make his assault. In mitigation, the court was told he had been assaulted as a child, and raped by another man a few weeks before the murder last December. His victim was Barry Sewell, 49, a frail man described by relatives as a much-loved member of a large family, but who turned to drink after the death of his wife from cancer and was living rough in a barn. Kearney overheard gossip in a social club in Sunderland, where he lived, that Mr Sewell's eccentric behaviour masked the fact he was a paedophile, the court was told. Northumbria police investigated the claim "intensively" and found no shred of evidence. Kearney drank eight pints of lager before making up his "killing suit" to seek out Mr Sewell. Though he put up a fight, Kearney battered him to the floor with the tools, broke his knees and shins with metal bars, and repeatedly smashed his head with 35lb (15kg) breezeblocks. Mr Sewell received 36 separate hammer blows and was impaled on a metal pole, although the court heard most of his injuries were likely to have been inflicted when dead. Abuse was shouted at the shaven-headed Kearney from the public gallery after the judge condemned his attack as despicable and said the only possible sentence was imprisonment for life. After the killing Kearney tried to cover his tracks by going to police, saying he had found the body and denying any involvement. But when the "killing suit" was found by detectives in his mother's shed, he confessed, and finally pleaded guilty shortly before his trial. In mitigation, his barrister, Patrick Cosgrove QC, said Kearney had been a victim of sexual assault, including the rape, and was "totally out of control" when he unleashed the terrible violence. In a statement, Mr Sewell's family said they were pleased justice had been done.