Michael Stone, serving life for the murders of Lin and Megan Russell, today failed in a high court attempt to bar the press and public from seeing a full report on his care and treatment.A judge heard Stone was particularly concerned about the report falling into the hands of newspapers, "not least because of the treatment it will receive by the tabloid press". However, Mr Justice Davis, sitting in London, said his claim had failed. "I refuse to grant Mr Stone any of the relief that he seeks," he added. "The public interest requires publication of the report in full." The judge said the decision to publish "was justified and proportionate, and does not constitute unwarranted interference with article eight - the right to respect for private life - of the European convention on human rights". He added that no breach of the 1998 Data Protection Act was involved. In 2001, Stone was given three life sentences for killing 45-year-old Dr Russell and Megan, and the attempted murder of Megan's sister Josie, in Chillenden, Kent, in 1996. An independent inquiry report into Stone's treatment by mental health, probation and social workers before the attack was due to be published last year, but was put on hold pending the legal challenge.Richard Clayton QC, appearing for Stone, who is now 45, said he had co-operated fully with the inquiry and had disclosed private details about his care and treatment to it.He had always been content for "lessons to be learnt" from it by health professionals and all relevant regulatory bodies. Stone was also content for a second report, setting out the conclusions of the inquiry, to be published for public consumption, but not for intimate medical information about him to be disclosed.At the hearing which led to today's ruling, Mr Clayton told the court: "It is common ground that the crimes perpetrated on the Russell family created instant and justifiable national horror. "There are valuable lessons to be learnt from considering the treatment and care of the claimant."However, the claimant objects to disclosure of highly personal medical information by publication to the world at large, not least because of the treatment it will receive by the tabloid press." Kent & Medway Strategic Health Authority, Kent County council and Kent probation board all defended the decision to publish the full report. Josie Russell, listed as an "interested party" in today's case, and her father, Shaun, are pressing for the report to be published because they hope it will help to prevent similar attacks in the future.The judge refused Stone leave to appeal, but "with some reluctance" agreed to extend the order preventing the report from being published until July 26 in order to give him time to ask the appeal court to hear his case directly. Shaun Russell was in court for today's ruling, and telephoned Josie to tell her the result. "I was a little bit worried what the outcome would be, and I think there are still grounds for worry," he said after the hearing. "What was nice to hear was that the judge made the judgment in favour of full disclosure, and that is what we have been pushing for. It has been six years since the report was finished, and 10 years since the murders, so we have been pushing for this for a long, long time. "My daughter Josie is in full agreement - we believe it is in the public interest that lessons need to be learned, because what we have read in the report has been fairly horrifying about failures in the system in looking after Michael Stone up to the time of the murders." Mr Russell said Josie "was pleased to hear that the judge had found fully in our favour", adding that he hoped they would not have to wait much longer to see the report published.