A teenager has become the first youth in Britain to receive an anti-social behaviour order that bans him from going to school. The two-year Asbo on Gary Addy, 16, stops him from going within 50 metres of any educational premises in the east London borough of Newham unless he has prior permission from the headteacher.Police and officials from Newham council imposed the order last Thursday after staff at Eastlea community school in West Ham complained that the teenager assaulted them with eggs and water in July.Yesterday, Addy told the Guardian: "I'm not bad, I've done nothing wrong and I'm no criminal. I never broke the law. Sure I get loud and excited, I'm a bit naughty sometimes, but what did the teachers expect? It was the last day of term. And I wasn't the only person throwing eggs."I should have tried harder at school. Maths was my favourite subject. I got a C but the rest of my grades were shit. I was a good student when I was young. As I got older I got a few detentions and got excluded a couple of times. I liked school. I loved socialising there. School is all about having fun."The Asbo prohibits Addy from harassing staff and pupils at Newham's schools and colleges and from behaving in a way that alarms or distresses people within the M25 area who are not family members.Nor is Addy allowed to intimidate the witnesses who gave evidence at Stratford youth court or anyone who may have to testify against him in the future. He faces jail if he breaks the conditions.Newham councillor Ian Corbett said Addy as one of a number of people "who makes others' lives a misery". He added: "People keep telling us they don't want anti-social behaviour on their doorsteps. The council will not stand for it."PC Stephen Flanagan, from Newham police, told the court how Addy had bragged about being a bully at school.Addy, who lives with his family, has for the last few weeks been working as a labourer on a building site in Plaistow, east London. He said: "Asbos take the piss. There are so many places I can't go and people I can't see. The Asbo stops me from seeing friends I've had since nursery. It's madness."My friends laughed when I told them about the Asbo. They don't take it seriously. My mates are just vexed that I can't hang around with them. I will break my Asbo, not intentionally, but because there are so many limits on what I can do."Asbos don't work on kids."The only bad thing about the Asbo is the effect it will have on my family. I never meant to upset my mum, she worries every time I leave the house. I've got two brothers, one is 15 and the other is five, and I'm teaching them the difference between right and wrong. I want to make sure they don't throw their lives away.Home Office figures show 4,698 Asbos have been issued since 1999, 448 of which have been imposed in Greater London.