The Metropolitan police was yesterday given six months by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to sort out soaring street crime in the capital or face takeover by outside management "hit squads".Home Office figures show that street crime, including robberies, soared by 46% in Lambeth and other inner London boroughs between April and September last year. A report by Her Majesty's inspectorate of constabulary just published said that Lambeth was now one of the most dangerous areas to police in Europe, with four murders, 10 attempted murders and 12 "other" shootings so far this financial year. Unpublished police figures show that the rise in violent street crime in other inner London boroughs in the past nine months put them not far behind Lambeth. This lies behind Mr Blunkett's stark "ultimatum" to the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens. "We will give you the freedom to do the job, but if you don't do it, I'll have to intervene. Because in the end, the people of London, with the rest of the country, will turn to me as home secretary and say what did you do about it?" Mr Blunkett said in an interview with the London Evening Standard. He wants to see "a clampdown on violence and street robbery" by this summer and has given the Met two years to organise a longer term strategy to bring crime in the capital under control. Mr Blunkett's warning is his first explicit threat to use new powers he is to acquire under the police reform bill, now going through parliament, to intervene in ineffective or underperforming forces. It reflects growing concern in Downing Street over the rise in violent street crime, although overall crime levels are still falling. The powers to send in a "management hit squad" are similar to those used by Mr Blunkett to tackle failing schools when he was education secretary. The new Home Office police standards unit would step in. Mr Blunkett said he would make sure the police got the resources they needed, with a long term ambition to increase the Met from 26,500 to nearer the 42,000 strength of the New York police department. But he also wanted to see New York-style computer analysis techniques of crime hot spots, and a much stronger line on anti-social behaviour. "My job is to get the resources, to set the framework. But it's the Met police authority, the mayor and the Met together that will make the difference," Mr Blunkett said. Last week Operation Safer Streets was launched in London, redeploying 475 officers to fight street crime. At the end of its first week the officers had made 1,536 arrests and the Met claimed street crime was down 12% on the previous week. The Met commissioner declined to comment on Mr Blunkett's warning yesterday. Glen Smyth of the Met Police Federation blamed the failures on the Home Office, which he claimed was responsible for reducing the number of police officers in the capital by 700 since Labour came to power.· Rudolph Giuliani, New York's former mayor, in London to receive an honorary knighthood, yesterday found himself at the centre of a British political punch-up when Ken Livingstone, the mayor of London, urged the government to boost the numbers of officers on the streets. "Crime while Rudi was mayor of New York went down 62% and we should be ashamed that you are six times more likely to be mugged here than in New York," Mr Livingstone said.