There's still time but it's spinning out fast; Greater Manchester's well-organised cyclists want to hear from all the candidates in the Police and Crime Commissioner poll about their policies on bikes.Two are still outstanding - the Conservatives and UKIP - and Labour was on the list first thing this morning in spite of two reminder emails. But their candidate, former Manchester Central MP Tony Lloyd, has now replied (and been put in the campaign group Love Your Bike's 'better late than never' category).All five candidates were asked five questions by Love Your Bike about road safety measures and security against theft – Greater Manchester Police report some 4,600 bike thefts annually but British Crime Survey estimates of under-reporting could mean that the real figure is nearer 20,000.Here they are:Will you support the introduction of a default 20mph speed limit in residential areas?Will you support stricter enforcement of high driving standards?What policies do you have to ensure that cycle theft and vandalism is taken seriously, to reduce the rate of theft and increase the number of cycles returned to their owners?What will you do to increase police presence on our streets in order to enforce traffic and anti-social behaviour laws?Will you support the five principles outlined in our manifesto for cycling in Greater Manchester, 'Getting Moving'? And here are the answers from Matt Gallagher of the Liberal Democrats, Roy Warren who is standing as an Independent and Tony Lloyd:Matt Gallagher I am calling for all Greater Manchester Councils to implement a blanket 20 MPH speed limit on all residential roads, and have already met with Rod King (from 20′s Plenty for me) and GMP's ACC Terry Sweeney to discuss the police position. Rod described it as the most encouraging meeting he had ever held with a senior police officer.  Greater Manchester has the North West's highest rate of overall pedestrian casualties. And last year 166 people were needlessly killed or seriously injured on Manchester's Roads and nearly 2000 people were hurt. There are still far too many people killed or injured on Manchester's roads. The vast majority of the people support reducing the speed limit because it not only makes our roads safer it also encourages more people to walk and cycle. This reduces traffic noise, pollution and carbon emissions.The Lib Dems in Government have cut bureaucracy and made it easier to implement 20 MPH speed limits; I want Greater Manchester to take advantage of this to help save lives, encourage more people to cycle and make our streets pleasant for all road users. At a recent hustings hosted by the Manchester Evening News I was the only candidate present to endorse the 20 MPH speed limit.I will work with Greater Manchester councils to ensure that motorists and cyclists can continue to use our roads cooperatively and safely. I will encourage councils to crack down on inconsiderate parking in cycle lanes. This is not only unfair on cyclists but also dangerous for all road users as cyclists are forced out into the road to avoid parked vehicles. I would also be supportive of discouraging stopping in advance stopping boxes (as they do in London). Cyclists need the opportunity to safely set off before cars at Red lights and they should not be disadvantaged by thoughtless drivers. Theft and vandalism is is really a significant issue and one which the police must address. I will encourage the police to work with local communities to raise awareness of cycle theft (especially in hotspots) and to provide information on what steps cyclists can take to ensure their cycles remain secure. I would also encourage the olice to ensure cycle theft and security is monitored closely on walk about particularly in town and district centres where it can be a real problem.  It's also important that we also encourage the public to report anyone that looks as if they may be trying to steal or vandalise a bike. I would work with my staff to raise this issue. Anti-social behaviour is blight on our communities and one of the most common examples of crime people experience. I agree that for a number of people they are less likely to cycle or use public transport because of the fear of anti social behaviour. I plan to use my 30 years of policing experience to cut bureaucracy and involvement in non-crime related activities by GMP,  and to maximise existing Police resources. For example I have announced a ground-breaking Apprenticeship scheme so that new recruits spend more time on the beat and less time in the class room. I am proposing to encourage the deployment of Public Safety Representatives on bus routes with high levels of ASB to discourage this behaviour. I am also encouraging a review of police response times so that the police respond quicker to problems.  I will support the five principles outlined in our manifesto for cycling in Greater Manchester, 'Getting Moving.'Roy Warren:I firmly believe that all crimes should be enacted upon, but where there is no law to cover the issue this would be a matter for the houses of parliament.Regarding cycle theft I know as a magistrate that this crime is prevalent and when these criminals are brought to justice the court is dealing with them reflecting the seriousness of the offence. The victim is always considered regarding compensation.Regarding point number two, I agree with your point entirely. I believe high driving standards of driving are extremely important for the safety of all road users.Tony Lloyd: Thank you for your email in which you have asked a number of detailed questions.  My view is that road traffic users are entitled to be as safe as possible.  I have always believed that segregation of bikes from cars is a better solution though the realisation of this is harder to acheive.  The safer cyclists feel will result in more cyclists using the road and other road users becoming more aware.Enforcement of road traffic regulations is important for the police and making all road users aware of the legitimate part of the policing function of using criminal law where necessary.  The specific issue of the reduction of the speed limit to 20 mph is one that I am sympathetic to, as lowering the speed limit reduces the impact of accidents ,but it would not be the Police and Crime Commissioner who would decide this.  In practise unless there is a legal change to introduce national standard and for this to become law there would be a need to prioritise areas of greatest need for reduced limits.Dr Graeme Sherriff from Manchester Friends of the Earth says:When choosing whether to cycle, people tell us that they need to be confident in their safety on the road and their bike's security when parked. Leadership on these issues from Police & Crime Commissioner candidates is an essential part of helping Greater Manchester to enjoy the environmental, health and economic benefits of cycling.Any cycling news from other PCC contests in the north? Please use the thread to pass on news.