Heightened awareness of ritual child abuse as appalling cases have come to light in the UK is partly behind the recent rise in reported cases, police say.A decade ago, in 2004, just two cases came to light, but detectives in London have reported almost 30 cases connected to beliefs linked to witchcraft and spirit possession over the past year.Their investigations of what they term a vastly under-reported hidden crime, have covered allegations of ritual abuse where children have been dunked in baths to be rid of “evil spirits”, as well as claims of sexual abuse.Detective Superintendent Terry Sharpe, of the Metropolitan police’s sexual offences, exploitation and child abuse command, said on Wednesday that he encounters “a spike” in reports of belief-related child abuse when tragic incidents are revealed.“When there is a tragedy and someone dies, a consequence of that is we see an increase in reporting” said Sharpe. “It is vastly under-reported.”The number of cases of religious or ritualistic abuse of children reported to Scotland Yard has increased year-on-year over the past 10 years. In 2013 a total of 24 were passed to the force. Since 2004, 148 cases have been referred to the Met.The increase, said Sharpe, who leads Project Violet, the Met’s response to concerns of faith-based ritual abuse, was the result of “mass migration and globalisation”. He added: “People bring their cultures and beliefs with them.”Two of 27 such cases that were referred to the Metropolitan police involved children who claimed they were raped in attacks linked to witchcraft. One allegation involved a church pastor who was alleged to have swung a child around banging the youngster’s head to “drive out the devil”.In recent years, the referrals have come mainly from the African Christian churches, he said, but they could involve other cultures and faith communities. “This morning we had a referral from the Muslim community” said Sharpe. “It is important that professionals are clear about the signs to look out for.”In one case, a 15-year-old from Paris who was visiting relatives in London 2010, was murdered in horrific circumstances, after his sister and her boyfriend became convinced he was possessed by kindoki or evil spirits. Kristy Bamu’s case had echoes of the horrific torture and murder of eight-year-old Victoria Climbié by her guardians in 2001, when they believed she was possessed by spirits, a case which led to big changes in child protection.In 2012, when Kristy’s sister, Magalie Bamu and her boyfriend Eric Bikubi, were tried for his murder, they the police received 19 reports of belief-related abuse, up from nine the year before.Police officers on Wednesday met teachers, child care personnel, health workers and faith leaders at City Hall, London, to discuss how to tackle the crime.Sharpe, attending the conference, which aimed to raise awareness of the crime, said he was particularly concerned with the associated escalating violence.“If someone is branded a witch, the violence can escalate quite quickly. They are no longer seen as a child but someone that can inflict harm on others. One minute the child is a loved child, then someone in the community can blame the child for a misfortune and say the child is a witch, possessed by evil spirits. The parent will no longer see that child as theirs any more but an evil spirit that needs to be released. Deliverances or exorcisms can often involve physical violence. A child is starved, or put in a cage, so that they can’t pass the spirit on to other children.”Many of the tell-tale signs were similar to any child abuse, such as a child becoming withdrawn, or hungry, or losing weight. However, Sharpe said the unit was also seeing a pattern of abuse involving water, where the water is used to wash away the evil spirits.“We saw that in the case of Victoria Climbié, and it played a part in Kristy Bamu” said Sharpe. Bamu suffered horrific torture before being drowned in a bathtub.In cases of belief-related abuse, the children may be away from school, and taken out of the country. Exorcisms can be performed, he said.One survivor of belief-related abuse, who appeared in the conference’s training film, said her school missed numerous tell-tale signs. Kevani Kanda, 25, who went to live in Haringey, London, from the Democratic Republic of Congo when she was four, said: “I used to steal food from other children’s pack lunches, I would put tissue paper on the collar of my shirt because I didn’t want it to get dirty.”Kanda said she was branded a witch when she was six, by a family member, who brought her from the DRC, where her parents lived. She was being abused by another relative, with whom she shared a room and had began bed-wetting and sleepwalking. But instead of gaining recognition that something was wrong, she was branded a witch.“I remember that day like it was yesterday” said Kanda. “I walked from my room and I knocked the door and they said come in.” She says she was told: “You’re a witch, you’ve come to eat me and my child.”Over the next five years, she was beaten regularly, made to kneel on bottle top lids, and given home-made pessaries containing pepper and ginger to “rid her of spirits”.“Children who have gone through this don’t see it as abuse,” Kanda said. “They believe it is normal. If your mother tells you every day you are ugly, you are ugly. I believed I was a witch.”While there was no church involvement in her case, Kanda believes that much of this kind of abuse stems from “rogue pastors preaching nonsense”.She said: “It is under-reported because no victim is going to say it’s abuse; they think its normal. No one is going to come forward from the community, people don’t want to speak out and pastors are very powerful. “Bob Pull, a communities consultant of the Churches Child Protection Advisory Service, said churches should also take responsibility for child protection.“Every organisation in this country who works with children needs to have child safeguarding policies and procedures” said Pull, a former detective who worked with the Met’s Project Violet. “There is no such law. Any church can be set up without them. The faith communities that don’t have that set up need to take responsibility.’He has called on faith leaders in Britain, including the Archbishop of Canterbury, to come together with other faiths to ensure there are child protection safeguards and policies in all churches.Other cases of belief-linked child abuse in London included that of Adam, the young boy whose torso was found floating in the Thames in 2001. No one was ever convicted of his murder but it is believed he was the victim of ritual sacrifice.In another case, Child B, who was brought to the UK in 2001 after her parents were killed in Angola, was beaten, cut with a knife and had chilli peppers rubbed in her eyes to beat the “devil” out of her. She was also stuffed in a laundry bag and told she would be thrown in the river.