David Cameron's claim to radicalism, rehearsed in these pages yesterday, seems not to have convinced many Guardian readers. Less than a fifth of those who voted in our poll thought the Conservatives had really changed. But in one important respect there should be common ground. For all their bizarre equivocation over the Human Rights Act, in recent years the Tories have sometimes been on the right side in specific challenges to individual liberty. Among their battle honours has been their opposition to government plans to retain for up to six years the DNA of people arrested for minor offences, many of whom will be innocent. A loss of nerve, perhaps understandable, at the last minute on Wednesday let the government off the hook.But then Labour is playing very low politics with crime. Last month a peculiarly vicious video was put up on the party website suggesting that anyone who – like both Conservatives and Lib Dems – opposes government policy on DNA retention is in effect the burglar's friend. At a news conference yesterday Gordon Brown and the home secretary, Alan Johnson, revived the attack, flanked by the family of Sally Anne Bowman, the 18-year-old murdered in south London five years ago, whose killer was caught after he was involved in a pub brawl and his DNA was found to match that from the scene of the crime. But, as we report today, this is a misrepresentation of the evidence. The murderer, Mark Dixie, would have had his DNA taken under Tory and Lib Dem proposals too; and the real question is why a man who was later revealed to have a string of previous convictions for sex attacks was not already on the database.DNA can be an invaluable tool. The benefit of DNA sampling of individuals on arrest is not in contention. The objection is to the stockpiling the DNA of those who are either never charged or not convicted, particularly when most experts believe that the priority should be routine gathering of crime scene DNA, and the recording of the DNA code of every prison inmate convicted of a serious offence.Alan Johnson wrote in these pages six months ago of his "dilemma" as a home secretary who was trying to find the right balance between the security of the citizen and the individual right to privacy. Highlighting the cases where DNA evidence has solved emotive and intractable cases, he claimed the government's policy was proportionate. It is not. As MPs on the cross-party home affairs committee pointed out in a recent report, it appears to have a negligible impact on the clear-up rate. It is an unfounded and illiberal policy that serves only to strengthen the voice of the party's critics.