The intention behind the government's reshaping of the judicial appointment system is welcome. Judges are now subjected to verbal onslaughts by cabinet ministers after suffering defeats in the courts. It is time to remove the possibility of interference by politicians in the appointment of judges.Whether the reforms will achieve this depends on the model adopted at the end of the consultation process announced yesterday.As things stand, the danger of political interference in the system of appointing judges comes not with the initial appointment to the high court but when a judge is being considered for promotion. By then he may be what the home secretary, David Blunkett, called a "serial offender" - the author of a string of judgments calling ministers to account for high-handed action. An example of the problems of the current system is the career of Lord Donaldson of Lymington. As Mr Justice Donaldson, he was appointed in 1971 under the Tories' Industrial Relations Act to preside over the industrial court. His performance displeased the Labour opposition, and in December 1973 187 Labour MPs moved an address in parliament to remove him for reasons of "political prejudice". No vote was forthcoming, but the incoming Labour administration decided Sir John would not be promoted to the appeal court. Nor was he, until the Conservatives returned to power in 1979, when the then lord chancellor, Lord Hailsham, appointed him to the appeal court. In 1982 Lord Hailsham reported to the prime minister, Margaret Thatcher, that a number of judges had expressed the view that Lord Justice Donaldson should not succeed Lord Denning as master of the rolls. Mrs Thatcher is said to have retorted: "Fortunately, lord chancellor, your judges do not appoint the master of the rolls. I do." And she did. Lord Donaldson turned out to be a distinguished master of the rolls from 1982 to 1992. What matters is that the new system balances legal and non-legal expertise. If, as the government favours, the proposed judicial appointments commission is composed of a majority of judges and lawyers the system should work, even if the chairman is not legally qualified. But whatever mode of selection to the bench is adopted, the key factor is that political influence must be removed from the process. · Sir Louis Blom-Cooper QC was a deputy high court judge from 1992 to 1996.