Police yesterday admitted that they missed chances to arrest a man who has become the prime suspect in the murder of a pregnant woman.Officers twice spoke to the boyfriend of the victim, Hayley Richards, after she had reported that he had assaulted her, but let him go free. Wiltshire police revealed yesterday that despite efforts to find Hugo Quintas in the days between the alleged assault on Ms Richards and her murder, he was not arrested. But Assistant Chief Constable Peter Vaughan said that during that time two potential opportunities for officers to arrest Mr Quintas had not been taken. Mr Vaughan would not disclose details of the circumstances in which Mr Quintas had been spoken to by officers during Ms Richards's final days because the matter has been voluntarily referred to the police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). But he said that the encounters with Mr Quintas had not been related to anything significant. Less than a week after she was allegedly assaulted, Ms Richards, 23, was murdered at her home in the Wiltshire county town of Trowbridge, suffering stab wounds to her throat. Police are working with Interpol to try to trace Ms Richards's boyfriend, Mr Quintas, who left for Portugal on the afternoon after her body was found. Wiltshire police have obtained an international arrest warrant and sent detectives to Portugal to work alongside local officers. The IPCC will investigate why officers missed the chance to seize Mr Quintas. The IPCC will also examine claims by Ms Richards's family that an arrest was delayed because police could not find a Portuguese interpreter. Domestic violence campaigners claim the case shows that police do not take complaints of abuse like the one made by Ms Richards seriously. On Sunday June 5 police received a 999 call from Ms Richards just before 5pm alleging she had been assaulted at her home by Mr Quintas. She said she was not injured, but explained she was three months pregnant and frightened. A police officer arrived at her flat within an hour and took a detailed written statement. Seeing that she had suffered "minor bruising", the officer accompanied her to hospital. She was examined and the same officer took her home that night. Fears for Ms Richards's safety arose after she failed to turn up for work on Saturday morning and could not be contacted by her family. Police were called at about 3.20pm and went to her home, where they found her body. Mr Vaughan said: "There were potential opportunities for other officers, not directly involved in this investigation, to arrest Hugo Quintas, which were not taken. This is a cause for concern." Mr Vaughan refused to discuss the interpreter issue in detail. He said the availability of an interpreter "should not necessarily" delay an arrest. The Guardian has learned that there are two Portuguese interpreters based in the south-west who appear on the official register used by most police forces including Wiltshire. Asked if the crime could have been prevented, Mr Vaughan said: "There's nothing we can do to bring back Ms Richards." Fifty officers are working on the case. Forensic teams were working yesterday in Ms Richards's home and the place Mr Quintas shared with fellow Portuguese workers. He was employed at a local factory. Detective Superintendent Mike Veale, who is leading the inquiry, said the police were searching for the murder weapon, a knife. He said it had been established that Mr Quintas flew out of Bristol airport on Saturday afternoon. Mr Veale refused to say if the unborn child was at the centre of the couple's problems. He would not say if Mr Quintas was the father. The IPCC will use its own investigators to carry out an independent inquiry into "concerns arising" from Ms Richards's murder. The chief executive of the charity Refuge, Sandra Horley, said: "This is a shocking example of inadequate police response in a domestic violence case. "It is vital that the government ensures that sufficient funding is given to train frontline officers and to monitor the conduct of all police forces." Police yesterday met local community leaders to talk through concerns about the case.