Michael Shields, an 18-year-old Liverpool football fan, is today serving a 15-year sentence in a Bulgarian jail. At the end of May, he experienced the exhilaration of watching his team win the European Champions' League final in Istanbul. Last week he was convicted of an unprovoked assault on Martin Georgiev, a waiter at a fast-food bar who suffered a serious head injury when a paving slab was hurled at him.The attack, though, was carried out not by Shields but by another fan, Graham Sankey. Who says so? Graham Sankey, among others. On the flight home, it seems, he was boasting about having committed the assault. So when Shields was put on trial, Sankey was pressured into coming clean and his solicitor faxed a confession to the Bulgarian court. It was unsigned, however, so it carried no legal weight and Shields was convicted. Under further pressure, Sankey then faxed a signed confession.Now it seems that there is a groundswell of popular and media opinion demanding that this blatant injustice be instantly corrected. In fact, the British are demanding of the Bulgarian authorities a more malleable approach to the trial process than they could expect at home.Shields has already won an expedited appeal, which is now set for August 9. Would this have happened in a criminal case in England? Not at all. Shields would have had to take his place in the appeal queue along with everyone else. The process would probably take not nine or 12 days, but nine or 12 months.Nor could it be anticipated that the appeal court would welcome a confession from someone else. Historically, appeal court judges have been at their most irascible when people have presumed to bring the judicial process into question by making untimely confessions.For example, in 1946, former soldier Walter Rowland was convicted of the murder of a Manchester prostitute, Olive Balchin, by hitting her over the head with a hammer. Asked if he had anything to say before the inevitable death sentence was passed, Rowland replied: "I am going to face what lies before me with the fortitude and calm that only a clear conscience can give. Somewhere there is a person who knows that I stand here today an innocent man."That person turned out to be David Ware. Having read in the papers of Rowland's plight, he made a full confession to Balchin's murder to the police and defence lawyers. But the appeal court decided it was outside their powers to hear the new confession evidence from Ware, and Rowland was executed.Four years later, Ware was found guilty of the attempted murder of another woman. "I don't know what is the matter with me," he said. "I keep having an urge to hit women over the head." He was committed to an asylum.In 1963, George Thatcher was sentenced to death for the murder of Dennis Hurden, in Mitcham, south London, during a bungled robbery. After Thatcher was taken down to the cells, one of his co-accused, Phillip Kelly, awaiting sentence for a lesser offence, spoke up and said: "I shot Dennis Hurden."Did this create apoplexy in the courtroom? No. Everyone continued as though nothing had happened, and arrangements for Thatcher's execution went ahead. When the case went to appeal, the judges decided that since Kelly had not given evidence at trial, his confession was inadmissible. Thatcher's sentence was, however, commuted to life imprisonment. He then served 21 years for a crime of which (if he wasn't the gunman) he must have been entirely innocent.In 1977, a four-man IRA unit was captured in Balcombe Street, London and put on trial for 100 offences. Joseph O'Connell, one of the four, said that they should have been charged with even more: "We wish to draw the attention of the court to the fact that four totally innocent people - Carole Richardson, Gerard Conlon, Paul Hill and Patrick Armstrong - are serving massive sentences for bombings which we have admitted that we did."The appeals of Richardson and the others were heard later that year. They were roundly dismissed. It was to be another 12 long years before the four - who will be eternally known as the Guildford Four - had their convictions quashed.In a case that bears some similarities with that of Shields, Sam Hill was convicted in 1988 of what became known as the "Borden baseball bat murder". After a melee among youths in Borden, Hampshire, a man was killed and Hill convicted of his murder. However, another of those involved, Dave Smith, made a public confession to the murder on the BBC's Rough Justice programme. Hill's case then went to appeal - and was turned down. It was only after the home secretary had referred the case to appeal for a second time that Hill's conviction was quashed in 1995.If Shields is indeed innocent (and the case is now complicated by the victim's reassertion that Shields was the culprit), it is to be hoped for his sake that the Bulgarian judicial system demonstrates a greater flexibility and responsiveness to public feeling than has been evident in British courts.· Bob Woffinden is a journalist specialising in legal issuesbobwoffinden@hotmail.com