Criminals are targeting high-street nail bars to launder dirty money in the UK, according to a former head of MI5. The manicure and hand-care beauty shops are an ideal place to hide criminals' ill-gotten gains, he claims.Sir Stephen Lander, who heads Britain's Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca), said it made sense for criminals to buy nail bars along with travel agencies as a means to conceal their profits. 'These shops don't need a client list,' he said. 'The public simply comes off the street, walks into the nail bar and has their nails done. It means there could be suitcases out at the back stuffed with cash and the owner could simply turn around and say these were profits from the business. There are no record necessarily to be kept and thus it's harder to prove the cash came from crime.'Lander, head of MI5 until 2002, said travel agencies were a favourite method of cash concealment. 'They are slightly more open to security because you do have lists of clients who book holidays in advance, leave their personal details on files and so on,' he said. 'But there is still room for abuse as anyone can come off the street and buy a holiday. So again you could store large amounts of cash gained from crime in the agency and if questioned simply reply that it came from the off-the-street business.'Lander was in Belfast on Thursday addressing a gathering of police, business and community leaders and senior civil servants on the threat of criminal gangs to post-ceasefire Northern Ireland. The Police Service of Northern Ireland is among the most active forces in the UK in dealing with organised crime, particularly among ex-paramilitaries. In the first six months of this year the PSNI was granted powers to freeze almost £9m in assets that it suspects belong to criminals in the north of Ireland. The figure is double the amount of assets seized for the whole of 2005.Following his address, Lander said he was satisfied with the level of co-operation from the Muslim community in Britain in Soca's search for the assets that fund Islamist terror. He revealed that, out of the estimated 200,000 reports received about suspicious financial transactions, 'a number' of 'extremely helpful' pieces of information had been passed on from British Muslims who were concerned about terrorism and its financing.