Dear Yvonne,Politics has changed. Since 1979, when I became MP for Birkenhead, the demands of my constituents have been transformed. From the traditional menu of social housing complaints, unfair dismissals and job losses, we have now moved into a new era where the "politics of behaviour" has become strikingly apparent.This anti-social behaviour, which makes normal life impossible for those victims on the receiving end of these repetitive targeted incidents, is due to the loss of politeness, consideration and thoughtfulness - those common decencies, built up over centuries, are now being lost through a growing body of dysfunctional families who fail to teach their children how to think through the long-term consequences of their actions.Despite much-welcomed government initiatives, events are deteriorating and, in my opinion, need to be dealt with on all fronts if we are to see a return to a peaceable society. In my new book, Neighbours From Hell: The Politics of Behaviour, I describe a three-fold approach to confronting this issue.First, I propose that the police be given the power to act as surrogate parents, where they are able to caution and then penalise anti-social behaviour by issuing behaviour contracts, curfews or anti-social behaviour orders - in a similar way to how a football referee might give a yellow card then a red card for subsequent behaviour.Second, welfare must again be based on a clear contractual relationship where duties are reinforced by the welfare state. The registration of a birth, for example, should become a public event at which the duties of parents and the duties of society to that child are spelt out. Welfare becomes the new teacher.Third, the teaching of parenting skills and citizenship must become compulsory and part of the tripartite contract drawn up between parent, schools and pupils.Frank FieldDear Frank,You say politics have changed since 1979, but the thrust of your argument - holding back an allegedly rising tide of dysfunctional families threatening to engulf decent society by highly punitive measures - echoes outbreaks of moral panic which go back to the 19th century.I have long admired your defence of the poor, but your current attempt to "think the unthinkable" produces only the unworkable. You appear to be following John Major's invocation in 1993 "to condemn a little more and understand a little less".For instance, the police can barely do their existing job, never mind act as surrogate parents - and who is to decide what style of "parenting" they will impose?.I'm in favour of a stronger police presence on the ground, but "new punitivism" doesn't work. Secure training centres; boot camps; short, sharp shocks; tagging; curfews; fining parents; and locking up more young people than any other country in western Europe have all been tried - and the result is recidivism. So why will police issuing red cards and a clout fare any better?Citizenship is already taught in schools and, increasingly, parenting skills - but education itself is failing too many. This week, we learn that we are only marginally better than Slovakia in holding on to the young in the classroom past 15 years of age. We need more funding, more flexibility, more freedom for teachers to customise the curriculum to individual children, more mentoring, more imagination.I can vouch from personal experience that life is hell with bullies as neighbours and young people on the rampage, but talk of the supposed loss of decency and thoughtfulness distracts from the fundamental root of the problem: low incomes; the widening gap between rich and poor; the closure of youth projects that keep the young off the streets; social services departments with poor resources and 25% of posts unfilled; and insufficient confidence on the part of government to allow local communities the support and long-term funding to devise their own solutions to the neighbours from hell.YvonneDear Yvonne,We must get away from slogans ("the unthinkable", and so on) and hiding behind the big excuse that any change is an attack on the poor. It is the poor more than any other group who are calling for the sort of actions that I have outlined in Neighbours From Hell. The book is based on years of dialogue with poorer people who do not think poverty is an excuse for bad behaviour - as you seem to suggest. We should all work for a fairer society, though it is quite hard to get some of those proposals into the Guardian! Rising incomes and less inequality are to be worked for on their own account. They won't deliver us a change in behaviour, I fear.You miss the point by emphasising only the punitive side of the proposals. Of course, at the end of the line people need to see the whites of one's eyes. But the whole point of the reforms I advocate is to change the way people behave, so that what you call punitive actions, but which those on the receiving end of anti-social behaviour will see as acts of liberation, will be less necessary.So we are agreed on a greater police presence. You ask who will decide what style of parenting they impose. Has common sense been totally written out of the script? The check on their approach will be the courts. Like you, I welcome what schools are doing. But much more has to be done here if the re-moralisation of our society into "I can do what I like, so up yours" is to be effectively countered.Frank FieldDear Frank,We're both in favour of ending "up yours" behaviour which inhibits the freedom of others. We're both in favour of a fairer society. Where we disagree profoundly is in how the two goals can be achieved.Poverty is no excuse for bad behaviour, but the negative social forces are far stronger and more wide ranging now then when some of your constituents only had a few pennies in their pocket. To children without much adult guidance, for example, television and the internet provide a highly sexualised and violent window on a world in which all that counts appears to be money.Your polemical guns might be better trained at the alcohol industry making a fortune peddling alcopops to the barely grown.You might advocate a strategy to tackle the fact that 25 years ago a non-academic 16-year-old could go into an apprenticeship and a future - now he's on the dole. You might consider the reasons why non-clinical depression among the young has doubled in the past 12 years, while adolescent mental health services are pitiful.A civilised society gives children a chance to develop their potential. You referred earlier to conditionality - linking benefits to behaviour. What we know works better is improving opportunities for acquiring qualifications; childcare and, as this government is doing, bolstering the appalling wages paid by some employers. The number of families receiving childcare tax credit has increased by 51% in a year.We already have some of the solutions - children's centres, extended schools and Sure Start, for instance, working with, not for, people. We need to fund them properly and expand them nationwide.You talk of "re-moralisation". I'd urge a sense of perspective. We are less racist, less homophobic, less sexist, more tolerant, just as strongly attached to the theory of family and commitment as our parents were. As a woman, I'd rather be alive today than in the mythical golden past.YvonneDear Yvonne,Although I recognise that the negative social forces are stronger now than in the past, I disagree that it is these forces which cause people to act in a yobbish manner. If it were, every poor person would act in the same anti-social way, but they don't. In fact, rather than seeing anti-social behaviour as something initiated by the poor, it must be made clear that victims overwhelmingly live in the poorest areas.I wholeheartedly agree that a civilised society gives children a chance to develop. However, I think you're failing to recognise the debilitating impact that anti-social behaviour has on its victims. Why should the minority bring down the majority that want to get on and succeed? In Birkenhead, two families were solely responsible for an entire area being bulldozed at a cost of £5m, and the families moved off to do the same elsewhere. What chance does this give the children of the decent majority to develop and live free of fear? These neighbours from hell can bring down others with them, lure the decent to their way of thinking, thereby stunting their potential. It's about time we protected the victim, not the perpetrator.I, more than most others, see the importance of extending initiatives such as Sure Start and providing work opportunities. It isn't an either/or choice. Both are important. But many of the new opportunities provided by taxpayers are destroyed by the sheer horror of never ending anti-social behaviour.FrankDear Frank,The reasons why some poor people don't act in an anti-social way is because poverty itself is made up of a number of factors which vary from person to person. I've talked to plenty of mothers who've reared children of whom to be proud in spite of bad housing, low incomes, rotten health and indifferent schools. What they gave their children was the investment of time, interest, values and affection.At the heart of what you are saying is total frustration with a system that fails to move rapidly to stop constant bad behaviour. I agree that needs to change. Neighbourhood patrols would help. But research tells us that perpetrators often begin as victims. It also tells us that reducing the proportion of young people on estates corrects the imbalance of power that allows anti-social behaviour to germinate. So that means imaginative housing policies.Laws already exist to remove "bad" elements from neighbourhoods. Once the Anti-Social Behaviour bill becomes law, groups of young people will also be moved off the street if they intimidate, harass or cause alarm or distress - and just seeing a 16-year-old can cause some adults distress. But tell me, where are these young people to go?YvonneDear Yvonne, I agree with practically all you say. But what you advocate simply doesn't match the hour. We have to hold the line more effectively so as to bring immediate respite for those people whose lives are shattered by anti-social behaviour. Holding the line is equally important in preventing more people being dragged into foul behaviour. The aim is not to punish, but to change behaviour. Yet to do this may require punishment and, in the very worst cases, locking people up. I don't want these people living next to me and I don't see why my constituents should either.Frank Dear Frank,The problem with "holding the line" in the way that you suggest is that it turns the process into a game of pass the parcel, moving on problem families to somebody else's patch while the business of unpicking and trying to deal with what's at the heart of their behaviour is neglected. Of course, there should be punishment and sanctions, but if these don't also incorporate an open door to a better life, we're only swelling the ranks of the marginalised more rapidly. Immediate respite comes with an old-fashioned remedy: a thin blue line of bobbies, permanently on the beat.Yvonne· Yvonne Roberts is a commentator on social policy and has contributed to studies on social exclusion. Frank Field is Labour MP for Birkenhead. He is a former Minister for Welfare Reform. Neighbours From Hell: The Politics of Behaviour is published by Politico's.