For a capital city plagued by gun crime and violence, could any vision have been more depressing than that of highly trained police firearms officers throwing down their weapons in a fit of rage? Starting at the weekend, 125 officers said they would not carry their guns. Yesterday, after frantic efforts by commissioner Sir John Stevens and the commissioner designate, Sir Ian Blair, to mollify the refuseniks, the protest was called off. Sir John applauded the officers for "putting the safety of Londoners and their fellow officers ahead of their own concerns at this time". The rebellion has been quelled - for now.The action was portrayed as a principled stand by officers who face the highest stakes on behalf of the community and feel they have been wronged. But would the firearms officers have received such a sympathetic hearing if they were doctors refusing to operate, pilots refusing to fly or soldiers refusing to fight?Inspector Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan, trained firearms officers, shot Harry Stanley five years ago in a London street. They were told he was carrying a sawn-off shotgun but, in the event, he was carrying a table leg. The officers cannot be held responsible for the initial information they received, and the CPS has twice declined to move against them. But their account of what happened doesn't tally with the forensics, nor the inquest. The jury decided that the men's actions were such that Mr Stanley's death was unlawful. The officers were suspended. Isn't that the system working as it's supposed to? Did their colleagues believe the officers would return to duty?  Either the jury got it right, or it got it wrong - perhaps as the result of legal misdirection, for example - but isn't it sensible that the officers be suspended until we know which? If the officers feel that the guidelines they work to are deficient, could they not address that in a more constructive way? Perhaps they feel the conduct of the inquest - or the verdict - is the problem. In that case they should challenge it in the courts. No one underestimates the danger of firearms work. These officers make split-second decisions. They are trained to do so. Even so, there will be occasions when they get it wrong, and we have to accept that. But when it does go horribly wrong there must, inevitably, be consequences. The choice the officers made in the Stanley case may have been understandable from their point of view. Perhaps many of us would have done the same. But it was still wrong. A medical consultant whose proven negligence causes a patient's death would not be allowed to carry on regardless; neither would a bus driver whose recklessness caused his vehicle to crash and passengers to be killed. If officers want to police the community as part of the community, should they expect more benevolence than is shown to others who play essential roles on behalf of the public? On Monday, two more firearms officers are in court. An inquest jury hopes to establish how Derek Bennett, who was carrying a gun-shaped cigarette lighter, was shot by a police marksman. Once again, it will hear the argument that one of the officers fired because he was in fear of his life. Having seen the kind of replica gun the officers encountered, I know it was scarily authentic. Faced with that weapon, in half-light, amid noise and chaos, I might have squeezed the trigger myself. But they will need to explain to the jury why, if Mr Bennett was a threat to them, the four bullets which probably caused his death struck him in the back. The jury may want to know why one officer fired a succession of shots while his colleague did not fire at all. But those questions will be asked of unnamed individuals because, following a court of appeal decision, the officers will be allowed to remain anonymous. They argued that elements in the black community might seek to take reprisals if they too are found to have committed an unlawful killing. Indeed, it was said that some might attack them "to gain advancement in the community". The appeal court judges agreed that they should be only be referred to in court as "officers A and B". If we take the gun strike tactic employed after the Stanley inquest verdict with the approach taken in the Bennett case, what emerges is the sense of firearms officers becoming too arrogant for their own good and for the good of the societies they serve. They give the impression that they want to be able to take life without fear of even modest repercussions and to remain nameless, and therefore beyond public accountability. It is a relief that the 125 officers have picked up their weapons again, but our appreciation of the fact that they serve the public should not detract from the essential requirement that they remain answerable to it too. · Hugh Muir writes for the Guardian on London issues. hugh.muir@theguardian.com