Police numbers in England and Wales have reached a record level with the government's target of a force of 130,000 passed six months ahead of schedule, according to official figures published yesterday.The latest count shows that in the 12 months to last September, numbers rose by 4,337 to a total of 131,548 officers. This was the largest annual increase for more than 25 years. The announcement coincided with the publication of the new anti-social behaviour bill confirming an extension in the ability of the police and other law enforcement officers to impose fixed penalty fines for a range of low-level offences. MPs will be surprised to discover that they will not vote on the controversial new powers to impose drug treatment and other community penalties on persistent beggars, as they are not included in the bill. MPs have already approved these powers in an obscure part of the criminal justice bill. The power to make begging a "recordable criminal offence" to trigger the new penalties are to follow in secondary regulations. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said the record numbers of police officers meant the government was delivering on its promise to put more police on the streets and was well-placed to meet the new target of 132,500 in 2004. The deadline for the 130,000 target was the end of this month. Mr Blunkett added that 26 out of the 43 police forces had decided to supplement their strength by recruiting a total of 1,281 community support officers since they were introduced in December. The anti-social behaviour bill will give these officers powers to deal with noise nuisance, truancy, graffiti and other criminal behaviour. Details in the bill disclose the Home Office estimates that about 300 crack houses will be closed down under its new powers; about 250 teenagers a year will be arrested for the illegal possession of an airgun and every local authority will issue about 10 fixed-penalty fines a year to those who make excessive noise at night. The powers to impose fixed-penalty fines on 16- and 17-year-olds for anti-social behaviour will be tried in a pilot scheme next year before being adopted nationwide. 