A teenager who led a "Walter Mitty-style" fantasy life today admitted killing his elderly parents before using their credit cards to fund a £30,000 spending spree.Brian Blackwell, 19, who bludgeoned the couple to death in July last year, pleaded guilty to manslaughter at Liverpool crown court.The judge, Mr Justice Royce, set a minimum tariff of 12 years, meaning that Blackwell will be eligible for parole in five years and seven months. However, he said he did not believe he would be fit for release within that period."The present evidence suggests that that conclusion is unlikely ever to be reached," the judge added.Retired accountant Sydney Blackwell, 72, and his wife Jacqueline, a 61-year-old antiques dealer, were found dead at their £350,000 bungalow in the affluent village of Melling, Merseyside, on September 5. Both had been beaten with a claw hammer and stabbed repeatedly with a kitchen knife. They had been dead for several weeks.Blackwell had been charged with murder, but pleaded guilty to manslaughter on grounds of diminished responsibility. His lawyers said he was suffering from narcissistic personality disorder, a mental illness that causes sufferers to become obsessed with fantasies of unlimited success, power and brilliance.Prosecutors said he created a fantasy life, claiming he was a professional tennis player and hiring his girlfriend, Amal Saba, as his manager.After killing his parents, Blackwell took Ms Saba on holiday to the US, running up a bill of around £30,000, including £2,200 for a three-night stay in the presidential suite of New York's Plaza Hotel.The couple returned home on August 12, and Blackwell stayed with Ms Saba's family after claiming he would be locked out of his house until his parents returned from their villa in Majorca.Life continued as normal, and a week later Blackwell and Ms Saba returned to their school - the £7,000-a-year Liverpool College - to pick up their A-level results.Academically-gifted Blackwell - his parents nicknamed him The Brains - got straight As in maths, chemistry, biology and Spanish, wining a place at medical school at Nottingham University.But on Sunday September 5, police were called to the family home after neighbours reported a strong and unpleasant smell coming from the property.Inside, officers found Mr Blackwell's decomposing body in the living room. He had been beaten with the hammer while he sat in his armchair.Mrs Blackwell's remains had been dragged into the bathroom. She had been stabbed with a kitchen knife after seeing her son batter her husband to death.Detectives initially investigated whether the "exemplary" student had been pushed to the limit by ambitious parents. "It was a line of inquiry, whether this boy had been pushed too far - but there was nothing to suggest he had been," Detective Inspector Geoff Williams said."His mother and father were very ambitious for him, but there was nothing to suggest they had pushed him down a certain road. It actually seems he found his exams and studies quite easy."Friends of the Blackwells told police they had confided concerns about their son's spending habits, and detectives launched an investigation into his finances.In total, he had applied for 13 credit cards using false information and had also applied for numerous loans, on one occasion repeating his lie about his life as a professional tennis player to bank staff. He also used his father's documents to obtain credit. It appeared that his mother had been into a local bank to speak to staff about her son's situation."We don't know the events that took place on that early evening in July. We don't know the sequence of events that happened in that house that enraged young Brian and left him in a position when he felt he had to kill his parents," DI Williams said.What they do know is what was admitted by Blackwell during seven lengthy interviews."He said he was hanging pictures in his bedroom and had a hammer," DI Williams said. "His mother and father had been out having an evening meal and had returned home. After a few drinks there was an argument between Brian and his father. It resulted in a fracas between them in the living room."