If the case of Lord Ahmed being jailed for dangerous driving highlights one thing it is that the temptations, and subsequent dangers, of texting and driving are not limited to the young. It seems you are susceptible to distraction while behind the wheel at any age.We at the RAC Foundation – an independent motoring research charity – regard drivers who text as one of the biggest new risks on Britain's roads. And according to our research the threat is widespread and set to grow. Last year we carried out a poll of more than 2,000 users of Facebook aged between 18 and 24 and the results were depressing: 48% admitted to having texted while driving.What the respondents might not be aware of is the effect of what they are doing. Through the use of a simulator at the Transport Research Laboratory it was found that drivers who were texting saw their reaction times slowed by a third. To put this in context, motorists who were under the influence of alcohol up to the drink-drive limit had their reactions impaired by 12%. Which doesn't mean we should all go out and have a pint before getting behind the wheel but does reveal the true dangers associated with mobile phone use.Those distracted by their telephone keypads were likely to drift out of lane, steer erratically and fail to maintain a safe distance from the vehicles in front of them.Alongside excessive speeding and the failure to wear seatbelts senior police officers see driving while impaired – whether through the use of illegal drugs, prescription medicines, alcohol or modern technology – as one of the top three causes of road accidents in this country. And it is impairment through the use of technology that is set to grow fastest as the SMS generation reach an age where they can legally take to the highway, though it is worth noting the abuse of technology isn't limited to mobile phones. Take the case last week of the Portuguese lorry driver imprisoned for killing six members of one family on the M6 after his truck ploughed into their stationary car. The court heard that Paulo Jorge Nogueira da Silva might well have been using his laptop at the time. Such a story would be breathtaking if it were not utterly believable.In the year up to last October 2,610 people died on the national road network. While every death is a tragedy – not least for the loved ones the deceased leaves behind – Britain currently has the fifth best road safety record in the European Union. The challenge for the government is to do better still. Key to that will be recognising new perils as they emerge and the creation of campaigns to combat them. Just as drink-driving has become all but socially unacceptable so too must the current large-scale misuse of mobile phones.Given that it is those in their late teens and early twenties who are most likely to perish in traffic accidents particular attention should be focussed on altering their habits. But as the Lord Ahmed case illustrates it isn't only the young whose behaviour need changing.