The horrific and barbaric murder of a British soldier in Woolwich on Wednesday should be unreservedly condemned. My thoughts and condolences go out to his family and friends following this brutal attack. I fully support the police in their efforts to discover whether the two individuals acted alone or whether an extremist group or cell is involved.As mayor of London, I served this city when it withstood the worst terrorist attack it has ever faced on 7 July 2005. I am proud that Londoners of all faiths – and none – stood united, shoulder to shoulder against terrorism – our unity meant that there were no reprisal attacks against any one community in the immediate aftermath of those murderous bombings. Doing so again is the most effective way to defeat the terrorists' aims.There will be those who will seek to scapegoat entire communities for this barbaric act. This is what terrorists want, and rely on. For people to feel fear, to turn on each other and to bring down the very essence of London, the most successful melting pot in the history of the world and the city of the free. Already, violent fascists have taken to the streets in Woolwich, adding insult to the injury that community is feeling. Already there have been reprisal attacks against mosques. We must not let this violent minority exploit this crime for their own hateful gains.In 2002, before the invasion of Iraq, the security services warned the then prime minister, Tony Blair, that this would make Britain a target for terrorist attacks. We are still experiencing the dreadful truth of this warning, and we should learn from it for the future.But if this city has demonstrated one thing, it is how to withstand the ultimate aim of terrorism, which is to divide us. Just as Norway refused to be beaten into submission by a national fascist terrorist whose attack left 77 people dead, so, too, London will continue to be a beacon to the world for all those who want to live in harmony and realise their potential. These are the very things that terrorism mortally opposes. I therefore call upon all political parties, the media and the people of London, to embody the strength of this city that has always been here. Terrorism has never broken London or its unity. It never will. It will fail.• Comments have been removed for legal reasons