The full horror of an attack in which brothers aged 10 and 11 beat, tortured and sexually assaulted a pair of younger children emerged for the first time today as a court viewed gruesome mobile phone video footage showing part of the assault.Sheffield crown court heard a long and often deeply distressing account of the events in April last year, as it began a three-day sentencing exercise presided over by Mr Justice Keith. He was told the brothers kicked and punched their victims, stamping on their heads and faces, hit them with bricks and rocks and stabbed them with sticks. Both boys were throttled and repeatedly threatened with death, and made to perform a series of humiliating acts, some of them sexual.The attack on a Saturday morning on the edge of Edlington, a former pit village near Doncaster in South Yorkshire, left the older boy close to death. He was only saved when the younger boy, his nephew, staggered to nearby houses, also covered in blood. At the centrepiece of today's evidence was the brief phone footage shot by the elder attacker on a phone stolen from one of the victims. Lasting only a few seconds, it shows the older of the two victims, then aged 11, lying on his back on muddy ground, his face almost completely obscured by blood and dirt.His arms are crossed in protection over his chest as the younger brother, who was himself only 10, jabs him with what appears to be a stick and shouts taunts. The boy on the ground yells "Ow! Ow!" but does not attempt to escape.The boy using the phone is heard remarking: "Hell of a picture." Relatives of the victims inside the courtroom wept.The attackers, who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent and other charges in September last year, but today's hearing was the first full account of the prosecution's case.Nicholas Campbell QC told the court that the attack came without warning or apparent reason after the victims, who had just bought sweets from a local shop, encountered the brothers at a playground. Enticed by the prospect of seeing a dead fox they were led into an area known as Brick Ponds, where they were robbed, threatened and then assaulted with increasing ferocity.After being beaten and pushed through a barbed wire fence the brothers struck them with bricks and stones, one weighing 13kg. They were stabbed with sticks, punched, burned with cigarettes and had their necks cut with broken glass. At one point they were covered in a plastic sheet, which was set on fire.Police who searched the scene later found a great deal of blood and many bloodstained items, some of which were presented to the court today. The brothers "were acting as a team from the beginning to the end", Campbell said. Both attackers laughed and egged each other on, and made threats such as "We're gonna kill you and we're gonna kill the rest of your family if you don't shut up."The victims were made to strip and socks were stuffed into their mouths to stifle the screams. "Are you dying now?" the older attacker asked his nine-year-old victim as he choked him with a length of clothes line. At another point, the older attacker urged his brother to "just get a brick and then we'll end it".They were humiliated in a number of ways, including being forced to eat nettles. The nine-year-old boy was made to lick the shoe of the older brother after the stamping left it coated in blood, the court heard. The attack only ended when the younger brother said they had to meet their father. Campbell said: "[The older brother] replied 'One minute. I need to kill them both because they might just grass on us'." By that stage, the older victim was semi-conscious after part of a ceramic sink was dashed against his head. The younger boy was pretending to be dead after pushing a stick into his mouth when ordered by his attackers to kill himself.After he raised the alarm, a member of the public found the other boy, severely hypothermic and dressed only in a T-shirt. Police believe that if he had been left much longer he would have died.The brothers moved to Edlington from Doncaster less than three weeks before the attack, after they were put in foster care. This week the BBC published extracts from a leaked serious case review which found various agencies had missed 31 chances to intervene with their family.One of the UK's leading child psychiatrists said she had examined the younger attacker and concluded he was in grave danger, without treatment, of becoming an adult psychopath.If allowed into the community now there was a "high risk" the boy could carry out other violent or sadistic attacks on children or older people, Dr Eileen Vizard said. During an interview during which the boy behaved disruptively, at one point trying to wrench a camera from the interview room wall, he seemed "very callous, unemotional, traits which are a key indicator of psychopathy", she said. "He showed very little, hardly any, empathy for his victims. He certainly showed no remorse and did not have much insight into why he had behaved in that way." Because of this, she added: "He will go on inflicting harm until someone stops him."The case was raised at prime minister's questions in the House of Commons today. David Cameron demanded that a full report into the case be published following the trial and not a summary, as planned. He said: "Aren't we in danger of having a cover-up if we don't publish it in full?" Gordon Brown said that publishing the full report could jeopardise the anonymity of some of the children involved in the case.Today's hearing also heard about an attack the previous Saturday in which a 12-year-old boy was lured to the same area and punched, kicked and forced to strip. He ran away after a man walked past and asked what was happening. The brothers have pleaded guilty to actual bodily harm in connection with it.The case is being heard in an adult court. The brothers, now 11 and 12, were in court today, smartly dressed. Neither showed any visible reaction when details of the attack were read out. The hearing is expected to conclude on Friday.