One of the great tests of a politician's mettle is the ability to recognise instinctively the importance of a sudden external event, and then, at speed, to find the right tone. It is one of the great intangibles of political leadership.It is doubly difficult for a prime minister abroad, mind focused on an imminent and already once delayed mini-summit with a fellow EU leader. One minute you are preparing to make an announcement about joining the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the next you are being told a British soldier has possibly been beheaded by a suspected terrorist on the streets of south London.On a train between Brussels and Paris trying to gather fragments of briefings from the security services, the Home Office and Downing Street, David Cameron's battle to assemble his thoughts is made more complex by the lighting speed that rumour and hatred travels on via social media including Twitter.The first task is to judge the magnitude of what had happened, and whether this is a brutal drug-fuelled killing, or part of a broader threat to national security. The convening of Cobra emergency committee showed that Whitehall saw this as a terrorist incident.Tony Blair describes a leader's dilemma in his autobiography as he travelled from the G8 in Scotland to London in the wake of the 7 July bombings: "What I had to focus on was how to express our thoughts as a country. This was not about emoting or empathising as people often cynically and stupidly say. At times like these it is about defining the feeling so that the reaction can be shaped and the consequences managed."By 6pm on Wednesday, standing alongside the French president, François Hollande, Cameron was still in transition. He briefly discussed their joint work in Mali, their differences over the EU, but the PM struck the right note, as he has on other national moments, such as Hillsborough and Bloody Sunday.He recalled the country has beaten back terrorist before. "The way we have beaten them back is showing an indomitable British spirit that we will not be cowed we will never buckle under these attacks," he said.Cameron did not confirm the dead man was a soldier, although Hollande had inadvertently done so. The prime minister made a wider call for calm and some reassurance.But there was alarm in No 10 at the impact on faith relations of the repeated showing of the bloodied image of one of the suspected attackers. The presence of the minister for faiths and communities. Lady Warsi, as well as Eric Pickles, the communities secretary, at Thurday's Cobra meeting was a clear sign that the focus was shifting to the impact of the killing on Muslims in Britain.The strongest passage of Cameron's statement was his defence of Islam, again reminiscent of Blair. He said "This was not just an attack on Britain and on the British way of life, it was also a betrayal of Islam, and of the Muslim communities who give so much to our country. There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly dreadful act."We will defeat violent extremism by standing together, by backing our police and security services, and above all by challenging the poisonous narrative of extremism on which this violence feeds."Britain works with our international partners to make the world safe from terrorism, terrorism that has taken more Muslim lives than any other religion. It is an utter perversion of the truth to pretend anything different."That is why there is absolutely no justification for these attacks and the fault for them lies solely and purely with the sickening individuals who carried out this appalling attack."One political source in Woolwich pointed out that the local mosque had been doing great work on trying to deradicalise some of the Muslims emerging from nearby Belmarsh prison, but the impact on relations in the area had been fragile.But there is also a recognition that the killing has come at a time when society is feeling polarised. "Fewer people were killed than at the London bombings, but the political context in which it has happened is worse than a decade ago," said one shadow cabinet source. "We tend to comfort ourself that the rise of Ukip has led to the decline of BNP. But the attitude to immigration and welfare has hardened from a decade ago."In days ahead there is bound to be a fourfold debate.First, how did the security services manage to have these two individuals on their radar, but did not have the intelligence to know they were about to undertake this attack? The security services have had many successes, but it only takes one mistake for them to be put under pressure.Second, has the government's Prevent strategy become outdated? In a remarkable speech in 2011 Cameron challenged multiculturalism, saying: "Frankly, we need a lot less of the passive tolerance of recent years and much more active, muscular liberalism."The prime minister also called for an end to the practice of funding dubious organisations that might be failing to give explicit opposition to violence. He said: "Let's properly judge these organisations. Do they believe in universal human rights – including for women and people of other faiths? Do they believe in equality of all before the law? Do they believe in democracy and the right of people to elect their own government? Do they encourage integration or separatism?" That review has been completed, but questions were being raised in Tory circles whether the funding of suspect outfits had truly ended.On the other side of the ledger, figures such as Warsi were taking comfort from the way in which the different faiths had united in condemnation of the attacks.Third, some Labour people, and politicians close to intelligence agencies such as the Liberal Democrat peer Lord Carlile, have demanded Nick Clegg rethink his opposition the communications data bill with some even claiming his attitude is putting the country at risk.Until more evidence is produced on whether the intelligence agencies were indeed hampered in this case by legal constraints, the debate is likely to be stalled. Warsi was sensible enough to say on Thursday: "It is the wrong way to make legislation on the back of a tragedy like this."Finally, there will be a debate on whether the recent emergence of the army into public life, exemplified by the Olympics last year, should be reversed. It is clear that Cameron's instinct is let the army keep its public profile, but the next few days, as more emerges about the background of the perpetrators of this violence, he test him. Blair recalled that before the London bombing "iron had already entered his soul" on the issue of liberty versus anti-terror laws. But his subsequent package of legislation largely floundered. Cameron, calm and authoritative so far, might be do well to remember from the successes and flaws of Blair's response.