Eleven years after his release from jail, Paddy Hill is back in the news. It has been reported that Hill, the best known of the Birmingham Six who were wrongly convicted of planting the pub bombs that killed 21 people in 1974, is to receive £1m compensation. I phone him to ask if he would agree to an interview. Silence. Then he erupts. "No. I would not. Not after that fucking shite in the newspapers last week. I am not getting £1m, nothing has been agreed, and I did not talk to the newspaper that quoted me."I hold the phone away from my burning ear, and say I would also like to talk to him about Mojo, the organisation he set up to fight miscarriages of justice. In the early 90s he gave a rare and desperate interview in which he admitted he could no longer feel anything for anybody in the world beyond his mum, his girlfriend Alison and those wrongfully jailed. Since then, he has split up with Alison and his mother has died. Despite his anger, it's been a good week for Hill. He has just heard that one of his close friends, Satpal Ram, will be released from prison after the government conceded its right to keep him jailed against the parole board's recommendation. Ram is a typical Mojo case - he always claimed he stabbed a man in self-defence after he was attacked in a Birmingham restaurant in 1986, but he was later convicted of murder. The more we talk about Mojo, the more Hill softens. Eventually, he says, I should pop round to his office just down the road from the Guardian in Farringdon, London. In the photos we used to see of Hill in the newspapers, when he was one of Britain's most hated men, he had jet black hair in a pudding basin cut, mutton-chop sideboards, and a scar across his lower cheek. He was 12 stone, and a stocky bruiser. Today he is skinny, with white hair. He still looks tough, though. His blue eyes - part ice, part fire - defy you to see what they have seen. "Prison kills you a little bit each day, and sooner or later you wake up and you don't feel nothing," he says, stressing every word, slowly, deliberately. "Me, I died in prison, inside." There are no easy comforts in Hill's world. When he travels from jail to jail, spreading the word, he tells prisoners that the transition to life outside is brutal. He presents himself both as a survivor and the personification of a post-prison wreckage. "It's only about a year or so after you get out, if you've got the intelligence, and, most importantly, if you've got the balls to admit to yourself, that you realise, I'm in shit here, I'm in trouble. But a lot of people turn to drink or drugs because they can't face reality." Hill's chest sounds raw with infection. He swigs from a medicine bottle, then relights a kingsize rollup. "Once you go into a prison and you're innocent, every fucking part of your relationship is based on fucking lies. Families come to see you and you're given the biggest load of bollocks, everything is all right, blah blah. And you're doing exactly the same thing, telling your family, 'Everything is all right, yes, yes, don't worry'. How can everything be all right when you're serving fucking 21 life sentences for nothing?" As his voice rises, the veins bulge in his neck. "You don't tell them the truth, for the simple reason is they've got enough on their plate outside and you've got enough on your plate inside. You're lying for the best of reasons: to protect your family." He says even now he has never been able to talk about prison to his family. "It's like a mental block. You find your family has all grown up without you. You feel like an intruder, you're completely isolated. They talk about things they can relate to, and the only fucking thing you can relate to is four walls, a door, and a fucking barred fucking window. So it's like two strangers from different countries, one speaking in his language, and you're speaking in yours, and you don't understand each other." Had he thought he could come out after 16 years and pick up the pieces, just like that? Oh no, he says, his wife had divorced him and his six children had grown up. After a while he was forced to confront another terrible truth. "I didn't feel nothing for my kids. I feel empty. My kids are like strangers to me." He points outside. "My son's a chef across the road, and he just came over to see me, and I don't feel nothing." He says he's proud of the way his children have coped, but he knows that's not enough. "I feel sorry for my kids because they are never ever going to have a real father-and-son or father-and-daughter relationship with me. But at least I'm honest enough to admit that to myself." It's a punishing honesty, for everybody. He tells me about the time his daughter broke down on him. "She said, 'Where are you going', and I said, 'I'm going to see Jimmy Robinson [one of four men imprisoned for the murder of Carl Bridgewater, but whose convictions were quashed in 1997 after they had served 17 years] in prison'. My daughter just lost it; she was hysterical. She said to me, 'Dad, I don't have many memories of you when you went away, but I tell you what, I've got lots of memories after you went. I remember being locked up in homes, being spat at, being locked in cupboards, being thrown into baths of cold water.'" He comes to a stop. "My kids ended up in a home. You hear all this bollocks about kids from broken homes, but our families weren't broken, they were torn to pieces overnight. Within a matter of days we were the most hated people in the country and our families suffered all that." Hill says his family got it worse because he was so well known in Birmingham. Everyone knew Paddy Hill. He was the guy who sang in the pubs and clubs, told jokes; the one who'd done any number of jobs, the one with the violent streak who'd have a go at anyone who called him for his Irishness. He had come over from Belfast at 15 to discover a city that carried job vacancies saying,"No paddies, no wogs". He had thought England would welcome him; a young lad whose father and brother had been British army stalwarts. By the time he was set up for the pub bombings, he had 17 convictions, mainly for violence. "I have no scruples about violence. I used to carry blades, swords, hatchets." Hill's honesty verges on the psychopathic. He wants you to know every unpleasant trait. He tells me how he would go on the rampage in prison. "I didn't have any scruples about getting a blade or stabbing screws." Even now, he says, he could turn at any moment. "The only thing that frightens me is me. That's why I don't touch alcohol. I could use violence quite easy. If somebody starts getting on my face, I'm fucking right in. If I had a gun in my hand I'd shoot you. I don't give a fuck about going to jail. You could take me to jail today and throw away the key. And I wouldn't lose any sleep over it, providing I'm guilty." And that's the point. I tell him he sounds far too untameable to be an IRA man. "I have not had anything to do with the IRA. Never. I'm Republican and I believe in a united Ireland, but that doesn't make me a fucking bomber. The cops told us, 'We know you're innocent, but we don't give a fuck who done it, we only want bodies.'" Hill is occasionally terrifying, often tender and vulnerable. He returns to the story of his daughter. "She said, 'You spend half an hour with us and fuck off to your prison. Why?' And I sat down, I'm not ashamed, I broke my heart, I cried my eyes out in front of my kids. And I told them the reason I was going to see Jimmy Robinson was because in here [he holds his heart] I feel something for him, in here I feel fuck all for any of you, and that's the God's honest truth." He's almost crying again. "You know, I've probably spent half of my time out here wishing that I'd never come out of jail. I don't feel a part of it." Last week he was reported as saying that it was time to put the past behind him. Is that possible, I ask? "I have never said that in my life," he screams. The veins are bulging in his neck again. "I keep telling people you can't put it behind you. And to hear all this old bollocks, 'Time is a wonderful healer', time doesn't heal fuck all. The only thing that time does, if you're strong enough, is helps you to cope with it a little bit better." As for the compensation, he's still waiting for the offer. All he knows is that it will be less than £1m, and a good chunk of that will be made up of the interest accrued over the years. Would £1m satisfy him? "As far as I'm concerned, the Queen hasn't got enough money to compensate one of us, never mind the six of us. If I got £1m compensation plus the interest I wouldn't be screaming. I wouldn't be happy, but at least I'd accept it." Actually, he says, money means nothing to him. Of the £300,000 he has received, he has spent more than £100,000 campaigning for miscarriages of justice. "That's why I'm on fucking £75 a week income support." As for the first £50,000 each of the Birmingham six received, he says they blew it when they came out of jail. "We were bringing our grandkids out and buying them stuff down Oxford Street, and all we were trying to do was buy love and affection. It doesn't work." What galls him even more than the money is the lack of a public apology. "All they would have to do is say, 'Listen, we got it wrong and we're sorry'. Believe me, they are going to apologise publicly because I'll take them all the way to fucking Europe for it, and they're going to accept liability." Hill shows me the tattoos on his arms, most of them done in prison with a darning needle. I ask him what they are, and he gives me a giggly guided tour. "That was a little girl kneeling at an altar rail, this was my wife, this one with four names was done when I only had four kids in the 60s." He lifts up his T-shirt to show me an epic tattoo on his chest. "That's part of The Wind In The Willows, the babbling brook and the little rickety bridge and river running under it. I had this half done when the screws kicked the door in and they took all the ink and we couldn't finish them." I ask Hill if Mojo has given him a sense of purpose, a sense of hope. No, he says, it's just something he has to do. "Psychiatrists have told me I have lived in a state of depression, tension, for so long in prison that it has now become the norm and they don't think I will ever be repaired." Repaired - the perfect word. It all sounds so bleak. But even he admits there is a future to look forward to. He is talking to a film-maker who plans to make a movie about the Birmingham Six, based on Hill's book, and he is also planning to move to Scotland. Why Scotland, I ask. He smiles shyly. "I met a girl there after Christmas, New Year, and we just hit it off. We get on like a house on fire. This is the first time I've actually wanted to get involved in a relationship... the first time since I've come out."Maybe that's a sign you are returning to the world, I say. He nods silently, diffidently, hopefully.