A deputy headteacher accused of killing his teenage foster daughter had attacked her on a family holiday six months before her death, a court heard yesterday.The jury at Sion Jenkins' retrial on charges of murdering 13-year-old Billie-Jo were told that Peter Gaimster, a family friend, had seen the defendant kick the girl "with full force" in the leg while on holiday in France.When police later asked him about the alleged attack, Mr Jenkins told officers Billie-Jo had hurt herself falling over and then blamed him. He said she often hurt herself, it was claimed.The accusations emerged on the first day of the Old Bailey trial, which is expected to last eight weeks. Earlier, the jury of six men and six women were warned by Mrs Justice Rafferty to dismiss what they had heard about the case.She said: "This is a completely fresh start. The law demands that. Your decision has to be made solely on the evidence that is brought before you in this trial and not on anything else." They were also told not to discuss the case or look it up on the internet.In his opening statement, Nicholas Hilliard, prosecuting, said Mr Jenkins, 47, had applied for a headteacher post before the murder and was worried his career would be affected if his violence towards Billie-Jo became known."He must have been under a rather considerable strain," Mr Hilliard said. "If he laid another hand in temper on Billie and she was minded to tell, it was all over for him, wasn't it, if she lived to complain."Mr Jenkins was also under stress, said Mr Hilliard, because he had lied on his CV and believed he might have been found out when there was a delay in his application for the headship where he had been deputy head for four years.The defendant claimed in his application to have attended Gordonstoun; to have earned 10 O-levels and three A-levels at grade A; a 2:1 English degree from Kent University and a teaching certificate - all of which were false. He also said he had been deputy head of English at another school, which was also untrue."It obviously has a bearing on his truthfulness and it may have been a source of anxiety to him at the time," said Mr Hilliard, adding that these worries, coupled with a series of incidents over the course of the day - including arguments between his wife, Lois, 43, and Billie-Jo, in which Mrs Jenkins thought the girl called her a bitch - caused Mr Jenkins to strike out."Something must have happened between the defendant and Billie-Jo to cause him to lose his temper. Whatever it was, the defendant reached out and grabbed an iron bar and attacked her," said Mr Hilliard.Billie-Jo was found on the patio of the family home in Hastings, east Sussex, on February 15 1997. She had suffered severe head injuries. She had not been sexually assaulted and no property had been stolen. She had been painting the patio doors when she was killed.Earlier, Mr Hilliard held up the murder weapon,an iron tent peg which was found next to the girl's body, to the jury. The peg had been removed from the utility room during a clear-out earlier in the day and placed on top of a coal bunker in the garden.Mr Hilliard drew attention to anomalies in Mr Jenkins' statements to the police in the days after the death. Though he initially denied entering the house in between picking up his daughter Lottie, then 12, from a clarinet lesson and driving to Do It All to buy some white spirit, he later admitted entering the home but claimed not to have seen Billie-Jo.Mr Hilliard said: "Billie-Jo spent the morning at the house where she was with her foster parents and four sisters. By the middle of that afternoon she was dead. She was only 13 years old."The case continues.