Tony Blair yesterday promised to support a change in the law that could give homeowners greater freedom to tackle burglars, if consultation with the police, the Crown Prosecution Service and the attorney general showed it was necessary.The prime minister told MPs that the government wanted to send "a very, very clear signal to people that we are on the side of the victim, not the offender". His announcement came days after the constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, said that existing legislation did not need altering and that most people merely needed to realise they were entitled to use "reasonable force" to defend their homes. The debate on home protection was prompted by the shadow homeland security minister, Patrick Mercer, who is planning to take up the issue in a private members' bill. He wants to see the self-defence threshold raised to "grossly disproportionate force" before householders face prosecution. It became more contentious still when the outgoing commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir John Stevens, gave his full support to the Conservative initiative. Labour's apparent U-turn came after the Tory leader, Michael Howard, challenged the prime minister to back the bill. "We've said we will consult now the chief police officers, the Crown Prosecution Service and the attorney general," said Mr Blair. "I entirely understand the concern on this particular issue. I share the general comments of the Metropolitan police commissioner. So, if we get the right response back from those people, then of course we will support a change in the law. "This particular backbench bill has not yet been published. We will obviously have to consider the right way to take it forward. "But I entirely share and understand the concern and I hope we can reach agreement on it ... I think in the light of recent concern it is worth looking at whether we don't have to clarify the law so that we send a very, very clear signal to people that we are on the side of the victim, not the offender." Sir John Stevens welcomed the move, as did the director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald. "If people do not feel safe in their homes, we are all in a very serious situation," Mr Macdonald told the Daily Telegraph. "You should feel very safe everywhere - but you really should feel safe in you own home."