The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday December 11 2005The report below on the murder of private detective Daniel Morgan, was wrong to state that former Det Sgt Sidney Fillery, who had worked for Mr Morgan, 'was jailed for seven years after planting cocaine on a mother during a custody battle'. It was Mr Morgan's business associate Jonathan Rees who was convicted of this offence. Apologies.From afar, it looked like a drunk slumped against his BMW after one gin-and-tonic too many. Closer inspection found the axe, embedded in the skull of the young private detective as far as its blade would go.More than 18 years have passed since the cold March night when Daniel Morgan's body was found in the car park of the Golden Lion pub, Sydenham, south London. Morgan's death has become not only one of Britain's most enduring murder mysteries, but also the most potentially damaging case of police corruption from an era when unscrupulous officers were available for hire. The Metropolitan Police Authority last week admitted that the case, even now, continues to 'cast doubt on the integrity of the police service'.Yet the truth over whether policemen were involved in the murder of Morgan may soon be exposed. The Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, has admitted that the initial inquiry into the murder was 'compromised', the first time a senior officer has conceded that investigations may have been flawed.This week the Metropolitan Police Authority will begin an independent review of a case that despite allegations of a cover-up and the gathering of hundreds of statements and four investigations has yet to see anyone brought to justice. A barrister will soon be appointed by the authority to review how the police reacted to the discovery in the Golden Lion's grounds in 1987.In addition, the Metropolitan Police have been requested to compile a fresh report into Morgan's murder. The developments have been welcomed by Morgan's family amid fresh hope that finally the truth may be told.Speaking last Thursday on what would have been her son's 56th birthday, Morgan's mother Isobel Hulsmann said: 'I'm feeling a lot more positive now; hopefully this is a step towards a resolution. It could mean closure as well as justice.' She added that the family would not rest until Morgan's murderer was convicted. 'The police were probably hoping that at some point over the last 10 years we would go away, but there was never any chance of that. We will stand firm until the hateful people responsible are dealt with.'Morgan's business partner, Jonathan Rees, was the prime suspect in the original investigation. Their relationship had soured over the illegal hiring of off-duty police officers by Rees, one of whom one was a detective sergeant, Sid Fillery. On the evening before he died, Morgan had met Fillery at the Golden Lion, where witnesses noticed the two arguing.The next night Morgan again visited the pub, this time to meet his business partner. Rees left at 9pm, Morgan 15 minutes later. The 37-year-old's body was found slumped beside his car at 9.40pm. Burglary was dismissed as a motive as £1,100 in cash was found in the pockets of the father-of-two.A murder investigation was launched within hours. Among the detectives from Catford CID assigned to the case was Fillery himself, who chose not to inform his superiors that not only did he know Morgan, but also he had 'moonlighted' for Rees as a security guard.Worse revelations would follow. During an initial search by Fillery, key documents vanished from the office of Southern Investigations. Morgan's diary, a potentially crucial piece of evidence, has never been found. Fillery ensured that he conducted the first interview with the main suspect, Rees.In a further twist, Fillery later took over Morgan's job at the investigation agency after being medically discharged by the police.But the deepest misgivings relate to the allegations of corruption. The inquest in 1988 heard that Rees told the then book-keeper of the detective agency: 'I've got the perfect solution for Daniel's murder. My mates at Catford nick are going to arrange it.' It was also alleged that the murder was planned within the jurisdiction of Catford CID in such a way that evidence could be suppressed. The coroner's court heard claims that Rees had arranged a £1,000 contract for Morgan's murder.That Fillery, a police officer who would be suspected of being involved in Morgan's murder, secured a key investigating role in the initial investigation is understood to deeply concern Blair as well as the MPA.Further concern has arisen from details of a bugged conversation between Fillery and a police officer who was later convicted of corruption offences.According to an internal police intelligence report, Fillery was 'particularly concerned' over whether the convicted officer had given information relating to Morgan's murder. The transcript said: 'Clearly Fillery is concerned and feels more vulnerable around this issue than many others discussed.'Fillery was in fact arrested in connection with Morgan's death a year after the inquest, but later released without charge.In 1999, however, Fillery was jailed for seven years after planting cocaine on a mother during a custody battle.In total, three police officers were arrested over the murder but were later exonerated by the coroner and paid damages by the Met for false imprisonment. Rees was also charged in connection with the killing, but the police dropped proceedings due to lack of evidence. In addition, a new report by the MPA details how rumours of Masonic links within the Met further clouded the initial investigation. It adds that one police investigation into the murder was made without informing Morgan's family until it was aborted.