The recent debate about the accuracy of the statistics as to whether half or three quarters of all young black men are on the DNA database presupposes that this is of only marginal importance. The criminal justice system has become inured to allegations of racism to the extent that we appear to accept that young black men are six or seven times more likely to be stopped and searched as their white counterparts, more likely to obtain a custodial sentence with fewer previous convictions, more likely to be denied bail and more likely to be disproportionately represented in the prison population than any other minority group.In the aftermath of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry there was a glimmer of hope that these trends could be reversed or at least slowed but a law and order agenda which has placed far more emphasis on the containment of deviant behaviour, particularly by juveniles, has led to ever increasing incarceration rates and a recidivism rate that for juveniles has risen to more than 72%. We lock up 14 in every 1,000 young people, while the French manage to incarcerate only six per 1,000.While we have concentrated on asbos, exclusion orders and every type of order to contain delinquency the problem has only grown worse. Gun and knife crime has grown as young men, and particularly young black men, have grappled with poverty, alienation and the attractions of the drugs trade. Amid the disastrous penal policies imported from the US, prison has become the resort of politicians too scared to challenge the basic contradictions of justice policies. Investment in youth services and diversion has plummeted as policing and prison building has accelerated.When prisons are built we feel the need to fill them. The inevitable consequence of a punitive criminal justice system emulating the US model is that a lawless underclass becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy. Young African Caribbean, and in due course young Asian men, will be at the cutting edge of this underclass. The DNA database is simply another tool by which to achieve this warehousing of our young people in depressingly increasing numbers.Young Asian and especially young Muslim men are the new target for the police, as the "war on terror" net widens. The focus needs to change. Parenting should be taught in schools as part of the national curriculum to maintain boundaries and moral values common to all. Saturday schools must be funded in local communities to supplement the ordinary school system, youth places and training must be available to all to provide for places of safety. All forms of anti-discrimination must be central to the national curriculum and standards of behaviour. Serious consideration must be given to the establishment of a compulsory national service to guarantee a common system irrespective of class, race or gender to provide for community service, environmental work and the achievement of basic numeracy and literacy skills, with placements in developing countries in the Commonwealth.The failure of the war on drugs has to be recognised by British politicians as a reality. Only by limiting demand and the economics of profitability will young people stop being driven by the prospect of high earnings to fight over territory. The legalisation of all drugs for personal use has been recognised by the Argentine supreme court as being an exercise of personal liberty, with several other South American democracies due to follow suite.All political parties should consider a consensus approach to youth justice and work to eradicate racial disproportionality in the justice system, as well as engage in a serious debate about implementing a legalisation framework for all drugs. The alternative is a series of political manifestos that suggest longer prison terms for more young people, further destroying minority communities instead of rebuilding them.The International Race for Justice conference takes place on 3 and 4 December