At the end of a cul de sac in the east end of Glasgow, in broad daylight and just a mile from his home, Duncan Harrison was executed at the wheel of a silver Mercedes.A neighbour discovered the bloody body of the 46-year-old father of three slumped over the dashboard. Police believe he had been forced to drive to the place before being shot in the head. Hours later, in a flat in Springburn, another of Glasgow's poverty-stricken estates, Paul McEnhill, 21, was stabbed to death, allegedly in a drunken argument. Two kinds of murder; one typical Saturday night in Scotland's largest city. The sad truth is that there was nothing unusual about either of last weekend's killings - gangster-style shootings and alcohol-induced stabbings occur too often in Glasgow to take up many column inches.The city is now the murder capital of western Europe. In the first three months of this year, 18 men, women and children were murdered, pushing the homicide rate to 9.4 per million of the population - twice as high as London, and greater than Manchester, Belfast and New York. Glasgow is desperately trying to alter its image and has launched a marketing campaign, using £1.5 million from Glasgow City Council and the local tourist board, and almost £750,000 of European funds. The year-long advertising blitz wil try to rebrand the city as a cool, cosmopolitan metropolis to lure tourists. But in the four weeks since the campaign began there have been eight murders in and around the city. The most high-profile involved the abduction and murder of 15-year-old Kriss Donald in Pollokshields. Two men have been arrested and a warrant issued for a third man. The city has recently been blighted by gruesome gang battles - many allegedly involving the Shielders gang whose members have severed body parts from live victims. As fears grow that Glasgow will revert to its 'No Mean City' days of ferocious gang warfare and random violence, more are now arguing that the money for the campaign would have been better spent on underlying problems. Funding for a zero-tolerance drive against violence, like that carried out in New York, and a crackdown on binge drinking would be a step in the right direction, says Professor Vince Egan, course director for postgraduate forensic psychology at Glasgow Caledonian University and a chartered forensic and clinical psychologist 'Yes, Glasgow has trendy restaurants, sushi bars and shops, but it also has the lowest life expectancy in Britain and proportionately more murders than anywhere else in western Europe. Seventy per cent of people in Glasgow live in publicly owned houses, not in trendy loft apartments. My fear is that PR types encourage Glasgow to turn its back on, or at least marginalise, very real and continuing problems.' An escalation in the violence seems inevitable, not just among disaffected youth but also as gang bosses fight for control of the south side and its lucrative drugs trade. A power vacuum has existed in the area since the death last year of one of the city's brightest, most feared gangsters, Stewart 'Specky' Boyd. Last month two men were shot in a pub as they talked to Tam 'The Licensee' McGraw. McGraw has been named as one of the UK's most powerful and richest gangsters, with legal assets worth over £30m, including property developments across Britain, Spain and east Germany. One underworld source said: 'McGraw is out of control. He can't stop taking over. He wants to run everything because he knows that's the only way he'll be safe. As soon as he slows down, he knows he's a dead man.' Last year the Scottish Daily Record and Sunday Mail began a campaign to expose the big players in Glasgow's underworld, but were told last month that a Glasgow crime family had made death threats against them. Similarly a BBC journalist from London attempting to expose Glasgow's corrupt minicab and security firms was warned his life was at risk. Glasgow's long fascination with the knife was laid bare by the weaponry police seized during a six-month crack down on violent crime in and around Govan last year. In Operation Magnet, officers stopped and searched 2,500 people, confiscating 40 lock knives, 25 kitchen knives, 13 steak knives and six machetes. Screwdrivers, metal bars, hammers, baseball bats and coshes were also found. The fear of violence is also fuelling the problem as a growing number of people take to the streets armed with weapons to defend themselves in case of an attack. A recent Mori poll found that one in five young people in Glasgow carries a weapon, with 70 per cent saying they did so because they were afraid of a gang attack. Dr Rudy Crawford, an accident and emergency consultant at Glasgow's Royal Infirmary, which covers the east end, believes the number of knife attacks in the city could be up to three times higher than police figures suggest. He would like to see harsher penalties for those found carrying a weapon and a ban on the sale of 'sports' knives and machetes. 'This culture of knife-carrying is not a new problem, but it's getting inexorably worse. On one Friday night recently we had 10 stabbings, two of them fatal, and one shooting.' His concerns are echoed by Ian Anderson, his counterpart at the Victoria Infirmary, where patients from the south side of the city are taken for treatment. 'I see elderly people terrified in their own homes; I see middle-aged people cowering under threat; and I see staff and other patients terrorised by these knife-wielding wee neds and thugs as they continue their incessant march. 'It's absolutely disgraceful, but I don't hear anybody standing up and saying it's unacceptable. It just seems to be tolerated. I don't hear it from the judiciary, I don't hear it from the police, and despite the pious outpourings from the mouths of all political parties none seems to have any commitment to addressing the problem.' Cathy Jamieson, the Justice Minister, has promised to crack down on the city's increasing crime problem, but admits it won't be easy. The executive has given a commitment to review the law regarding knife crimes. It also has its flagship anti-social behaviour Bill, with proposals to give police power to disperse groups of youths, going through parliament. Detective Chief Superintendent Ruaraidh Nicolson of Strathclyde Police acknowledges that the west of Scotland has a violence problem. He blames the perception that it is seen to be cool to carry a weapon and uncool not to drink excessively or do drugs. Glasgow has worked hard over the past 20 years to distance itself from its infamous reputation. In 1990 it was named European city of culture, and has since enjoyed status as the 'city of love' and 'city of sport'. Now, Glasgow wants to be the 'city of style'. Some would say 'city of fear' would be more accurate.