Proposals trailed by the Metropolitan Police, such as those we report today on mandatory drug testing for officers, usually become national practice. No sensible person would think it acceptable that police officers - particularly those who handle firearms - should have anything to do with drugs on duty. However, there is no compelling evidence that police officers have been compromised in their work by the effects of out-of-hours drug use. Proper management of staff should already be identifying this sort of personnel problem, if it exists.So the new initiative has a worrying whiff of the earnest Christian commitment of Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens, who last week endorsed a scheme for churches to pray for local police stations. Such evangelism can be counterproductive. Little more than 30 years ago, a campaign against the decriminalisation of homosexuality was run by the Metropolitan Police, a force which still wonders now why it does not command sufficient respect or confidence from the capital's gay community. More important, Britain's most senior policeman may be missing the point. The most significant challenge police face in 2001 is their own torpor in tackling crime. The proportion of offences resolved is at an all-time low. While police forces complain about slender resources, legions of officers still retire on dubious medical grounds. Forty per cent of retiring officers in Greater Manchester last year left with medical pensions. Flexible hours, mobility between functions and weekend working without massive overtime payments - all now habitual for both the public and private sectors - have still not been enforced upon police officers by politicians scared to offend. Home Secretary David Blunkett has some deeply illiberal instincts and an unedifying willingness to shoot from the hip - as over the recent transmission of Channel 4's Brass Eye . However, he is right in insisting, as he has, that police working practices must change. Mr Blunkett will also be right if he takes on the Police Federation, a bastion of Jurassic restrictive practices. Just for once, the Government should hold firm as it fights over the thin blue line with a Police Reform Bill in the next year. The sooner proper scrutiny of police working practices starts, the sooner material improvements in clear-up rates will actually be achieved. And it is this, rather than perceived drug use, which is the most important canker in British policing today.