It was not until he was told by the undertaker that his daughter wanted a track by the rock artist David Gray to be played at her funeral that John Willis learned that his daughter had written a suicide note.In April, Jolene Willis, 24, hanged herself in her cell in Styal prison. Less than three weeks before, while in Holloway, she had written the note telling her family that she believed in God, and she knew that they would be devastated by her death but that she would see them later. She concluded that if they wanted anyone to blame they should "blame the prison". Willis was convicted of theft on March 29 and was given a four-month jail term: she was dead by April 20. On her transfer to Styal, a note was pinned to her file and she was put on suicide watch, but still she hanged herself. "I'll never get over it," Mr Willis said. "Jolene shouldn't have been in prison. She had a lot of mental problems and she found it hard to cope. "When she ended up in prison, it was a cry for help. She had been shoplifting a lot. I tried looking after her but I couldn't ... In her frame of mind, I think she should have been in an institution. "I found out from the undertaker that she had threatened to commit suicide whilst in Holloway prison, before they took her to Styal. She was unhappy and there was a lot of bullying going on ... "I am not getting any feedback from anyone. The prison service said they would get in touch with me but they didn't ... As far as I can gather she ... kept asking them to move her. It was only a matter of weeks and she didn't have long to do. "I can't see what difference an investigation will make. There is something seriously wrong when you have got that many women killing themselves over a period of time. "I would like to think an investigation would get to the bottom of it but the prison is a powerful institution and if they can paper over it then they will. My daughter should have been protected by them and she wasn't. "I am disappointed in the prison service because she was a very, very vulnerable person and if they didn't take notice of suicide threats then what are they going to take notice of. "The prison apologised about not telling me about the suicide note and admitted they made a grave mistake, but that's not the only mistake they made." An inquest and a prison service investigation into Willis's death have yet to reach their conclusion.