The retrial of Sion Jenkins on charges of murdering his stepdaughter, ordered yesterday by the court of appeal, is just the kind of high-profile case the media would love to transmit on TV. Ever since a Los Angeles murder verdict in 1995 outrated the soap operas, executives here have dreamed of their own OJ moment.And this possibility came closer on the same day as the Jenkins verdict, with the revelation that the lord chancellor has authorised a pilot scheme for court TV. This autumn, broadcasters will be permitted to film in the senior courts of appeal for use in mock bulletins to be shown in private to ministers. If approved, the pencil sketches of witnesses and defendants that are Britain's only form of legal TV may become unnecessary.Yet the advance towards transmitting barristers comes at a time when the mother country of televised justice is seeking to cut the make-up bill for attorneys. The judge in the child abuse trial of Michael Jackson - whose profile outruns OJ - seems determined to hear the case in camera rather than in front of cameras. The arguments used by the networks campaigning to show Jacko in the dock, and by the judicial authorities resisting television, are exactly those that ministers will have to consider during the British pilot scheme, and so deserve a further hearing. The case for court-room cameras rests on two claims: openness and education. In an age made cynical by the evasions of politicians and the cover-ups of the establishment, to open the doors to the cameras would symbolically suggest that the judiciary has nothing to hide. The admissionists also argue that if the public saw more of what goes on in court, it would be more able to understand the legal system. Let's cross-examine those propositions. The argument that televised trials educate the public is severely tested by the genre's number one box-office thriller. Although the OJ Simpson trial was followed more closely than any before or since, the verdict was still met with general incredulity. In fact, it can be argued that the jury reacted properly to the prosecution's failure to make the case; but, as ratings peaked for key witnesses and the verdict, few viewers had followed all the evidence. This objection arises again if we imagine that the Hutton inquiry had been broadcast. The evidence was printed extensively in newspapers with verbatim restagings on TV and in the theatre; and yet, as in OJ, many expressed astonishment at the result. While daily live coverage would have helped our judgment of the witnesses - it would have been revealing to see the body-language of Blair, Campbell and Gilligan - the pictures would have done nothing to open up the workings of the judge's mind. This is the weakness of the argument for gavel-and-handcuff channels. The key moments in both the OJ and Hutton proceedings - the jurors' deliberations, the judge writing his report - occurred in places that will remain closed to the cameras in any workable proposal. The elucidation of judicial decisions would come only through interviews with judges and jurors, a step that would tend to be an interference in, rather than a revelation of, the legal process. Admissionists also need to defeat the fear that cameras theatricalise the law: making lawyers more showy and witnesses self-conscious or distracted by celebrity. Here again, the OJ case, with its star-struck judge, book-deal counsel and startled forensic experts, offers examples of what the Michael Jackson judge is presumably seeking to avoid. And there are QCs in the UK who would be on the phone to showbiz agents and cosmetic surgeons as soon as Lord Falconer gave the nod to the box. The strongest argument in favour of court TV is public scrutiny. Courtrooms have a public gallery, and television is simply an extension of that architecture. But we should be honest that, although the public seats are theoretically there to ensure fair play, they are also a tacit admission that the law is entertainment. Most of us want court TV because it would be compelling, real-life drama. That is an acceptable motive, but we should be clear that the result will be entertainment rather than education. One of Alastair Campbell's most severe complaints about BBC news judgment involved the decision to lead a bulletin on the OJ verdict from LA rather than on a Blair conference speech. Perhaps the reason that the government is now keener on court TV here is that judicial distractions from the political headlines might be increasingly welcome. comment@theguardian.com