A Lithuanian man has admitted murdering a woman before dumping her severed hands and head in the sea off Scotland.  Artist impression of Jolenta Bledaite, whose severed head was found on a beach in Scotland last March. Source: Tayside police/PAAppearing before the high court in Edinburgh today, Aleksandras Skirda, 19, pleaded guilty to killing Jolanta Bledaite, 35, a factory worker also from the eastern European country, at her flat in Brechin, Angus, on March 29 and dumping parts of her body in Arbroath harbour.Bledaite, 35, who had been in Britain for 18 months before she was killed, was reported missing by her employer at a potato factory after a head was found wrapped in a plastic bag on a beach 12 miles from where she lived. Two sisters, aged 11 and eight, found the head while playing on the beach.Police later found two severed hands and divers recovered a suitcase from the harbour containing more body parts. Skirda had dumped the case the day after he killed her.Skirda admitted subjecting Bledaite to a vicious attack in her flat, where he bound and gagged her, hit her over the head and put a pillow over her head before murdering her.Skirda was arrested along with another man, Vitas Plytnykas, 41, after a major investigation and appeals for information from the public. Skirda also admitted having stolen £1,400 from cash machines after the murder by using bank cards and identification numbers that the judge, Lord Uist, said had been "feloniously obtained".Plytnykas pleaded not guilty today to charges of murder and attempting to defeat the ends of justice. He is due to stand trial in Edinburgh in February.Skirda now faces a life sentence. He is expected to find out the minimum term next year, after the outcome is known of Plytnykas's trial.Bledaite had come to Britain to care for her terminally ill father, Sarunas Bleda. After her death, he said: "My beautiful daughter was thrown away like a bag of rubbish ... I just want justice for my daughter."Bledaite's remains were flown back to her hometown, Alytus, for burial.