There is no shortage of reasons why the funeral of a teenager is horrible. The first is the death of hope. Then there is the grief on a parent's face as the natural progression of life is turned upside down. There is the shock of friends, still teenagers themselves, who are far too young for this sort of experience. Viscerally, there is the funeral itself, with all its laying bare of the indignities of youth - the Goth outfits, the music, the poetry - the pathos-soaked symbolism of teenage rebellion that will never be resolved.They played Nirvana over the funeral of Jodi Jones last week. Kurt Cobain's voice welcomed mourners as they headed into the parish church in Gorebridge, south of Edinburgh. 'Come as you are,' he sang, the voice of a man who'd killed himself keening for a murdered 14-year-old whose father had, five years before, killed himself. There is no hierarchy of grief in this world, but, my God, this case is grim.What makes it worse still was the enforced absence of Jones's boyfriend from the funeral. Luke Mitchell was asked to stay away by the family, apparently to avoid a 'media scrum'. We, the media, scrummed none the less, encouraged by his choice of that moment to give Sky News an interview in which he denied responsibility for the killing. Then he decided to visit the grave of his former girlfriend after the other mourners had left. To anyone watching, it is clear that Jodi's family believe he is culpable. It is also clear that the police think he is responsible, as detectives give off-the-record briefings in which they stress that there is only one suspect. As many papers pointed out last week, Mitchell visited the grave wearing a Nirvana T-shirt and later stubbed his cigarette out on the sod at the graveside. The demonisation of the 15-year-old has gone national. It is now more than two months since Jodi's body was found on a wooded path called Roman Dyke. She had left her house just after 5pm to meet Mitchell and, when she didn't return by her 10pm curfew, her mother text-messaged the boyfriend. He phoned back and said he hadn't seen her and promised he would go and look, taking along his Alsatian. On the path, he met some members of her family. 'By this point, I had managed to get the dog tracking,' he said in the interview. 'She's a tracker. She must have picked up Jodi's scent and led us down the path and over the wall to where Jodi was.' There is something of Mitchell's age in the pride he showed in his dog's ability to 'track'. Since then, suspicion has fallen on the boy to the point where, two weeks ago, he was told by the education authority not to return to school 'for his well-being and safety' (a phrase that has mob undertones). He had to threaten legal action to get back, although, following the funeral, he has missed the last three days. Even the taxi driver who was supposed to take him home from the graveyard abandoned him when he realised who he was. In the village, he has been guilty for a while. Now all pretence of due process has fallen away. Judy Jones, Jodi's mother, was widely reported to have lifted the flowers that Mitchell had left at the graveside and dropped them on his doorstep. You can't blame her; at the graveside, pain lay in her eyes and suffused her face. No, you can't blame her, but you can blame the police. No evidence has been presented. There has been no trial. Yet from behind raised hands, the police have been saying that the forensic evidence has been difficult to put together but an arrest is imminent. They said that two weeks ago as well. They suggest they have handed the files over to the procurator fiscal, and keep throwing up that nasty little detail: there is only one suspect. If the rest of us know he's guilty, it's because the police keep telling us so. Which sucks, as Kurt Cobain might have said. Obviously, Mitchell's decision to speak out hasn't helped. Asked whether he had killed her, his reply - 'No I never. I wouldn't think of it' - became the headline. To choose the day of the funeral seemed to court hatred, and it should be no surprise that the world turned his way with a vituperative glare. Yet why would the rest of the world matter to him when everyone in the village he lives in, everybody he meets and sees, has, thanks to the police, already made up their minds that he murdered a young girl? I've always believed in a close working relationship between the press and the police, admiring the way American cops walk journalists into murder scenes and explain what they think has happened. Yet there is something else going on here. Our detectives have been ostentatious in their pursuit of Mitchell and it smells, tastes and feels like they are drip-feeding poison to sweat Mitchell out. However much they believe he did it and however close they are to bringing charges, this is still a 15-year-old boy and such tactics are plain wrong. 'Hate Me,' sang Kurt Cobain. I suppose there are some small mercies left in this horrible tale. At least, unlike in America, nobody is claiming the music was responsible for this crime. ruaridhnicoll@hotmail.com