A Metropolitan police officer was today acquitted of racially assaulting two teenage boys who had accused him of taking them into the back of a police van and shouting abuse about their ethnic backgrounds in front of his colleagues.Mark Jones, 42, a member of the Met's territorial support group (TSG), was cleared of subjecting the two 16-year-olds to a physical and verbal attack after stopping them near Edgware Road, west London.During the trial, one of the youths accused Jones of placing him in a neck-hold. Five other TSG officers who were on patrol with Jones, and were alleged to have covered up the attack, were acquitted of misfeasance charges.A black officer who was in the van at the time of the alleged assaults in June 2007 turned "whistleblower", giving evidence against Jones and the others during the trial. All seven officers were stationed at the Paddington Green branch of the TSG.The conclusion of the trial at Kingston crown court means Jones can be identified as one of six TSG officers – also from Paddington Greeen – involved in a separate, "serious, gratuitous and prolonged" attack on a Muslim man who brought a successful civil case against the Met.During that case, the high court was told that Jones, a former Royal Marine, had had more than 30 complaints lodged against him, mostly by black or Asian men.Babar Ahmad, 34, a terror suspect, was punched, kicked, stamped on and strangled during his arrest by officers at his home in December 2003. In March the Met conceded that its officers had subjected Ahmad to sustained violence and paid him £60,000 in damages.The court heard how officers stamped on Ahmad's feet and repeatedly punched him in the head in his home in Tooting, south London, before he was forced into the Muslim prayer position, when they shouted: "Where is your God now? Pray to him."Ahmad was forced into the back of a police van, where he was again beaten and punched. Jones was referred to in the civil case as "Officer X". In court he was identified by Ahmad's lawyers as the man who placed him in an "extremely dangerous" neck-hold that "could only have been intended to cause [Ahmad] to experience a state of utter terror at the thought that he was about to die".Around this time Ahmad heard an unidentified officer say: "You fucking cunt, you'll remember this day for the rest of your life, do you understand me, you fucking bastard?"The case led to revelations about the history of allegations made against Jones and the five other officers involved in Ahmad's arrest, after the judge ordered the Met to disclose unsubstantiated complaints made against them between 1993 and 2007. The six were the subject of 77 complaints in total, only one of which was substantiated.When lawyers for Ahmad asked for details of the allegations, the Met said they had "lost" several large mail sacks containing at least 30 complaints. Lawyers for Ahmad, who analysed the complaints, told the court they revealed Jones had 31 complaints lodged against him. Twenty-six were assault allegations, most of which had been lodged by black or Asian men, and none were substantiated.They included a complaint from a man detained during a drug search in 2007 who, Ahmad's lawyers told the court, accused Jones of forcing him into the back of a TSG van, before placing him on his knees, grabbing his neck and spraying CS gas into his face.Ahmad's legal team said the details of his attack were "strikingly similar" to allegations made by teenagers in the 2007 incident in west London. The jury that acquitted Jones today was not told about his role in the Ahmad case or made aware of any unsubstantiated complaints made against him.During the four-week trial, the court heard how Jones and six colleagues were on duty on 1 June 2007 when they came across a group of teenagers on Edgware Road mouthing obscenities. The teenagers were stopped and searched, and one – Ahmed Hegazy, then 17 – was restrained after becoming aggressive and taken into a police van.Two 16-year-old teenagers said they were also taken into the van one by one and racially abused by Jones. Omar Mohidin claimed Jones repeatedly made him stand up and sit down while handcuffed, and reacted aggressively after discovering he was from Kuwait, allegedly saying: "Iraq, fucking Iraq, I got mates back there getting killed by fuckers like you."Basil Khan accused Jones of placing him in a hold at the rear of the van, which he described as a "headlock" that prevented him from breathing properly. He said Jones punched him several times on the top of the head while calling him an "Arab cunt".Jones and five officers present during the incident denied any officer had assaulted or shouted racist abuse at the youths. They told the court some in the group of teenagers had become aggressive when stopped and had threatened to kill officers.A seventh officer, PC Amechi Onwugbonu, who lodged an official complaint hours after returning to the station on the night of the incident, gave evidence against his colleagues during the trial. He supported the allegations of racial assault made by the teenagers and said Jones had later told him the treatment had been justified because the TSG were "vigilantes".Jones denied having said that and, under almost a week of cross-examination, Onwugbonu was presented as an unreliable witness. He was shown to have given evidence that was in parts inconsistent, and was forced to admit he had been "wrong" about the seating arrangement in the van after CCTV footage was shown to the court that contradicted his accounts.Defence barristers accused Onwugbonu of harbouring a grudge against Jones, whom he accused of placing a dead mouse in his locker after he failed a firearms course. Onwugbonu conceded in court that he and Jones were "not best buddies".Jones was cleared of racially aggravated common assault against Mohidin and Khan. PC Neil Brown, 33, was cleared of misfeasance in public office, along with Sergeant William Wilson, 52, PC Steven White, 31, and PC Giles Kitchener, 31. PC Simon Prout, 33, was cleared of the same charge in October. Brown was earlier found not guilty of racially aggravated threatening behaviour toward Hegazy.Colin Reynolds, the solicitor representing the cleared men, said outside court: "On behalf of all five officers, I am instructed to express their appreciation to the jury for the way they have clearly, so carefully and conscientiously considered the evidence over the past four weeks and returned these verdicts. At the present time, neither they or I on their behalf have anything more to say."