Scotland Yard claimed last night that the future of covert police work was under threat after a court ruling that some of its officers had committed a "state-created crime" during a sting aimed at trapping suspected money launderers.A total of £15m was brought to London hidden in suitcases, laundered by undercover police officers and then returned to alleged drug dealers over a three year period, the court heard. A prosecution based on the sting was thrown out at Southwark crown court yesterday after a judge described the police actions as "massively illegal". Judge George Bathurst-Norman allowed 10 defendants to walk free after saying that the police had "overstepped the line between legitimate crime detection and unacceptable crime creation". He added: "They offered a wholly exceptional opportunity to others to commit crime. "I have come to the conclusion that what the police did amounted to state-created crime." The taxpayer has been left with an estimated bill of £25m following the collapse of the case, following more than 400 days of court hearings over five years. The court heard that two of the defendants were regarded as key players: Gibraltar-based lawyer Christopher Finch and businessman Plinio Bossino, connections. The judge said it was only after police had "actively solicited" for money laundering business that Mr Finch, 55, allegedly told them one of his clients wanted to transfer some money. Mr Bossino was introduced to the undercover police team by Mr Finch. Both men were also criticised by the judge, who said Mr Finch should not continue to practice as a lawyer, while Mr Bossino was already involved in money laundering when the police approached him. The two men denied charges of conspiracy to supply cannabis and launder money. Outside court, the Met vigorously defended its officers' actions, and said it would be launching a legal challenge to the judge's ruling. The trial which collapsed yesterday was the final prosecution to be brought as a result of the sting operation, codenamed Operation Cotton. Scotland Yard said that prior to this trial Operation Cotton had netted a number of convictions for drug-dealing and enabled police to seize large quantities of cocaine and cannabis. Scotland Yard said that the judge's ruling that police had acted illegally would have "serious implications" for undercover work throughout Britain. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Bill Griffiths said: "A number of drug traffickers were successfully prosecuted - 21 were convicted. "Without allowing that [money] through, we wouldn't have got this result. That's the crucial point to make. It was necessary to allow that money to go forward so we could take out these dealers." One detective involved with Operation Cotton described the outcome as crazy. Police also claimed that the judge had "done an about face" after a ruling in 2001 in which he declared the defendants had not been entrapped and allowed the trial to go ahead. "We are struggling to come to terms with the reason why he has done an about face," said Detective Superintendent Geoff Hunt. "The evidence is exactly the same as 2001." But the judge said that his earlier decision had been made without the benefit of a House of Lords' judgment on entrapment, which triggered renewed legal argument in the Southwark crown court case. He called for an act of parliament making entrapment a legal defence. The judge also said that although the police had sought advice on whether the operation would be legal, the way they went about it "can only be described as cavalier". Officers should have gone directly to the director of public prosecutions, the head of the crown prosecution service, or consulted Treasury counsel, senior barristers who advise the government, the judge maintained. Instead, they contented themselves with a relatively low-level approach to the crown prosecution service for guidance which was "fatally flawed". As a result, police effectively "made up their own minds" that they were acting lawfully, he said. In a statement, Mr Bossino's solicitors, Burton Copeland, called for an inquiry "into how the Metropolitan police thought it fit to conduct an illegal and unauthorised undercover money laundering operation for so many years. "In this case it has been found that the Metropolitan police, considering themselves to be above the law, have committed serious criminal offences both in the United Kingdom and Gibraltar. "As a result of this illegal operation, the life and reputation of our client and his family have been irretrievably damaged." Mr Bossino and the other defendants spent nine months in custody during the trial.