Anthony Walker's mother, Gee, said the most difficult thing was seeing children she had watched playing in the school playground go on to murder her son. "They played together, they stood in the same dinner queue," she said. "I believe that all kids are innocent and something went wrong along the way, and what it is I don't know."The murder of her son was "a life sentence" but she refuses to be eaten up by bitterness.When she received the call from the hospital, she thought she would be bringing him home. "I saw the axe in his head," she said. "Even then, I still thought I would bring him home. The doctors were telling me it was bad, that maybe I wouldn't be bringing him home. I thought: 'You don't know my son. I'm bringing him home."She described her son as a boy who would get on with everyone. "Anthony was going places, I'm sure. He was serious and he knew exactly what he wanted to be. He was his own person."He knew he wanted to be a lawyer and I don't think anything was going to stop him from doing that."He would watch a television programme and say: 'If I have to leave England and go to America, I will do that, and become a lawyer."Her son loved basketball. "If you come into my house, you'll see that most of the pictures are in frames, but with no glass in them - because he would bounce the ball in the house. He knew he shouldn't but he would bounce that ball."He loved coming to church - he was a godly person. He was very serious about that. He had a passion for basketball and a seriousness about the things of God."Inevitably, his murder drew comparisons with that of Stephen Lawrence 13 years ago, but she said the family appreciated the determination and efficiency of Merseyside police in catching her son's killers.Anthony had assumed the role of head of the household, following the separation from his father Steve. "Anthony was my prayer partner, we prayed together. He was in training to be a good man," she added. "So when it came to making decisions in the home, we made them together. We talked about it because he was 18 and I was preparing him to be a good husband and good father, and he would have been. All that is gone now."For instance, he would wash up on a Tuesday night. He was one of the few who would commit himself to that chore."On Tuesday nights now, nobody can wash up. He would mow the lawn on a Thursday. Now, none of us can mow the lawn. There is this massive absence in the house, this massive long pause. And we think: 'When is this going to end?'"I go into the kitchen and I make his tea. I'm counting out the potatoes - one, two, three and I'm still putting a potato in for him. I'm still doing it."I still put an extra meal aside which no one will touch. No one dares to say who it belongs to because we all know whose it is. We will never get over this."Someone has taken a piece of my heart. How do you mend a broken heart? You can't mend a broken heart."