Darren Fletcher, the Manchester United and Scotland midfielder, has been the latest footballer to have his house burgled or robbed while he is away on playing duty.More than a dozen footballers in the north-west of England have been targeted in the past two-and-a-half years,, among them nine playing for Liverpool. While some of the crimes have been linked — one man was jailed for burgling six Liverpool stars' homes — police believe others have been the work of copycat or opportunistic thieves.The incident at Fletcher's home is the third in recent months in which attackers have threatened relatives at knifepoint.June 2006: The home of then-Liverpool goalkeeper Jerzy Dudek in Caldy, Wirral, was burgled while he was on holiday in his native Poland. He lost a Porsche car, jewellery and memorabilia, including the shirt he wore in the 2005 Champions League final.August 2006: Criminals broke into the Wirral home of Everton player Andy van der Meyde. As well as stealing a Ferrari and Mini Cooper, they also took his seven-month-old pedigree Dogue de Bordeaux dog, Mac, who was later recovered. In December the same year he was burgled for a second time.September 2006: Raiders stole an Aston Martin car and other belongings from the home of Liverpool's Peter Crouch in Alderley Edge, Cheshire, as he played a Champions League tie in Turkey. The same month, the Wirral homes of two other Liverpool players, striker Florent Sinama-Pongolle and defender Daniel Agger, were also burgled.December 2006: James Birch, 20, was jailed for two-and-a-half years for stealing from the homes of Dudek, Crouch, Agger, Van der Meyde and Sinama-Pongolle, as well as another Everton player, Tony Hibbert.May 2007: As Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina saved two penalties against Chelsea to put his team into the Champions League final, burglars took jewellery, a Porsche and other items from his home in the Woolton district of the city.November 2007: Liverpool's Dirk Kuyt, who also lives in Woolton, had his home burgled after he joined up with the Dutch squad for an international match.December 2007: The wife of Liverpool and England midfielder Steven Gerrard was confronted by four robbers when he was away for a Champions League game. The couple's daughters were asleep at the time at their home in Formby, Merseyside.July 2008: Robbers wearing ski masks kicked down the front door of the home of then-Wigan Athletic striker Emile Heskey in Hale, Greater Manchester, threatening his fiancee with a knife. She was forced to hand over jewellery and the keys to a BMW. Heskey was training at the time.September 2008: Burglars stole a watch from the Liverpool penthouse of then-Liverpool striker Robbie Keane and his wife while he was on international duty for Ireland. His wife was also away.November 2008: As Liverpool midfielder Lucas Leiva played at Anfield in a Champions League match, burglars broke into his Woolton home and stole items, including the Olympic bronze medal he won playing for Brazil.December 2008: Raiders carrying knives robbed the wife of Blackburn Rovers striker Roque Santa Cruz while he was away for a match at Portsmouth. The couple's two young children were in the home in Bowdon, south Manchester, at the time.