The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies. "Blackmail develops and thrives where there is human vulnerability and weakness. It does not flourish among angels and saints," said the Old Bailey prosecutor David Markham.In a trial that revealed the sex, drugs and steamy videotapes that occupy the private hours of some of Britain's most senior immigration judges, his words were amply justified.In public the officials - a senior female immigration judge ("Judge J"), who cannot be named, and another judge, Mohammed Ilyas Khan - upheld the image of sombre-faced members of the judiciary. Earning salaries of more than £100,000, their job was to exercise decision-making powers that affected the lives of thousands in the creakingly overloaded asylum and immigration system.But behind closed doors it was alleged that they engaged in bedhopping, cocaine snorting and sex romps that they filmed on videos that were filed away on the living room shelf.It was these secrets that provided Roselane Driza, a glamorous Brazilian, with ammunition for blackmail after she walked into the judges' lives as a £5-an-hour cleaner to the couple, who lived together for five years.As if these private indiscretions were not enough, Driza was also in Britain illegally at the time she was employed by the immigration judges, with, she claims, their full knowledge of her status.Driza arrived at Heathrow in February 1998 and was given leave to enter as a visitor for six months. She was later given leave to remain as a student but was an overstayer when she was employed by Judge J as a cleaner.The judges, who deny knowing about her immigration details, were certainly unaware of another significant detail about her life. When Judge J hired her in 1999 Driza was married to a member of the Albanian mafia: a serial killer wanted in Britain for murdering Bledar Mone, a 24-year-old Kosovan found with multiple wounds to the head and body at a house in Sudbury, Middlesex, in June that year.Driza told the judges her husband was a refugee who had gone to Italy. She did not reveal that he had fled Britain and was wanted for the murder. He was subsequently traced to Italy where he was questioned over the murder of two Albanian men. He is currently serving a 20-year sentence and is suspected of having killed several more people.For years Driza worked happily for Judge J. She continued to clean for both judges when they split up in 2000 and Mr Khan moved to a new flat. Judge J, however, soon found another lover. She returned one afternoon unexpectedly with a man known as Mr N, who was another immigration judge. Driza claimed Judge J "almost threw me out of the window" because she was in such a hurry to be alone with her new lover that afternoon.The flammable mix exploded into confrontation in 2004 when Driza was sacked by Judge J for what the judge said was intruding into her private life.She was also swiftly sacked by Mr Khan. Within weeks, however, Driza and Mr Khan had made up. They became lovers and she moved in. She continued to do his cleaning, but also provided food, washing and sex. Their affair prompted a series of emails and text messages in which Mr Khan detailed his love. In one, he wrote how she was "real chilli hot stuff". In another he said he loved her "P hair" and suggested she should "clean shave it".While living with Mr Khan she pursued Judge J for compensation for what she said was her unfair sacking. In a series of phone calls she asked for the judge to give a reason for her sacking. In one call Judge J screamed at Driza: "Fucking Brazilian bitch, fucking dirty woman," before slamming down the phone.There was worse to come when Judge J discovered Driza was Mr Khan's new lover. Turning up unannounced on Boxing Day 2004, she saw Mr Khan with Driza and exploded into a rage that left him "pale and trembling". Mr Khan claimed he tried to end the relationship after this, but Driza refused to leave his flat. The couple enjoyed holidays together and Mr Khan met Driza's family, but he said the relationship was "one of those stupid things you do in life".Another was the filming of sex romps Mr Khan had shared with Judge J on a holiday in Thailand in which they were said to have taken cocaine, as well as the making of a separate video of him having sex with a blond woman. It was these films that provided the catalyst for blackmail when they were discovered by Driza as she cleaned Mr Khan's flat last year.Armed with the sex tapes, she increased her blackmail demands from Judge J to £20,000. She also revealed that she had sent a letter to the lord chancellor stating that Judge J had employed her illegally. It was at this point that the two judges went to the police. Officers arrested Driza at Mr Khan's flat, which she had refused to leave.As Driza awaits a jail sentence, the judges too await their fate. Judge J and Mr Khan will be suspended if disciplinary action is launched.