Prison governors have strongly defended the use of open prisons for prisoners coming to the end of their life sentences in the wake of the disappearance of violent armed robber Michael Wheatley – dubbed Skull Cracker – while out on temporary release.The Prison Governors Association said it was appalled by Tory backbench MP Philip Davies, who suggested whoever had allowed Wheatley out of prison was "a berk" and should be sacked."The use of open conditions is an important factor for effective resettlement. Research suggests that reoffending rates among those released from open conditions are far lower compared with those released from closed conditions," the association said in a statement."The movement to the open estate for those prisoners serving life sentences usually follows a recommendation made by the parole board. Any such decision will be approved by the justice secretary, based on an in-depth review. It is therefore unhelpful for MPs to make comments on areas in which they are not fully conversant."Scotland Yard said Wheatley had been seen in Twickenham, south-west London. He went missing on Saturday after a period on temporary release from HMP Standford Hill on the Isle of Sheppey, Kent.Wheatley was sentenced at the Old Bailey in 2002 to 13 consecutive life sentences for a series of violent raids on banks and building societies, but the judge set his tariff – the minimum time he had to serve – at eight years, which expired in 2010.His disappearance has prompted a review by justice ministers of the scheme under which the 1,200 prisoners serving indeterminate sentences – those without a fixed release date – in open prisons are let out for short periods towards the end of their time inside.Police said they were called to an address in Twickenham on Monday night following a sighting of the 55-year-old, but he was not found.A statement from Scotland Yard said: "Police were called … following a sighting of Michael Wheatley – a prisoner who has failed to return to a prison in Kent."Upon arrival, officers searched the area. Wheatley was not found. Inquiries are continuing. The Met continues to work closely with Kent police to trace Wheatley, who is being sought for arrest."Anyone with any information or who sees Wheatley is asked not approach him and to contact police via 999."Wheatley raided 13 building societies and banks over 10 months in 2001 and 2002 while on parole from a 27-year sentence for other robberies.He earned his nickname after pistol-whipping victims, including a 73-year-old woman, during the raids.Prisons minister Jeremy Wright said there would be a full review of the case, including an assessment of the release on temporary licence (ROTL) process.Wright said temporary licence could be an important tool to help offenders reintegrate into communities, but that "it should not be an automatic right".Ministers have said there will be a toughening up of the licence scheme so that prisoners are subjected to stricter risk assessments and tagged.Wright said: "We are not prepared to see public safety compromised. The system has been too lax up to now and we are changing that. In future, when prisoners are let out on temporary licence, they will be tagged, more strictly risk-assessed and tested in the community under strict conditions before being released."Temporary release can be an important tool in helping offenders reintegrate but it should not be an automatic right. There will be a full review of this case which will look at the ROTL process."Davies, the MP for Shipley in West Yorkshire, said: "It is completely ludicrous that a serving life sentence prisoner is even in an open prison, where they can simply walk out. As far as I am concerned, whoever allowed him to be in an open prison should be sacked. It is a complete disgrace."The top priority for the Prison Service should be the protection of the public. [The justice secretary] Chris Grayling needs to put in charge of the Prison Service someone who will see protection of the public as a top priority."A police spokesman said Wheatley, originally from Limehouse in east London, had links across south-east England.Wheatley admitted 13 charges of robbery and 13 of possessing an imitation firearm – a blank-firing semi-automatic pistol – in October 2002.The robberies between June 2001 and April the following year were mainly on small branches in areas Wheatley knew, ranging from Southampton in Hampshire to Royston in Hertfordshire.The first was just three weeks after he was put on parole from his first prison term.As the robberies continued, so did the violence he used towards staff and customers. In March 2002, he pistol-whipped a 73-year-old woman and a building society manager. The Old Bailey heard at the time that he would often grab a female customer, putting a pistol to their head,. His raids netted him more than £45,000.He was given a five-year sentence on each of the firearms offences to run concurrently with the life sentences on each of the robbery charges. He was ordered to serve a minimum of eight years before being eligible for consideration for parole.Juliet Lyon, the director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "Of course there should be a review into any breach of safety and security but, to put things in perspective, government figures show the main lessons to learn from open prisons are that the Prison Service has achieved a year-on-year reduction in absconds and that release on ROTL has succeeded in significantly reducing the risk of re-offending."