The opening of Britain's newest prison at Peterborough this month enabled Home Office ministers yesterday to announce the closure of the country's only prison ship, HMP Weare, eight years after it was opened as a "temporary measure" to deal with overcrowding.Peterborough prison, which is run on a 25-year contract by the private security company United Kingdom Detention Services, is due to take its first prisoners on March 29. It has a capacity of 840 and will be the first purpose-built prison in modern times to hold men and women. It is likely to become a blueprint for prisons of the future.The prisons and probation chief, Martin Narey, said that Peterborough should be a model for new prison developments. "There is a chance in the future of much larger prisons where we hold men, women, young offenders and prisoners of different security categories so that we get people altogether in the same place. We can really learn a lot from this," said the chief executive of the national offender management service during a media open day at the prison yesterday. After a four-year planning battle over the future of the site, a former engineering factory close to the city centre, the £65m prison has been opened on time and within budget. The private company faced severe penalties for late delivery. The prison, which is the 11th private jail in England and Wales, is built in a style reminiscent of a superstore. It has a bright colour-coding scheme to identify the purpose of different parts of the prison. So instead of the traditional uniform grey paint on prison corridors, the workshops feature orange, the discharge areas splashes of green, the segregation unit is marked by its deep red paint and the activity areas are painted lilac. These areas are designed to have as much natural light as possible. Another striking feature is the low-rise design and the absence of the "suicide netting" in the stairwells and atrium areas found in most public sector prisons. Artificial trees are also to be placed in the atrium of the workshops and education block. Mr Narey said the lack of the more usual four storey houseblocks and the attempt to design cells with as few ligature points as possible also reduced the suicide risk but he also said that it was a sign of greater confidence in the approach of the 400 staff in dealing with self-harm and suicide attempts. Each cell is fitted with an intercom linked to the wing office rather than the more usual simple call button, and prisoners can control their own lighting in their cells. The prison can take up to 360 women prisoners and includes a 12-place mother and baby unit. One of the prison workshop areas is to be converted into a healthy living and alternative therapy centre for women. The building of the prison in two years for £65m on a private finance contract contrasts with the £110m spent on the 600-place Belmarsh prison in London which opened in 1991 after taking a decade to finish. Prison numbers are around 75,000 in England and Wales. The Home Office hopes that an increasing emphasis on community punishments for less serious offenders will stem its continued growth. "We hope to be able to close down inadequate accommodation and replace it with purpose-built accommodation such as this," said Mr Narey. The prisons minister, Paul Goggins, said yesterday the opening of Peterborough and other new accommodation allowed the closure of the prison ship which, "despite the best efforts of the staff, was no longer suitable as it offered very little scope for activities which might reduce re-offending." He acknowledged that the fact that HMP Weare's seaworthiness certificate had only another year to run was a factor in the decision to close it later this year. The ship is moored in Portland harbour, Dorset, and holds 400 men over the age 25 who are serving the last nine months of their sentence. Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, has severely criticised the use of the "floating motel" and called for its closure. It served as a troop ship in the Falklands war and a floating prison on the Hudson river, New York.