Police investigating the murder of Damilola Taylor were today at the Old Bailey accused of "manufacturing" a witness because they could not afford another unsolved killing of a black person.Defence barrister Courtenay Griffiths QC said officers had taken advantage of a young girl in the wake of criticism over the force's handling of the Stephen Lawrence murder. Mr Griffiths was cross-examining Sergeant Carolyn Crooks at the Old Bailey about her interviews with a 13-year-old girl, who the prosecution say is the only witness to Damilola's killing. Ten-year-old Damilola died after being stabbed in the thigh with a broken bottle on the North Peckham Estate, south-east London, where he lived. Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Mr Griffiths, setting out his case, said: "What I am going to suggest to you is that in the post-Lawrence world of policing, the Metropolitan police and officers involved in this murder investigation could not afford to have another unsolved black death. "By January 2001, you officers were desperate and I suggest you were sent in to manufacture the eye witness. I am going to suggest that you quite simply took advantage of a disturbed and damaged young girl and turned her into an eye witness."Mr Griffiths added: "I am not suggesting for one instance that this was one-sided." He asked Sgt Crooks: "Did you get the impression at any time that [the girl] was taking you for a ride?" Sgt Crooks replied: "No". She denied that the investigation had "stalled" by January last year because police had not found a single witness. Mr Griffiths asked: "It was a brilliant coup for the police when [the girl] turned up? She was going to save the day." Sgt Crooks: "We were very grateful." The officer denied knowing when she initially interviewed the girl that she had been described as "an attention-seeker and liar" by her school. Mr Griffiths said the girl, in a police video, had said: "Is that where Damilola was stabbed?" when shown a map. He asked Sgt Crooks: "Didn't your ears pick up? Didn't alarm bells start ringing?" Sgt Crooks said the girl needed assistance reading the map and if her hands were pointing to any particular area, it was not intentional. Mr Griffiths persisted: "You were providing her with assistance and you were providing her with crucial information?" Sgt Crooks: "If my fingers went to where Damilola was stabbed, it was not intentional or meant to be a prompt."The trial continues.