A mother who suffocated her young daughter and son at a Spanish hotel said she had given them a "perfect holiday" before killing them, a court has heard.Lianne Smith, 45, has admitted smothering five-year-old Rebecca and 11-month-old Daniel with a plastic bag at the Miramar hotel in Lloret de Mar, on the Costa Brava, in May 2010.A jury at the provincial court in Girona, north-east Spain, whether she is criminally responsible for the children's deaths. If found guilty, she could face 38 years in prison.Her defence is seeking an acquittal, claiming she was in a state of "psychiatric disturbance". The killings took place shortly after Smith's partner, Martin Smith, was arrested in Barcelona under a European arrest warrant.The family had been living in Spain since 2007 after fleeing Lichfield, Staffordshire, when Lianne Smith's eldest daughter by her first husband accused Martin Smith of sexually abusing her. After he was deported to the UK, Lianne Smith became obsessed with the idea that British social services had travelled to Spain to take her children away.In court, Smith refused to answer questions from the prosecution, as is her right under Spanish law. The jury was shown a video of a statement she made to police the day after the children died, filmed in a room next to where the killings took place.She told police: "I gave my children a three-day holiday, a perfect holiday, we were very, very happy. We came here with nothing, we had left everything again. This was the end of the road, I knew my children would be taken back to England. My daughter didn't want to go, she didn't want to leave me."So I know it's not right to take another life, but I felt I was in a corner and my intention was for me and my children to go. It was not just the children, it was me as well."The court heard that after killing the children, Smith tried to take her own life.Answering questions from her lawyer, Smith said she had gone to Lloret after seeing two people outside her house early one morning.She said: "I knew and I could feel they were from social services and they had come to take the children, and I love my children, I love my children."She told police she had killed the children while they slept and claimed they had offered no resistance. She said she felt as if someone else had carried out the killing.She left four notes and an envelope containing money for the hotel. In one note, addressed to Rebecca and Daniel, she wrote: "I love you very much. I haven't been able to give you a marvellous life together. I am so sorry."Another note, in Spanish, was left on the hotel bedroom door, telling staff: "Don't need cleaner today, my children are sick". In another she accused her oldest daughter of causing the tragedy with the "lies" she had told about Martin Smith, who she said was innocent.Martin Smith was found guilty at Manchester crown court in December 2010 of 11 specimen charges of rape, attempted rape, indecency with a child and indecent assault. The jury in that case heard he had groomed and sexually abused his stepdaughter between May 1995 and May 2004. He was found hanged in his cell at Strangeways prison in January.