When the Montgomeryshire Family Crisis Centre decided that addressing the problem of domestic violence meant helping male abusers as well as their female victims, the backlash came out of the blue.'We suddenly faced losing our funding and our reputation because, back in 1996, society couldn't tolerate the idea of agencies working with the perpetrators of domestic violence,' says Jackie Richardson, senior practitioner at the MFCC. 'Society has a very anti-man attitude as far as domestic violence is concerned. It's one that we are determined to break.' The complaints, abusive phone calls and threatening letters from opponents that came pouring in - all still carefully logged and filed - did not scare Richardson or her small group of determined staff. 'We'd had enough of the sticking-plaster solution to the problem of domestic violence,' she says. 'It just didn't make sense. Assisting the partner of a violent man might help that specific woman but does nothing for any of the abuser's future partners or their children.' The link between child victims and adult abusers has yet to be proved, but Richardson is adamant that any child exposed to violence in the home is disproportionately likely to go on to harm others. 'The costs of domestic violence to society are so enormous and varied that helping to change the perpetrators themselves is the only realistic way forward,' she says. In the end, the MFCC's innovative approach did not cost the group its funding. On the contrary, their determination and success over the past six years has won round the sceptics and critics. The MFCC is one of the few domestic violence projects in Britain to extend the hand of friendship to those who abuse and terrorise their partners and children. Last year, the centre received 316 calls from male abusers, desperate to change their behaviour but with no idea how to begin. It is now also beginning to see other agencies following in its wake, receiving 198 calls from other groups last year asking advice on how to advise the men approaching them for help. Abusers who contact the centre are assessed and, after their partners have also agreed to work with the programme, begin the 26-week course. According to Shirley Powell, the senior co-ordinator of the project, there are three sorts of male abuser; those who hate what they do, but can't stop; those who relish the control and power; and those who genuinely can't see that their behaviour is in any way reprehensible. 'Working with men who, week after week, refuse to admit responsibility for their crimes can be extremely hard,' she admits. 'But then, when they suddenly make a breakthrough and realise what they've done wrong and how they can stop doing it, working with the enemy suddenly becomes worthwhile.' As well as its perpetrator programme, the MFCC offer a rich panoply of resources, one of which has attracted almost as much controversy and criticism as their perpetrator programme. Alongside its counselling and advice service, drop-in centre, 24-hour helpline and crisis accommodation, the centre offers male victims of domestic violence the same level of help and resources as female clients. 'Our programme to help male victims of domestic violence has been criticised for diverting the help and attention needed by the ever-growing number of female victims,' admits Richardson. 'But we believe society discriminates against men in the field of domestic violence. They need just as much help as women to come to terms with domestic violence and rebuild their lives.' The lack of provision for male victims was highlighted by the British Crime Survey, which found that the one in six victims of domestic violence who are men have minimal access to refuges. In comparison, women have more than 400 refuges across the UK to which they can turn.'We're not disagreeing with the fact that domestic violence is experienced by far more women than men but does that mean male victims deserve no help at all?' asks Powell. 'We're not fighting for equal numbers of safe houses, but one or two would be nice.' The MFCC is quietly of the opinion that there may be far more male victims of domestic violence than current statistics indicate. Again according to the British Crime Survey, almost two-thirds of women experiencing chronic domestic violence turn to someone for help and support. Fewer than one-third of men experiencing the same level of violence, however, had confided in anyone. 'There are all sorts of ways men and boys experience domestic violence,' Powell says. 'It can happen at the hands of their fathers, uncles or mothers as well as from both male and female partners.' To back up the theory that the problem is more virulent than maintained, the MFCC points to the 472 enquiries it has received from male victims in the past year alone. 'While 40 per cent of women know domestic violence is a crime, four out of five male victims think it is just something that happens,' says Powell. 'There are all sorts of issues of masculinity tied up in this issue that we're just beginning to unpick.' The third issue which the centre is highlighting is that male victims aged between 14 and 16 are routinely refused entrance to refuges. 'Boys are just as much victims as their mothers and sisters,' says Richardson. 'Added to which, this rule frequently leads to a woman not leaving an abusive situation because she can't take her son with her.' The Montgomery centre is a lone beacon of hope in Wales and is regularly receiving calls from both men and women as far away as Scotland. In the past year, 37 women and 64 children have passed through its refuges, 50 per cent more of whom end up safely housed than the national average. It helped almost 1,000 women through drop-in centres, received 9,000 calls to its helpline and almost 1,300 hits on its website. And all this on a budget of £200,000. But they have big plans: they want to set up a school programme to encourage children experiencing domestic violence to come forward, they want to go into prisons and they hope to open a refuge for male victims. 'We achieve what we already do through the tireless efforts of just 10 paid staff, six of whom receive only part-time salaries, and 18 volunteers,' says Powell. 'But there's so much more we want to do, if only we can find the funding.' Domestic violence in the UK· Although men and children are often victims, the vast majority of attacks (81 per cent) are done by men to women · One in four women has suffered domestic violence in her life  · About 500,000 women (one in 40) suffered serious incidents in the last year surveyed  · 23,000 of those women found safety in a refuge; 30 per cent of them were black or from ethnic minorities  · Disabled women are twice as likely to suffer as able-bodied women · Older women are more likely to endure violence before seeking help  · The Metropolitan Police had a 27,000 per cent increase in recorded incidents of domestic violence between 1985 and 2001, partly due to an increased willingness among women to report incidents  · Across the UK, police receive 360,000 emergency calls a year from women in connection with with domestic violence  · No more than 15 per cent of arrests lead to prosecution Sources: New Philanthropy Capital sector report, July 2003/British Crime Survey