A loner who fantasised that he could live on for ever in history by committing mass murder received eight life sentences yesterday after waging a letter-bomb campaign against people he felt wronged by.Justin McAuliffe, 33, an unemployed electrician, made bombs in his bedsit in Bedford. They were meant to engulf his victims in flames. He was said to have planned to target 50 people, including the singer Robbie Williams, but could not find the entertainer's address. Last September he posted 33 devices to former lovers, work colleagues and even family members as retribution for "perceived slights", St Albans crown court was told. The devices, filled with lighter fluid and made from everyday objects, were sent to addresses in Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire, Lancashire and London. McAuliffe pleaded guilty yesterday to eight counts of attempting to cause grievous bodily harm with intent. After his arrest, he said he believed that the notoriety he would gain from mass murder would give him eternal fame, and thus eternal life. He said: "The only way to eternal life is to become famous. The human body is frail and when it finally gives up, it becomes the same decaying matter as anything else. They soon become forgotten. People are forgotten unless they stand out for something good or bad they did while they were alive, such as Elvis, Gandhi or Hitler. "If you want to live for ever, become famous and stand out from the crowd. Don't be a soldier - be like Napoleon. Don't become a murder victim - be Harold Shipman. "By doing this, you will secure your place in history and live for ever while the nobodies will die and be forgotten." When police raided his flat they found a newspaper with a picture of the destruction of the World Trade Centre on September 11 2001. Written in the paper's margin was the word "hate", while phrases such as "death to them all" were written on his walls. McAuliffe showed no remorse for his actions. The court heard that he had checked the news to see if he had killed anyone and was disappointed that he had not. Only one person was injured during his campaign - a man who found a discarded device in a skip and who suffered minor burns after picking it up. Judge John Bevan QC jailed McAuliffe for life, saying he must serve at least 10 years before being eligible for parole. The judge said: "Events at school, work and home remained in your mind and developed into grudges, which dominated your thoughts. "You are a continuing danger for the foreseeable future." McAuliffe showed no emotion as he was sentenced. Outside court, his brother, John, 55, criticised the sentence, saying: "He just had a mental breakdown. He never harmed anyone in his first 32 years." Fred Ferguson, defending, said McAuliffe, one of 12 brothers and sisters from a Luton family, acted after perceiving slights committed against him: "He felt people were ignoring him or belittling him." Detective Chief Inspector Peter Orr, of Bedfordshire police, said that luckily the defendant's landlord saw chemicals and bomb-making instructions in his flat and reported them to police, giving them an early lead. McAuliffe was arrested after three weeks on the run from police on September 25. He was said to have been on the way to the home of his former boss, Colin Willison, intending to kill him. If a letter bomb he had sent failed to kill Mr Willison, McAuliffe planned to pose as a pizza delivery man and stab him, the court heard. Mr Willison described the defendant as a former friend. "He used to be one of my best mates," he said. "We would go out drinking together. I looked after him. After his parents died, my wife and I found him a maisonette. I gave him clothes and lifts to work. "I still think of him as a friend and am considering writing to him. He has been crying out for help all his life. "He did have friends but he always was a bit of a lonely bloke. He was clever and perhaps frustrated. He was clearly someone who bears a grudge against the world."