An estranged husband tried to trigger a fatal allergic reaction in his wife by thrusting a hand sheathed in a latex glove into her mouth, a court heard yesterday. Knowing that Allison Phelps was severely allergic to latex, Charles Henson broke into her home and allegedly forced his hand into her mouth, telling her: "You will be dead in four minutes."Ms Phelps's new partner, Michael Phelps, leapt on Mr Henson, allowing her to escape, but suffered serious stab wounds in the struggle. When he was arrested Mr Henson still had a white surgical glove on his left hand and police found eight other gloves in the camouflage jacket he was wearing, the court heard. He denies attempted murder, wounding with intent and a charge of trying to poison Ms Phelps, Mr Phelps and three of their children by turning on the gas hobs of their cooker.A jury at Bristol crown court heard Ms Phelps, from Coleford in Gloucestershire, and Mr Henson, 39, an American former serviceman and jewellery maker, met in an internet chatroom and after a nine-month courtship married in July last year. But the marriage failed and Ms Phelps accused Mr Henson of violence towards her from the wedding night on. He was into the sadomasochistic scene and wanted to treat her as his slave, she claimed.Police investigated Ms Phelps's allegations of violence but the case against Mr Henson was dropped and he was deported in February this year. Ms Phelps and her two teenage children set up home with Michael Phelps and she took his surname.Early on March 4, Ms Phelps was woken by the sound of one of her dogs barking. Mr Phelps went downstairs and smelled gas. He shouted to Ms Phelps to take the children out of the house and not to turn any lights on. After 15 minutes they went back into the dark house. Two of the children sat on the sofa in the living room and noticed the bespectacled Mr Henson lying in front of the sofa. Ms Phelps, who gave evidence from behind a screen blocking Mr Henson's view of her, said: "He put his hand into my mouth quite suddenly and quite violently. It was a gloved hand."She told the court she suffered from a "severe allergic reaction" to latex. She always kept adrenaline to hand, with which she had to inject herself if exposed to latex. She said she suffered ulcers in her mouth and sore lips after the attack.The trial continues.