A policy of removing toddlers from their mothers in prison once they reach the age of 18 months is "a clear breach of the right to respect for family life" and should be declared unlawful, the high court was told yesterday. Richard Gordon QC, representing two mothers convicted of drug offences, told the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, and Mr Justice Lightman that the policy failed to take account of the children's individual needs. Lord Woolf said at the start of the two day hearing that the cases raised "very moving problems". The two mothers were granted anonymity and were named only as Q and P. P, a 32-year-old Jamaican serving an eight-year sentence in Styal prison, Cheshire, launched the challenge after being told last January that her daughter, born in July 1999, must go into foster care. She was arrested in March 1999, when five months' pregnant, and charged with smuggling cocaine. P, who has three children in Jamaica, will be eligible for parole in March 2003. Q, from Brixton, south London, is serving a five year sentence at Askham Grange prison, York, for conspiracy to supply cannabis. Her daughter was born last July and will be three by the time her mother is eligible for parole in July 2002. Two other Styal prisoners, J and K, have cases pending. Mr Gordon said fundamental rights were at stake. The rigid "arbitrary, irrational and discriminatory" policy of removing babies at 18 months prevented the assessment of cases on their individual merits. The across the board policy was contrary to the European convention on human rights because it interfered with a prisoner's right to family life. "The importance of the mother-child attachment is self-evident and should be preserved if at all possible," Mr Gordon said. "There is clear parliamentary intent that children in need shall receive a full assessment of their need." Lawyers for the Home Office are expected to argue that the home secretary, Jack Straw, has developed a policy which allows mothers to look after young children, while protecting older children from the damaging experience of prison.