Witnesses to the final moments of Stephen Lawrence's life have told an Old Bailey jury of how the teenager was killed in a silent and "completely unprovoked" attack that was over in seconds.Brought to the Old Bailey to recollect the events of 18 years ago, three people who were standing at the bus stop in Eltham with Lawrence and his friend Duwayne Brooks, gave evidence at the murder trial of Gary Dobson and David Norris.Royston Westbrook, a hospital worker, described how a group of white youths collided with the two young black men and swallowed up Lawrence in their midst as Brooks managed to get away. Westbrook was allowed to look at the statement he made to police immediately after the killing on 22 April 1993 while he gave his evidence to the jury at the central criminal court.The two defendants, Dobson, 36, and Norris 35, deny murdering Lawrence, 18. No one has ever been able to identify the men who attacked Lawrence. The prosecution is using new forensic evidence, which it says links the defendants to the murder scene through fibres, hair and blood.Westbrook said the night was cold and clear, the street was quiet and the streetlights highlighted. Lawrence and Brooks were messing about "chit chatting" about football and pretending to kick balls as they waited for a bus."One of them slightly disappeared around the bend for a few seconds," said Westbrook. "Then they both turned round and started coming back towards the bus stop. As they came round, almost reaching the zebra crossing, some boys appeared on the opposite side of the road and started to run towards the bus stop as well. Then the boys on the other side of the road came diagonally across the road. Stephen and Duwayne kept coming and made it as far as Dickson Road. Then the group of white boys came across the road and just collided with them. That's what it looked like."The attack was over, he believed, in 10 seconds or so. "They surrounded the pair of them and they grabbed Duwayne Brooks' wrist and pulled him. Duwayne got away, ran away towards the bus stop and as he did he turned round and shouted 'leg it Steve' or 'run'."Then I saw them surround Stephen and he went down through the sheer weight of their numbers in the middle of them. He was completely surrounded, it looked like someone threw a punch at him. Then one of the boys brought his leg back, I assumed to kick him. Stephen came out between his legs, he struggled up and just ran up the hill … ran for his life."Westbrook said he believed he was witnessing a mere scuffle: "What was strange is it was so quiet. When there's a fight there's some form of shouting when you see the fight, but nothing was said, nothing at all. From my view it was a completely unprovoked attack. Then the boys just stood there for a few seconds and then walked off down Dickson Road, they didn't run."At the bus stop another youth said to Westbrook: "Looks like he got hit because he was black doesn't it?" As the bus drove down the road he looked out of the window and saw Stephen lying on the ground with a commotion around him. "I was just a bit perplexed about it," he said. "It hadn't seemed like much at the time. I thought someone had been punched and that's all. So when I heard two days later that one of the boys had died I was shocked."In cross-examination Westbrook said: "I don't think they were particularly worried which one of the two boys they grabbed," he said. "They managed to get one, they seemed content with one and they let Duwayne go after grabbing his arm."Alexandra Marie, a French au pair who was at the bus stop, agreed that the lack of noise was marked. "I didn't feel it was a particularly violent attack because there was not a lot of shouting. But I didn't feel at all comfortable with what I was seeing."A third witness, however, suggested the five men might have screamed and shouted as they charged Lawrence and Brooks. Joseph Shepherd, who lived near Lawrence and knew him by sight, said: "The white boys crossed the crossing and speeded into a spring and charged them. [Lawrence and Brooks] tried to run but they just bundled in on top of them. They grabbed Brooks but he managed to get away, but Stephen never did."The trial continues.