In the snowy Christmas of 2010, one story dominated the news: the disappearance of 25-year-old landscape architect Joanna Yeates. She went missing on 17 December and her body was discovered eight days later on the morning of Christmas Day – dumped on a golf course a few miles from the flat she and her boyfriend rented in Clifton, Bristol. She had been strangled. Everything about the case – the death of a quiet young woman, the mystery of her disappearance, the timing of the body’s discovery – made the story resonate with the public.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Joanna Yeates, 25, went missing in Bristol days before Christmas in 2010. It was later discovered that she had been murdered by a Dutch neighbour, Vincent Tabak.There was one other telling detail: the sudden emergence into the spotlight of Yeates’s landlord, Christopher Jefferies, a retired English teacher from a local public school, with flowing white hair and an unusually precise way of speaking. Five days after the discovery of Yeates’s body, Jefferies was arrested on suspicion of murder, and the press went into overdrive, with headlines about “The nutty professor”, allegations that Jefferies was a “peeping tom”, and a general acceptance that the police had got their man.The unspoken assumption was that no one could look that odd and be innocent. Jefferies was released on bail two days later, but was not formally cleared until 4 March, even though Vincent Tabak, another of Jefferies’s tenants, had been arrested in January and charged with the murder. Tabak was found guilty in October 2011 and jailed for life.These events have now been made into a mini-series by screenwriter Peter Morgan who, with Frost/Nixon and The Queen, has made the genre that marries true events with elements of fiction his own. The director is Roger Michell, maker of Notting Hill, Venus and Le Week-End. Showing on ITV this week, the two-parter concentrates on the character assassination of Jefferies and the way he fought back – suing the newspapers that defamed him and making a confident appearance at the Leveson inquiry. The film is beautifully made and has at its heart a stand-out performance by Jason Watkins as Jefferies, arraigned by press and police on the grounds of wilful eccentricity.“I followed the story at the time,” says Morgan. “Here was this perfect daughter of England – attractive, educated, a happy marriage and professional life ahead of her. Murders just don’t happen to these sort of people. I, like everybody else, saw the first picture of Jefferies and said, ‘I guess they’ve got him.’ I presumed he was a lonely man who was mad with jealousy at the idea of this young, hopeful, happy woman having a good life ahead of her. Then I didn’t pay much attention to it until about a year later, when I saw a picture of a very different-looking Christopher Jefferies with cropped hair giving evidence at the Leveson inquiry. My blood chilled and I felt so ashamed at having been complicit in this obscene prejudgment.”  Two of the many newspaper stories vilifying Jefferies during the Joanna Yeates investigation.Morgan arranged to meet Jefferies to discuss a drama, but there is no pretence that the result is a reconstruction. While it’s “based on true events”, this is no documentary. Some object to this. Private Eye has already had a few digs, pointing out that Jefferies and Steve Coogan did not meet at the Leveson inquiry, as is amusingly portrayed. Nor did the poignant final scene – in which Jefferies and Yeates’s boyfriend meet as the latter is planting a small garden in her memory – really happen. It neatly pulls the threads together, but it is not the literal truth. Does that matter?“Every so often, you have to do something that isn’t exactly as it was,” says Morgan. “As a dramatist, you have 200 choices at every fork in the road. But the audience will reject it if you make the wrong choice, if they feel you are trying to shape the character in a way that suits you. It rings false immediately. People can sense when you’re being cynical or schematic.”When I meet Jefferies in a hotel next to Clifton suspension bridge, he distances himself from some aspects of Morgan’s treatment. “He said he wouldn’t have been terribly interested had he simply been looking at somebody who was wrongfully arrested then vindicated,” says Jefferies. “What he was interested in was his perception of the transformation that had taken place between the person who was arrested and the person he then saw at the Leveson inquiry.” Jefferies downplays the extent of the change. “Life has changed significantly since December 2010 and I’ve done all sorts of things I wouldn’t have done had all that not happened. But I’m not aware of people who know me well thinking there’s been any significant transformation. There has been a physical change, but that was done for pragmatic reasons.”Making up scenes – while retaining what might be called their imaginative truthfulness – is one thing. But when much of the drama is predicated on the transformation of Jefferies from retired schoolteacher living a quiet life to figurehead of the Hacked Off group fighting for greater press regulation, it is disconcerting that the central character appears to dispute that such a change occurred. Morgan, though, is adamant both that Jefferies was “emancipated and reawoken” by his experiences, and that, in their conversations, he admitted that had been the case. “The way he refused to lie down and went after the press, winning an unreserved apology and damages, was remarkably courageous and it emboldened him.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Christopher Jefferies in London after giving evidence to the Leveson inquiry into press ethics in 2011. Photograph: Sang Tan/APIt is also disconcerting to meet Jefferies after seeing the drama. Watkins’s impersonation, helped by their physical similarity, is brilliant, but you are struck by its exaggerations: the hand movements are that much more fluttery, the voice even fruitier. What is really remarkable about Jefferies is not the eccentricity and theatricality, but the way he rode the storm and came to terms with an event that would have left many people shattered. He says the experience of being arrested was “numbing”, yet he never lost his sang-froid. Even in the police interrogations, presented more or less verbatim, he retains his teacherly precision and occasionally mocks the stupidity of the questions. For all his supposed unworldliness, he gives as good as he gets.When he was eventually bailed, the friends Jefferies went to stay with warned him not to look at the papers. “To this day, quite a lot of it I haven’t read,” he says. “At the time, all I looked at were specific things the lawyers wanted me to check to make sure there was no truth in what was being said.” Was he furious at what he did read? “It was more contempt. If it hadn’t been so serious, it would have been laughable. It was so grotesque.” If anything, he was more irked by the way his family and friends were pursued by reporters, often posing as well-wishers, to gather information about him. “The degree of harassment and intrusion my closest relatives had to put up with was disgraceful.” The anger this caused was the “emotional underpinning” of his appearance at Leveson and his continuing advocacy for Hacked Off.Michell was signed up to direct without anyone knowing he had been taught by Jefferies at Clifton College in the 1970s. It gives him a useful perspective on the degree to which his old English teacher has changed. I ask where he stands on the conflicting verdicts of Morgan and Jefferies. “The truth is somewhere in the middle. Christopher has changed, but not nearly as much as Peter would have liked him to have changed. It’s not a Hollywood movie. It doesn’t have that classic transformational thing, because Christopher is Christopher – a unique individual. Everyone’s unique, but he’s more unique than most.”Michell was keen to bring the script closer to real events. “There was a good deal of pushing and shoving,” he says. “There were various suggestions about the behaviour of his friends that Christopher didn’t like at all – moments where Peter had pushed too far. So there were quite a few things we needed to work on.” One was to reduce the level of vilification Jefferies is shown to have suffered. “In the initial script, he was virtually being attacked in the street. He was upset – because he had been very touched by how loyal the Clifton community had remained. So that has been massaged. We’ve exaggerated rather than invented.”Both Morgan and Michell see the mini-series as a defence of being different. “I was concerned that the right to be an eccentric was under siege,” says Michell. “We have always been good at eccentrics in England. I felt that was a cause worth fighting for.”Does Jefferies see himself as an eccentric? “That’s certainly Peter’s slant on it,” he says, “but if he had visited Clifton College when I joined [in 1967] and seen some of the other staff, he might have thought I was conventionality itself.” He does, however, accept people might find some of his mannerisms odd. “If you spend all your life teaching, you are projecting a public personality all the time. You’re like an actor. Teaching is to some extent an act, and part of the business of teaching is to be aware of audience reaction. You’re more likely to be successful as a teacher if you’re not entirely normal.”• The Lost Honour of Christopher Jefferies is on ITV1 on 10 and 11 December.• This article was amended on 9 December 2014 to clarify that Joanna Yeates was a landscape architect, not a landscape gardener; and that Clifton is in Bristol.