In the end, secret surveillance caught the killer. Under the controversial Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000, Ian Huntley's meeting with his mother in his prison cell was covertly taped. Until then, he had consistently denied the two Soham girls, Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells, had been inside his home. The house itself had been so ruthlessly cleaned that not a single shred of forensic evidence linked to the girls could be found. Talking with his mother, Huntley admitted they had been inside, forcing him at the trial to admit they died there. Yesterday the jury rejected his preposterous explanation that Holly died accidentally after falling into his bath, while Jessica was killed accidentally, as he was trying to silence her screams, and found him guilty of double murder. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for each. His besotted fiancée, Maxine Carr, was found not guilty of assisting Huntley in the murders - she was in Grimsby - but was sentenced to three and a half years for perverting the course of justice by pretending she was there.One immediate question raised by the 27-day trial is whether it should have taken so long. Huntley is partly responsible for that. If he had conceded at the start that he would admit the girls had been inside his home, some of the early part of the trial could have been foreshortened. But there are more serious issues to examine: mistakes in the vetting process (now to be reviewed by an inquiry announced yesterday); mistakes in the investigation; abuse by the media. Two different mistakes were made during the vetting process. The first was by Cambridgeshire police, which only checked one of two names that Huntley used, thus missing a burglary conviction that could have disqualified him from the caretaker's job, since it included responsibility for security. More seriously, police in Humberside, where Huntley had been living, failed to tell Cambridgeshire that although Huntley had no convictions for sex offences, there were eight occasions where accusations of sexual assaults or having sexual relations with under-age girls were recorded against him. A new system, the criminal records bureau, has come into force since Huntley was vetted. It now claims 93% of vetting applications are completed in four weeks. Yet, it too is dependent on local forces being more systematic in pulling together relevant intelligence not on the police national computer. This has always been a grey area. It is to be hoped that the 280 extra analysts hired by the Home Office can make the local level more systematic. Huntley's behaviour clearly followed a sexual predator pattern that should have been logged by Humberside and used to warn valid vetting inquiries. Soham raises another question. Does the UK need a British equivalent of the FBI, incorporating a national paedophile unit? Cambridgeshire is a small force, but it was supported by a Metropolitan police murder review unit (which should have been called in earlier) and officers from 20 forces. We have already set up a national criminal intelligence service (in 1992) and a national crime squad (1998). Adding a national paedophile unit, when only six children are abducted by strangers a year, does not look productive. Murder inquiries need local knowledge. What is needed is more systematic support. Soham generated 15,000 calls from people offering information. Then there is the media, which the attorney general is already examining. He has already said some reports were "unacceptable". But he needs to look forward as well as back and to find some way of preventing the press from fixing Maxine Carr as the new Myra Hindley. They always need a hate figure, someone who can be declared "Britain's most evil woman". Carr, though a guilty woman, is far from that.