Radical plans to shift responsibility for the charging of suspects from the police to crown prosecution service lawyers will be announced soon by the government after it won the backing of Britain's most senior police officers, the Guardian has learned.The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) believes the change is an important way to cut the huge number of cases that fail in court, even though the move is likely to enrage junior officers, who will regard it as an erosion of power and a lack of faith in their competence. Acpo and the CPS have lobbied for the change, confident that it will be an important element in the reform of the criminal justice system. A white paper is expected to be published within weeks. The proposal was a key recommendation in Lord Justice Auld's review of practices in England and Wales. Pilot projects have been running in Kent, Essex, Avon and Somerset, west Yorkshire and north Wales since February. Acpo claims the pilot schemes have been an unqualified success. Jim Barker-McCardle, the assistant chief constable of Kent, said that letting prosecutors take the lead meant that the lawyers were "on the front foot" when cases reached court, and did not have to worry whether the evidence fitted the charge. "The pilots are showing that close and early cooperation be tween the police and the CPS means everything tends to run more smoothly," he said. "If you think about it, it makes sense to let qualified lawyers decide on the appropriateness of the charge." Under the scheme, custody sergeants have a right of appeal if they disagree with the prosecutors but Mr Barker-McCardle, who heads the national project board overseeing custody rooms, said it has proved unnecessary so far. "There is a mechanism for seeking a second opinion from a different lawyer, but we have found that investigators and lawyers have worked very closely and this has not been needed. The officers appear to have really appreciated the early dialogue with prosecutors." Officers will retain the power to extend questioning time in custody and to set bail conditions. Acpo believes that prosecutors will eventually have offices in all major police stations. However, the lawyer will not physically charge suspects or be responsible for the initial paperwork - that will be left to police officers. "The police and the CPS need to maintain their independence, but the easier it is for an investigator to take professional advice from the prosecutor, the better," said Mr Barker-McCardle. Although the CPS knows that taking responsibility for charging suspects will add to the workload - David Calvert Smith, the director of public prosecutions, is trying to ease administrative burdens on his lawyers - the agency believes that staff want the change and that, in the long term, it will save time. There is also an acknowledgment that it is fairer on the suspect to have a qualified lawyer overseeing the charging process rather than a police officer who is not trained to the same standard. The CPS leaders and police chiefs have come under growing pressure recently after studies highlighted problems in the preparation and delivery of cases. A report by the independent CPS inspectorate warned last month that between 55% and 80% of trials in magistrates courts were either "cracked" or "ineffective". It also revealed that some 11,000 cases were wrongly dropped last year. Figures published in March showed that the number of defendants being cleared at court had risen by a quarter over the last five years. In 2001, 12.1% of cases ended in acquittal. A recent report found that only 7.35% of rape cases reported to police ended up with a conviction. Criticism of the way the CPS and the police handled the Damilola Taylor trial, in which all four defendants were cleared, prompted two separate inquiries. As revealed in the Guardian, the disclosure of a defendant's previous convictions - if they are deemed relevant to the case at trial - will be made available to the jury.