Police hunting the armed gang who killed PC Sharon Beshenivsky as they fled from a bungled shop raid in Bradford are hunting three men whose names have emerged from inquiries in London.Detectives are not releasing their identities but the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, said yesterday that he expected "significant developments' in the investigation within 24 hours.The gang's suspected getaway car has been found in London, and police appealed for any sightings of a silver Toyota RAV-4 jeep, registration number WP05 YTT, since October 25 when it was rented from Heathrow airport.Sir Ian described a "fairly chaotic" gang world, with raiding parties that swapped members rather than organising tightly knit units. West Yorkshire police released the five men and one woman who were brought from London in an armed convoy for questioning at the weekend. The men, all from south-east London, have been bailed to return to Yorkshire for further questioning. The woman, who is 18, has been freed without charge.The Toyota is thought to have been spotted on Bradford's CCTV system, which logs all cars entering and leaving the city, and then picked up by cameras in London. Det Supt Andy Brennan of West Yorkshire police, head of the murder inquiry, said: "We believe that it travelled to West Yorkshire from London in the early hours of Friday [the day of the shooting] and returned to London later that evening."PC Beshenivsky, 38, was killed and her colleague PC Teresa Milburn, 37, wounded when they answered a silent panic button as the gang burst into Universal Express travel agents in central Bradford. The agency's owner, Mohammed Yusuf, said that two of his sons had been tied up and pistol-whipped as the men demanded £100,000.When the police arrived they fled "shooting like cowboys" with only £2,000. The agency is one of a number of British Asian businesses that transfer large sums of cash to families in Pakistan - including earthquake relief funds - which have recently been targeted by organised criminals.Tony Blair was among MPs who paid tribute yesterday to PC Beshenivsky, who will be mourned at a service in Bradford tomorrow. There will be prayers in Centenary Square at 3.15pm followed by a two-minute silence.The prime minister said in a message to the Bradford Telegraph & Argus: "It is clear that Sharon Beshenivsky was a wonderful mother and wife as well as being a dedicated police officer. It is a sad, if perhaps inevitable, fact that it takes an evil act like this to remind us all of the bravery and sacrifice of our policemen and women. We must do more to take guns off our streets. I promise we will."