A youth who murdered two schoolfriends with a hunting knife was jailed for life yesterday in a case which has raised questions about the mental health risks of cannabis. Thomas Palmer, a habitual cannabis user, was 18 when he killed the two boys in an "explosion of anger" which left one of them with his head almost severed.He cut 16-year-old Steven Bayliss's throat and stabbed Nuttawut Nadauld, 14, on a footpath near their home in Finchampstead, Berkshire, in September 2005. Palmer admitted killing the boys but denied murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility, claiming he was in the early stages of schizophrenia. A jury at Reading crown court yesterday rejected this and found him guilty of murder.Philip Joseph, an expert witness for the prosecution, said any psychotic symptoms were likely to have been caused by heavy cannabis use. Palmer, now 20, was not smoking on the day of the killings but told doctors he had been using skunk regularly in the preceding weeks. Palmer told clinicians he had attacked the boys when they tried to comfort him as he had a serious panic attack. He told police he had attacked the boys after they mocked him about his eating habits and his parents' divorce.Outside court, Rethink, a mental health charity, called for a public health campaign warning of the risks of cannabis use. Paul Corry, director of public affairs, said: "We now know that cannabis can be a trigger for mental health problems and smoking it under the age of 18 can double people's chances of developing psychosis."Palmer told prison doctors that he was smoking cannabis daily by the time he was 15. The jury was told his personality appeared to change in the months before the killings. One friend became concerned when he discovered he had used a knife to carve swastikas into his chest.The court heard that Steven Bayliss and Nuttawut Nadauld were in a group of about 15 friends in Wokingham who would meet in the woods to drink alcohol and smoke cannabis.The court was told Palmer had a fascination with knives, and bought the one he killed the boys with from a sports shop. In the days before the murders, Palmer repeatedly watched a DVD about a serial killer who filmed himself stabbing his victims to death, the court heard.The judge, Mr Justice David Bean, said the most likely explanation for Palmer's behaviour was "a sudden and lethal explosion of anger, although what caused it remains something of a mystery".On the advice of mental health specialists, the judge took the unusual step of allowing Palmer to be absent from the trial. After seeing the jury sworn in, he was absent for the evidence, but returned to court yesterday to hear the verdicts and his sentence. After the verdict was read out, Palmer called out to the packed public gallery: "I'm sorry. Sorry."