It was not an auspicious start to the most important change in history in the way our judges are appointed. The very first time the brand new judicial appointments commission sifted through applications for the posts of circuit judges, there followed a host of complaints from rejected applicants, the intervention of the lord chief justice, and the entire process having to be done again, in a different way. What happened was that commission panels (a judge and two lay members) had rejected more than 200 applicants after studying their application forms, which included a self-assessment section.But the panels had not looked at the references from senior judges, which accompanied the applications. That, they thought - quite reasonably, and consistent with practice in the outside world - came at a later stage, when the field of possible candidates would have been narrowed down.The rejected felt differently. They felt the panels should have looked at their references. And so the commission went back and looked at the 200 losers again and managed to find 59 whom they recommended for interview, to join the 90 originally chosen (for 75 jobs).But that's now created a new controversy. One of the main reasons for the old system coming into disrepute was that the lord chancellor, who appointed the judges, was said to have relied too much on the views of senior judges when choosing who to put on the bench. Barristers who had appeared before them in court, or who they knew through the old boy network and the clubby ambiance of the Inns of Court, had a better chance than solicitors, women and members of the ethnic minorities.The commission is supposed to eliminate such tendencies to favouritism. But the recent confusion over applications has triggered suspicions that the senior judiciary will, once again, be exerting a disproportionate influence. It is, of course, far too soon to be concluding anything, but our much hyped new method of choosing judges could have wished for a more promising inauguration.· A senior Pentagon official, a lawyer, has resigned after suggesting that companies should no longer use the services of law firms who have represented Guantánamo detainees. Charles Stimson made his comments in a radio interview. "I think, quite honestly, when corporate CEOs see that those firms are representing the very terrorists who hit their bottom line back in 2001, those CEOs are going to make those law firms choose between representing terrorists or representing reputable firms." He named several firms that had detainees as their clients. The Pentagon dissociated itself from his remarks, and he's being investigated by the bar authorities for possible breach of professional ethics. It's a tiny blow for legal independence in the face of hostility from high up, but, in the present climate, we should be grateful for such small US mercies.· Fresh from this column's success - temporarily slowed down - in picking winning racehorses with legal names, I am starting to assess the next United States presidency in terms of its lawyer candidates. The three favourites for the Democratic nomination are all lawyers. They are Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and John Edwards. On the Republican side Rudy Giuliani is a lawyer, but John McCain is not. It is a bit soon to start betting, but I will be investigating the odds on an Edwards-Giuliani final, with Edwards victorious.