Each Monday, the editor of the Observer Magazine holds a features meeting and sketches out the articles that we'll be running that coming Sunday. Last week, as usual, we worked through the list - a profile of the 24-year-old billionaire who founded Facebook, a piece about the ticking of the male biological clock and, lastly, Andrew Anthony's powerful feature on knife crime in the capital, focusing on the tragic story of 16-year-old schoolboy Kodjo Yenga.As the meeting broke up, I gave one of my colleagues, the benefit of some of my store of useless information. 'I used to know a Kodjo,' I said. 'He told me that everybody born on a Monday in Zaire is automatically called Kodjo.' As I said it, an image of the sparkly eyed eight-year-old popped into my mind - eager, fun, mischievous. I smiled to myself and idly wondered what he'd be up to by now.Andrew's 9,000-word knife crime feature arrived on my screen a couple of days later. And as I started to copy edit it an awful wave of cold recognition washed over me - incredibly, horrifyingly, the schoolboy who'd been so senselessly stabbed in the street to bleed to death in the arms of his girlfriend... was my Kodjo. I could hardly believe the appalling coincidence of it.I got to know Kodjo almost a decade ago when I volunteered for a boys' mentoring scheme at a local school close to the office I then worked in. Each Wednesday, for about a year, I went over to the Marlborough primary school and spent an hour with him. I was supposed to spend the time reading, but soon discovered he was a great reader already. We tackled the first Harry Potter together - me reading one page aloud, him the next - but a fortnight later he astounded me by announcing he'd taken Harry Potter home and finished it himself.I mentioned this to his teacher who agreed his reading was fine, but that she'd put Kodjo into the scheme as she'd felt he'd benefit from some 'one-to-one time' with a man - Kodjo lived alone with his mother and the idea of providing positive male role models was then just getting into its stride. 'Don't worry,' she said, 'have some fun together. It'll do him good.' It did us both good. Mostly we did what Kodjo loved best - writing scary stories. Together we created the Ojdok Nitram - our names spelt backwards - a mythical beast with barbed wire instead of fur and a mouth on the end of each of its six legs. Every Wednesday the Ojdok embarked on another fearsome adventure, with Kodjo writing them all out in his painstaking copperplate.While not writing, or playing Boggle, Kodjo would tell me about his life. Given his mastery of the gripping anecdote, I was never sure how much to believe, but his winning smile and innocent enthusiasm meant I was always happy to sit back and enjoy his company. He told me he sometimes messed up his homework because his mother was French and couldn't speak English - well that's inventive, at least, I thought. And his father wasn't around because he was a famous artist in Zaire and the government wouldn't let him leave - wow! Now I know that everything he told was true. 'What about football?' I once asked, expecting something fanciful. 'Will you play for Chelsea?''Nah,' he said. 'Football's boring!' He was nothing if not surprising.Over the years I've often wondered how Kodjo was doing. Laziness meant I never got back in touch, though in a strange way I sort of missed him. I sometimes daydreamed that I should have played a more formative part in the life of a little boy with the odds stacked against him. I really must get back in touch, I'd think, knowing all along I probably never would. And now, I know, I never can.