A 12-year-old boy will appear in court today in connection with the death of an 11-year-old Somali asylum seeker, following an alleged incident in a school dining hall. It is understood that the dead boy was involved in a scuffle at All Saints Secondary School in the Barmulloch area of Glasgow shortly after 11.30am yesterday.He was rushed to nearby Stobhill Hospital but was later pronounced dead. Glasgow city council said the boy, who had lived in Glasgow for three-and-a-half years, fell ill in the school dining area during a mid-morning break. A spokesman said the dining area was crowded at the time and the pupils who witnessed the incident were in "complete shock". Last night, Strathclyde Police said they had arrested a 12-year-old boy and that a report had been sent to the procurator fiscal. He was due to appear at Glasgow Sheriff Court some time today. The Daily Record newspaper named the dead boy as Suhail Saleh, but police refused to confirm the name. He had been living in Glasgow with his mother, brother and aunt at the Red Road flats close to the school, after the family fled Mogadishu. The first minister, Jack McConnell, this morning told BBC Radio Scotland: "We have heard this morning of the absolute tragedy of a young boy in All Saints Secondary School in Glasgow at the start of a new life in Scotland, having his life taken away."But that school and that community have an excellent record of integrating young people from other countries and cultures into their way of life. "And in that school those young people are raising standards, improving discipline, instilling ambition in other young people, and giving young people a much wider perspective on the rest of the world."Yesterday, the head of the school, Thomas McDonald, wrote a letter to parents informing them of the tragedy. He said: "I write to inform you of great sadness that due to a tragic event today in school a pupil has lost his life. "The whole school community obviously feels a deep sense of grief and our thoughts are with his family. "Pupils should attend school as normal tomorrow. Appropriate support will be available to all those who require it. Prayers will be offered for the repose of his soul." Pupils are also to be offered counselling to deal with the shock of yesterday's events. About one in 10 of the school's 909 pupils are either asylum seekers or refugees who have had their asylum claims approved. All Saints has 67 asylum-seeker students and 23 pupils who have been granted refugee status. Up to 14 nationalities study at the school including students from Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and eastern Europe.