Britain is to get a new supreme court like the US and Canada, ending its status as the only country whose senior judges are anomalously part of the legislature.The move will be warmly welcomed by some of the law lords, who until now have carried out their legal function from the House of Lords. Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, and Lord Steyn, a long-time critic of the present arrangements, will be delighted at the change - though some favour remaining in the Lords. Most law lords, including Lord Steyn, will be relieved that with the abolition of the lord chancellor's role no politician will any longer be able to sit as a judge. Lord Falconer, in the new role of secretary of state for constitutional affairs, will play no part in the supreme court, which will be the highest court and last point of appeal in the land. He will, however, take over responsibility for the administration of courts in England and Wales. The independent judicial appointments commission announced yesterday will replace the lord chancellor's role in selecting judges. One of the chief aims of the body, which is expected to be lay-dominated, will be to create more women and ethnic minority judges. Under Labour the judiciary has remained as stubbornly white, male and public-school educated as it was under the Tories.But it is as yet unknown how members of the new supreme court will be appointed. It is possible that the existing system, in which the law lords are appointed by the Queen on the recommendation of the prime minister might remain. Also unclear is where the new supreme court will sit. Lord Irvine often claimed he had no objection to the creation of a supreme court but insisted it would need an architecturally significant new building. Reports last month indicated that the department would take over the former Home Office building in Queen Anne's Gate in 2007 after a £75m refit. The law lords are unlikely to be demanding: they will be satisfied as long as they get the space and support staff that have been so lacking in the Lords. Ending the "hybrid role" of the lord chancellor removes an ancient anomaly that would guarantee greater independence for the judiciary, said Mark Littlewood, campaigns director for the civil rights group Liberty. "At last there will be a clearer separation between judges and politicians. Some may lament the abolition of a position which has an even longer history than that of prime minister, but a modern democracy needs to be based on sensible and logical rules, not on anachronistic traditions." The power for the lord chancellor to choose which cases he sat on, and to preside as a judge over the country's highest court caused much resentment among the law lords. Lord Steyn publicly argued on several occasions that it breached the right to a fair trial by an "independent and impartial tribunal" in the European convention on human rights. The Liberal Democrat peers and QCs Lord Lester and Lord Goodhart have also pressed hard for the lord chancellor to lose the right to sit as a judge. With the move to a supreme court will come pressure to make it more diverse, like other countries' highest courts. While women have sat on the US and Canadian supreme court benches for decades, and Canada has a woman chief justice, Britain's highest court has never had a woman judge. Reacting to yesterday's developments Sir Colin Campbell, who heads the commission for judicial appointments, which reviews and investigates complaints about the current appointment procedures, said: "This appears to be a step in the right direction but only the detail will determine whether it is pigeon step or a giant leap." Richard Miller, director of the Legal Aid Practitioners Group, which represents lawyers doing legal aid work, said: "We welcome the modernisation of the governmental structure this change introduces. "However, we fear the chance has been missed to create a ministry of justice with full responsibility for the whole of the criminal justice system."