Debate has been raging in the Twittersphere about whether Dorset police overreacted by arresting a 17-year-old in the early hours "on suspicion of malicious communications".The police were responding to a tweet sent by a Twitter user which quoted the Twitter name of the Olympic diver Tom Daley, who missed out on a medal yesterday. The tweet told Daley: "you let your dad down i hope you know that".Daley's father Rob died last year from brain cancer.There were other remarks made by the same Twitter user which, out of an abundance of caution, I decided not to include in the first version of this article. However, they have been circulating on Twitter and have been reported by the Guardian. One of them reads: "i'm going to find you and i'm going to drown you in the pool you cocky twat your a nobody people like you make me sick."Dorset police were unable to say earlier in the day which tweets had prompted their arrest.What has surprised some people is that it is only four days since another Twitter user, Paul Chambers, was cleared of sending a menacing communication, an offence under the Communications Act 2003. The lord chief justice, Lord Judge, and two other judges ruled that the message, sent in frustration when Chambers found his local airport closed because of bad weather, was not menacing.The high court said that if an offender had intended the message as a joke — even a poor joke in bad taste — it is unlikely that the prosecutor would be able to establish the necessary mental element for the offence. Crucially, though, the court decided that using Twitter was covered by the 2003 act. If the message had been menacing - and if Chambers had intended it to create fear or apprehension among reasonable people or been indifferent to that risk - the court would not have overturned his conviction.The Twitter user who wrote about Daley is apparently being questioned under the Malicious Communications Act 1988, which was initially directed at poison-pen letters. This makes it an offence to send an electronic communication which conveys a message that is grossly offensive, but only if the sender's purpose is to cause distress or anxiety to the recipient or anyone else to whom he intends to communicate it. The maximum penalty is six months' imprisonment or a fine of £5,000.Because an individual has been arrested, it would be wrong to speculate on whether individual tweets sent by the 17-year-old - and there were several more that followed - are covered by either communications act. As Lord Judge said last Friday of the 2003 act:"satirical, or iconoclastic, or rude comment, the expression of unpopular or unfashionable opinion about serious or trivial matters, banter or humour, even if distasteful to some or painful to those subjected to it should and no doubt will continue at their customary level, quite undiminished by this legislation".But however difficult it is to draw the line, there are limits to free speech. Nobody, I hope, would argue that public figures should have to put up with any abuse that can be thrown at them, however defamatory, offensive or downright unpleasant. Public figures have human rights too. I am not arguing that public figures deserve special privileges. But they don't deserve death threats either.What Twitter users have to understand is that a tweet is not an email; it is a broadcast. It can be seen by anyone.It is fair to say that the user currently under arrest addressed his tweet to Daley and so it would have been seen, in the first instance, only by the presumably very small number of Twitter-users who followed both individuals. It was Daley who chose to retweet it, adding: "After giving it my all… you get idiots sending me this…"We do not know whether the Twitter-user knew that this is how the system works. But although "replies" are visible only to those who follow both the sender and recipient, "mentions" are visible to all followers. In any event, the lord chief justice had a warning for all Twitter users in his judgment last week. He said: "As every 'Twitter' user appreciates or should appreciate, it is possible for non-followers to access ... "public time lines" and they, too, can then read the messages." (emphasis added). We should not overreact to people who publish stupid remarks on Twitter that they may live to regret in the cold light of day. The law does not concern itself with trifles - and there may be nothing more trifling than a 140-character rant. Trolls deserve to be excluded rather than prosecuted.But Twitter has given everyone in the world instant access to a public forum. Until recently, most people were constrained by the traditional gatekeepers to this forum: journalists, broadcasters and publishers. If everyone is now to have a shout, a lot of people will have to learn rather quickly what they can and cannot say.This article was updated at 19.01 on 31 July 2012