I left school and home at age 16 and have never had a bean from any government. I've lived in launderettes, bus shelters, railway stations and squalid accommodation. Aged about 18, I managed to enrol in an apprenticeship in carpentry and joinery. What an excellent training ground: that was the best move I ever made. I later achieved ONC and HNC in building studies. Then, through further evening and weekend study, I eventually become a professional member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and a professional member of the Chartered Institute of Building.The study time was 20 hours per week in addition to the usual 50 hour week expected by my employers. I have subsequently achieved other professional qualifications and am now a self-employed professional man aged 55. However, I do not expect ever to be in a financial position to be able to retire as my pension savings have been robbed, as have those of so many others.I should like to hear a cogent argument why I should subsidise others who will not work as hard as I have. Work hard, pay your own way in life and neither a borrower nor a lender be.James MartinCanterbury My 80-year-old mother, who is on pension credit, lives on her own in a flat bought by my brother and myself and receives daily visits via social services, has been informed by Lancashire county council that it can no longer afford to pay for her weekly domestic care needs, which equates to someone from the care company doing her shopping and cleaning (two hours). I am informed that she has to fund this.Here is the rub: I am told by the county council to apply for a weekly attendance allowance which she is entitled to, which will more than cover the costs for her care needs. Furthermore, since she lives in property not owned by her, I should charge her rent for which she can claim housing benefit.So there you have it – to save Lancashire £25 a week, it is going to cost the state at least an additional £100 per week.Narendra ParekhPrestonThe social costs of crime Sophie Radice fails to mention the effect of criminal actions on others, whether they be gang members or unsuspecting members of the public ("Why was my teenage friend Peter given a prison sentence without end?", Comment).If Peter had done some "very stupid things in his short life" involving gangs, which the article hints at, then my research shows it has serious and often long-term repercussions for those around him. Let's continue to criticise and campaign against another of David Blunkett's many anomalies when he was home secretary but, equally, not forget financially supporting grass-roots projects that work with communities in tackling gangs and criminality.  Dr Roger GreenVisiting senior research fellowUniversity of BedfordshireIn praise of 'soft imperialism'Further to Peter Preston's article, the BBC World Service could exercise its influence by spending more, even a little more ("A new language for the World Service: austerity"). In the current jargon, this is "soft imperialism", the more effective when it is impartial. The Beeb is certainly that. Following a disaster in India or Pakistan, radios in every village are tuned to the BBC World Service.Mr Preston made another point about "austerity". This may well be good if the Beeb digs into its archives and broadcasts the excellent English by Radio programmes. Everyone has a radio. It is also cheaper to produce, in this age of "austerity". People can listen to a radio at any time. Having listened to English by Radio, people would sometimes listen to other programmes, another example of "soft imperialism".William Robert HainesShrewsburyMore power to our elbow Contrary to your alarming allegation in last week's paper ("Oil lobby in legal threat to North Sea wind farms", Business), Oil & Gas UK is not threatening any legal action against offshore wind farm development. Your article was highly selective in quoting from our submission in February to the government's first consultation on the national policy statements for energy infrastructure. It ignored our key message of the fundamental need for successful coexistence of offshore oil and gas and wind power.Malcolm WebbChief executive Oil & Gas UKLondon SW1Sizing up Lara StoneWith reference to the Lara Stone size 8 issue, (Lettersk), we should perhaps establish whether the journalist was referring to a US or UK size 8.I can remember watching Raquel Welch on the Terry Wogan show years ago when she claimed to be a size 6. Wogan spluttered that she was no size 6 because his wife was a size 10 and they had much the same build!Raquel looked insulted but it later transpired that a US size 6 is a UK size 10, making Lara Stone, an American, probably a UK size 12. It's possible to be a size 12 with a fuller figure.Paula Halliday (size 12)Preston