The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, was last night flying back to Britain from a weekend break in the South of France to face renewed controversy over implementation of the report into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence - and the government's handling of the affair. After 24 hours of prevarication by the Conservative opposition, the shadow home secretary, Sir Norman Fowler, called on Mr Straw to 'consider his position' for his performance last week after the report came out - while insisting that Sir Paul Condon, embattled Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, should not be forced to resign. Rather, Sir Norman said, Sir Paul should spend his final year in office rebuilding 'public trust where it clearly doesn't exist at the moment'. To add to the confusion, Sir Norman also reversed his earlier position and joined the media-led chorus of criticism against Mr Straw for leaving his deputy, Paul Boateng, to tell MPs on Friday about the inquiry report's accidental naming of witnesses in the Lawrence murder case. Downing Street last night confirmed that Tony Blair had received a letter from the parents of the five youths widely suspected in the stabbing of 18-year-old Stephen in 1993, insisting that their sons 'are British too' and have rights. Written before the mothers gave an interview to the BBC Today programme, the letter prompted a bland reply from the Prime Minister, who today is publishing an article that admits there is still 'a mountain to climb' over race relations. In Mr Straw's absence, on a pre-arranged budget holiday flight with his wife, Alice, cabinet colleagues expressed anger and contempt at what they saw as opportunistic exploitation of a tragedy by the Opposition. 'Preposterous and despicable,' said one senior minister. But the cabinet remains equally determined not to implement all 70 of the recommendations made by the Lawrence inquiry chairman, Sir William McPherson, in his report. Some of them it regards as 'daft'. Speaking on LWT's Dimbleby programme yesterday Doreen Lawrence, Stephen's mother, was asked if she believed her son's killers would ever face justice. Mrs Lawrence said: 'Not with the justice that I would like to see, because with what has happened, what has happened with the media, they can plead all sorts of different things like double jeopardy or whatever, but in that respect unless some new evidence comes forward we will never ever get that justice... But what I think has happened is that they [the suspects] can no longer hide behind their doors... Recently it has been coming across as if to say 'these poor young men, they've been victimised and everything'. They are not the victims here.' The Lawrences have yet to confirm whether they will sue the police in light of the inquiry report's criticisms. Meanwhile, Paul Boateng, the Home Office Minister, refused in an LWT interview to accept his department was responsible for the Macpherson report's inclusion of details of people who gave information to the police investigating the racist murder. He also vehemently denied rumours that he leaked the report to the Sunday Telegraph, saying: 'All of that is a diversion from the real issue, and the real issue is racism and how as a society we combat racism'. Mr Boateng repeated that Sir Paul Condon should not step down as head of the Met. 'We are not in the business of symbols, of ritual sacrifice.' In his article today in the black weekly, the New Nation, Mr Blair will contrast the success of General Colin Powell, a Jamaican immigrant's son who became US chief of staff, with the failure to achieve comparable careers in Britain. Britain needs all its talents, he writes. 'we still have a mountain to climb before we have a decent multi-cultural society we can all be proud of.'