A man who was fatally stabbed in front of his three-year-old daughter at a bus stop in Croydon, south London, was taking her to hospital to meet her newborn brother, it emerged yesterday.The 26-year-old father, who has not been named, is thought to have been attacked after an argument with another man shortly after 6.15pm on Thursday. He was taken by ambulance to Mayday Hospital - where his son had been born earlier that day - but was pronounced dead less than an hour later.A 22-year-old man arrested on suspicion of murder in the early hours of yesterday morning remained in custody at a south London police station last night.Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons described the circumstances as particularly tragic. He said: "This was a shocking attack in a public place in the early evening. That is bad enough, but ... he was visiting his newborn son. It is a double tragedy for the three-year-old, his wife and the son he will never see. "The victim's three-year-old daughter was with him when he was attacked, though fortunately she wasn't physically injured." However, he added: She's witnessed a murder. She's psychologically damaged and that's a matter for psychological professionals." Lyons said that he was keen to talk to two teenage boys who had been at the bus stop. "They are described as black, aged between 15 and 20 years old, of slim build and wearing hooded tops," he said. "It's crucial we discover who they are." The scene of the attack, close to a Lidl supermarket and a short distance from West Croydon railway station, was described by Lyons as one of the busiest roads in the area. "People must have seen something," he added. "My main concern is for the family's feelings. They are naturally devastated. The whole community will be shocked and scared." He hoped that the tragic circumstances, which had left him and his team "quite upset", would "prick people's consciences to make people pick up the phone and call us". Although he said a number of knives had been found in the area, the detective would not say whether the murder weapon had been found, or whether the attack had been caught on CCTV. He added: "I cannot at this moment rule out a random attack." Almost 100 police officers - including 50 detectives - are investigating the death. A postmortem examination was carried out yesterday but police said the victim, who lived in the Croydon area, would not be named until his body had been formally identified by a family member.Witnesses at an office opposite the scene said the man might have picked up his daughter from a nearby Sure Start centre. Police were still at the scene yesterday afternoon and two areas of pavement alongside London Road remained cordoned off.One shop worker, who wanted to remain anonymous, said: "I was picked up by my lift home from the bus stop just minutes before it happened. "It makes you think 'it could have been me'. There's CCTV but people are saying that where it happened was in a blind spot for the cameras." Several residents at flats overlooking the scene said they had been unaware of the stabbing until police arrived doing door-to-door inquiries last night.One resident, who did not wish to be named, said: "We had real trouble getting home last night but we didn't know why until the police came knocking on the door."Another resident said: "This poor lady has just given birth. She was in hospital sitting there waiting for him to turn up to let their son meet their daughter for the first time. She now has to deal with this poor three-year-old daughter, a new baby and the loss of her partner. I hope she gets the help she will need."