A little over two years ago a confident, well-dressed man arrived at Soham Village College to be interviewed for the post of senior caretaker. He was not favourite to get the job, as, at 27, he was considered relatively young, and had never worked at a school.But Ian Huntley charmed the panel. He explained that he and his fiancee, Maxine Carr, wanted to settle down, get married and raise a family. He also argued that he knew what the job entailed because his father, Kevin, was a school caretaker. Most importantly, he convinced the interviewers that he posed no threat to children, answering a question about how he would make sure he kept an appropriate distance from pupils in "exemplary" fashion. Two weeks later he was settling into his office, getting to know the school and his staff. But Huntley had managed to conceal a disturbing past which would have stopped him getting anywhere near a position of responsibility so close to youngsters. When he was in his early 20s he had a string of sexual relationships with schoolgirls, one only 13, in his native Grimsby. He was also accused, though not convicted, of indecently assaulting a 12-year-old girl. As has been heard at the Old Bailey, he was also once charged with raping a teenager in an alley in Grimsby but the case was dropped. The victim maintains Huntley raped her. What was not said in court was that he was suspected of three further sexual assaults. Carr gave him an alibi, as she was to do in Soham, for one of them. Beneath the respectable facade that Huntley presented to the school interview panel lurked a man with a proclivity for very young women and girls and a willingness to use violence when denied. Well-placed police sources who have knowledge of the profile drawn up on Huntley by a criminal psychologist say that when he arrived in Soham he was a "latent predatory paedophile". There is little doubt among those who know the case well that Huntley intended to or did actually indecently assault the girls. By the time their bodies were found they were too decomposed to say for certain if they had been sexually assaulted. But one police officer said: "Why else does a grown man lure two 10-year-old girls into his house?" Huntley was also a person who must have thought he could get away with anything. By the time he arrived in Soham, Humberside police had had 10 "contacts" with him and social services five. But no firm action was taken to stop him. Like many sex attackers whose crimes are in part an attempt to control, Huntley endured a miserable childhood and frustrating early adulthood. He was born at the maternity hospital in Grimsby in January 1974. His parents had married seven months earlier when both were 18. Huntley's father, Kevin, was an apprentice gas fitter while his mother, Lynda, was employed in a printing works. By the time Huntley's brother, Wayne, was born the following year, the family lived in a semi-detached house in Immingham, a sprawling industrial village built on marshland a few miles north of Grimsby. At school Huntley was quite small and not much of a sportsman, though like Holly and Jessica he supported Manchester United. He attracted the attention of bullies and because of his broad forehead was nicknamed "Spadehead" by classmates at Eastfield primary school in Immingham and his two senior schools. Once, schoolmates rallied round him when he claimed his father had died; they were furious when they discovered he had dreamed the story up to win sympathy. Huntley was still at it years later. Not long before Holly and Jessica died, he confided to the vice-principal of Soham Village College, Margaret Bryden, supposed details about his father which were described during the trial as "pretty shocking and outrageous". The nature of the claims was not spelled out. Huntley left school with five GCSEs. He was bright enough to go on to further education but was keen to get out of the classroom and begin earning money. He dreamed of joining the RAF as a pilot - he had briefly been an air cadet - but was not fit or clever enough. Instead, he began the first of a succession of mundane jobs in factories and food processing plants. When Huntley was in his late teens his parents split up and his mother began to live with a female friend. Huntley took his mother's side and moved in with the women. He changed his name to Nixon, his mother's maiden name. In January 1995 when he was 20 and working as a machine operator in a food factory, Huntley married 18-year-old Claire Evans after a romance of a few months.  Consolation Claire rapidly realised Huntley was not the man she believed him to be and they split up within weeks. Relatives claim he beat her so badly that she lost the baby she was carrying. To Huntley's anger, Claire found consolation in the arms of his younger brother, Wayne, whom she married in 2000. Huntley sought comfort, or perhaps gave vent to his anger, with a number of girls under 16. He had grown into quite a handsome, well-built man and found that if his targets were young and impressionable, he could appear charming. Between August 1995 and May 1996 he had sexual relationships with at least four under-age girls, three of them 15, one 13. All of the girls saw Huntley as their boyfriend and brushed off offers of help from social services after worried parents raised concerns. In November 1995 Huntley and a friend broke into a neighbour's flat by climbing through the shared loft space and stole electrical goods, jewellery and a small amount of cash. He was charged but it was three years before the case came to court. There were arguments over the admissibility of some of the evidence against him and, unusually, the offence was allowed to lie on file. One ex-girlfriend, Janine Oliver, who was 15 when she began living with Huntley, said he was a "sick, twisted and demented man" who had a "thing" about girls in school uniforms. "Knowing that I have been with someone like that just disgusts me. I think he is sick, twisted and demented and that is putting it politely," she told Sky News. Another girl Huntley had an affair with in the late 90s has claimed he seemed to enjoy dominating her. "Once it was clear I liked him he seemed to treat me like a child - to bully me and try to control me," she told a tabloid after Huntley's arrest. She claimed he often lost his temper and sometimes slapped her. The teenager, who was 15 when she met Huntley, was pregnant with his baby in April 1998 when an 18-year-old woman claimed Huntley raped her after a night out. Huntley claimed they had consensual sex; the matter did not reach the courts. But the following month another 18-year-old woman went to police claiming she was raped as she walked home along a badly-lit path in Grimsby known as "Gas Alley" after a Saturday night out with friends at the Hollywoods nightclub. The girl, who was 5ft 2ins tall, said she was grabbed, pulled to the ground and assaulted. The man threatened to kill her. Huntley was identified as the supposed attacker. He was charged and appeared before magistrates. He claimed he and the teenager had consensual sex. CCTV footage showed the pair had spent time together in the club. It helped undermine the girl's claim and the Crown Prosecution Service decided there was no "realistic prospect" of conviction. The charge was dropped but not before Huntley had spent a week in custody at the Wolds prison, near Hull. He found this experience "terrible". The rape charge led to an accusation in July 1998 that Huntley had indecently assaulted a 12-year-old girl the previous September. The girl claimed Huntley approached her in an orchard, put his hands around her neck and threatened to kill her if she told anyone. The police looked at her claims but decided there was not enough evidence to prosecute. There was a further rape accusation against Huntley in February 1999 when another 17-year-old woman said he attacked her after a night out. Then on a Saturday night in February 1999 Huntley was back at Hollywoods. This time a slight, girlish-looking woman attracted his attention. A month later he and Maxine Carr, then 22, moved in together. Five months later Huntley was interviewed in connection with another rape on a 17-year-old. Carr gave him an alibi, and the woman now believes she was not a victim of Huntley.  Scam For the first two years after they met Huntley and Carr moved around Humberside, keeping just ahead of the authorities as they ran a scam in which Carr claimed benefits she was not entitled to. In October 1999 Huntley applied to find out if the police held any details about him on the police national computer. While living in a rented flat in Scunthorpe Huntley took out a loan to buy the red Fiesta he was to use to dump Holly and Jessica's bodies and a diamond engagement ring for Carr. But all was not rosy. Neighbours say Huntley would lie on the sofa and bark orders to Carr. If everything was not perfect he could fly into a rage. But she supported him when he was again accused of yet another sex attack, giving him an alibi. Suddenly they moved, telling neighbours they were emigrating to the US. In fact the couple, their black German shepherd dog Sadie and their two pet rats went to Soham. By now, Huntley's father was a caretaker in Cambridgeshire. On November 26 2001 Huntley - or Nixon as he was still known - took up his £16,000 post at Soham Village College. At first he struggled. He was not used to managing people and shirked confrontation with men. But he became popular with some girls and women at the school. A few weeks before Holly and Jessica died Huntley was the subject of a schoolgirl crush. He also embarked on an affair with a colleague. What really happened in the caretaker's house on Sunday August 4 last year, will probably never be known. There may be elements of truth in Huntley's account. For instance, police think he may have been cleaning his dog when the girls went past at 6.30pm. They may have asked after Carr, who was away that weekend. One of the girls may even have had a nosebleed. It is likely that they ended up, as Huntley claims, in the bathroom. The fact that the bath was cracked shows that something violent happened there. But it is also clear that at least one of the girls ended up in the bedroom. Huntley's decision to stuff the duvet into the washing machine - the first domestic chore Carr can remember him doing - supports this. Mystery still hangs over what may have happened in the dining room. The carpet was sopping wet when Carr got home but Huntley has continued to insist it was one of the few rooms the girls did not go into. In the two weeks of the hunt for the girls Huntley would at first only grant interviews to local television stations but towards the end of the second week spoke to national stations - and was promptly caught out when someone in Grimsby recognised him and reported him. Even after his arrest 13 days after he killed the girls, Huntley tried to cheat the criminal justice system. He refused to speak to police and, many officers believed, feigned madness. "He said nothing, he just dribbled," said one source. They had no choice but to surrender him to Rampton secure hospital. Doctors failed to find any "major mental illness". Christopher Clark, a consultant forensic psychiatrist, said in a report: "He is not suffering from a psychotic illness such as schizophrenia, paranoid disorder or manic depressive psychosis ... Both Mr Huntley's everyday functioning and interaction and specific testing of his memory and concentration are entirely normal." The scepticism of police officers was reinforced when a previous girlfriend claimed Huntley had once told her that if he ever got in serious trouble with the police he would pretend to be insane. Throughout the trial Huntley passed messages from the dock to his legal team, presumably telling them what tactics he wanted to use. His last desperate ploy was to appear in the witness box of the Old Bailey and claim he had battled to remember the incredible truth about what happened so he could tell the parents of Holly and Jessica the truth. Huntley was yesterday expected to return to Belmarsh high security prison in south-east London, where he has been held during the trial. He will be assessed by psychiatrists there before probably being transferred to a jail with a special secure unit.