High unemployment. Low wages. Food banks. Increasing homelessness. The boom in high-interest loans. There are all sorts of reasons to assume swaths of people in Britain are economically isolated, desperate, angry. Except that one set of statistics tells a different story. Crime isn't rising – it's falling.This isn't, past experience suggests, how it's supposed to be. In the 1970s, as mass unemployment began to take hold, public discourse was dominated by fears about "vandalism". In the 1980s, during Thatcher's economic revolution, there was a huge increase in property offences. By the 1990s, as long-term unemployment became endemic in former industrial areas, the shadow home secretary, Tony Blair, felt emboldened to suggest that a crime as singular as the abduction and murder of two-year-old James Bulger was one of "the ugly manifestations of a society that is becoming unworthy of that name".In 2008, a leaked Home Office letter warned that crime levels should be expected to go up during this economic downturn. Home office minister Tony McNulty described it as "a statement of the blindingly obvious". Yet none of this has come to pass. Social conditions have become more challenging and therefore, logic dictates, more volatile. Except that the crime figures say that's not the case. Which seems like an odd paradox — or would, were it not for at least one important detail.The British Security Industry Authority this week estimated that there are between 5m and 6m closed-circuit television cameras in Britain, one for every 11 people, or possibly 14, in this country. A BSIA spokesman, Simon Adcock, said: "Effective CCTV schemes are an invaluable source of crime detection and evidence for the police. For example, in 2009, 95% of Scotland Yard murder cases used CCTV footage as evidence." That's easy to believe. CCTV footage led to the arrest and conviction of the youngest convicted murderers in English history, Jon Venables and Robert Thompson in 1993. More recently, the series of trials that followed the summer riots of 2011, relied heavily on CCTV evidence.Yet, not everyone is convinced that CCTV is a benign or positive force. Last year the government appointed Andrew Rennison as its surveillance camera commissioner. A "surveillance code of practice" was introduced for public CCTV systems last month. But Rennison says he expects that "the highest number of complaints I receive will be from private users or people who have neighbours using private systems". People tend to like CCTV well enough in a public place, where it makes them feel protected. But a camera trained on their front gate feels like an invasion of privacy, even if that privacy cloaks nothing more than regular, legitimate comings and goings. It's just creepy, being filmed all the time without consent.A lot of the arguments against CCTV surveillance can seem impossibly abstract, compared to the practical, concrete law-and-order arguments that are deployed in favour of it. Obviously, in an ideal world, crime wouldn't exist, because all humans would be scrupulously considerate of others. This world, however, isn't ideal, and cameras are a way of controlling public crime and violence. Yet, surely it's not healthy to live in a society in which aggressive and criminal behaviour is curbed not because people are satisfied and content, but because they know they'll be caught. Neither is it healthy to have a society – as experienced in the 1980s and 1990s – in which crime blossoms because arrest and conviction rates are low. So, pragmatism tends to persuade the population that surveillance is the lesser of two evils. Even the early arguments, that the installation of CCTV in one place would just intensify criminal activity in another hasn't come to pass.So, where has it gone, all the resentment, anger and bad feeling that we once witnessed on the streets – in the crunch of shattered windscreens on the pavement, or the missing handset in a urine-soaked telephone booth? Technology has made us all more safe and more independent. But is it possible it has privatised aggression too?For in one important area, the news about crime is not good at all. This year the charity Citizens Advice reported that it had seen a substantial increase in the number of people telling advisers that they had been victims of domestic violence. Eighty per cent of 13,500 people reporting domestic violence to the charity in 2012 were women. Citizens Advice is concerned enough to have provided specialist services for victims in 10 of its UK offices. You can't help thinking: one place where aggression can be enacted without fear of CCTV apprehension is the home. It's a chilling idea.It's not so long since domestic violence was seen as a private matter, beyond the scope of the police. When Noel Coward wrote a play – a comedy, no less – about a couple in a violent relationship, he called it Private Lives. There's an admired revival being staged in London right now. It's hard to believe in this day and age the West End is packing people into a play that carries the line: "Some women should be struck regularly, like gongs." But I've seen and heard it for myself. It's part of the play's sophistication, the way in which it presents such ugly, nasty material as delightfully inconsequential and frothily amusing, the unfortunate byproduct of great sexual attraction and overwhelming love. There's a kind of genius in that. But, happily, Private Lives is a period piece, an anachronism. It's an effervescent, witty testament to a time when domestic violence was not acknowledged as part of an arsenal of instruments of psychological control and abuse, but instead was excused, denied, even glamorised.A contemporary exploration of similar themes – a new Private Lives – would do well instead to take inspiration from the saga of Nigella Lawson and Charles Saatchi. Saatchi at first suggested, when photographs emerged of him physically assaulting his wife in Scott's restaurant, that it had been "a playful tiff". Lawson did not confirm this interpretation, and the couple is now divorcing. Perhaps it took public scrutiny of private lives for a supposed tiff to be seen for what it was – domestic abuse. In Coward's little jeu d'esprit, no one called the police. In the Lawson-Saatchi matter, the police only became involved when the private was made public, and Saatchi presented himself at a police station.And those 13,500 people last year who turned to Citizens Advice, not the police? There are practical reasons that explain this. Domestic violence is not only a criminal justice matter. People worry about what will happen to their home, their children, their income, if they take a stand against domestic abusers. It's complicated. It's not just about having proof, getting a conviction, having your day in court.Nevertheless, it's worrying, the idea that "private crimes" are once again beyond the purlieu of the police, this time not for the cultural reasons of the past – the notion that it was no one's business but the protagonists' – but as an odd and unpredictable consequence of the cut-and-dried hard evidence that cameras provide when crime is committed in public.