A wealthy landowner murdered his wife after their marriage collapsed and she demanded a settlement of almost £1m, a jury was told today.Adrian Prout killed his estranged wife, Kate Prout, in November 2007 after a string of bitter rows, Bristol crown court heard.On one occasion Prout, 47, pushed his 55-year-old wife so hard against a car that she dented the bodywork. On another, he threatened to kill her by throwing her into their swimming pool, the jury was told. He had also once boasted that he knew "people who could get rid of bodies", it was alleged.Kate Prout, a former teacher, went missing from the couple's 276-acre farm in Gloucestershire on 5 November, and her body has never been found. Prout denies murder.Opening the case against Adrian Prout, Paul Dunkels, prosecuting, said Kate Prout had felt her husband, who ran a civil engineering and pipe-laying business, spent too much time on his work and not enough on her. He said: "She was undoubtedly a demanding woman."Dunkels said Adrian Prout moved his daughter from a previous relationship into the couple's home in 2006, and that this had not sat well with his wife.There had been "friction" between Kate Prout and her stepdaughter, and arguments over her had broken out between the married couple, Dunkels said."By late 2006, early 2007, Kate Prout was complaining the defendant had been threatening and violent towards her," the prosecutor said.Dunkels read an account of one argument, which broke out on Boxing Day 2006 and which Mrs Prout recorded in her diary."All hell broke loose at home," she wrote. "Words with the little madam. Got sloshed. Argued and he said it was all over and wants us to divorce."She told her brother that after that incident, Prout had pushed her against a car so hard the bodywork was dented.Dunkels told the jury Kate Prout had recalled another incident, in February 2007, when, according to her, Adrian Prout had "threatened to kill her" by pushing her into the empty swimming pool at their home. She called the police and Prout was arrested.In her diary, she said charges had not been brought as there were no marks on her. She continued: "Officially separated now. I'm frightened to return. He went mad. I thought my end was come. I was very shaken."She emailed a cousin: "He pushed me outside and tried to throw me in it [the pool]. I was screaming my head off ... I just want to be away from him."Kate Prout had once told the cousin her husband had made comments about "knowing people who could get rid of bodies", Dunkels said.Kate Prout wanted £800,000 as her share of the matrimonial assets, the court heard.The trial continues.