The story behind Wearside Jack, the hoaxer who bewildered detectives hunting the Yorkshire Ripper, was unravelled in court yesterday as the man responsible pleaded guilty to four counts of perverting the course of justice.John Humble, 50, from Sunderland, led detectives on one of the most notorious wild goose chases in criminal history when he sent three letters to police and a tape in which he taunted officers with the words, "I'm Jack. I see you are still having no luck catching me."The voice of Wearside Jack was heard again twice at Leeds crown court yesterday - once when Humble, wearing a baggy blue jumper, admitted the charges, and again as his tape, with its 257-word message, was played.Peter Sutcliffe, the real Yorkshire Ripper, killed 13 women, three of them after the tape was sent. Sutcliffe later described the hoax communications as "divine intervention" which gave him time to kill more women.After Humble admitted four charges relating to two letters and a tape sent to the officer in charge of the investigation, assistant chief constable George Oldfield, and a letter sent to the Manchester office of the Mirror newspaper, the court head how he had been driven by a quest for notoriety.Paul Worsley QC, prosecuting, told the court that when Sutcliffe was asked if he was responsible for the three letters and the tape, he replied: "No, I'm not. While ever that was going on I felt safe. I'm not a Geordie. I was born in Shipley."The court heard that Humble had a "fascination" with the original Jack the Ripper, who terrorised the streets of London in 1888, and that in 1974 he had borrowed a book from his library on the case.Mr Worsley added that Humble must have intended to divert police from the real murderer. "After the first two letters were sent the hoaxer did not know whether police were taking them seriously. But when it was revealed that police were taking them seriously, he could have stopped."He did not. He was to send another letter and then a tape. That made it clear he wanted to send the police off the trail of the true killer."But it emerged that Humble also told police in interviews that he had called the police incident rooms anonymously in September 1979 to tell officers that his letters and tape were from a hoaxer."I phoned in to tell them that it was a hoax, but they didn't take any notice," he said. Referring to the murder of Barbara Leach, Sutcliffe's eleventh victim, he said: "Because that lass, one of the lasses, was murdered. I blamed myself for it. That's why I phoned in. They took no notice and another two got killed."Sutcliffe was found by chance while with a prostitute in Sheffield in 1981, and confessed to the murders. By then he had killed 13 women in Leeds, Bradford, Manchester, Halifax and Huddersfield.Convinced that they had the voice of one of Britain's most feared serial killers, officers played the recording in a dramatic press conference and diverted resources in pursuit of a killer they wrongly concluded had a strong Wearside accent and several unique speech impediments.The focus of the inquiry was diverted to Sunderland, where officers mounted a huge appeal for information from members of the public who, they believed, might recognise Humble's voice.Leading figures involved in the hunt for Sutcliffe spoke yesterday of how their doubts that Wearside Jack was responsible for the murders were ignored. Retired Northumbria police chief superintendent David Zackrisson, who was then a detective inspector based in Sunderland, said: "There were blatant signs that the letters and tapes were an obvious hoax."In September 1979 I submitted a report to Northumbria police that there was a doubt that the letters and tapes were from the killer."One major clue, he said, was that Humble failed to acknowledge the murder of 21-year-old prostitute Yvonne Pearson in January 1978 in his first letter. If "Jack" had been the real killer he would have known that her body had been lying undiscovered under a settee in Bradford for two months.Two phonetics experts brought into the inquiry to help identify the location of the accent, Jack Windsor Lewis and Stanley Ellis, also doubted the tape's authenticity."They didn't listen to us," Mr Windsor Lewis said yesterday. "They didn't look for people who could have made the tape but, for whatever reason, could not have been the murderer."However, the officer who was second in command during the Yorkshire Ripper inquiry in the 1970s, former Detective Superintendent Dick Holland, now 73, defended his team's decision to divert resources, although he admitted that mistakes were made.Proceedings were adjourned until today, when Humble will be sentenced.The lettersHumble sent three letters and a tape professing to be the Ripper. Below are edited extracts of two letters to Assistant Chief Constable George Oldfield, of West Yorkshire police, who was leading the hunt.Sent to George Oldfield. Posted from Sunderland on March 8 1978Dear Sir,I am sorry I cannot give my name for obvious reasons I am the ripper. Ive been dubbed a maniac by the press but not by you You call me clever and I am. You and your mates havent a clue ... Ive got things to do, My purpose to rid the streets of them sluts ... Warn whores to keep of streets cause I feel it coming on again. Sorry about young lassie.Yours respectfullyJack the RipperSent to George Oldfield. Posted from Sunderland on March 23 1979Dear Officer,Sorry I havn't written, about a year to be exact but I havn't been up North for quite a while. I was'nt kidding last time I wrote saying the whore would be older this time and maybe I'd strike in Manchester for a change. You should have took heed ...Jack the RipperThe tapeSent to George Oldfield. Posted from Sunderland on June 17 1979I'm Jack. I see you are still having no luck catching me. I have the greatest respect for you, George, but Lord, you are no nearer to catching me now than four years ago when I started. I reckon your boys are letting you down, George. Ya can't be much good, can ya? The only time they came near catching me was a few months back in Chapeltown when I was disturbed. Even then it was a uniform copper, not a detective.I warned you in March that I'd strike again, sorry it wasn't Bradford, I did promise you that but I couldn't get there. I'm not sure when I will strike again but it will definitely be some time this year, maybe September or October ... I'm not sure where. Maybe Manchester; I like there, there's plenty of them knocking about. They never learn, do they, George? ... I can't see myself being nicked just yet. Even if you do get near, I'll probably top myself first.Well, it's been nice chatting to you, George. Yours, Jack the Ripper.No good looking for fingerprints, you should know by now it's clean as a whistle. See you soon. 'Bye. Hope you like the catchy tune at the end. Ha-ha!(Followed by 22 seconds of Thank You For Being A Friend by Andrew Gold)