A 23-year-old university student was shot dead in Salford in the early hours of Boxing Day, police said.Armed response units were called to Ordsall Lane at about 1.35am following reports of a shooting near a McDonald's restaurant. The victim was taken to hospital, where he was pronounced dead.Greater Manchester police said the victim was from India and had been studying at Lancaster University. He was part of a group of nine male and female students, all Indian, who were staying in a nearby hotel for a break in Manchester over the Christmas holidays.They were heading towards the city centre when the gunman approached and engaged the victim in a "very short" conversation. A minute later, he pulled out a handgun and shot the student in the side of the head, police said.The victim collapsed to the ground and the killer ran off towards the Ordsall estate.Police said there was nothing in early witness statements to suggest the attack was a robbery or racially motivated, but added that officers were keeping an open mind. The force has not revealed what was said during the short discussion.Chief Superintendent Kevin Mulligan, the divisional commander for Salford, said: "This appears to be an unprovoked attack, and we can't establish a motive at this time. We are investigating every possible aspect and are in the early stages of the investigation, but we are not ruling anything out."Statements have been taken from the other students, who were said to be "in a safe place" with police until they return to university. The victim's parents, who are in India, have been informed.The area has been sealed off for forensic examination, and police have appealed for information. The gunman was described as white, in his mid-20s and of slim build, and was said to be wearing a grey top. A second man who was with him was of a heavier build and wearing a black jacket.Mulligan made a direct appeal for the pair to give themselves up, saying: "You need to surrender yourselves to the police as soon as possible."This was an awful attack, which appeared to be unprovoked, on a young student who was just going about his business. The sooner they hand themselves in the better."The attack took place a few hundred yards from a pub where there was a fatal shooting in September. Mulligan said that, at this stage, there did not appear to be any connection between the two incidents.He said extra patrols would be out in the area over the coming days, adding: "There is bound to be anxiety in the community about this, but we have got an increased police presence in the area, we have got a thorough investigation going on and we have done a huge amount to bring down crime in the area."I don't want to detract from the seriousness of this incident, but violent crime in the city is down overall and it seems rather crass to discuss that at this point but it's important to say that, generally, Salford and Manchester are safe places to be."