Detectives specialising in tracing money deals and fraud networks launched a huge anti-race fixing operation shortly after dawn yesterday, arresting 16 people including Britain's best-known jockey Kieren Fallon and a leading trainer.Further arrests are expected, possibly including jockeys racing overseas, as a team based in the City of London sift through computer records and paperwork seized at Newmarket, the North Yorkshire stable town of Middleham, and addresses in South Yorkshire and Hertfordshire. More than 130 officers from five forces took part in the raids, which followed a Jockey Club investigation into allegations that at least 80 races had been fixed by a criminal consortium in the past two years. The club, responsible for licensing jockeys and trainers and disciplining the sport, handed over preliminary papers to City police earlier this year. Fallon, whose career has been spectacular but dogged by controversy, is the subject of a separate disrepute inquiry by the club, but the scale of yesterday's raids took much of the racing world by surprise. After trainer Karl Burke was taken for questioning in North Yorkshire, his wife Elaine stood bewildered outside their Spigot Lodge stables in Middleham, her 20th wedding anniversary plans in ruins. "We were supposed to be celebrating today but instead I'm being asked questions about my husband," she said, as jockeys Darren Williams and Fergal Lynch were also detained. "I don't know what it's all about. He went to a police station this morning and as far as I'm aware is still being interviewed." The arrests also shocked the Jockeys Association, the riders' professional body, which accused police of "leap frogging" the Jockey Club's investigation. Chief executive John Blake said: "It appears very serious indeed. The police have amassed a huge amount of evidence which they will now go through." He added it was "very damaging to the reputation of racing, very damaging to the reputation of trainers and jockeys potentially". The racing world has been awash with claims and counter-claims about wholesale corruption, with a figure as influential as Ladbrokes' chief executive Chris Bell saying in May that at least one race a day in Britain is fixed. The issue has been pursued by the News of the World, with long dossiers compiled on Fallon and fellow jockey John Egan. Both men deny the allegations which triggered the Jockey Club's disrepute inquiry, scheduled before yesterday's raids to start later this month. Mrs Burke said: "The whole thing is absolute nonsense. It's all been exaggerated and spun. We've heard this all before." The police called on 19 homes and stables yesterday, picking up Fallon, 39, early on. He has been champion jockey five times in the past six years, missing out in 2000 when he injured his shoulder in a fall at Ascot. He has won the Derby three times. Fallon, who is married with three children, was arrested with two other men in Newmarket, one jockey and Mr Burke were held in Middleham and the third jockey in Minskip, North Yorkshire. The other 10, none of whom are understood to be trainers or jockeys, were four men detained in Barnsley, two men and a woman in Sheffield, two in Stevenage and one in Doncaster. Eleven of the 16, including Fallon, were released on bail yesterday and will return to a City of London police station in two months' time. The five oth ers remained in custody yesterday evening, with detectives expected to decide whether to release them overnight. Fallon's solicitor, Christopher Stewart-Moore, said last night that the jockey had been arrested in connection with an individual whom he met during a 10-minute car journey in Leicester following racing at Windsor. "During this car journey Kieren Fallon did not speak to the individual concerned. In the circumstances we do not anticipate that this matter will be taken any further by the police."Assistant commissioner at the City of London police, Mike Bowron, said: "This case is of great national significance, not just to the racing community, but to the wider public throughout the UK." John McCririck, the television racing pundit, said online betting had helped open up a trail of dealings which made spotting suspicious patterns easier. He said: "In the old days the bookmakers kept very quiet and protected the confidentiality of their clients. It's good news that something is being done."