Scotland Yard has begun a root and branch review of Britain's firearms policing capability amid fears that there may be too few trained officers to safeguard the 2012 Olympics. Commissioner Sir Ian Blair has told the Metropolitan police authority that, as things stand, foreign police may have to be deployed with their guns in unprecedented numbers to keep watch over the dignitaries and elite sportsmen.Though the commissioner stressed that planning was still at an early stage, his comments prompted MPA members to call for assurances that foreign police would be subject to tight controls and would remain accountable under British law if a shooting incident occurred. Jenny Jones, a Green party representative on the MPA, said: "We need to know whose command they are under and to whom they will be accountable if one of them discharges a firearm. I've followed the England football team abroad and have seen how some police with guns behave. I would not want to see that sort of behaviour on the streets of London."Damian Hockney, an MPA member and leader of the One London party, said he was particularly concerned about the possibility that Europol, the European Police Office, may be involved. At present Europol officials have lifetime immunity from prosecution under UK law for any crime except motoring offences.Sir Ian, addressing the MPA's policing and coordination committee, said the deployment of foreign police would not be his preference. "You may not be able to get any foreign police unless they are armed because they won't feel at all easy being unarmed in public scenarios like that." He and senior officers were considering "whether we actually have, in the United Kingdom, sufficient capacity to actually have enough armed officers to do the job". He added: "If we don't have, then you are then talking about a training requirement of very considerable expenditure for a period of eight weeks."Assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur said competing countries were being asked to identify those athletes who may be most at risk. "Once they do that then we do a risk assessment in terms of what the requirement is." Home Office figures say there were 6,200 authorised firearms officers in 2004/05. The Met will be the lead police force but is certain to call on expertise from other UK forces. More than 9,000 officers will be required at the peak of the policing operation. The Metropolitan police provided an original estimate of £464m for the cost of policing the games, but that excluded costs of using officers from other forces, those associated with VIP protection and other costs.The revised budget sets aside £600m for wider security. Ministers say this is one element of the £9.3bn public sector funding package that could rise further because no one knows what the security situation will be in 2012.