As a newspaper columnist who has made a career out of laying bare both her own personal life and the peccadilloes of those around her in excruciating detail, Liz Jones is used to having to bat away barbed remarks and unkind comments.But criticism in columns and a book that she has levelled at neighbours in the remote Somerset community where she now lives - she says it's a bonus if any of the local men have teeth - may have prompted a more direct and violent response.Detectives are investigating a firearms attack at her lovely Victorian farmhouse near Dulverton on the edge of Exmoor after somebody crept up to her farm gate and fired a shotgun at her letterbox.Nobody was hurt but Jones, whose warts-and-all book on her experiences of moving from London to the country has just been published to horror in the area, is said to be frightened and upset.Neighbours condemned the attack, but many said they were not surprised as feelings against Jones following the release of her book, the Exmoor Files, have reached fever pitch in recent weeks."I'm not saying it's right. In fact, it's downright wrong," said one of her neighbours. "But something like this has been coming. She has turned up here without understanding the people and culture and she has started attacking our way of life. Nobody is surprised it's turned nasty."It could be a tricky investigation. When police ask Jones if anyone has a grudge against her, there could be quite a few candidates.Jones, a former editor of Marie Claire, has been dubbed queen of the confessional for her columns in the Mail on Sunday. Most notorious,until now, were those that have detailed her brief marriage to a younger man and a bitter divorce.Following the breakdown of that relationship, Jones, who grew up in Essex, decided to move from her super-smart home in north London (where she says she used to vacuum the backyard) to the fringes of Exmoor.She lives in a fabulous farmhouse in a spectacular location with rescued horses, dogs, sheep and chickens. She wears designer pinstriped jackets over jodhpurs full of holes. And, naturally, she has continued to produce those no-holds-barred columns, finding a rich vein of material in this remote community.In just one column in May she confessed that she hadn't had sex since she arrived in the area. "If men have teeth in the West Country it's a bonus," she added. She went on to claim there had been a "rash of burglaries" because there were so few jobs. Old ladies were too terrified to go to bed while car parks in Yeovil were "awash with hard drugs".Jones wrote that shopworkers "have learning difficulties and have never heard of illy coffee". She asserted there wasn't even a petrol station in the area giving it a "faintly Amish air" - though there turns out to be one at the bottom of her lane.At other times, Jones has offended restaurant owners, claiming that they still served meals in baskets and suggested some old Exmoor families were inbred.Farmers complain that one of her dogs has killed a sheep - a big deal in this area - and Jones, a vegetarian, is no fan of hunting, which is just about a religion here.So, walk into almost any shop in Dulverton and you get the sort of snide comments that Jones would have been proud of. One local whispered that, despite her love of horses, Jones "couldn't even ride a rocking horse".At the Lion Hotel, Ian Johnson insisted Jones's remarks about Dulverton were "rubbish, crap" and harmful to the town, which relies on tourist trade. What's more, they didn't serve meals in baskets.Up at her farm, the peppercorn-patterned damage caused to the letter box was still in evidence. The writer was away but Nicola Bebb, her "equine behaviourist" answered the door. Bebb said Jones felt very frightened by the attack and "ostracised" by the community. She insisted that Jones had not meant to upset anyone. "I think people just remember the bad bits from her columns. They haven't made her feel welcome.''The stuff about toothless farmers and chips in the basket meals are jokes. That's what she does. And she is friendly but sometimes she is in a hurry. She's here, there and everywhere and has deadlines to meet."To be fair, Jones also has some supporters in Dulverton. In the delicatessen owner Emily Kaye said she was a "lovely person".For once, Jones was not commenting yesterday - perhaps saving this latest material for a column.A life laid bareLiz Jones was first persuaded to write a confessional column by an editor amused by her disastrous love life. But her most famous work came when she met and married the writer Nirpal Dhaliwal, 26, to her 40. Her dispatches appeared in the Mail on Sunday; her warts-and-all style about him included lines such as: A month later she was admitting: "I have never dumped anyone before. It has always taken so long - years, decades - for me to persuade someone, anyone, to go out with me that once I am in a 'relationship' (I use the term lightly), I hang on grimly." But she continued: She said:"I don't even think he fancies me that much. The other night, making 'love' (again, I use the term lightly), I had to ask him, 'Are you aware that I am even here?'" Then came her life change. In December 2007 she wrote: "It wasn't just that I'd split up with my husband, although that was a large part of my disillusion with living the perfect urban lifestyle: Georgian townhouse in an Islington square with Dido as a neighbour, mid-20th century furniture, an arthouse cinema round the corner, thrice-weekly meals in fancy organic restaurants." She had discovered Exmoor: "A place so unspoilt and ruggedly beautiful it is like stepping back to the Fifties… I had to live here, despite knowing no one." The idyll didn't last. By May she was writing: "If men have teeth in the West Country it's a bonus; anyone mobile enough not to need Meals on Wheels upped sticks long ago in search of work above the minimum wage ... the countryside is isolating and exhausting."