Mandatory life sentences for murder should be reviewed and the prosecution of “joint enterprise” cases closely monitored because the law lacks clarity, a report by the Prison Reform Trust has urged.The controversial criminal law doctrine permits two or more defendants to be convicted of the same offence even where they had different levels of involvement. Critics have accused police and prosecutors of using it as a “dragnet” to target young people – often from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. This year, the supreme court ruled that for the past 30 years judges had been misinterpreting a key justification for obtaining convictions, confusing the fact that an outcome might be foreseeable with criminal intent.The appeal court has begun considering a number of test challenges which could have implications for hundreds of people in prison convicted under joint enterprise rules. The campaign group Joint Enterprise Not Guilty by Association estimates that there could be as many as 700 individuals whose cases may need to be reviewed under the revised foresight rule. The report published on Tuesday by the Prison Reform Trust and the Institute for Criminal Policy Research (ICPR) of Birkbeck College, University of London, also calls for clearer guidance for judges when sentencing those convicted.The report recommends that the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) should monitor and record the alleged basis of legal liability for each defendant in cases where multiple defendants are charged with the same principal offence. The record should include whether each defendant is charged as a principal or accessory.Joint enterprise law: what is it and why is it controversial? It also calls for the sentencing council to issue improved guidance to judges covering whether a defendant was a principal or accessory and how the courts should deal with offenders whose specific roles with respect to the offence are not known. Additionally, the report suggests, courts, the CPS and other bodies should avoid using the phrase “joint enterprise”, as it says this is “now toxic”, and consider alternative terminology. “In passing sentence,” the report states, “judges have limited capacity to reflect differing levels of culpability of defendants convicted of murder on an accessory basis. The mandatory life sentence for murder should be reviewed.”Jessica Jacobson of the ICPR, one of the authors of the report, said: “At this time of significant change to the joint enterprise doctrine, there is more urgency and more opportunity … [to make] the prosecution process clearer and more transparent.”She said this would help those involved in multi-defendant cases – whether as victims, witnesses, relatives or defendants themselves – understand the workings of the prosecution process “and, potentially at least, view it as legitimate”.The study, funded by the Nuffield Foundation, examined a sample of 61 CPS case files and associated court transcripts of prosecutions carried out under joint enterprise rules.Of these, 34 involved allegations of robbery, 15 allegations of serious assault and 12 allegations of murder. Almost two-thirds of the 157 defendants were under 25. Of defendants for whom ethnicity was known, about two-thirds were from minority ethnic groups.Commenting on the report, Edward Fitzgerald QC, of Doughty Street Chambers, said: “The injustice of the joint enterprise doctrine, particularly as it applies to murder cases, has now been recognised by the supreme court.“This new study throws light on the problems that the joint enterprise doctrine creates in individual cases and points to the way forward for the future.”