When a child dies at the hands of a parent, particularly in one's own country, it raises feelings that are unique. Pity and sorrow you would feel for anyone, whether they were killed by relative or a tsunami. An abused child sends you into endless hypothesising, or rather, wishing; if only x agency had noticed y; if only this report had got under the nose of that person; if only someone had spoken to the child.There's always a detail that rams home how it could have been avoided: Baby P had a broken spine when he was discharged as healthy by a paediatrician; Khyra Ishaq was visited by a teacher soon before she died, aged seven, weighing two stone nine pounds (her mother wouldn't let the teacher in); Hamzah Khan's mother, Amanda Hutton, who has been jailed for 15 years for manslaughter, had seven other children, none of whom were even on the at-risk register. The "if only …" thought ends in one place: if only I'd been there. I would never have let this happen. I would have looked after him.Protectiveness towards children is elemental; it's the wellspring of empathy. It baffles me the ease with which people blame social workers after a tragedy – they must know the rage and sadness of their impotence, the futility of posthumous pity, 10 times better than anyone. They wouldn't work in social work at all if they didn't start off more empathetic than most.And yet, the desire to find someone to blame is inextricable from the need to treat the death with the solemnity that it warrants. The least this dead child deserves is that we try to find a message in his death; to say, "there is no message" would be tantamount to shrugging, and saying "that's life".Here, political affiliations slip in. The vigilante element allows itself violent fantasies of what will happen to the mother in prison. Various agencies are castigated as if this were, at root, a story about the state, trying to do the job of a community, and failing. Others pan out and say, as in this article by Tim Black about Daniel Pelka, if a child can die in public, something terrible has happened to corrode our social fabric. It's all either too partial or too broad, and most of all, too late to assuage the collective guilt and frustration, so the debate repeats at greater intensity.After Baby P died, the columnist Brendan O'Neill called it a double tragedy – the death itself, and the fact that it was being "exploited to exaggerate, vastly, the scale of child abuse in the UK, and to re-empower the 'abuse industry' to interfere in family life". We were all having a Diana moment, pointlessly wallowing in sorrow. O'Neill's mum had said all she wanted to do was give Baby P a hug, and he thought that was the craziest thing he'd ever heard. I thought the craziest thing would be not to want to hug Baby P. Just because there isn't an answer doesn't mean we should stop looking. Just because the sorrow is futile doesn't mean it would be better not to feel it.