Kate McCann broke down in tears today as she appealed for help in tracing her missing daughter, Madeleine, but said she was still confident that the four-year-old was alive.Ms McCann, alongside her husband, Gerry, gave an interview to a Spanish TV station - the first televised interview the couple have given since being made official suspects in their daughter's disappearance."I feel sad and I feel lonely, and our life is not as happy without Madeleine," Ms McCann said. "I feel anxious she is not with us."She described the girl as " very happy and very loving" on the last occasion she saw her. "I know Madeleine was very happy with her life," she said. "She is special."The couple urged people with any information about Madeleine's whereabouts to call the confidential 24-hour telephone line they have set up.Ms McCann was asked whether she was as confident now of finding her daughter alive as she was on May 3, the day she went missing. "Maybe even more so," she said. "I think she is possibly being held by someone in their house but I don't know."As Madeleine's mummy I feel in my heart that she is there. I don't know how anyone could harm anyone as beautiful as Madeleine. I don't mean her appearance. I mean as a beautiful person."She said that her two-year-old twins, Sean and Amelie, were "not upset and they are not distressed, but they are very much aware she is not there".Mr McCann said the couple had chosen now to speak out in a bid to encourage people to come forward with information."It is six months, and I strongly believe Madeleine is out there and we have to do everything we can," Ms McCann said."Somebody knows something. It is not about us. It is about Madeleine. We have not even seen her since she was four. She needs our help. She needs her family."The couple said they were confident they would be cleared of any involvement in their daughter's disappearance and insisted the focus should remain on finding Madeleine."It really is secondary," said Ms McCann. "I will take anything that is thrown at me."