I first met the Johnson family at the beginning of their three-year crime spree across south-western England. After driving down country lanes, past houses worth millions of pounds, I discovered their caravan site on a hill overlooking the Cotswold valleys. Here, behind a five-bar gate, sat Ma Johnson, the matriarch. She was surrounded by deeply suntanned female members of the family, all drawing hard on cigarettes and eyeing me suspiciously. Dogs barked persistently and younger Johnsons, their faces covered in grime, sprayed me with water pistols as I asked to see the two men who led the family - brothers Ricky and Alan "Jimmy" Johnson.It was to be a while before I saw these two - described by some as Godfathers and others as the salt of the earth. Jimmy and I were introduced in a McDonald's off the A4 outside Reading - a place which would become our regular "meet" - to talk about the burglaries. He always denied having anything to do with the raids in Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, Wiltshire and Worcestershire between 2003 and 2006. It was Jimmy who would eventually offer to help the most high-profile victim, Lord Rothschild, look for his stolen property. Walking uninvited into Rothschild's home, Waddesdon Manor, he offered to use his contacts to recover Rothschild's stolen antiques. Rothschild accepted and Jimmy set off to use his "criminal contacts" to find the goods. But by then they had been passed on to bigger fish - Russians were mentioned - and he never succeeded in returning the goods.Now serving time for cash machine robberies, Jimmy fell out with Ricky, who claimed to me he had renounced crime and turned to God. Ricky complained his family were being victimised by police and blamed for crimes they had not committed. On one occasion hundreds of officers, some carrying machine guns and supported by a helicopter overhead, made a dawn raid on the Johnsons' Cotswold site. It was plain and simply harassment Ricky told me. But behind his denials, Ricky and his relatives continued their violent rampage through the countryside. Roguish and charming they might appear on the surface, but the Johnsons were vicious when they were on their business. One elderly widow in Oxfordshire was sleeping when the giant double doors of her manor house exploded inwards from the force of a 4x4 driven by the Johnsons with a fence post protruding from the roofrack as a battering ram.It was Ricky Johnson who once praised the courts when he shouted to a crown court judge on the day of his retirement: "May I say from this side your honour, thank you for fairness." No doubt today his many victims would agree.