I find it helpful to think of Tesco as a weed. I half admire weeds. They are extraordinarily efficient and opportunistic life forms. When you dig them up you cannot but be impressed as well as maddened by their ability to throw out suckers and colonise whole territories before you noticed the damage. Sometimes their brief flowering even makes them attractive for a while. The aim should be to control them, rather than eliminate them. So Tesco. As the UK's largest retailer by miles, with a market share of 31%, and stupendous profits of £2.21bn announced today, the company is clearly a tenacious operator. Sometimes it is easiest to shop there. Perhaps we should just celebrate a British success?Well, no, because the trouble with weeds is that left unchecked they become invasive and strangle everything else. Tesco has spread uncontrolled with frightening speed. In some parts of the country it has 45% of the grocery market. Containing it now that it has such a dominant market position will be painful. The OFT has decided (pdf) that the Competition Commission should look again at anti-competitive practices in the supermarket sector but it flunked it before and is unlikely to recommend the radical pruning that is needed.Meanwhile, Tesco continues its destructive spread. It subverts the democratic process as it forces through planning permissions against community wishes; it added 2m sq ft of sales space last year alone. Along with other supermarkets, it suffocates independent shops and markets; it uses its power to squeeze its suppliers. One leading manufacturer told me recently of a demand he had received from Tesco to stump up a retrospective "discount" of roughly £20m as a contribution to the chain's bumper profits or face some of his products being delisted from its stores.By coincidence the Metropolitan police's assistant commissioner has chosen the very day of Tesco's £2.21bn profit statement to admit that organised immigration crime is out of control.The two things are not unconnected. The supermarket sector, with its just-in-time ordering that requires casual labour to be turned on and off like a tap, and its new packhouse industries, has been one of the most prolific creators of demand for trafficked labour. No, supermarkets don't employ abused migrants directly, the dozens I have interviewed who have been packing food for Tesco have been employed by subcontractors to contractors to Tesco. But its profit margins have undoubtedly been built on a system that only functions thanks to underpaid illegal workers. So a £2.21bn profit is not something to celebrate in this case. It is a manifestation of a market that is failing. The weed has become a superweed.