Three men were today jailed for life for the murder of a 15-year-old schoolboy who was snatched from a Glasgow street, stabbed and then set on fire while he was still alive.Imran Shahid, 29, his 28-year-old brother Zeeshan Shahid, and Mohammed Mushtaq, 27, were convicted of the racially aggravated murder of Kriss Donald in March 2004.The three men had denied murder in the trial at the high court in Edinburgh. Imran Shahid must serve of a minimum of 25 years and Zeeshan Shahid a minimum of 23, while Mushtaq must serve at least 22 years.The victim's mother, Angela, shouted: "You bastards" as the guilty verdicts were read out. The jury had taken more than eight hours to reach their decision.Kriss was bundled into a silver Mercedes by a gang of five men as he walked with a friend near his home in the Pollokshields area of Glasgow on March 15 2004.The men were looking for revenge after Imran Shahid was hit by a bottle thrown by a white teenager outside a nightclub the previous night.The court heard that the schoolboy shouted: "I'm only 15, what have I done?" and clamped his hands and feet onto the doorframe of the car to try to stop himself from being pushed inside. The gang then took him on a 200-mile journey to Dundee while they made phone calls looking for a house to take him to.Having no success, they returned to Glasgow and took him to the quiet Clyde Walkway, near Celtic FC's training ground. There, they held his arms and stabbed him 13 times before dousing him with petrol and setting him alight while he was still alive.The court heard it was likely that their victim had tried to roll on the muddy ground in a desperate attempt to put out the flames. A passer-by who found his body the following day thought he had found the carcass of a dead animal.Mushtaq and the Shahid brothers fled to Pakistan after the murder, but were flown back to the UK in October to face trial after the intervention of Mohammed Sarwar, the Labour MP for Central Glasgow. Two other men were tried for the murder in December 2004. One, a 20-year-old man who cannot be named for legal reasons, was sentenced to life for murder. Zahid Mohammed, also 20, was cleared of murder but sentenced to five years for abduction and racially aggravated assault.Speaking outside the court, accompanied by her daughter, Samantha, the murdered schoolboy's mother offered her "sincere appreciation" to the officers that investigated her son's "hellish" killing."Justice has been done," she said. "Thank you. It is over."The murder shocked Scotland, and community leaders in Pollockshields acted swiftly to try and quell fears of racial tensions in the ethnically mixed suburb.The British National party moved into the area, attempting to blame the police for failing to crack down on violent Asian gangs.However, Kriss's mother sought to prevent revenge attacks by warning against tit for tat violence. "It doesn't matter to my family what colour these men are," she said. "Kriss is gone because of gangs, not just in Pollokshields but every area of our communities."John Malcolm, the assistant chief constable of Strathclyde police, welcomed the guilty verdict for the "horrendous crime"."At all times during this investigation, Strathclyde police had the full support of the local community and community leaders," he said."Everyone came together to support and inform our investigation and, through these actions, the community made it very clear that the sort of violent and horrific act that occurred on Monday March 15 2004 is unacceptable and will not be tolerated in any community. "Now is a time for reflection, and our thoughts today are with the family of Kriss Donald."Mr Sarwar said the end of the trial would be welcomed in the area, adding: "We can start fresh and leave the past behind."