Police are investigating whether an armed gang of robbers is targeting the homes of top footballers after the fiancee and mother-in-law of the Manchester United midfielder Darren Fletcher had knives held to their throats by raiders who forced their way into the family home hours after he had left the country for a Champions League match.In the second knife robbery on a Premiership player's home in the village of Bowdon, south Manchester, in little more than two months, three men wearing hoods on their heads, one with his face masked, kicked open the front door of the house at around 9pm on Monday.They forced Fletcher's fiancee, Hayley Grice, to hand over her engagement ring before one of the men grabbed her by the hair and held a knife against her throat, demanding more property. The couple's twin sons, aged two, were asleep in the house at the time.Another robber then grabbed Grice's mother and held a knife to her throat. She was staying with the family while Fletcher travelled to Milan for United's Champions League match against Internazionale this evening. The men escaped with jewellery and watches."This was a cowardly attack by three men on two women," said Detective Inspector Frank Morris of Greater Manchester police. "They are both very shaken and very upset at what happened."In December, raiders forced their way into the home of the Blackburn Rovers striker Roque Santa Cruz, also in Bowdon, while he was away for a match, and robbed his wife at knifepoint. A few days earlier robbers attempted to smash a vehicle through the gates of the home in Hale, little more than a mile away, of the Liverpool winger Jermaine Pennant. In July last year robbers kicked down the door of the house belonging to the then-Wigan player, Emile Heskey, also in Hale, threatening his fiancee with a knife.Morris said police were looking into a possible link. "We have had four footballers from the same vicinity who have been targeted since Emile Heskey was robbed in July last year," Morris said. "There are similarities but there are also differences. I am not ruling out that these robberies may be linked and it is a line of inquiry we are following."Over the past two and a half years, more than a dozen footballers' homes around Manchester and Liverpool have been robbed or burgled, almost all when the players were known to be taking part in matches abroad or elsewhere in England.Liverpool players have been the most commonly targeted, with nine of them – Steven Gerrard, Dirk Kuyt, Pepe Reina, Jerzy Dudek, Daniel Agger, Peter Crouch, Florent Sinama-Pongolle, Robbie Keane and Lucas Leiva – suffering domestic burglaries or robberies while they were away from home, along with the failed robbery targeting Pennant.The raiders have escaped mainly with property, including watches and jewellery, cars and football memorabilia. In 2006, criminals who broke into the home of the Everton player Andy van der Meyde also took his dog, although the pet was later recovered.Edinburgh-born Fletcher has made 200 appearances for United since joining them as a trainee, making his debut in March 2003. He is also a regular for Scotland and has occasionally captained the side, for the first time in 2004 at the age of 20.