Britain's youngest drink-driver punched a prosecutor in the back, threw a jug of water at magistrates and hurled abuse at court officials as she was told she would be locked up for four months.Proceedings at Newbury youth court stopped yesterday when Leanne Black, 14, kicked a chair over and lunged at prosecuting lawyer Lesley Gilmore.The teenager raced around the courtroom swearing at officials and grappling with members of her family before security guards, who had been alerted when Mrs Gilmore pressed a panic button in the court, arrived and led her away. The hearing resumed after lunch in a different courtroom.Before the mayhem, magistrate Margaret Bates took the unusual step of allowing Black to be named, ruling that the public interest in her case outweighed the court's duty to protect a young person.The court heard that on the night of February 13-14, Black, from Thatcham, Berkshire, had drunk three cans of lager before taking her father's car keys and driving off in his Ford Mondeo. It was a repeat of a previous drink-driving offence, committed on Christmas Day 2004, which led to Black, then aged 12, being banned for two years despite being five years younger than the legal driving age.On the latest occasion Black drove through Newbury to get to her sister's house. Her parents, realising the car was missing, called the police, who caught up with the teenager and arrested her.She swore at the officers who were trying to handcuff her but later admitted taking a vehicle without consent, driving without a licence, drink-driving and driving while disqualified.Mrs Gilmore told the court that a breath test showed the teenager as having 44 micrograms of alcohol to 100 millilitres of breath. The legal drink-drive limit is 35 micrograms.Before her outburst, Black, wearing a white tracksuit and a gold chain, told magistrates that she had changed her ways. She said: "I'm sorry for my behaviour and what I've done. I know what I have done to my dad and stuff."Black had arrived at court armed with eggs - to pelt photographers with - and her mother, Nora, also contributed to the day's events by sticking out her bottom for the cameras and saying "film this".After lunch Black re-emerged in another courtroom, handcuffed and behind reinforced glass panels, with two dock officers by her side.Black apologised to the court, its officials and Mrs Gilmore, and was told that because of her age there would be no further sentence for her outburst. Earlier, she had been banned from driving for a further three years. An eight-month detention and training order was was also imposed, half of it to be served in secure accommodation.Ian Campbell, representing Black, had asked magistrates not to send his client to secure accommodation, claiming she was learning to control her anger and was working with the probation service to improve her behaviour.Mrs Gilmore was asked afterwards if Black was the Little Britain TV character Vicky Pollard "gone bad". The the prosecutor joked: "Am I bovvered?" borrowing a line from the TV comic Catherine Tate.