The only senior police officer to face disciplinary proceedings over the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry was today cautioned after being found guilty on two minor elements of the disciplinary charges against him.An independent Police Complaints Authority tribunal last week found Detective Inspector Ben Bullock guilty on two of the 13 elements of three separate neglect of duty charges he was facing. Today at a ratification hearing before Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Anderson Dunn, Mr Bullock, 50, was punished with a caution for the two elements of the two separate neglect charges of which he had been found guilty.The result of the hearing was immediately criticised by Stephen's father Neville, who was at police area headquarters in Lambeth, south London, today to hear Mr Bullock's punishment. Mr Lawrence said: "I feel it's really sad. As far as I'm concerned, as my family are concerned, he's guilty on all counts. "I think it's time we got the police force under the Race Relations Act and also got an independent tribunal to look at the way they behave. Until we do that officers like this will get away with, I call it murder. "This man should have done his work... if he had done his work in the early days and arrested these people then they wouldn't be walking the streets." The Lawrence family's solicitor Imran Khan said he was "incredibly disappointed" at the result of the disciplinary proceedings. Mr Khan criticised the way the disciplinary tribunal had been conducted, saying: "Officers came into this inquiry knowing full well they wouldn't be subjected to the same standards as the Macpherson inquiry. "Neville and Doreen didn't have a part to play, and I think that's the most tragic part of the whole process." Mr Khan said the Lawrence family were still determined to pursue other avenues for taking further action against the Metropolitan Police or individual officers. He said: "The outcome of these proceedings strengthens the resolve of Mr and Mrs Lawrence to pursue a civil action against the Metropolitan Police."Glen Smyth, of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said he was satisfied with today's findings. Speaking on behalf of Mr Bullock, he said: "Our reaction is that it reflects accurately the view that the independent tribunal took... when they unanimously agreed that Mr Bullock was not 'wantonly negligent' or 'grossly incompetent'. "They said if it was in their power not to discipline him at all, then they would have done that." Mr Smyth said the caution was the minimum punishment Mr Bullock could have received after being found guilty of the two elements of the neglect of duty charges. Mr Smyth said he felt that Mr Bullock, who retires tomorrow, had been "largely vindicated" by the proceedings. He said: "I have had the opportunity to speak to Imran Khan and Neville Lawrence and Neville is anxious to meet with me so we can get down to talking about how we can move forward for the future. "I think that's the measure of Mr Lawrence's dignity and courage and I think that's matched by Mr Bullock's dignity and courage, who put off his retirement so that he could face this tribunal." Mr Smyth said that the caution punishment meant "practically nothing whatsoever". He said it was an indication that with hindsight an officer could perhaps have handled an inquiry slightly better: "It would be completely unfair for DI Bullock to be punished for the errors of an organisation that not only failed Mr and Mrs Lawrence but frankly failed Mr Bullock and others involved in this inquiry. Mr Smyth added: "He feels he's been made a scapegoat."