Sir Ian Blair's sacking by Boris Johnson and his deputy Kit Malthouse may mark the regrettable politicisation of the job of the country's most senior police officer, but Sir Ian and the Labour government have only themselves to blame. The job acquired a political character well before these two amateur assassins came along on their Lambretta and managed to get in a couple of lucky shots while the attention of the boss of all bosses at the Home Office was averted or at least diverted.If Sir Ian, a good Labour soldier in several ways and not an unsympathetic man, had not gone out on so many limbs at the same time and struggled with so many difficulties of his own making, Jacqui Smith may have saved him. 'It is the job of responsible politicians to support those who have to carry a heavy operations burden,' she said. She railed against the hitmen, cried that form was not being observed and dwelt on Sir Ian's noble service, but where was her protection? On the basis of national security alone, she could surely have outgunned Boris and Kit. But she did not and that tells us all we need to know about Sir Ian's demise and quite a lot about Ms Smith's hypocrisy.He was hit as a politician, not a servant. He was hit because he was fatally weakened by bad luck, scandal and a poor management style. He had moved on the stage, giving us his opinion on everything from 90-day detention without trial to the Iraq War, ID cards and the 'institutionalised racism' of the media in a way no other commissioner of the Met had done before. He appeared on Any Questions, he mused about a new national policing policy very much like a Home Secretary but without the long apprenticeship it takes to occupy that harsh spotlight. He made gaffes and poor decisions, particularly over the killing of Jean Charles de Menezes, and the awarding of a £3m contract to his friend Andy Miller.Kit Malthouse insisted the sacking was not about politics but 'effective policing'. But then we hear that Mr Johnson expressed his hope that a new commissioner would not be appointed until a Conservative was installed as Home Secretary. There could be no more convincing evidence that he was using the terms of the new mayor's office, set out by Labour, to push the job towards an applicant carrying a Conservative rewards card. It seems unlikely that Ms Smith will go along with that plan and surely Mr Johnson cannot wish the Metropolitan Police to be without settled leadership over the next 18 months, during which time we must assume the terrorist threat will oscillate through that fractional distance between critical and the 'severe end of severe'.Effective policing? By the standards of the past - i.e. crime figures - he did reasonably well. This year, he could boast - and did so frequently - that despite the appearance of epidemic knife crime there was a 14 per cent fall over the last year and an equivalent decline in gun crime. Youth crime was down 7 per cent and there were 21 fewer murders in London. But this core responsibility means less than it used to, especially when the media are convinced that crime is going up whatever the statistical reality. Moreover, Sir Ian could point to the successful introduction of community policing and a reduction of the problems of racism at New Scotland Yard, although the cases of Tarique Ghaffur and Shabir Hussain may give the lie to that claim.But there were other aspects of his reign at New Scotland Yard that clearly did not please the mayor and his deputy. Sir Ian was New Labour and insufferably PC. He displayed the party's inclusive values but also its fascination with control. With good reason, the National Union of Journalists complains that the Met is now harassing journalists and photographers and preventing them covering demonstrations. More serious was the conduct of the police during protests against President Bush's visit in June when it was alleged that unreasonable violence was used against the marchers. The surveillance and pursuit of legitimate demonstrators three months afterwards is to say the least very worrying. It smacks of a police state. Referring to the surveillance society in his column in the Times last January, Mr Malthouse wrote: 'In this atmosphere of growing fear and control, an unelected commissioner making and influencing policy should rightly make us all nervous. Sir Ian is either a policeman or a politician, but he can't continue to be both.'Evidently, they decided he was the latter and they have a point. Very few public servants or corporate leaders would have remained in office after a jury returned the guilty verdict in the de Menezes trial but a politician would try. It was interesting that Sir Ian received the backing of that archdeacon of brazen tenacity, Ken Livingstone, who said the guilty verdict made it more difficult for the police to protect the capital from terrorism. Instead of uttering this falsity, Mr Livingstone should have insisted on Sir Ian's resignation. But even without that guidance, Sir Ian should have seen that the game was up. In the absence of honour and with the failure of the government to act on an important principle, the mayor and his deputy took the right course. Sir Ian had to go. If he hadn't agreed last week, sooner or later a confidence motion would have been passed by the Metropolitan Police Authority, which the mayor chairs with Mr Malthouse at his side. It was a political solution to a political problem. This is hardly surprising when so many public servants have been bent to Labour's cause during the last 11 years. Many roles that used to call for neutrality have been politicised. The office of Britain's most senior policeman succumbed to the trend partly because of Sir Ian's showboating style and partly because of the new dynamics caused by Labour's creation of the mayor of London.The result is that the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, a role with national and local responsibilities, has suddenly become prey to the specific requirements of the capital's political establishment. That scrutiny may be welcome - certainly in this case - but it means that a new commissioner will have to look over his shoulder in two directions - to the Home Office and the mayor's office - and that may result in less clarity of direction and more time spent keeping sweet two bosses who may be members of different political parties.This is to be regretted. Anyone who has watched the masterly American TV series, The Wire, will appreciate that time spent on politics is time spent away from police work. The political element of a police chief's life in one of the big cities of America often overwhelms the interests of sensible and proportionate policing and that is something we do not want to replicate in every big city in Britain if we are to have more elected mayors. Even worse would be the idea of electing chief constables because democracy in policing does not always result in efficiency and good service to the community. This affair underlines the importance of the idea of dispassionate service in big public jobs. Quite apart from the meltdown in the senior management at New Scotland Yard, there was an absence in Sir Ian of this official humility, the notion that the police are not our masters but our servants, a point stressed by the many chief constables who insist on referring not to the police force but to the police service.