The body of Moors murderer Myra Hindley will be cremated following a private funeral service tomorrow night that will be attended by no more than a dozen people, officials said today.The service will be held at 7.30pm at Cambridge crematorium. Police said the building will be designated a "controlled site" to which no members of the public will be admitted. A media presence is expected outside the crematorium but a spokesman for Cambridgeshire police said: "The service will be a private occasion for family and friends."John Roebuck, head of parks and recreation at Cambridge city council, said no more than 10 or 12 "very close acquaintances, friends and possibly family" will attend. It is understood the service will be conducted by Father Michael Teader, the Roman Catholic chaplain at Highpoint prison in Suffolk, where Hindley, 60, spent the last of her 36 years of incarceration.A prison service spokeswoman said that Hindley's family would be deciding what to do with her ashes and that the cost of the cremation - £340 - will be met by her estate. The prison service normally pays for the funeral unless a prisoner has made special arrangements, as she had done.Police are believed to be in discussions with Hindley's relatives about the guests who are to attend the service, which will include her elderly mother Nellie, who lives in a Manchester nursing home.Mr Roebuck said Hindley's family and the prison service requested that her funeral be held as soon as possible after her death on Friday at West Suffolk hospital in Bury St Edmunds, where her body remains under police guard.However, he said he had not been prepared to cancel any cremations to accommodate Hindley's service. Although it was quite unusual to hold a cremation at night, said Mr Roebuck, "holding it in the evening causes the least disruption. The prison service and family wish it to happen as quickly as possible and we were willing to cooperate with that". As soon as they are available after the service, Hindley's ashes will be returned to the prison service while the family decide what to do with them. "They will not remain in the crematorium," Mr Roebuck said. "There will be quite a few press interested out there so we are trying to make sure the proceedings take place with the dignity everyone deserves in death," he added. An inquest into Hindley's death, held yesterday at Highpoint prison, revealed she died from bronchial pneumonia caused by high blood pressure and damage to her coronary arteries. The hearing was opened and adjourned to a later date. Hindley, a chain smoker, experienced ill health for much of her 36 years behind bars, suffering from angina, osteoporosis, respiratory problems and suspected strokes. Hindley and her lover Ian Brady, now 64, were jailed for life at Chester Assizes in 1966 for the murders of 10-year-old Lesley Ann Downey and Edward Evans, 17. Brady was also convicted of murdering 12-year-old John Kilbride, while Hindley was found to have been an accessory to that killing. In 1987 the pair confessed to killing 12-year-old Keith Bennett - whose body has never been found - and Pauline Reade, 16.