The former chief inspector of prisons has joined a growing campaign to secure the release of a man who has been locked up for 30 years for a murder he committed when he was 14.Lord Ramsbotham said keeping Ben Gunn - who was originally recommended to serve 10 years - behind bars served no purpose and warned the justice secretary, Jack Straw, that the increasing number of prisoners kept in jail past their tariff date was contributing to the prisons overcrowding crisis.Ramsbotham called on the minister to release the figures on prisoners "serving many years over their tariff, despite no longer being a danger to the public".In 1980, Gunn, then 14, was jailed after admitting the murder of his friend, also aged 14. The court heard that both boys were in care and had suffered difficult childhoods. Gunn was given a 10-year tariff but despite being classified as at low risk of reoffending, he remains in custody almost three decades later.Throughout his sentence, Gunn has campaigned against abuses of power in the prison system. He recently took over as general secretary of the Association of Prisoners. His predecessor, John Hirst, also a lifer, now free, persuaded the European court of human rights to order the UK government to lift its ban on prisoners voting. As a result, inmates are expected to take part in next year's general election.Gunn further challenged the prison service when his friends published a blog in his name after receiving letters from him. The prison service stopped his mail, then restored it after Gunn posted a response on theguardian.com. His comments received hundreds of responses.His treatment contrasts with that of other child killers, such as Mary Bell, who served 12 years after killing two children in Newcastle in 1968, and Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, who served eight years for killing two-year-old James Bulger in Liverpool in 1993. Five times, between 1995 and 2005, the parole board recommended Gunn's transfer to an open prison but successive home secretaries refused to follow the advice.Ramsbotham said he had read many of Gunn's articles, particularly in Inside Time, the national prison newspaper. He said his continued incarceration serveed neither the prisoner nor society. Ramsbotham said he knew of scores of other prisoners who were years beyond their tariff and who were clearly no longer a danger to the public. He called it a waste, which added further strain to a burdened prison system.According to the Prison Reform Trust, more than 4,000 life sentence prisoners are being held beyond their tariff dates. The trust director, Juliet Lyon, said their cases should be subjected to more regular reviews."Some of these people made terrible mistakes when they were very young and these relentlessly long periods in custody are disproportionate, inhumane and expensive." 