For a former teacher and prison officer on £22,000 a year, John Darwin loved flash cars. He told friends he was making good money from property dealing that allowed him to run his £48,000 Range Rover, complete with a personalised number plate.Fellow prison officers at Home House prison in Teesside described him as obsessed with money, introverted and "boring".One ex-colleague said: "He always spoke about his property developing and the rental properties he used to have, but never said much more."He was more concerned about his activities outside work than he was with his actual job. He had a lot of stuff going on outside."Among his plans to make his fortune were snail breeding, making garden gnomes, running market stalls, writing computer games and dabbling on the stock market.For the police, John Darwin was a liar - faking deafness to give him time to concoct a new story."When you spoke to Mr Darwin he would attempt to fake some sort of deafness to give him some thinking time," a police source said. "He has never shown one ounce of remorse. You get so many different accounts from John Darwin that you don't really know which one is correct."One Blackhall Colliery resident, who knew Darwin's family, said he was always full of himself, yet had no sense of humour.Darwin bragged about owning a dozen properties across Co Durham, from which he told people he earned decent rental income. He told anyone who would listen that he was on his way to becoming a millionaire. The buyers of his former family home in the village of Witton Gilbert reported there were 18 phone lines when they moved in - prompting speculation that Darwin played the stock market on a bank of computers.The Darwins then bought adjoining properties on the seafront at Seaton Carew, living in one and running the other as bedsits.But his financial acumen was not as finely-tuned as he professed, and mounting debts led him to stage his own death.A prison officer who used to work with Darwin said: "I know he had properties in Annfield Plain and up near Stanley, some down near where he lived, and he had just bought that place in Seaton Carew."He had plans to develop it into all sorts of stuff - self-contained flats was one plan - and it was not long after that he went missing. He was always on the look-out to make a few bob. When he disappeared, it was disbelief more than anything else."There was a little bit of tongue-in-cheek suspicion because it just didn't seem right. No-one had ever heard of him being a keen canoeist or anything like that."One or two of the lads said they had seen him in the local area after he disappeared and reported the sightings, but nothing came of it. One lad said he pulled up at some traffic lights and saw him in the next car."Darwin's canoeing antics first came to the notice of the media when he was 17. His mother Jenny, a local councillor, complained about him getting covered in sewage while kayaking in the sea, and the story was covered in the local press.With typical humour, his aunt, Margaret Burns, said later: "Anyway, he's bettered that now."