Sometimes it's possible to get a whole lot wrong but one thing right. So it has proved for David Blunkett, the home secretary, who this week engaged in a fresh round of his favourite pastime: the baiting of liberal anger.He announced a new set of proposals for changing the way our most dangerous criminals are sent to jail. The ideas are vintage Blunkett - a raft of reforms that would take society's worst offenders, lock 'em up and throw away the key. His pitch boiled down to this: in place of limp-wristed judges who've been too soft on the hardmen, I, Dredd Blunkett, will show them no mercy.What he called for was a set of "principles" to guide Their Honours as they pass sentence. From now on, the most heinous crimes - the sexual killing of children; sadistic, premeditated, serial murder of adults; and terrorist slaughter - would bring a sentence of life that would really mean life. No parole for good behaviour, no trimming at the edges, but jail until a murderer drew his last breath. But that's not all. Blunkett wants contract killers, cop killers, racist killers and those who murder with a firearm all to be banged up for no less than 30 years. As for the rest, including those under 17 - if Blunkett has his way, they won't see daylight for 15 years. Should liberals follow their jerking knee and condemn this latest idea? Or might there be a kernel of good sense here? For Blunkett's starting instinct is surely right. Some acts are indeed so foul that the only punishment that fits must be the lifelong loss of liberty. They are mercifully few, but they exist. What other punishment is fitting for a crime like that of Roy Whiting, who abducted, sexually assaulted and murdered the child Sarah Payne? How can he pay for that crime with anything less than the permanent loss of his liberty? This should not be a difficult argument for liberals - after all, we made it first. In the decades-long debate about capital punishment, abolitionists made a kind of bargain with their fellow citizens. They accepted that murder was a uniquely evil crime and therefore warranted a unique punishment - but they insisted that the unique sanction did not have to be death. Liberals promised the penalty for murder would not be just another jail term, on a sliding scale along with theft or fraud. It would be in a different, ultimate category. That bargain was accepted, and the noose was banished. But liberals have reneged on our side of the deal. We persuaded society that we would no longer take the life of a murderer - for that would be barbarism - we would take their liberty instead, even till the end of their days in the most serious cases. By allowing "life" sentences to fall to 15 years or less, we have broken the premise on which the abolition of capital punishment rested - that murder was a unique crime that deserved to be treated uniquely. (This is not, incidentally, the fault of lily-livered judges. Ironically enough, it is the home secretary who until recently set the "tariff" for lifers - deciding for each individual murderer how much time they should serve. If David Blunkett believes sentences have been too short, that's the fault of the department he heads.) The lawyers make good counter-arguments, as you'd expect. Edward Fitzgerald, QC, defender of Myra Hindley, Mary Bell and one of the killers of James Bulger, is adamant that a "whole life" sentence is a moral disaster: "It's inhuman, because it excludes all possibility of progress and release." No prisoner would have any motive for good behaviour, rehabilitation or even remorse - no matter how much he changed, he would never get out. That alone, Fitzgerald believes, could put Blunkett's plan at odds with the Human Rights Act's ban on inhumane punishment. More practically, few murderers would be tempted to make a guilty plea, knowing that the trial judge has little scope for leniency: the judge has to follow Blunkett's principles, or else spell out his reasons for departing from them in open court. So the killer will plead not guilty, forcing a trial - exacting both a financial cost on the court system and an emotional one on the family of the victim. These are not flimsy arguments. Still, they are outweighed by the more basic, moral one: if Whiting tortures and kills Sarah Payne, he should live - but never again as a free man. That's the diamond in Blunkett's plan; the rest is pretty rough. Even his category of most serious crimes offers plenty to dispute. The inclusion of terrorism is surely suspect, given Britain's recent experience. Didn't the IRA and loyalist prisoner releases under the Good Friday agreement show that sometimes, for the sake of ending a war, those convicted of terrorist crimes have to be allowed to walk free? The murder of a police officer is seen as an especially hateful crime - but why is his life worth more than a nurse's? And what sentence would you give to a man who murdered what he thought was a man in the street, unaware that he was an off-duty copper? More puzzling still is the special gravity attached to the use of firearms. Stephen Oake, the Manchester policeman killed earlier this year, was stabbed to death with a knife: why is that worthy of a lighter sentence than if his skin had been pierced by a bullet? And whatever else we think of the vigilante farmer Tony Martin, few would want to see him serve longer than other convicted killers simply because he reached for his shotgun rather than his shovel. Still, these are not the home secretary's greatest errors. By seeking to hem judges in with fixed "principles" he is robbing the bench of one of its most essential tools: discretion. There are always exceptional circumstances which require - wouldn't you know it - judgment. That's what judges are there for. If Blunkett simply wants a set of predetermined sentences to be applied by rote, he might as well sack the judiciary, save some money and get a computer to do the job. The second problem is more abstract. The reason why this whole matter has arisen was because the law lords threw out the old system - whereby the home secretary had that direct hand in setting a prisoner's tariff. They ruled that a violation of the Human Rights Act, which demands that people get a fair trial before an impartial court, independent of the executive. The key principle here is separation of powers, an idea which Britain gave to the world but which is perennially trampled on here at home. The law lords told Blunkett he needed to free the judiciary from the executive, so his answer is to shackle the judges to the legislature instead - by binding them to sentencing rules set by parliament. That's not good enough. If Blunkett wants a bench that is both independent but also more sensitive to democratic opinion, the solution is not merely to hand it instructions from MPs. Rather it needs a fairer, more accountable method of picking judges. That should not be such an alien notion for David Blunkett. Indeed, back in the long ago days before 1997, it was even Labour party policy. j.freedland@theguardian.com