The government's plans for three new "titan" prisons - along with their unquestioning acceptance of the need to jail more people for longer - mark a disturbing watershed in penal policy. Two years ago the then home secretary, Charles Clarke, talked of the "need to get to a state of affairs where prisoners are able to reintegrate into society through developing their relations with their friends and family."Instead, we are now offered the prospect of large-scale incarceration in inevitably remote locations in the kind of institutions rarely seen in western Europe. Rather than learn from Scandinavia, where custody, sparingly imposed, is served in small local establishments with services provided by mainstream health education and social agencies, we are looking to the US or even South Africa for lessons in prison management.International experience does not support the development of such large centres. South Africa's experience of contracting for two 3,000-bed private prisons has proved all but unaffordable. Although France has the 3,000-place Fleury-Merogis complex outside Paris, its more recent building programme has created much smaller prisons. In Ontario, the so-called "super jail" - recently taken back into public hands after five years under privatisation - houses fewer than half of the population proposed for the titans.Lord Carter's review acknowledges the operational challenges associated with large prisons - the possibility of disturbances, difficulties in meeting the needs of special groups and in recruiting and managing large numbers of staff. He fails to note the change this marks to the purpose of imprisonment - away from an approach that seeks to minimise the exclusionary aspects inherent in detention, and towards a model of exile in which offenders are warehoused in large numbers apart from society.While economies of scale may be possible in the provision of food, education or drug treatment, "super jails" will struggle to prepare their residents for return to the various communities in which they live. The Social Exclusion Unit five years ago stressed the importance of effective action on reception and release in reducing the likelihood of reoffending. All prisons, it said, should be required to ensure that they have staff with the appropriate skills in place "to preserve support mechanisms ... in liaison with agencies outside the prison". Developing such liaison will inevitably be more difficult in such large scale prisons, as will the experience of families trying to keep in regular contact.If they are not in the interests of prisoners or of the communities to which they will return, it is worth asking who will benefit from the titan jails. Five years ago, a review of prisons in Scotland noted that the view at senior operational level is that the optimum size for a prison is 700 places. The chief inspector for prisons thought this too high, suggesting the figure - less than a third of what is proposed for England - "has much to do with considerations of what would be financially better for a private company running a prison".Before embarking on such a controversial, risky and wasteful policy the government must surely consult on other ways forward. Lord Carter talks in his report about "alternatives that have been put to the review". But he called for no evidence and has failed to consult. As with his previous report on the correctional services, the government has accepted his conclusions without debate. That experience led to a three-year debacle of the National Offender Management Service. We cannot afford a repeat in respect of our prison system.