 Mass AsbosThe most high-profile case of mass Asbos involved seven youths accused of terrorising residents on an estate in Brent, north London. The so-called Press Road Crew had already been convicted of more than 100 offences. They were banned from the estate and named and shamed in leaflets and on posters. Their families became anti-Asbo campaigners and took the police and local council to court for infringing their human rights. The case failed, but the Met later rewrote the rules of 'naming and shaming' as a result. Cockroach case  Hackney Council last month applied for an Asbo for Steve Goodey after he allegedly emptied a jar of cockroaches in one of its housing offices and terrorised a neighbour and her small child with a machete. His lawyers complained that he was named and shamed before the facts of his case were fully established by the courts. Campaigners argue that Asbos should not be used in such cases, which concern serious allegations of criminal activity.  Protest fears Asbos have been used to curb the 'antisocial' actions of activists, much to the horror of campaigners who fear they will be used to stop legitimate protests. In January, Heather Nicholson, an animal rights activist, was given a five-year order to keep her away from the country's high profile animal research laboratories. 'I was not aggressive, I was assertive,' said Nicholson. 'It was a normal demonstration and I was arrested weeks later despite the number of police there at the time. Asbos were meant for hooligans but we knew they would use them against us.'  Undercover story South Lanarkshire Council in Scotland has been accused of handing out one of the strangest Asbos going when it banned Caroline Shepherd from answering the door in her underwear. But council officials say the case has been misunderstood. 'It may seem like an unusual Asbo, but for the people in East Kilbride who have suffered, it is not,' said spokesman Jim Hayton. He said five out of six points on Shepherd's Asbo were 'related to nuisance and disturbance,' including allowing gangs to hang around her house, and threatening neighbours.  Young Asbo Last week Siobhan Blake, became the youngest girl to be served with an Asbo. The 11-year-old was given a two-year order banning her from throwing missiles, spitting, assaulting anyone, using abusive language, damaging property and harassing people. The order came after Blake 'terrorised' locals in Hastings, East Sussex, by smashing windows and hurling eggs and stones. Her mother Jodie said she was 'very misunderstood'. When The Observer visited Siobhan she said: 'I'm really sorry, but my mum doesn't want to speak to anybody.'