Listing stolen items is a sad and unfulfilling activity for a Sunday afternoon. Nothing is worth what it's actually worth. "Kindle, £60." Yes, but on it were four books I loved and two I'd almost finished. "Laptop, £850." Yes, but somewhere beneath its crumb-drowned keys were the stories I'd written, the photos I'd taken, the "walk to work Eva" playlists that segued so heartbreakingly from Solange to St Etienne. Perfume. Cameras. Phone. Bracelet. There is something deeply unsettling about the realisation a thief has rummaged through your bedside table.It was a Thursday morning, and my boyfriend and I had gone out to buy some socks. We had paid a stranger to do some work in our flat, told them we'd be back in an hour and, before leaving, I'd showered them with cash in that awkward way that some of us uncomfortable with our privilege have. And in that hour, they robbed us blind. My friend says you can tell whether somebody is an adult or not with the question: "Did you have insurance?" Grown-ups will reply: "Of course I did, but…". And the rest of us will go: "Of course not." Either way, my friend says, there'll always be an "of course". Of course.I wonder if it's this, the adult assumption of reimbursement, that meant the police weren't interested? They cancelled their first appointment to visit (police were needed at Lovebox, a support officer told us). Then, when they came four days later, they made it clear that even though we knew who the thief was, even though we had their phone number, their name, the area in which they live, they were unlikely to find them. A quote from the investigating officer's email, regarding the details we'd given him: "I am unable to progress this case at the moment as… the website is shown in a foreign language and difficult to understand. I have tried to convert it to English but my office computer does not give me the access to do so."My little sister had a stutter. Aged four, she found it hard to speak. Aged eight, I had no patience for listening. And then, one evening, my mum said to her: "Wasn't it scary when we found that handbag in the garden?" Some months earlier, a mugger had discarded a bag and empty wallet in the water butt outside the kitchen, escaping over the fence. Suddenly, discussing the thief who had dumped his stuff under her bedroom window, the way the evidence of his nearness had frightened her, my sister's stutter was unlocked. It's not the things stolen that affect us most, it's the intrusions themselves. Their intimacy. Their speed.But the worst things about someone robbing your flat are that your flat becomes a ghost story. Furniture moves. Objects – the jewellery box, the drawer of chargers, empty – are no longer what they seem to be. You keep seeing the thief out of the corner of your eye, a quick shadow where the computer once was. And it happens in the moments when you've forgotten it happened. When you open a drawer a week later to find them there. Not them. You never find them. You find a trace of them, the movement of their hand. Like the smell of smoke on a barbecue in winter, these things surprise you at moments they're not meant to. That's the worst thing.And the walking into the room and seeing everything broken, and the sudden humiliation, the realisation that all your worst fears about how strangers feel about you – the people you pay to do the things you could be doing – are true. They detest you. They think you are spoilt and can afford to start again. And the way it threatens to make you not trust anybody, ever again. That's the other worst thing. The way it makes you look at strangers, and feel eerie about guests, and keep your hand on your bag on the tube, and read out blogs about identity theft to your friends. Trust melts. And your laptop's gone.