What a week in the news. Last Sunday Giles Fraser guided us through a myriad of stories, from the countryside to the death penalty and the use of male moisturiser. The riots had happened too late for some of the papers to get to grips with, but this week we have tons.Front page of the Observer quotes Jenny Willott, the Lib Dems' welfare spokeswoman, who is worried about the moves to cut benefits for those involved in the riots when it would not apply to others who have committed equally serious crimes. Cameron disagrees, and is talking about zero tolerance policing.A 10-page special in the paper is comprised of a serious of articles, including one from war reporter Peter Beaumont – who lives in Tottenham – in which he describes the feeling that he does not really know his own city. Lessons from America; the impact of closing youth clubs, and the Mark Duggan story all go to make up a liberal analysis of the riots.In the Sunday Mirror, once you have ploughed through the lead story about Prince Andrew canoodling with a "mystery woman" on holiday, we get to five pages of coverage headed "The week that shook our world", starting with the story behind the 21-year-old accused of stealing from an injured student after pretending to help him. Captured on YouTube, this incident has, for many, summed up the heartless behaviour of many of the rioters and looters. The spread includes details of other cases being heard in courtrooms in London, Manchester and Birmingham, and profiles some of those in the dock.By way of counter-balance, the formidable children's advocate Camila Batmanghelidjh calls for empathy and understanding towards those who took part in the riots from deprived, chaotic backgrounds.The Sunday Telegraph leads with "Cameron: It's time for zero tolerance", peppered with quotes from the prime minister from an interview. Cameron is pledging to introduce a "tough system of policing" and has recruited former US supercop Bill Bratton to advise him. Strategies will include prosecuting even minor offenses, which will surely add further strain to an already over-stretched criminal justice system.Other stories inside include an analysis of gang culture, which apparently fuelled the riots, and how "soft" policing has failed.David Starkey is quoted in a Mail on Sunday story defending his racist remarks about the riots on Newsnight on Friday, when he said that, "A substantial number of chavs have become black. Whites have become black," by insisting that "I was not talking about skin colour but gang culture. A large number of whites have started to behave like blacks. I think that is the most unracial remark anyone can make." Incredible. A career-ending moment? We shall see.The MoS editorial suggests getting hard on the "underclass", with a reference to the welfare state, and the human rights act, "We have had 50 years of carrot, now it is time for some stick."The Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) head and favourite to be the next commissioner is on the front of the Sindy quoted as saying "We don't need any lessons from America" in response to Cameron's "supercop" plans. Inside, more than 20 pages of coverage on the riots provides some serious food for thought. Page 19 is a full page colour photograph of the now iconic symbol of "The week that shook Britain", of a young man, masked, hooded and gloved, walking past the leaping flames eating a petrol-bombed vehicle."What happened? What now?" is the headline, leading to page after page of interviews with those affected. "It is fantastic how Manchester has pulled together," says Danielle Fuller, who had to hide under shop shutters to escape the violence. "We have shown more unity than the rioters could have achieved."The Peace Wall in London's Peckham is shown covered in layers of notes. "Peace will rule", reads one. There is hope.