It has been a shocking week for justice for women. On Sunday, chief police officers admitted that there was still lamentably little specialist provision for rape victims. On Tuesday, a report exposed the extraordinary hypocrisy underlying attitudes to rape, and on Wednesday a rape case collapsed after the victim acknowledged she had been too drunk to remember whether she had consented to sex. By an uncomfortable coincidence, on the same day an audit across government of departmental action on violence against women reported woeful results throughout Whitehall.Amnesty International's report on attitudes to rape was perhaps the most shocking of the week's events. More than a quarter of those surveyed believed that a woman in revealing clothes was "partly responsible" if she was raped. A fifth thought known promiscuity in some way justified rape. And - although it was only a small percentage - more women than men thought a woman who was drunk was "totally responsible" if she was raped. Being drunk or promiscuous may not be advisable. But neither is a crime.Wednesday's court case is being referred to the director of public prosecutions; but it is not much of a leap of imagination to see a link between the attitudes uncovered by Amnesty International and an apparent misunderstanding of the law of consent. The court appeared unaware of an amendment made two years ago which makes it explicit that consent to sex requires the "freedom and capacity to make [a] choice".Nor is it hard to see a link between the research and the audit of government activity by the End Violence Against Women coalition, led by the Women's National Commission. Although the audit found some departments with good ideas, the wider picture was much more disheartening. There was no agreement on a definition of violence against women, uncertain and often invisible budgeting, little training and no evaluation. Above all - despite the existence of a couple of inter-ministerial committees - there was no evidence of officials working together across departments to devise strategies that might detect violence earlier, help victims more and, as far as possible, prevent violence from happening at all. Yet where they have been tried locally, such strategies have been found to make a real difference.At its worst, Whitehall's "silo mentality", replicated at lower level, allows individuals like the Soham killer Ian Huntley to progress without intervention, from sexual assault to attempted rape, to murder. In thousands of other cases, the failure to detect abuse or violence early leads to a sometimes inescapable spiral of damage.This government has often appeared equivocal about women's issues; individual ministers, particularly Harriet Harman while she was solicitor-general, made real improvements, supported by many Labour and Lib Dem women MPs (and a growing number of Tories, too). Yet there is still little sense that the issue is at the heart of government: once again the minister for women, Meg Munn, is an unpaid aide based at the department for trade and industry while the cabinet minister with responsibility for women, Tessa Jowell, is a mile away in the department for culture, media and sport. Meanwhile, Vera Baird's Commons motion highlighting the campaign to end violence against women has attracted fewer than 50 signatories, mainly men.Violence against women - from sexual harassment to genital mutilation to the domestic violence which accounts for a quarter of violent crime - is the sharpest evidence of an inequality reflected across society, from the intractability of pay differentials to health outcomes. There's no shortage of ideas for tackling it - only a failure of will to act.