As a Mancunian I would be the first to say that there aren't problems in Manchester, but for the Tory shadow home secretary to compare the city to Baltimore is unbelievable (Report, 25 August). Baltimore has a quarter of the population of Greater Manchester and recorded 191 gun deaths last year, Manchester recorded three. Two weeks ago the Tories had a go at the NHS, now they insult Manchester – this from the so called patriotic party.Manchester City council is one of the most forward-thinking councils in Britain, only last month we had the Manchester International festival, it held the magnificent Commonwealth games in 2002 whose success enabled London to get the Olympics in 2012. Manchester was the first city to build a light rail network, the Metrolink, which is expanding yet again and being copied all over Britain. The BBC is relocating to Salford as part of the new Media City complex. Manchester also has the biggest university campus in the UK, it has one of the most diverse populations in the country.These achievements are remarkable considering the decimation the Tories with their monetarist policies reaped on Manchester in the 1980s, vast swaths of industry disappeared overnight. It wasn't globalisation or cheap labour overseas, it was a Tory government that didn't care. We were told that engineering was a sunset industry and that leisure, tourism and finance were the future, it's taken a generation but the country has finally found out where relying on the City will get you. Perhaps Chris Grayling might apologise to Manchester for sins present and past.Alan QuinnManchester • Chris Grayling claims that a "culture of deprivation, harm, addiction and failure" has been imported from the US to the streets of Britain. If this is the case, he should be applauding another success in the ongoing process of Americanisation begun by Margaret Thatcher in the 1979. Monetarism, privatisation and the deregulation of financial institutions led to the destruction of communities in the heartlands of Britain. The well-off prospered and were rewarded with cuts in income tax, while VAT was almost tripled for all, irrespective of income. Deprivation was created deliberately.And where did these policy initiatives originate? Grayling might be too young to know that they were imported from across the Atlantic, from the neoconservatives who gave the world President Reagan. To put the whole model into operation, all the next Tory government has to do is to privatise medical provision and scrap the "60-year-old mistake" that is the NHS. Harm and addiction? Mr Grayling – you ain't seen nothing yet.Keith GlazzardManchester• The other key theme in The Wire, which has been completely ignored by Chris Grayling, is the degree to which police authorities and politicians manipulate crime statistics and anti-crime initiatives in order to get promoted.Michael PughBaildon, West Yorkshire • The Tories are right to recognise the numbers of people who were out of work even before the recession (Tories step up 'broken Britain' attack on Labour party, 26 August). While both parties have indicated that they want to ensure these people's needs are addressed, Turning Point's concern is that there are now large numbers of people coming on to benefits for the first time. We are in danger of ending up with two tiers of unemployed people: those who are fairly well-skilled and remain near to the job market; and those who have never been close to work and will be further marginalised by the recession.We need to take urgent steps to avoid this, and must ensure providers are given the right incentives to work with anyone who is referred to them, including those who need significant specialist support. One way of doing this would be to use a profiling tool to pick out the people who are hardest to help and give providers extra funds to support them. Without specialist support, there is a danger that people could be left to languish on benefits for years to come.Victor AdebowaleChief executive, Turning Point