A row over a game of street football may have been the spark that led to the stabbing of a 15-year-old boy who bled to death on a north-west London estate.Kayser Osman, who suffered stab wounds to the chest and leg, was found lying in the street by a passerby at around 6pm on Tuesday. Despite efforts by police and paramedics to revive him he died at the scene. The boy had just left the Acorn Youth Centre when, police believe, he became involved in a fracas with between three and nine youths on the Churchend estate in Willesden. Detective Superintendent Lewis Benjamin, who is leading the investigation, said yesterday: "We are looking for a group of young men, possibly youths, known to have been in an altercation in the Taylors Lane area between 6pm and 6.30pm. "It is possible that one person in that group is responsible and we are appealing to those people involved directly or indirectly to come forward," he said. "Early indications show the altercation was a fracas about a football match but we don't know what exactly." He added: "We are looking for a weapon at the moment - we know it was a sharp implement, that's all." Minutes before the stabbing Mark Ryan, 26, intervened when a group of youths attacked a boy of similar appearance to Kayser, yards from the murder scene. "I saw a load of young black kids aged between 13 and 16 and they all steamed into one kid," he told the Evening Standard. "I told them to keep away. I saw someone coming around with a stick towards him. I told him to go away. "As he went he said he was going to get a knife. "I had separated the group and stopped the fight so I thought it was all right to go but now I've heard that a kid of this boy's age was stabbed moments later I wish I had stayed a bit longer." Michael Comer, 33, whose home overlooks the crime scene, described how police and paramedics tried to revive the boy. "One officer had stripped down to just his shirt and was pumping, pumping away on the boy's chest trying to keep him alive," he said. "Then I think some paramedics began operating on him on the grass because around 20 to 25 officers all took out their torches, shining them down to give them some light to work. This is terrible, such a waste of a young life." The boy's elder brother, Awil, 18, said the family - who fled to Britain from Somalia in 1989 to escape the civil war - were devastated by the murder. "This is a big shock. It's unbelievable. Someone knocked on the door and said 'Your brother's been stabbed, come quickly. Some paramedics are working on him.' When we got there he was already dead." Kayser's sister, Sarah, 12, described how she had last seen her brother at their aunt's house in nearby Stonebridge. "We were at my aunt Sophia's house. Kayser left to go to the youth club at 5.30pm. I know it was exactly that time because I was watching the news on TV. "He went to the youth club to find someone but I don't know who. I found out at 8pm that he had been killed when the police told me. "We are all very sad. My mum is with relatives now." Kayser attended Willesden high school and was due to take his GCSEs in the summer. Yesterday a school friend, who did not want to be named, said the boy loved to play football and was always out and about kicking a ball. "He was a big Manchester United fan and looked up to David Beckham. He was always calling on friends to play football."