Fresh inquiries into Jimmy Savile's trail of alleged child abuse have proliferated at pace this week. Scotland Yard's formal criminal investigation, announced on Friday, has identified more than 200 potential victims. There are four investigations in the health service already – Stoke Mandeville, Leeds General Infirmary, Broadmoor secure psychiatric hospital and the Department of Health, all of which are tarnished by their association with the late presenter. Two investigations are taking place within the BBC – the first looking at the corporation's handling of Savile through the long years in which he was one of its most prominent stars, the second into why Newsnight dropped its investigation. This week, the government appointed a barrister to provide "independent oversight" of the four health service inquiries. And Labour's Harriet Harman wants an independent inquiry into every aspect of Savile's lifetime of alleged abuse.In some ways this breathless concern is admirable. It speaks of a determination to get to the root of the allegedly predatory career of one of the most prominent figures in the land. But it would all be much more admirable, of course, if Savile had ever been effectively challenged, and above all stopped, at any time while he was alive. The current determination to dig deep into every aspect of his case stands in stark contrast with the years of denial which preceded it, the refusal to see past the presenter's eccentric image, and the readiness to accept Savile's own explanations on the rare occasions when anything troubling surfaced. In almost every institution where he worked professionally or as a volunteer, Savile ran rings around the few who dared to confront him, whether in the media or the health services. Savile's success in avoiding detection raises big questions not only for both sets of institutions, but for Britain too. Paedophiles like Savile is alleged to have been are attracted to professions which provide access to vulnerable children – such as education, care homes, the religious faiths and medicine. The failure of health services and the broadcasters to protect the people in their charge was lamentable. But these failures should not be used as an excuse to bash the BBC or the NHS. Plenty of others lauded Savile in his lifetime before loathing him as soon as the alleged truth came out.Savile was certainly idiosyncratic in his public persona, but his alleged predatory behaviour was not unusual. The high-profile case in the US of the college football coach Jerry Sandusky, sentenced to more than 30 years in prison this month after a 15-year career of child abuse, shows many of the same features – targeting of institutions full of young people, careful low-profile grooming, ingratiating himself into positions of trust in communities he wished to exploit, and plausible denials when challenged. Yet just as the sports programmes failed to spot Sandusky's manipulative behaviour, so the hospitals which allowed Savile such licence also failed to see the alleged threat that he posed. Perhaps broadcasters who promoted Savile's image led the health professionals to drop their guards. Either way, the hospitals were allegedly taken for a ride – and the ride lasted decades.Cases like those of Savile and Sandusky are shocking. The institutions which allegedly facilitated them manifestly have questions to answer. That is hopefully what the cluster of current inquiries will provide in the Savile case. But Ms Harman is also right to the extent that wider lessons will need to be drawn, because these cases not only highlight common institutional issues about sexually predatory behaviour, they are also about abuse of power, however that is expressed. When the Savile inquiries report, parliament should take the lead in drawing these wider lessons together and ensuring that they are applied. Savile was not a one-off, and vulnerable young people still need protection from paedophiles, although Savile escaped a reckoning in his lifetime.