Dramatic CCTV footage showing terrified staff being threatened at gunpoint during a £40m heist at Graff jewellers in Mayfair last year was shown to jurors today as the alleged robbers went on trial at Woolwich crown court.The images, taken during the 6 August robbery, showed the central London shop's manager, Martin Leggatt, "spreadeagled on the floor", while shop assistant Petra Ehnar, with a gun at her back and "told she would be killed" if she did not obey, was forced to empty jewellery from a display cabinet, said Philip Bennetts, prosecuting. She was then taken hostage at gunpoint to enable the robbers to escape to their getaway car.Nine men deny conspiracy to rob the jewellers in New Bond Street between 3 and 7 August 2009. Two of them, Aman Kassaye, 24, and Craig Calderwood, 27, are accused of being the two men, using professional makeup artists to disguise their appearances, who entered the premises to "terrorise staff" at gunpoint.The jewellery taken has not yet been recovered, the court heard. Police were said to have arrested "many but not all" of those involved.Opening the prosecution, Bennetts said: "Guns were employed to terrorise staff so that jewellery could be taken. Guns were employed to take a young female assistant hostage from the store. She was taken at gunpoint so that they could make their way to the getaway car. Guns were employed to threaten any member of the public who bravely attempted to intervene. They had come prepared to use weapons."The robbery would have required "meticulous planning". A string of vehicles were used in the escape, some to block police vehicles. A number of "dirty" telephones were bought the day before using false details, he added.The CCTV footage showed two men, alleged to be Kassaye and Calderwood, waving guns as they shouted at staff to lie on the floor. Ehnar was then told to help Kassaye, who held a gun to her back, said Bennetts. She was taken into the street, where "a blue BMW was ready and waiting" to drive the two men away.Mobile phone footage from a passerby was also shown. "As people rush over, at that stage a shot was fired," said Bennetts, and the mobile phone was lowered.The BMW then collided with a black cab in nearby Stafford Street and the two men got out.Kassaye, said Bennetts, then transferred the bag containing the stolen jewellery to a waiting motorcycle. Another shot was fired after a member of the public, who had seen the collision but knew nothing of the robbery, ran after them. The men then transferred to another vehicle.Kassaye, of no fixed address, also denies kidnap and possession of a handgun and a sawn-off shotgun. Calderwood, also of no fixed address, denies possessing a handgun and a sawn-off shotgun.The court heard that two days before the robbery, on 4 August, a professional makeup artist had been employed to make the two men look older. She subsequently identified them as Kassaye and Calderwood and their DNA was matched to makeup materials.On that same day, the two were seen near Graff jewellers. Bennetts told the jury that CCTV showed a police car passed by twice. "Was that what put them off, or was it a dry run?" he said.The other seven defendants are: Solomun Beyene, 25, of Marylebone, north-west London; Clinton Jamal Mogg, 42, of Bournemouth; Courtney Lawrence, 31, of Ladbroke Grove, west London; Gregory Jones, 30, of Maida Vale, west London; Benjamine McFarlane, 22, of Marylebone, north-west London; David Joseph, 23, of Loughborough Junction, south London; and Thomas Thomas, 45, of East Finchley, London.The trial continues.