Attempts to catch gunman Raoul Moat alive were an exemplary demonstration of the "British style" of policing, the leader of the country's chief police officers said today.Sir Hugh Orde, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said he was proud of the way officers tried to arrest the fugitive with Taser stun guns.Orde, a former chief constable of Northern Ireland, said it was surprising police even considered the approach considering Moat's threats and criminal history.Speaking in London, he said: "The idea that they would deploy a Taser to try and bring him in alive defines the British style of policing better than I ever could. Frankly, in a situation like that, the notion that anyone would consider using anything other than lethal force just sums up the British style of policing."The effort to bring somebody as dangerous as that into custody using the minimum possible use of force is a very clear indication of what they were trying to do. Bearing in mind the history of this guy, it is surprising they would even consider this kind of approach."It emerged today that a second postmortem examination will be carried out on Moat after an appeal by his brother Angus. The first postmortem found no marks consistent with a Taser injury.Moat's uncle, former soldier Charlie Alexander, 72, said he did not know when the second postmortem would take place. "The coroner's officer said they wanted it done as soon as possible so we can get on and arrange for the funeral," he said."After the first postmortem we were not even allowed to touch the body in case it interfered with the results of the second. We are hoping not to make a big deal of Raoul's funeral but we can't do anything about people finding out and turning up. He had a lot of friends."Moat was shot with two XRep shotgun Tasers, fired by West Yorkshire police firearms officers at about the time the gunman shot himself in the head.XReps have a longer range than a handgun-style Taser and are being tested by the Home Office before being approved for police use. Officers can, however, use the weapons in "lawful, reasonable and proportionate" circumstances.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the death of Moat, 37, a former bouncer, after a six-hour stand-off in the Northumberland village of Rothbury on 10 July. The matter was voluntarily referred to the commission by Northumbria police. The chief constable of West Yorkshire, Sir Norman Bettison, said Moat had been surrounded by a large number of officer and was "to all intents and purposes under arrest". He added: "What they were trying to do was to save life".Northumbria police confirmed four more people have been arrested concerning the manhunt, bringing the number of arrests to 20.Two people have been charged. Karl Ness, 26, and Qhuram Awan, 23, are due before Newcastle crown court on Thursday charged with conspiracy to commit murder and possession of a firearm with intent.Moat had shot dead his former girlfriend's new partner, Chris Brown, 29, then turned the gun on Samantha Stobbart, 22, who survived. He went on to shoot PC David Rathband, 42, a father of two, in his patrol car.