The home secretary, David Blunkett, today announced a £4m fund to set up a national helpline for victims of sexual assault using cash confiscated from sex offenders. The money will also be used to fund organisations which help rape survivors and to expand a national network of sexual assault referral centres (Sarcs) where victims can receive care, counselling and advice, said Mr Blunkett. A Home Office spokesman said the funding should enable six more Sarcs to open by September and support the creation of a national sexual assault helpline.Eight centres - in Preston, Manchester, Newcastle on Tyne, Sunderland, Leicester, London, Swindon and Bristol - currently provide support to victims, while they assist the police. Mr Blunkett launched the fund ahead of the first National Victims Conference in London, at which he called for renewed efforts to tackle public fear of crime.Addressing the conference, he insisted that total crime in the UK had fallen and urged communities and criminal justice staff to work together to change the perception of offending and to help victims restore their confidence. The home secretary said that although the chances of becoming a victim of crime had fallen from one-in-three to one-in-four people in the last 10 years, it remained an "appalling statistic". But he pledged to increase funding for local support services and charities in a bid to improve "victims' justice". He claimed the money to help victims of sexual assault was just the start of a new wave of funding for all victims of crime. "The £4m to assist the victims of sexual crimes over the next 18 months may not seem much, but it's the beginning," he said."We must have victims' justice alongside criminal justice. Of course we must ensure that people are quickly and fairly dealt with, that those who are guilty are brought to justice and those who are innocent are not found guilty. "But justice also for the victims who can often come away from the system feeling let down and can often feel that the process and not the truth have been paramount in people's minds."