More than 20,000 mourners have attended a highly charged open-air funeral service for three men who were hit and killed by a car while protecting shops from looters during last week's riots.A funeral cortege carrying the bodies of Haroon Jahan, 21, and brothers Shazad Ali, 30, and Abdul Musavir, 31, filed into Summerfield Park, Birmingham to the sound of Islamic prayers. The men were killed in the early hours of 10 August as they stood on the pavement in Winson Green, Birmingham.Four people are accused of their murders, including a 30-year-old man charged on Wednesday night.Tariq Jahan, the father of Haroon who has been lauded for his part in quelling racial tensions in the city, thanked the crowd for their presence.Betraying little emotion, he said: "This is for the three shaheeds [martyrs]. Please remember them."A first cousin of Shazad and Abdul, named only as Saqib, told the crowd: "I know many of the youth are feeling extremely angered by the way our brothers were taken. I urge them to channel that anger towards those at the top who did not do enough to protect our community." He did not say whether he was blaming the police.The hour-long service began with religious speeches from Sheikh Muhammad al-Yaqoubi, a Syrian Muslim scholar."As Muslims we have proven to be more loyal to this country than even the natives. These three men sacrificed their blood," he said.He stressed that no acts of retribution should be carried out in the names of the dead men, deeming such actions as "unethical and un-Islamic".As he finished his speech, the three hearses carrying the bodies of the men reversed behind the stage. Inside Abdul Musavir's hearse was a garland of white flowers spelling out shaheed.His father sobbed uncontrollably at times and had to be held up by family members. The coffins were laid on a table beneath a covered tent behind the stage.Most of the crowd was made up of Muslim men who stood in rows facing Mecca in readiness for prayers. Women were asked to gather in a separate section, away from the stage. Some African-Caribbean and white mourners passed on their condolences to family members.Many commentators had warned of possible conflict between Asian and black men in Britain's second city after the three men were killed.On the day after his son's death, Tariq Jahan made an impassioned and eloquent speech calling for the different races to come together. He has been praised by David Cameron and Ed Miliband for his timely intervention.The three men were part of a group of young Asian men who say they were defending the community's shops, homes and mosques while other parts of Birmingham were attacked by rioters.Their bodies of were collected from the mortuary on Wednesday and taken to the Handsworth Muslim Centre where they were bathed by their brothers, in keeping with Islamic tradition. They were buried in a private ceremony at Handsworth cemetery.Ian Beckford, 30, from Quinton, Birmingham, appeared before city magistrates on Thursday charged with murder.Joshua Donald, 26, Adam King, 23, and a 17-year-old who cannot be named because of his age have previously appeared in court in Birmingham charged with murdering the three men. All four have been remanded in custody to appear at crown court in December.• This article was amended on 19 August 2011 because the original misspelt the name of Sheikh Muhammad al-Yaqoubi as Sheik Ali Muhammed Yaqoubi.