The comedian Chris Langham, who is standing trial on charges of indecent assault and child pornography, told jurors today that he was abused as a child.He made the claim before admitting that he had viewed child pornography online to research a sketch involving a sex offender for the BBC TV series Help.He said he realised there was "no excuse" for viewing such material and claimed he felt sick when he had seen it. He likened the experience to "putting my face in a chainsaw". Breaking down in the witness box, the actor - who said his sexuality was "depressingly normal for a man of my age" - told how he had later tried to kill himself after his arrest for downloading child pornography."I had a terrifying six months. I just wanted to die and I tried to kill myself. I hated it, I just hated it." Mr Langham, who also wept in the witness box as he denied being a paedophile, told jurors he was abused when he was eight years old and living in Canada with his parents.He also denied having sex with a 14-year-old girl while he was performing in Les Miserables in the West End of London.The 58-year-old, who starred in Help and The Thick of it, also said his sexuality was "depressingly normal for a man of my age".Giving evidence at Maidstone crown court, he said he had been bullied after moving to Canada."I was eight. My parents had moved to Canada when I was five. I was quite a frightened child. I got beaten up all the time because I spoke with an English accent," he said."I was trying to be a snob like my parents, but it's hard to be a snob when you are not as good as the people around you."An incident occurred when I got taken sailing when I was eight in Ontario. I stayed in a tent with this guy. I don't remember his name. He had red hair and red pubic hair."Looking down, he added: "I don't want to go into detail if you don't mind."He went on to say that he felt "deep, deep shame" about the incident and added: "I hate myself for that, and have always hated myself for my approval-seeking."Mr Langham later tried to explain to the jury why he had felt he needed to look at child pornography to research a character called Pedro, dubbed a "minor" sex offender, who was to be played by his co-star Paul Whitehouse in the second series of Help.He said: "I know about the world of being at the receiving end of a paedophile but I don't know about paedophilia, the networks, the slang, what does the room look like."He said he was now well aware of the "ghastliness" of the material that he had viewed.Mr Langham gave a graphic description of how he felt watching the images, but admitted he returned to watch them."My heart started beating, my mouth went dry and I started feeling sick," he said."I tried to think what was the connection that made me go there."He said he had never hoarded a library of clips, but said that had he not been arrested, he might have looked at further images.He said: "I have no sexual interest in children, I have children myself. I find them [the images] very upsetting. To me it was like putting my face in a chainsaw. I had to get out."I did it on four occasions and had I not been arrested, I probably would have done it again."Asked why he returned to view the images. Mr Langham replied: "Because it's an issue in my life. It was horrible."Mr Langham said the police "had me on a plate" when he was arrested for watching underage internet pornography "because I said I did it".But he added: "They wanted to convict me on the basis I had an abnormal interest in children, that I'm a paedophile, and I'm not."With his voice breaking with emotion, he told the court: "That part of the crime is a life sentence and that is the part of the crime I did not do."I have to stand up and tell you the truth but I will not stand here and admit a crime I didn't commit."I'd like to make it clear I am not taking the crime I committed lightly. I did it in an arrogant way, I know who I am. I know who I am. And I did a very arrogant thing to not think that the law applied to me."Mr Langham went on to tell the jury he had never had sex with an underage girl while acting in Les Miserables in the 1990s.It has been alleged that he had sex with the girl, now aged 25, on numerous occasions after performances at London's Palace Theatre, in his dressing room, car, hotels and home.Mr Langham admitted having sex with her when she was over 18 but denied having underage intercourse with her.He added that he had given the girl between four and six acting lessons but said that his dressing room was too small and the theatre environment too busy for anything more to take place.He said: "There is constantly a stream of visitors and chatting that goes on on the dressing room stairs and in the dressing rooms."You have to understand that theatre is a fantastically gossipy place and 90% of things don't happen. It's the most insane place to have an affair, the theatre."The actor claimed he was concerned for the girl because she was anorexic and being bullied at school and seemed "to need some help" in dealing with the suicide of a friend.Mr Langham's defence counsel, David Whitehouse, QC, asked him if the pair had had sex after the friend's memorial service. Mr Langham said: "No.""You walked around the room naked?" Mr Whitehouse asked. "No," Langham replied.He said he had been a "friend" to the girl but tried to cool their relationship because she fantasised about harming his children.He denies 15 charges of making indecent images of a child. He also denies six charges of indecent assault, and two charges of buggery, which relate to the teenage girl he met during Les Miserables.The jury was this morning told by the judge Philip Statman to find him not guilty of four counts of indecent assault allegedly carried out on a teenage girl under 16 between January 8 1996 and April 7 1998.The trial continues.