Tough-talking Tony is to tell judges to lock up more yobs. Or at least, that is what the Sun reported yesterday. The prime minister is to issue his "get tough" order at a Downing Street crime summit on Monday. Unnamed government officials were reported to be placing the blame for the rise in crime on lenient sentencers. The Sun, which usually takes a great interest in defending British sovereignty, fails to note that even under our unwritten constitution prime ministers are not allowed to instruct judges on their sentencing decisions. Indeed, Monday's crime summit is not for judges, but for chief constables.That said, ministers are clearly worried by an unfortunate concatenation of events: it began in January with the first rise in officially recorded crime in six years, followed by a firmer rise in May; later the same month, Gallup showed the Tories edging ahead of Labour in dealing with law and order; party focus groups relayed the same message; then came this month's resurrection of British football hooliganism; and finally this week's report suggesting the UK has become a more criminal society than the US.Time to untangle these elements. The rise in crime was predictable. Indeed, it was predicted in our Society section 10 months ago by Chris Nuttall, the former head of research at the Home Office, not because of "soft" judges or "soft" ministers, but something more prosaic: the growth of the group which contains most criminals, young men aged between 16 and 25. Ministers will have been told about these projections and would have been wiser to have prepared the public. An opportunistic opposition banging away on simplistic law 'n'order themes was bound to rally the tabloids and gain in the polls. The rise in violent crime is worrying; but, the incidence of violent offences has risen in eight of the last 10 years. This is no sudden reverse. And the highest rise has been in robberies due to the theft of mobile phones, one-third of which were committed by schoolchildren against other schoolchildren. No one should condone such crimes, but they should not be confused with armed robberies. The most important challenge facing ministers is to resist knee-jerk reactions. They have an intelligently devised, evidence-based crime-reduction strategy and should stick with it. Its key target areas have shown surprising results: domestic burglaries down by 20% since 1997 to the lowest level for 10 years; vehicle crime cut by 15%. It is time now to target robberies. The police services with the highest increases are already reordering their priorities. No one is suggesting violent offenders should not be sent to prison. Some sentences may have been too lenient, but most of these have been referred to the court of appeal. The danger is not that the criminal justice system will ignore public concerns, but that it will react too readily. Judges cannot be instructed by ministers, but history has shown that sentencing policy is influenced by the climate which politicians create. Labour must resist the populist cause. There are spaces in the prison system, but only if inmates are doubled up in cells. It was a former Tory home secretary, Lord Hurd, who urged his own party last month to stop treating prisons like political dustbins. It was one of his Tory successors who described prisons as "an expensive way of making bad people worse". The US has little to teach us - this week's report is using outdated data - but it has demonstrated the folly of believing that "prison works". It locks away 2m people but still has four times as many murders.