Mike Thornton was on the top deck of a number 86 bus when the three boys boarded and started making trouble. It was a hot day in Manchester and the boys - "beefy lads" he says - ran the length of the bus slamming shut windows, before turning their attention to Mr Thornton. "What's your problem?" one demanded and 10 minutes later, the 55-year-old's nose was broken in two places and a bone in his eye socket chipped. "No one stepped in to help," he says. "The other passengers told me afterwards 'we didn't see anything, we didn't hear anything' and I couldn't believe it. I was covered in blood."This is an instance of what Jack Straw condemned this this week as "walk on by culture", the public's reluctance to answer pleas for help, which is being indicted in the wake of the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor. The home secretary, who has made three citizen's arrests to date, upbraided the public for its failure to respond adequately when witnessing crime. While warning them not to take risks, he said: "People do have a responsibility to help the police in their work."Last year the audit commission calculated that for every police officer on patrol there were 18,000 people, 77 miles of road, 7,500 houses, nine schools and 23 pubs. Civic responsibility, says Mr Straw, must play its part in lessening the shortfall. The deterrent for intervening in street crime has always been the ease with which apparently trivial situations can turn into life-threatening ones mid-flow. This week, a 34-year-old man from Glasgow was taken to hospital after trying to stop a gang of youths stoning a bus in the city's Pollock area. He is believed to have been stabbed in the chest. "There's an awareness that you're liable to suffer if you're going to interfere," says Anthony Black, a criminal psychologist who was for 27 years head of psychological services at Broadmoor hospital.  Fear "Criminals will plan a crime with the general awareness that people are not going to get involved because they fear the consequences, the violence, the fact that nowadays people will be carrying some sort of a weapon." It is not only fear but embarrassment that psychologists detect in people whose conduct they refer to as "bystander apathy". Dr Norah Hart teaches on this subject at the centre for applied psychology at Liverpool John Moores University. "There is the fear that they have not read the situation right and that they will may make fools of themselves," she says. "When people aren't sure what's going on, they tend to think, maybe there's a simple explanation, maybe it's just kids larking about. This is what happened with the James Bulger case. People thought, the two boys have said he's their brother, so it must be all right."  Embarrassment This attitude, says Dr Hart, is dangerously contagious. "If an incident is taking place in a crowded area, people see that no one else is doing anything and deduce from that that there is nothing wrong, that the situation doesn't merit intervention." "You are worried that your actions will be misinterpreted," says Anthony Black. "The other day a child ran out of a shop crying 'Mummy, Mummy' and my initial reaction was to comfort her. But then I thought no, I'm going to be thought to be trying to abduct the child, so I quickly got the help of two other women." When Mike Thornton finally pulled away from his assailants and appealed to the bus driver for help, he was informed that the bus company observed a strict policy of non-confrontation. The thugs were allowed to leave the bus unchallenged. "I was shocked," he says. "There was a gentleman sitting further along the bus who was quite elderly but fit looking. I'm no youngster, but if it had been him getting attacked, of course I would have stepped in. Instead, this man did nothing, and after it was all over came up to me and said, 'Oh, what happened to you?' as if seeing my blood-stained shirt for the first time. "There was a girl at the back of the bus and when she left she apologised to me and handed me my sunglasses. She said, 'I'm sorry, but you'll appreciate I go to the same school as the boys and didn't see anything.' I could understand her attitude, but not his. It is one thing not to intervene, but another to deny you even saw anything." Mr Thornton's attackers were never convicted. Frank Levy, a 53-year-old taxi driver from Peckham in south London, is a rare example of a man who did get involved. While driving through Holborn he passed a bank robbery in full swing in which a security guard was being held with two guns to his head. When the guard fell to the ground, Mr Levy leapt into action. "Maybe I'm stupid," he says, "but I saw the two gunmen and thought, why is no one doing anything? Next thing I knew, I was in." He stopped the car, chased the robbers down the street and in the ensuing scuffle was shot in the foot. "People kept saying to me afterwards, 'You must be bloody mad, doing what you did.' But my parents were very moral, upright citizens. "Without me knowing they might have instilled values in me which made me take that course of action without thinking." In the aftermath, it transpired that the security guard had merely fainted, but Mr Levy does not regret his actions. Nonetheless he disapproves of Jack Straw's latest appeal to the public conscience. "I think Jack Straw's got it wrong. I don't think it's up to the public to behave like that. "People don't mind stepping in if all they're going to get is a a punch on the nose. But so many kids carry weapons these days. People don't want a knife in the stomach for their trouble." Related special reportPolicing crimeRelated stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate 