A pioneering curfew aiming at keeping children under 16 off the streets at night is being launched in a Cornish town. Police officers and local authority officials, some wearing head cameras to gather evidence, will patrol an area of Redruth and stop all youngsters of 15 and under who are out unsupervised after 9pm, and all under-10s out after 8pm. Officers say the campaign, codenamed Operation Goodnight, will help tackle antisocial behaviour, but some human rights activists are worried that the drive will target blameless youngsters out enjoying the long summer evenings. Police will contact parents or carers and tell them they do not think the children should be out so late. If the parents do not act, agencies such as social services and housing officials will be brought in, with action then taken against families. Curfews have been effectively introduced across the country through the setting-up of "dispersal zones" under the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003. The legislation allows groups of two or more to be moved on if their presence or behaviour has resulted in, or is likely to result in, people being harassed, intimidated, alarmed or distressed. A dispersal zone was set up in an area of Redruth last winter, but when the scheme came to an end many local people asked for the curfew to be extended. The police are describing Operation Goodnight, which will be launched at the end of this month and run through the summer holidays, as a voluntary scheme because families cannot be forced to keep their children indoors. But PC Marc Griffen said all children spotted out during the curfew would be stopped and questioned, even if they were just "returning from band practice".If parents did not cooperate they would be visited by social services and other agencies. Parenting orders, which can compel parents to attend counselling or guidance sessions, may also be imposed. Julian Commons, Penwith council's anti-social behaviour coordinator, welcomed the initiative. "While the vast majority of parents are extremely responsible, we need to encourage all parents to take responsibility for their children so that the community is a safer place for everyone," he said.Operation Goodnight has sparked a lively debate on the news website thisiscornwall. Many welcome the move, but others feel that the rights of youngsters are being eroded."When will people start to realise that not all teenagers are the same? No wonder they are growing up with an attitude problem when everyone believes anyone under the age of 20 to be a hoodie-wearing, drug-taking yob," said one Redruth resident.Alex Gask, legal officer for Liberty, said many police officers were "operating on the assumption that young people out in the evening were up to no good or at risk. "While the police should of course intervene if there is a real problem, young people shouldn't be challenged simply for being outside their homes."