Should a child be "named and shamed", however bad their behaviour? The question has been thrown into stark relief by the spreading use of the government's anti-social behaviour orders, which ministers say depend on identification and publicity for their effectiveness. One court, however, is taking a stand. Magistrates in Hartlepool are refusing to allow the town's evening newspaper to identify juveniles who have appeared before the court and been found to have behaved anti-socially. The JPs say it would not be in the best interests of the youngsters to be identified. The newspaper, the Hartlepool Mail, is backed by the town's MP, Peter Mandelson. But the magistrates have won plaudits from The Children's Society charity, which warns that allowing the media to name and show pictures of juveniles could have a seriously harmful effect on them. Kathy Evans, the charity's social policy officer for youth justice, says: "This is an agenda that satisfies other people's interests and not those of the children." The clash comes as more and more local newspapers are putting pressure on courts to lift orders protecting a child's identity and thus allow their names and addresses be published. Traditionally, magistrates dealing with young people under 18 have applied section 39 of the Children and Young Persons Act to stop court reporters using the names and addresses of juveniles. But when magistrates now hand down anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos), which are, in effect, banning orders on individuals held to have caused harassment, alarm or distress to others, there is active encouragement from the government to dispense with section 39 and allow juveniles to be identified. In Cheltenham, Manchester, on Teesside, and in South Shields, magistrates have allowed the press to name juveniles deemed to have committed anti-social behaviour. Local authorities and police have released full, often lurid details of such behaviour and the youngsters have sometimes been prompted to strike aggressive poses for photographs. In one recent case in Market Drayton, Shropshire, magistrates followed the line taken by their colleagues in Hartlepool and refused to allow identification of a boy given an Asbo. But the juvenile decided to appeal, and when the case was heard at Shrewsbury crown court, the judge allowed the Shropshire Star newspaper to name him. The government's line is that identification is essential so that Asbos may be enforced: communities must be able to identify and report a person if they break an order by re-entering an area from which they are banned. Jack Straw, the then home secretary, said earlier this year: "There may be grounds for imposing reporting restrictions during application proceedings concerning a juvenile, but in my view the situation changes if an Asbo is made."There should be a presumption in favour of publicising the identity of the defendant in order to ensure as far as possible that the Asbo will be effective in preventing further anti-social behaviour. It cannot be in the interest of justice or public order for an Asbo to be issued with little prospect of breaches being noticed." Harry Blackwood, editor of the Hartlepool Mail, takes the case for naming juveniles a stage further. He says: "One of the benefits of naming them is to give them a short, sharp shock. Unless something brings them up to a sudden halt, they could go on to commit much more serious crimes. "Anti-social behaviour orders are designed to protect the community. It becomes a complete mockery if the guilty parties cannot be named. Everyone seems to support and understand the stance taken by the paper, except the local magistrates." Critics counter this by claiming that communities are well aware who has been brought before the courts for anti-social behaviour. The orders depend on witness statements by people in the neighbourhood who have suffered at the hands of unruly neighbours and hooligans. The news that an individual or family have been banned from an estate, or evicted from their home, will spread through the area like wildfire. Moreover, the argument against naming is supported by the fact that Asbos are issued under civil proceed ings, with hearsay evidence admissable, and require a lesser burden of proof than does a criminal conviction. The orders can be handed down to children as young as 10. Evans says: "This is naming and shaming. We have seen no evidence that exposing young people to publicity actually achieves anything constructive. In fact, it can be counter productive." Geoff Monaghan, chair of the National Association for Youth Justice, cites the case of a 15-year-old Manchester boy as an example of how the orders can work against the rehabilitation of a young offender. The youth was handed a 10-year Asbo while still in custody under a six-month detention order. On his release, he would automatically be banned from an entire district of the city and have no chance of trying to put his life in order. "One of the key ingredients of the Labour party's reworking of the youth justice system has been the importance placed on the reintegration of the offender," says Monaghan. "This boy has no chance of doing this. It is disruptive to the family and runs against the government's intentions of reintegration. It is entirely contrary to the welfare of a young person. "Potentially, we could have a situation where magistrates have issued an anti-social behaviour order against a 10-year-old and then agreed to the press identifying the child, and he or she is named and shamed. That should be a matter of great concern." The long-running campaign by the Hartlepool Mail aims to persuade magistrates to allow identification of two sets of brothers who have been handed Asbos. It has won powerful support. More than 1,000 readers have declared support for the newspaper and Mandelson, referring specifically to the naming of two juveniles, has said that "the full weight of an Asbo should come down on the heads of such criminals, and this includes their identification". Blackwood has received a letter from Home Office minister John Denham, stating that the government believes reporting restrictions should be placed on juvenile Asbo defendants only in exceptional circumstances and that this had been made clear in guidance to magistrates. The chairman of the Hartlepool bench, John Phillipson, says that he and his colleagues have studied the guidance closely. In deciding not to allow identification of juveniles, the magistrates weighed the future welfare of the children against the public interest. Jane Scott is a solicitor with the firm representing the children at the centre of the row, at least two of whom she maintains have suffered psychological difficulties as a result of the "name and shame" campaign. She says: "Paramount in all cases dealing with children is the welfare principle of the Children Act." Scott told magistrates in July, when appearing for two juveniles given Asbos, that the mother of one of the juveniles had informed her before the case that her son had already been found in the attic of his house with a rope round his neck. "The potential for harm cannot be ignored and must always be in the minds of the court when it is determining whether to impose reporting restrictions," Scott says. "All of us in the legal system should always have that at the forefront of our minds."