A 15-year-old schoolboy was shot dead by gunmen who killed him in a case of mistaken identity, a court was told yesterday. Michael Dosunmu was hit by four bullets from a submachine gun as he slept wrapped up in his duvet. Two men mistook him for his older brother whom they were seeking, it was alleged at the Old Bailey, London. The teenager "had no chance of surviving", according to Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting. Mohammed Sannoh, 19, and Abdi Omar Noor, 22, deny murder and possession of a submachine gun that can fire more than 1,000 rounds a minute.Michael's sister Shakira was in another room and was woken by the gunfire. Her locked door was forced open, and she was confronted by a masked man, the court heard. She hid under the duvet but later emerged when she heard Michael gasping for breath, entering his bullet-ridden bedroom and raising the alarm.The prosecution alleges that the men were after Michael's brother Hakeem, 26, who they believed had cheated them out of proceeds from security van robberies, and also wanted revenge following the murder of another man a few days earlier. Laidlaw said the men had forced their way into Michael's house in Peckham, south London, last year, and went up to one of the bedrooms on the first floor of the house. "The intruders turned the light on and opened fire with a Mach 10 [gun] at a figure lying wrapped in a duvet. That person had no chance of surviving. They were after Hakeem Dosonmu."Laidlaw told the jury that Sannoh was part of a gang in their late teens or early 20s who had carried out a series of armed raids on security guards. Laidlaw said Hakeem had been involved in drug dealing and in three robberies from security firms. Following the last robbery Sannoh's friend Javarie Crighton, one of the robbers, had been stabbed to death after confronting organiser Orando Madden about money, the court was told. Madden had surrendered to police and that left only Hakeem as the target for revenge, said Laidlaw. There were rumours that Madden had cheated the younger robbers and that Hakeem had the money, he added.Laidlaw said: "These two men thought it was Hakeem who was sleeping in the bedroom and he was shot because of the money they believed they and their friends had been cheated of - and for revenge for the murder of Javarie Crighton."He alleged Noor was not linked to the robberies but had become involved in the killing, because of his friend Sannoh. After the murder Noor fled to Ipswich, the prosecution alleged. Firearms residue was found on his clothing and a partial DNA match was found on a casing of one of the bullets fired from the machinegun, the court heard. Scientists also found low traces of gunpowder on hooded tops belonging to Sannoh.The accused claim they were at home or near home at the time of the killing. The case continues.