Two men who spent 23 years in jail because of evidence given against them by a pathological liar are to launch a £1m claim for compensation.As Terry Pinfold and Henry MacKenney walked free from the court of appeal, lawyers revealed they would challenge the decision of the original trial judge to exclude medical evidence which might have led to their acquittal. The behaviour of police and prosecutors will also be challenged. Mr MacKenney, 72, is believed to be the first of 24 British prisoners serving whole life tariffs to have a conviction quashed in this way. The appeal case relied, in part, on evidence given by David Somekh, a consultant forensic psychiatrist, who told Lord Justice Woolf the main witness against the two men suffered from a severe anti-social personality disorder which made him untruthful. Dr Somekh's evidence set another precedent because the court accepted his "psychological profile" evidence despite the fact that he had never personally examined that witness. Mr MacKenney, of Ilford, Essex, was jailed in 1980 at the Old Bailey for four murders. Mr Pinfold, 71, of Romford, Essex, was found guilty of procuring Mr MacKenney and Bruce Childs, the main prosecution witness, to murder a business associate, Terence Eve. No bodies or murder weapons were found and in each case Mr Childs's evidence was crucial. Mr MacKenney and Mr Pinfold were released on bail in October after the court heard that Mr Childs's lack of credibility made his evidence "worthless". The court for mally quashed the conviction yesterday. Mr MacKenny said he had waited more than 20 years to be declared innocent. "It is the end of a long road of misery. I am very bitter. I was let down very badly by the system." Mr Pinfold left hospital to attend the hearing and returned there afterwards. He said he was disappointed the appeal court did not examine many of the questionable elements of the prosecution. "I am not going to let this go. Everything that happened to us will come out eventually. The trial 20 years ago was a joke. Witnesses were coerced, threatened, bullied, and misled. It has taken over two decades to right this wrong, and things are still not right." Outlining reasons for quashing the convictions, Lord Woolf, who sat with Mr Justice Aikens and Mr Justice Davis, said the case had been referred to the court by the criminal cases review commission. He said the appeal relied on information not before the court in 1980 or the subsequent appeal, namely that Mr Childs had retracted evidence incriminating both men and had himself confessed to other murders. At the original trial, both men tried but failed to present medical evidence from Barry Irving, a leading psychologist who had not been able to examine Childs but after observing him in court prepared a report casting "some doubt on his reliability as a witness". The doctor said his condition made him an immensely plausible liar. Both men have suffered during imprisonment. Mr Pinfold has had six strokes and has heart and bowel problems. Mr MacKenney contracted emphysema and pneumonia.