Of all the things attributed to the publication in February of Sir William Macpherson's report into the murder of Stephen Lawrence, this has to be the most perverse.Recently there have been a number of well-publicised "racist attacks". But if the police are now right, we were duped. After exhaustive inquiries, detectives concluded the incidents were hoaxes. In some cases, alleged victims were not attacked at all. Some so-called victims have been charged by the police and their stories will emerge in court, where they will be devoured by tub-thumpers who rail that race relations "are not so bad". Yet the alleged fakers should not be ignored. Take Gurpal Virdi, the Sikh police sergeant who claimed he received racist hate mail from white colleagues. Mr Virdi, an officer stationed in west London, alleged he was victimised for challenging colleagues who took a less than rigorous interest in race crimes. His fight, however, appears to have been a figment of his imagination. Mr Virdi was sacked by the Metropolitan police in March after an internal inquiry decided he had sent the hate mail to himself and other black and Asian staff. The hearing concluded that Mr Virdi was motivated by frustration - he had been turned down for promotion - and that he had tried to cover his tracks by incriminating a white woman colleague. Mr Virdi says he was framed. The case of Ashia Hansen is stranger still. When the Daily Express broke the story that Chris Cotter, the athlete's on-off boyfriend, had been stabbed outside her home in Birmingham and that she had received hate mail, detectives thought they were dealing with a racially- motivated attack. Now Mr Cotter has been remanded in custody charged with staging the whole incident in order to sell the story. Two other men have been charged with causing Mr Cotter grievous bodily harm, though it appears the wounds he received from them were unintentionally vicious. Last month a teenager claimed that four white men soaked him in petrol and set him alight, shouting "You smelly Paki". The 17-year-old, who lives in a village in Oxfordshire, suffered terrible burns to his face and arms. The pictures told one story and he told another. It was one which echoed the circumstances of the horrendous death of the black musician Michael Menson, whose murderers were jailed in January. According to detectives, nothing happened. First they announced the incident was not being treated as racially motivated. Then the teenager was "invited" in for questioning. The police theory goes something like this: the youth accidentally set himself alight when he tried to set fire to a car with lighter fluid, and concocted the story to get himself out of trouble. There was a similar case in the West Midlands. Last week, Ashley Kane, from Kings Heath, Birmingham, was charged with wasting police time by claiming he was set on fire by a gang of racists. Mr Kane's possible motive for apparently making up the story becomes a little clearer when you consider the second charge against him - attempting to defraud an insurance company of £3,500 for damage to his car, a VW Golf, which was set on fire in the alleged attack. There has been a spate of these unresolved incidents. But whatever the truth in each case, as a phenomenon they are not significant. They are probably no more than an unfortunate curiosity of the post-Macpherson back lash, and should not deflect the police, politicians or commentators from the task ahead. The nature of that task is illustrated by the graphic: what is the cause of such disproportion in arrest rates? The real story for the Metropolitan police is not that Gurpal Virdi was sacked but that the number of race hate crimes in the capital is now running at an average of 63 a day. The total number in the 12 months to April this year was 23,346, more than for the whole of England in the 12 months to 1999. Scotland Yard does not record the number of malicious racial reports, but when asked, sources at the Met could not think of a single incident in recent memory. The Thames Valley force, which covers Oxfordshire, recorded 999 racially motivated crimes last year, up from 486 in 1998. Inspector Simon Pont, who heads the community and race relations team, said the recent hoax involving the teenager was the only one he had ever come across. The West Midlands force will tell you a similar story. Recorded racial crime has gone up by 50% in the last two years. Every study suggests racial crime has been massively under-reported. But even recorded "racial incidents" are acknowledged to have doubled in the past decade. Now that the police are taking race crimes seriously - thanks in no small measure to Macpherson - is it such a surprise that a few individuals have tried to take advantage? Those who have been proved to have faked racial abuse deserve the highest condemnation. Their deception wastes police time and money. They are also guilty of engineering a shameful distraction. By exploiting sensitivity about race, they encourage claims that Macpherson went far too far and that Sir William - demonised in some papers, particularly the Daily Telegraph - dangerously exaggerated Britain's multi-cultural problems and branded the police, with high-minded carelessness, as institutionally racist.  Nick Hopkins is our crime correspondentnick.hopkins@theguardian.com