The supreme court is next month to consider radically reforming the law of joint enterprise, after claims that it drags innocent people into the criminal justice system and excessively punishes those on the periphery of violent crime.We all accept that under criminal law offenders are liable for their own actions. But under the doctrine of joint enterprise, you can be found guilty for someone else’s crime.If you think that sounds unfair, you’re not the only one. As a youth worker in Hackney, east London, I’ve had to explain this to young people who attend the local community centre. I tell a story to make the concept clear to them. It goes something like this: Two friends, David and Curtis, are walking to a party. Curtis also invites Nick. David has never met Nick, nor the other two friends he brings with him. On their way to the party, Nick and his two friends get into an altercation with a group of boys, resulting in a fatal stabbing.Joint enterprise law seems to unfairly target young people | Carlene Firmin I tell my group that all of the boys, including non-participants David and Curtis, were charged and convicted of murder. Uproar ensues. “That’s not fair!” “How can they prove that?” I explain that under the legal doctrine of joint enterprise, someone on the fringes of a group where a murder is committed could receive the same life sentence as the perpetrator.Hackney had 1,118 incidents of serious youth violence between 2008 and 2013. The authorities have turned to joint enterprise as a way of tackling gangs. Not only is the burden of proof lowered – you don’t have to be found guilty of actually carying out the act. But anyone who can be linked to a group – especially if it is labelled a “gang” – can be tarnished with collective guilt by association.Research by Cambridge University’s Institute of Criminology indicates that a disproportionate number of those convicted using joint enterprise law are young black and mixed-race men. According to Ben Crewe, deputy director of the prisons research centre at the institute: “BME (black and minority ethnic) men may be over-represented in communities where young men typically hang around in groups that are labelled by outsiders as gangs.” He found that “an association may exist unconsciously in the minds of the police, prosecutors and juries between being a young ethnic minority male and being in a gang, and therefore being involved in forms of urban violence”. As a writer, I have poured my passion about the injustice of joint enterprise into my novel Ambitions of the Deprived. Set in Hackney, it tells the story of four teenage friends as they struggle against the limitations placed on them by society due to their race, age and social status. Their hard work and study count for nothing when one of them is unwittingly caught up in a murder.His innocence seems cruelly irrelevant as he is tried under joint enterprise, along with the real killers. Family, friends and the community are in shock. The pressure tests and breaks friendships as their ambitions are put on hold.  I have seen first-hand how joint enterprise alienates the community I hope my novel reveals the untold story of many young people living in deprived areas of Britain. The media often emphasises just one perspective – that of the murder victim and their bereaved family. And that’s absolutely right and proper. Both the young people I mentor and I have felt that devastation more than once when children in our group have been cut down by gunfire. But there’s another side that also needs to be seen.And that’s the way in which joint enterprise is used as a powerful blunt instrument, leading to draconian penalties for young people who have marginal, minor or non-existent involvement in serious criminal acts. Reliable statistics are hard to come by, but it is estimated that as many as 1,800 people have been convicted under joint enterprise. Some are serving mandatory life sentences. Some are innocent.I’ve been collaborating with the grassroots human rights organisation Jengba (Joint Enterprise: Not Guilty by Association). It campaigns against the abuse of joint enterprise and is currently supporting more than 500 people.We now have a groundbreaking opportunity to change the system. For the first time, the supreme court is to consider the harm and injustice that joint enterprise causes.The hearing is scheduled for the end of October, and Jengba has filed for permission to intervene in the case. We have requested a fundamental review of joint enterprise, and have submitted case studies to show how it over-criminalises secondary parties – especially in murder cases.I’ve worked with young people in Hackney for eight years and encourage them not to have an antagonistic relationship with the police. But I have also seen first-hand how joint enterprise alienates the community.In 2011, I led a group of young people to Los Angeles to create a gang intervention documentary called London to LA. We found that the abuse of joint enterprise in the US had a similar corrosive effect. My more recent short film, Joint Enterprise, which features students from Barking and Dagenham tuition centre, is being used as an educational tool in schools and youth projects.It’s natural and right that when our family or friends or neighbours are harmed we cry out for justice. Joint enterprise does not provide it. It must be reformed.