A part-time musician who claimed he accidentally strangled a woman during sex yesterday won his appeal against a murder conviction.The House of Lords ruled that the jury at the trial of Graham Coutts, who was convicted of strangling a music teacher, Jane Longhurst, 31, with a pair of tights, should have been offered the option of a manslaughter verdict.The five law lords returned his case to the court of appeal for the murder conviction to be quashed. Coutts, 36, was remanded in custody and the Crown Prosecution Service confirmed yesterday it would apply for a retrial.The trial at Lewes crown court heard that Coutts, who was obsessed with violent websites, kept Ms Longhurst's body in a storage unit for almost a month before it was found on a common near Pulborough, West Sussex.The jury heard that Coutts, of Hove, East Sussex, was an avid user of sites devoted to snuff movies and necrophilia. His girlfriend, Lisa Stephens, was Ms Longhurst's best friend. He admitted being present when the music teacher died but denied murder, telling the court her death was an accident during consensual sex. He was jailed for life in February 2004. The appeal court judges rejected his appeal against the murder conviction last year but reduced his 30-year minimum jail term to 26 years.Before the law lords, Coutts' counsel, Edward Fitzgerald QC, argued that there was sufficient evidence of a lack of intent for alternatives to murder to be offered to the jury at his trial.Announcing the law lords' unanimous ruling, Lord Bingham said the trial judge should have left a manslaughter verdict for the jury to decide. "His failure to do so, although fully understandable in the circumstances, was a material irregularity."He added: "While the murder count against the appellant was clearly a strong one, no appellate court can be sure that a jury, fully directed, would not have convicted of manslaughter."Evidence was adduced at the trial which would have enabled a rational jury, if they accepted it, to convict him of manslaughter."Police found Coutts, a part-time salesman and guitarist with a Who tribute band, frequently visited websites depicting extreme violence towards women. In court, he admitted that surfing for pornography had become an addiction and said he had a "fetish" for women's necks.Ms Longhurst's mother, Liz, who has campaigned against violent pornographic sites since her daughter's death, spoke of her distress at the news that Coutts can appeal. She said: "I really am so disappointed that this has happened."She added: "They all go away on their holidays so we have all summer to wait for a resolution. It's terrible, really."