The General Medical Council yesterday kick-started sweeping reforms to reassure the public after the Shipman case that it has the interests of patients at heart and not solely the protection of doctors.The proportion of lay members of the GMC's disciplinary committees will be stepped up dramatically, from less than a third now to 50%. Two reviews of the way the council operates were also announced. Sir Donald Irvine, GMC president, said that some of the council's present procedures were "arcane". A programme of reform already under way is being accelerated after much criticism of the GMC's role in the case of Harold Shipman, the GP who last month received 15 life sentences for murdering patients. Some of the sniping has come from ministers, who for some time have been making veiled threats to disband the GMC, tear up the self-regulation of the profession and pass the policing of doctors to others.Shipman came to the attention of the GMC in 1976, after he had been convicted of falsifying prescriptions to obtain morphine for his own drug habit. Following advice from psychiatrists, the GMC let him off with a warning letter. In 1998 officials were told that Shipman was being investigated for murder and then that he had been charged. The GMC's lawyers advised the council that its regulations would not allow it to suspend Shipman from the medical register while a criminal investigation was under way. Today the GMC's professional conduct committee is expected to announce Shipman's interim suspension. Six weeks later it can strike him off unless he appeals against his conviction. The slow-moving, cumbersome bureaucracy of the GMC, which as a statutory body cannot change its regulations without a change in the law, has become notorious and has angered many who have tried to bring complaints against doctors. It has also led to long delays; there are 160 cases waiting to be heard by the professional conduct committee and the number has been rising. Sir Donald made it clear yesterday that he wants a modern, open GMC to allay the disquiet of the public, the government and some doctors. "We have been asking ourselves do we have the kind of structure and governance which really helps a modern regulatory body achieve its task?" he said. The answer was no. "There are structural procedures that are getting in the way even with the best will in the world." He said the GMC had been known for its "cosy club atmosphere". After the Shipman verdict, there was "certainly a sense of urgency" for change. The GMC agreed to press for changes in the law to allow the suspension of any doctor be ing investigated by the police. It also wants to be able to suspend any doctor working inadequately. One of the reviews will examine the "fitness to practise" procedures. "The law that governs our working is arcane, far too complex and one of the causes of the delays and frustrations that really upset everyone," said Sir Donald. The other review will examine changes to the structure of the GMC. The council has also agreed to bring in doctors and lay people to help cut the year-long waiting list covering disciplinary cases. The Consumers' Association welcomed the proposed reforms but said they did not go far enough. It wants an increase in lay members not just on disciplinary panels but also on the GMC's ruling council. Sally Williams, of the association, said: "The GMC has got a long way to go before public confidence will be fully restored in its ability to put patients before doctors."