According to Jackie Ashley (Blunkett is right to target young louts, March 13), the problem with New Labour and crime is not that "it has been too tough or too rightwing, but that it has been too ineffective". What she appears not to have noticed is that crime has been going down.Rather than introducing more unnecessary measures, the home secretary should be ensuring that the existing provisions are adequately resourced and appropriately implemented. Jackie Ashley seems half to recognise this, but is so enthralled by the punitive rhetoric that she fails to spot that more legislation is the least likely solution to problems of youthful anti-social behaviour.Prof Tim NewburnMannheim Centre for Criminology, LSE · Our experience shows that punishment alone does nothing to change anti-social behaviour. Everybody agrees that something should be done. But people are not talking about how youngsters who become embroiled in this unacceptable behaviour can take steps to modify their actions and thinking. If society looks upon children as the problem instead of exploring ways to engage with young people who often have multiple needs, there will never be sustainable, positive change. We must look beyond punishment and tackle the root causes of antisocial behaviour by providing alternative measures that will not push children further to the margins of society.Bob ReitemeierChief executive, The Children's Society · Jackie Ashley complains that "respect, order and self-discipline" are no longer the watchwords of the progressive left. But they are the characteristics of thousands of low-income people who run community projects in deprived areas. When these adult residents allow youngsters to shape their own activities and to work as helpers, that is when they are treated with respect, and loutish behaviour declines. Unfortunately, the money received by such projects from central government is no more than peanuts. By the way, "respect, order and self-discipline" are not evident in a government eager to bomb Iraqi families out of existence. New Labour should set a better example.Bob HolmanEasterhouse, Glasgow