Police investigating the murder of two Chinese graduates in Newcastle upon Tyne have begun looking into a new line of inquiry after it emerged that one of the students may have become embroiled in an internet betting scam.Xi Zhou and her boyfriend, Zhen Xing Yang, both 25, were found dead in their flat in Newcastle on Saturday with severe head wounds from a knife and another sharp weapon. In searching for a motive for the killings police have so far ruled out the possibility that either were involved in organised crime, and described them as "a hard-working, respectable couple".However, this afternoon it transpired that Yang, who detectives have not been able to trace to any job since he completed his MA from Newcastle University in September 2006, had placed advertisements on UK-based Mandarin language website to recruit people to watch football matches around the world.In one he wrote: "It is a very simple job, any student who is interested, please contact Zhenxing Yang" before listing an email address. A similar posting under the name CICI-UK, his girlfriend's nickname, which appeared on the powerappple website last October, said: "Work: watch football games and send live information to people. "Requirement: Basic understanding of football rules, no professional background needed, advantage if you have a car. "Location: Sheffield, London, Blackpool, Portsmouth, York, Hull and many other places." In December, Yang advertised for people in South America to do the same. On January 5 2007 he posted on a Mandarin-language site: "Anyone want a 50/hr job? "UK-based football 'information' company looking for live information from the Mexican League." After the murders, internet posters on the site made a series of allegations about the couple. One theory posted online suggested that because football matches shown on TV in China were a minute behind the live action in the stadium, gambling syndicates were placing employees at games to gain an advantage. A Northumbria police spokesman said: "We continue to look into the lifestyle of both victims and internet websites form part of this investigation. "We cannot comment further at this stage."Internet rumours suggested Yang was an agent, and that some of the employees were in dispute about missing payments. A Mandarin-speaker said today: "Things did not go smoothly, according to the forum, and people were not paid on time. "Complaints were raised and some people felt they were cheated."Earlier today they said it was likely that whoever was responsible for the murders had also drowned the couple's pet cat after a postmortem examination revealed the couple's pet had been drowned in the bowl of water under the sink in the bathroom.The officer leading the inquiry, Detective Superintendent Steve Wade, said: "Given the recent nature of the cat's death and where it was found, it is reasonable to assume that those responsible for the two murders also killed the cat."Police have looked into whether killing a pet had any cultural significance in Chinese culture and whether cats were thought to be lucky.Wade said police were investigating a possible link between the murders and an individual arrested yesterday morning in the Shieldfield area of the city on suspicion of aggravated burglary.