Amnesty International today condemned the government for its "absolutely inadequate" response to allegations of police brutality and deaths in custody.It said the police regularly use harsher measures against the black community and courts hand down tougher sentences to black offenders. Launching a report into racial injustices throughout the world, the human rights group urged the government to look "closer to home" at its record of institutional racism in the police force as well as racial disparities in the rest of the justice system. Kate Gilmore, chief executive of Amnesty International's international secretariat, said today: "The government in the UK - including its police force - in Amnesty International's view falls below the standards that every citizen could reasonably expect of it. "Its response to reports of ill treatment by police, to deaths in custody and to the investigation of racism at the hands of police officials has been absolutely inadequate," she said. She added that the government shared responsibility for acts of racial abuse because it had failed to act on reports of abuse with due diligence. The Racism and the Administration of Justice report was published by Amnesty International in advance of the United Nations world conference against racism, to be held in South Africa next month.It lists the record of racism and justice in a number of countries including Rwanda, Turkey, the US, Saudi Arabia and Central America. According to the report, institutional racism in the UK police as well as racial disparities in the rest of the country's justice system have been widely documented. Amnesty International's research has shown that the police target the black community with particular practices such as stop and search operations. Black people faced more serious charges for the same offences than whites, were less likely to be just cautioned and were more likely to be imprisoned. Black people were also under-represented among officials of the criminal justice system. The report further alleges "widespread" racism in a large number of British prisons. It cites the murder of 19-year-old Zahid Mubarek by a racist and violent cellmate in Feltham young offenders' institution and remand centre. Ms Gilmore said the recent race riots in Britain had shown how close to home the challenges of equality were. She said she had no qualms about including the UK in a report which also covered countries such as Rwanda, where up to 1m people were slaughtered in 100 days in ethnic violence. "If you are subjected to torture, ill treatment and death in custody in prison, then the address provides no comfort to either you or your family," she said. The Home Office responded:"The UK has some of the most comprehensive race relations legislation in Europe. However the government is not complacent and acknowledges that the whole criminal justice system needs to do better in community and race relations to achieve our visions for a society in which everyone is treated fairly." Related special reports  Special report: policing crime Special report: prisons Special report: deaths in custodyRelated articles 24.07.2001: Three arrests after Bolton taxi attacks 14.07.2001: Muslim leaders call inquiry into riots 12.07.2001: Report criticises racial divisions in BradfordUseful links Full text of the Amnesty International report Commission for racial equality Home Office