We do not know how bad the looting of Iraq's museums has been, nor how many historic objects are smashed or sitting in Iraqi homes. But at least some of Iraq's historic treasures will have started the long journey west to be sold in the shady corners of London's antiquities market.Assyrian statues and cuneiform tablets will join the tide of objects flooding west, from Cambodia and Latin America, Africa and China. Some objects are stolen to order, but many are passed from local people up a chain that starts with a handful of dollars and ends in a Mayfair or Manhattan gallery. On the way, they will be smuggled across borders, disguised as fakes or passed off with forged documents. Unlike the glamorous high jinks of films such as Topkapi or The Thomas Crown Affair, much of this crime begins as something fairly mundane. Ordinary people sell in local markets. Stallholders sell to dealers in capital cities. Dealers in capital cities have international contacts, legal and illegal. A few, very valuable and recognisable artefacts may be bought by that shadowy figure, the rapacious international art collector who wants what he wants and does not care about price or legality. Last week the first rumours started circulating of looted Iraqi pieces for sale in Paris. On Monday, the FBI confiscated suspected loot in a US airport. With London one of the most important markets for art and antiquities, including objects from the Middle East, there is little doubt that artefacts are making their way towards the UK. How does an Assyrian statue end up in a private London gallery in the chaotic aftermath of a war? All too easily. London has long had a reputation, second only to Switzerland, for handling objects that are dubious, and which many experts believe are looted. So much so that London and Geneva are now the two main marketplaces for stolen antiquities. The trade in stolen artefacts is not new. But it is getting more widespread, as western collectors expand their interests to Asia and Africa. Non-western collectors are also joining the fray. Since the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989, the Kabul Museum has been stripped almost bare. Archaeologists believe that many of its items are in the hands of wealthy Pakistanis. Tokyo is also becoming as important a market as London, Geneva and New York. Meanwhile, the desecration of historic sites continues unabated. Since 1975, the temples and monuments of Angkor Wat, Cambodia, have been wrecked. Hundreds of stone Buddhas have been hacked off, with the heads particularly prized. In China, archaeological sites are routinely plundered. Yet the local looter risks paying a terrible price. In 2000, three local men were executed in Shanxi Province for passing 15 Tang dynasty murals to the international trade. The market exploits some of the poorest people in the world, who loot their heritage at risk of their lives. What is surprising is the weakness of international legislation. Britain, after years of resistance, finally signed the most basic of international treaties, the Unesco treaty on illicit trade, but it rejects the sort of legislation in force in Italy or Finland, where it is difficult for dealers to claim that stolen goods were bought in good faith. China, Argentina and Brazil all have tougher regimes than the UK. Meanwhile, the laxity of Swiss law and international legal loopholes allow many items to be "laundered" via Geneva and appear, apparently clean, in London. Last week, the culture secretary, Tessa Jowell, claimed that everything was being done to stop the illicit trade. This is far from the truth. An important piece of legislation that would make dealing in illicit artefacts a criminal offence is stalled in a line of 12 private members' bills. Jowell claimed that sanctions prohibit the trade in Iraqi antiquities, but the British School of Archaeology in Iraq believes that 10,000 items have passed through London since the first Gulf war. Hope for Iraq's plundered heritage is not entirely gone. The government could answer the calls of the British Museum and Unesco to halt sales of Iraqi antiquities until their origins are established. Instead of leaving it to the eagle eyes of museums and the most ethical dealers to spot suspicious objects, it could draw up a database of types of objects and actively police it. It could break the confidentiality that surrounds the art and antiques trade and so often acts as a shield. Most crucially, it could change the burden of proof, so dealers have to show that an artefact isn't stolen, rather than forcing the authorities to prove that it was - an often difficult undertaking. But it is not all about the law. The government could also start to educate ordinary collectors to ask themselves how ancient objects in their local dealer's came to be where they are. Until ordinary, all-too-innocent buyers do that, they areunwittingly feeding the international markets just as much as their unscrupulous and criminal counterparts. · Jane Morris is the editor of Museums Journaljournal@museumsassociation.org