Northumbria appears to be the best police force in England, and Wales and Nottinghamshire the weakest, according to performance data published by the Home Office yesterday.The figures also reveal that the numbers of detected crimes and offenders brought to justice have fallen in most forces over the past year. Although detections rose nationally by 8%, the detection rate fell in 32 out of the 43 forces in England and Wales, with a 25% drop in one force. The data places 42 of the 43 forces in a "family of most similar forces", so that small rural forces are not compared with big cities. The tiny City of London force is dealt with separately. The figures for the year up to April 2003 show wide variations in performance, with seven forces scoring heavily as under-achievers. The findings are likely to fuel the debate in the police and in government for a major reorganisation of the service. The home secretary, David Blunkett, is expected to respond next month to a call for amalgamations from a group of "modernising" chief constables, so that 15 to 20 regional forces are set up to deal with volume crime, such as thefts of and from vehicles. The rating of each force is set out in key areas: reducing crime, investigating crime, citizen focus or public satisfaction, levels of fear of crime and feelings of public safety and their use of resources, measured in the number of days lost through sickness. The indicators are to be expanded to include domestic violence and gun crime next year. The police minister Hazel Blears said yesterday that an attempt had been made to make the monitoring data more easily understood. Bar charts show seven forces out of the 43 as the poorest performers, compared with their peers, on at least two out of the five key measures. The worst performer is Nottinghamshire, which comes bottom on reducing crime, using resources and citizen focus. Its record in investigating crime and promoting public safety is only marginally better. The force saw a 15% increase in burglaries and a 9% rise in car crime, while the detection rate fell by 12%. The force did however have some success in increasing the rate at which it brought class-A drug dealers to justice. Six other forces had the poorest record of similar forces on two out of the five indicators. They were: Avon and Somerset, Cambridgeshire, Humberside, Merseyside, the Metropolitan police and Norfolk. Northumbria, which covers Newcastle, came out best on all five indicators. Its burglary rate is nearly half, and car crime is at about two-thirds, that of similar forces. Ms Blears said half a dozen forces were already collaborating with the Home Office's police standards unit to drive up standards where there was scope for improvement. They include Avon and Somerset, Cambridgeshire, Cleveland, West Yorkshire and Nottinghamshire. The unit is also about to go into Humberside and Greater Manchester. The Association of Chief Police Officers said it was concerned that the limitations of the data were not clearly understood. "The performance monitors are currently biased towards crime," said David Stevens, the chief constable of Essex. "Of course crime is extremely important, but the police service has an even wider range of commitments. "Almost half of police activity, such as dealing with anti-social behaviour, responding to calls for assistance and reassurance patrolling, is not represented in this data."