A judge has ordered the Home Office to release a British citizen it imprisoned and tried to deport in the wake of the foreign prisoners scandal, even though he holds a UK passport. The Guardian has also learned from an insider at the Immigration and Nationality Directorate that it is trying to deport five more British nationals. The list includes a male aged 15 - legally a child - who also holds a British passport and is a UK citizen.The 29-year-old man freed yesterday had been released on parole in 2005 and arrested under immigration powers last month. He is of Bangladeshi origin, but came to the UK aged four and was granted citizenship, his lawyers say.The man was jailed in 2003 for five years for conspiracy to rob. When he was arrested in May, police searched his London home. According to a record of the search seen by The Guardian, immigration officials recovered a British passport in his name. But the Home Office refused to release him until it was ordered to do so by a high court judge, Mr Justice Langstaff, yesterday.In trying to deport the man, the Home Office had said that his family should consider moving to Bangladesh with him.Last night the Tories said the latest embarrassment for the Home Office showed that the department was still in crisis.When the furore erupted over the Home Office's failure to consider foreign national prisoners for deportation at the end of their sentences, ministers ordered the rounding up of those freed as part of the blunder. The 29-year-old was arrested under immigration powers and told that he would be returned to Bangladesh.A Home Office letter told him: "The secretary of state has concluded that in the light of the seriousness of your criminal offence your removal from the United Kingdom is necessary in a democratic society for the prevention of crime and for the protection of health and morals."It is noted that your family originate from Bangladesh, and therefore if any members of your family wish to continue a family life with you, there is no apparent reason why they could not return with you to Bangladesh."The letter continued: "Although you state that you have lived in the United Kingdom since the age of four years, the secretary of state does not consider it to be unreasonable to expect you to be able to readjust to life in Bangladesh."The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the case and the government's "panic-stricken" response to the release of prisoners showed the crisis at the Home Office had gone from bad to worse. "Not only are they unable to deport people they should be deporting, now they are trying to deport people they should not be."Shami Chakrabarti, director of the civil liberties group Liberty, said: "This tragic farce is what comes from talk of automatic deportation. Even a 15-year-old British national is not safe. Surely it's time for the calm consideration of individual cases."The man's solicitor, Jawad Luqmani, said: "He has a British passport, has parents, brother and sister who are British, all of whom have British passports. It's a surprise for the Home Office to ignore the evidence of the citizenship and to try and deport him in their panic."The Home Office said: "We would not seek to remove anyone with British citizenship. However there are circumstances where an individual subject to removal or deportation proceedings, claiming to be a British citizen or to have an entitlement to British citizenship, may be required to provide supporting evidence of this in order to prevent removal from the UK."Speaking about the attempt to remove the 15-year-old British citizen, the Home Office said: "Children will not be removed without their family unless we are satisfied that they would be properly cared for on their return to their country of origin."