A 16-year-old who assaulted two younger girls in a video that was later posted online and seen by millions of people has been given a 10-month referral order.The girl had already admitted robbery and assault charges after forcing the pair to the floor in Northfield, Birmingham, on 11 July, in what a judge described as a “horrendous act of bullying”.One of her friends filmed the assault and uploaded it to social media, where it has been viewed 11 million times, Birmingham youth court heard.District judge David Robinson said he did not believe the girl’s claim that she was too drunk to remember the assault. Sentencing on Monday, he said: “I’ve seen the video and it’s clear you knew exactly what you were doing and why.”Despite this, the judge said she was of previous good character and the incident was a one-off.He said: “There are a number of factors that aggravate the seriousness of these offences: the assault was pre-planned and motivated by a desire to humiliate the two girls, who were younger than you; they were surrounded by a group, clearly with you, and must have been terrified; you struck both with their handbags.”The girl punched the victims and stole an iPhone, which has never been recovered. The judge said the victims had been left completely vulnerable after being forced to the ground.He said: “You humiliated both, forcing both to apologise for some perceived look or slight. You forced agreement out of them not to call the police at threat of violence, subjecting them to further degradation, forcing the removal of the shoes of one of the girls. Their humiliation is complete in that their ordeal has been spread across social media.” The court heard the girl estimated she had drunk a litre of vodka before heading out to a local McDonald’s with friends. She spotted the victims there and attacked them after both groups left the restaurant.Asked by the judge if she had anything to say for herself, she replied tearfully: “I’m really sorry – it’s not something I would usually do. Normally I stick up against the bully. “It’s not just shamed me, but also my family and the people that know me. People don’t want to speak to me any more because they think I’m a bad person.”Her solicitor, Amy Nuttall, said the girl had a drink problem and had suffered an unstable upbringing where she was exposed to domestic violence that saw her moved, along with her mother, in and out of women’s refuges.Nuttall said: “Mum has said the past couple of years, her daughter has been in a downward spiral. She would like her to engage in anger management, because as quickly as she gets angry, she stops again.”She said the teenager’s identity was now well known online and her client had received thousands of death threats after her mobile number was leaked on social media. The family have also been forced to move home.The judge said he had balanced all the factors of the case before sentencing the girl to a referral order, rather than detention. Under the terms of the order, she will have to sign a contract agreeing to behave and carry out certain activities overseen by youth workers.Her mother was ordered to pay £100 compensation to one victim and £400, including the cost of the stolen mobile, to the other girl.