Maxine Carr's mother violently threatened a woman who made a statement to police about her daughter following the deaths of the Soham schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, a jury was told yesterday.Shirley Capp blamed the woman, Marion Westerman, for putting Ms Carr behind bars and told her she "was going to be dead", Sheffield crown court heard. Ms Westerman, who was Mrs Capp's neighbour, said the alleged threats made her reluctant to give evidence at the trial of Miss Carr and her former boyfriend Ian Huntley because she feared for her life. The jury heard that Ms Westerman was considered an important prosecution witness in the Old Bailey trial. Ms Westerman had seen Ms Carr at her mother's home in Grimsby at the time of the girls' disappearance in August 2002. The court was told that Mrs Capp had encouraged Ms Westerman to go to the police because her sightings proved Ms Carr was not in Soham when the girls vanished and so could not have been involved in their murder. However, Michael Cranmer-Brown, prosecuting, said Mrs Capp, 61, was angry at one detail in the statement. Ms Westerman told police that two days after the girls went missing she had seen Ms Carr and Huntley in Grimsby. Ms Westerman said Ms Carr was in tears as the pair looked into the boot of Huntley's car. Mr Cranmer-Brown said the detail was considered important by the prosecution in the Soham case as it suggested she knew by then that Huntley had been involved in the murder of the girls. Huntley was to admit at trial moving their bodies in the boot of his car. Ms Carr always denied knowing Huntley killed the girls - and, acquitting her on the more serious charge of assisting an offender, the jury at the Old Bailey believed her. In May 2003, while Ms Carr was in prison awaiting trial, her mother allegedly turned on her neighbour. She bumped into Ms Westerman in a shopping centre and shouted: "Will you stop your cat shitting in my garden?" and said "Watch your fucking back." She said that later that day she took some cat repellent around to Mrs Capp's house in an attempt to appease her. Ms Westerman claimed: "She said it was my fault Maxine was in prison. She said I was a liar." The witness continued: "She said I was going to be dead; she said, 'You're going to be a witness against Maxine.' I told her I had been trying to get out of it but she wouldn't listen. Then she said people were going to come down and get me." Mr Cranmer-Brown asked Ms Westerman why she had not wanted to be a witness. She replied: "I wanted to live." Mrs Capp denies intimidating a witness. The trial continues.