Foreign police will be allowed to operate on British soil for the first time, ministers announced today.The Home Office minister, Lord Filkin, said measures to combat international crime in the new crime bills would allow other European forces to operate in the UK in return for granting British police the same powers overseas.He explained that the move would allow British police to track suspects abroad. For instance, if a suspect leaves the country at Dover, officers will be allowed to follow them to Calais and continue the surveillance operation for up to five hours.In reverse, European police who are tracking a suspect can come into Britain and continue their operation.But Lord Filkin said he did not expect this to happen very often. "Our geography will usually mean that a foreign police force that is tracking someone coming to the UK would have plenty of time to ring through and alert the British police and so have in place a joint intelligence team led by a British police force," he said. The provisions of the crime (international co-operation) bill will also allow foreign police to mount surveillance on a suspect without the permission of a British judge for the five-hour period, but they will be expected to contact UK police as soon as possible to ask for help.It says that a foreign officer should be "treated as if he were acting as a constable in the execution of his duty" during the period, granting him the same protections against assault and other offences as police in the UK. European police will not be allowed to carry firearms on UK soil. The bill will also allow for British citizens who commit terrorist attacks anywhere in the world to face prosecution in UK courts, rather than in the country where the incident took place. Acts of terrorism committed abroad against UK residents will also be triable in a British court. It also set out that anyone who commits a terror act anywhere in the world against British diplomatic premises, including attacks on staff in their cars, can be tried in a UK court.The proposals are believed to have been inspired by the assassination of Brigadier Stephen Saunders, an attache at the British Embassy in Athens, by the Greek group November 17, as he drove to work in 2000. Lord Filkin said that if the UK felt charges against the suspected terrorists were not proceeding quickly enough in a foreign country, officials could apply to have the suspect handed over to pursue a prosecution in the UK instead. The bill will also implement the Schengen agreement, which was first signed by France, Germany and the Benelux countries in 1985, to encourage cross-border police co-operation. It will give Britain access to the Schengen information system - a database of missing and wanted persons and items across the whole of Europe.But the information commissioner will be granted "unprecedented powers to monitor and challenge" data held in the system, including power of entry without a warrant to enter the premises where the database is kept. The bill will also mean anyone disqualified from driving in another EU country will also be banned in the UK. Lord Filkin said: "This is a significant advance in European road safety. "If a person is disqualified for breaking the law while driving in another country, that disqualification should follow them home." Motorists will be able to appeal against the disqualification in a UK magistrates court. The wide-ranging proposals will also make it possible for UK courts to provide evidence on a video link to proceedings in foreign courts. Witnesses in the UK will also be able to give evidence on the telephone to foreign courts which accept such evidence, although British courts will still not accept evidence by phone. The UK will also be able to ask other EU states for information about bank accounts held in any part of Europe which has signed up to the Schengen agreement, and for permission to monitor transactions. This move is designed to tackle organised crime, money laundering and other financial crime. It will also require EU countries to act more swiftly to freeze evidence to reduce the chance that criminals will be able to cover their tracks while one country makes an application through the courts to freeze bank accounts or other evidence. Lord Filkin said: "These measures will improve our ability to take effective and prompt action against serious cross-border crime in Europe. "The growth of international trade means that crime is no longer confined within national borders. "The UK's partial membership of Schengen would provide a clear framework for better police co-operation." All EU member states now participate in Schengen except UK and Ireland. The non-EU member states of Norway and Iceland are also associate members. The UK will not participate in parts of the agreement which bring down national borders and will continue to maintain its own border controls.