Police said yesterday that a man freed after 27 years in prison for murder remained their only suspect in the case.Stephen Downing was jailed for life for the murder of typist Wendy Sewell in Bakewell, Derbyshire, in 1973. His conviction was overturned by the court of appeal in January last year after a long campaign led by a local journalist, Don Hale, who compiled a list of 22 other possible suspects. But in a report on the reopened investigation, Derbyshire's deputy chief constable Bob Wood said that detectives could not rule out Mr Downing as the killer. The report is critical of Mr Hale, former editor of the Matlock Mercury, whose campaign was praised in the Commons by Tony Blair and who was awarded the OBE. Mr Downing, 17 at the time of the murder, at first admitted his guilt and signed a confession. Mrs Sewell died after being found battered and part naked in a cemetery at Bakewell. He retracted his confession but was convicted in 1974. "We have carried out an extremely thorough reinvestigation and have been able to eliminate 22 individuals from the inquiry," said Mr Wood. "Despite the lengthy investigation, we have not been able to eliminate Stephen Downing from the inquiry." He said that if the law on double jeopardy had been changed, allowing a suspect to be tried twice, the force would have sent its file to the crown prosecution service. Mr Wood added: "The police are not looking for any other person for the murder of Wendy Sewell. All possible lines of inquiry have been exhausted. The case is now closed unless any substantial new evidence comes to light." The report says that a forensic expert, Jim Walker from Kent police, had concluded: "The pattern of blood staining on Stephen Downing's clothing supports the assertion that Stephen Downing battered Mrs Sewell prior to handling and kneeling by her body." Mr Downing is also alleged to have made three confessions since his release from prison in 2000, including one to his girlfriend recorded on audio tape, and one to his father, Ray. But he refused to be interviewed by detectives during the inquiry, which lasted six months and cost an estimated £500,000. "Throughout the reinvestigation, Stephen Downing has maintained a good working relationship with the investigating officers," the report says. "He provided his fingerprints for elimination purposes, but refused to be interviewed following consultation with his legal representatives. In a statement yesterday, Mr Downing insisted that he was innocent. "I am angry at some of the things I am told are in this report and that I still have not officially been told by the police of the content. "I did not have to spend 27 years in prison. If I had accepted guilt, I could have been freed years ago. But if I had done that, I would never have been able to prove my innocence. I'm a innocent man, no matter who says what - my only crime was being aged 17 and being in the wrong place at the wrong time." Derbyshire officers claim that an analysis of Town Without Pity, Mr Hale's book on the Downing case, had thrown up discrepancies. "A number of witnesses to whom Mr Hale attributes personal comment have told officers they have never spoken to him," says the report. "Many witnesses say his written version is not their recollection of what was said." Mr Hale insisted he had done nothing wrong. "I'm getting shot here as the messenger. I have passed on all the information I have received to the police. Some of that may not have been correct, but in doing so, no one could accuse me of withholding anything which might prove to be evidence." Mr Hale said people should not deduce from the inquiry report that Mr Downing is the only man who could be responsible for the killing. In a statement, Mrs Sewell's husband, David, said: "Wendy's mother and I are delighted that the truth has finally re-emerged about the circumstances of Wendy's death. I say re-emerged expressly." But he said he had hoped that police would have been able to assert without question who had been responsible for the murder. "All the allegations of guilt of other parties have stemmed from sources collated by Donald Hale. Over recent years he has seen fit to promote his theories, from which he has profited financially.He is apparently blind or indifferent to the great distress he has caused."