We have known for some time that the number of convictions for rape and sexual assault are only the tip of the iceberg. Now, thanks to a survey of more than 15,000 women and men across Britain, we have a clearer idea of the true scale of the problem. In Britain one woman in 10 and one man in 70 have experienced sex against their will since they turned 13. More than half of them have never told a soul.For those who support victims of sexual violence, these findings – from the third National Survey of Sexual Attitudes and Lifestyles, published on Tuesday – will be a bleak confirmation of what they already suspected. For the rest of us, they are sobering statistics that indicate for the first time just how prevalent sexual coercion is among ordinary people living ordinary lives.The public debate about sexual violence invariably alights on police handling of cases and on prosecution and conviction rates. Much progress has been made in recent times, although Baroness Stern's independent review of rape and the justice system concluded that implementation of best practice was patchy.But tackling non-consensual sex through the police and courts alone can never be enough. We must think of sexual coercion as a public health issue too, as something not only to be prosecuted, but also to be prevented. To do that, we must first reach a shared interpretation of the meaning of sexual coercion so that victims can properly understand what has happened to them, and we can all work harder to stop it from happening to others.One of the most disquieting aspects of our research is that prevalence estimates for sexual coercion are markedly higher than those for rape in the Crime Survey for England and Wales. One reason could be that some don't think of themselves as victims of crime. This chimes with US research, which suggests that, even when a sexual assault meets the legal definition of rape, nearly two-thirds of victims don't label it as such. I worry that victims are explaining coercion away as misunderstanding, or are blindly following a powerful sexual script of male initiative and female passivity, which fails to identify when a line is crossed.The underlying reasons for a culture normalising coercion to the extent that its victims sometimes fail to see it are multiple and complex. They are rooted in unequal gender norms and power dynamics. Changing these will mean changing the way our society thinks about and portrays sexual interaction, whether in popular culture or our own relationships.The challenge is immense, but we know where to start. We have to start intervening at an early age while attitudes to gender and sex are developing among girls and boys. School sex education mostly does a good job of teaching the biology of sex and reproduction, but education about relationships is not always available. This has to be provided to all children in every type of school, to empower young people and to help them to develop healthy relationships, free from coercion.As the mother of two girls, I want my daughters to understand consent and the importance of respect in relationships. I want them to be able to recognise potentially dangerous or coercive situations and develop skills for handling them. These things can be taught. Integrating them into sex education wouldn't by itself remove the coercive edge from our culture, but it would equip young people to withstand it.What makes me hopeful is that we know that social norms can change. When the national survey began two decades ago, fewer than one in four men thought that same-sex partnerships were "not wrong at all". That proportion has now doubled. If attitudes that were once thought to be as deeply ingrained as this can change, and change so fast, attitudes to consent and coercion can too.