Two bouncers were jailed yesterday for beating a man to death as he celebrated his father-in-law's 65th birthday.Frank Buckley, 47, was kicked "like a human football" and stamped on in front of his family as they waited for taxis after a family night out in Salford. Mr Buckley suffered severe head injuries and died after a week in intensive care. A 72-year-old woman who had been celebrating with him was knocked unconscious as the attack continued. Christopher Zammit, 21, from Pendlebury and Daniel Anderson, 18, of Clifton, were each sentenced to five years in prison after pleading guilty to manslaughter and violent disorder. Zammit was also given a two and a half year concurrent sentence for violent disorder. Mr Justice Poole said: "In my judgment, it is highly questionable whether men as young and inexperienced as you, especially you, Anderson, should be allowed to exercise a role as doormen in what can sometimes be difficult and demanding circumstances." Five other men, all from Swinton, were sentenced at Manchester crown court in connection with the attack, which happened outside Yates's Wine Lodge last March. Brian Horrocks, 38, and James Backhouse, 32, were jailed for three and a half years for violent disorder. Gareth Brook, 21, Paul Filer, 38, and Lee Williams, 26, were jailed for 18 months after admitting violent disorder. The court heard that Mr Buckley, who had earlier had a restaurant meal with 15 friends and relations, was attacked by bouncers after a disagreement in the bar over his wife's handbag. The group left but Peter Birkett QC, prosecuting, said the men followed them out and lined up "like a platoon of soldiers preparing for an attack". Mr Buckley suffered a 20cm fracture to his skull. The court was told that during the attack, Anderson was heard to say: "You don't mess with the Swinton lot." Outside court, Mr Buckley's widow, Christina, and her sons Craig, 19, and Mark, 22, said in a statement: "We feel wholly disappointed with the sentences ... We feel that in no way do they reflect the seriousness of what happened."