Panorama's Young Gunmen, which followed a teenage gang in the Page Moss neighbourhood of Liverpool, told us little we don't already know. If you have seen a teenager on your street carrying a gun, it's very frightening.The question that needs answering is how he got to be there and to be holding the weapon. Today's cheap, populist television has neither the time nor the inclination for this deeper analysis. Panorama offered gangs of masked adolescents the airtime to do what they do best – dramatise their own self-importance.Pressed to account for their behaviour, they rehearse a few mumbled excuses. Then they're off again, showing off a gun or disappearing into the grainy darkness in search of some new drama. A few parents played their allotted roles: a mother grieves for her dead son, a father gives a fatalistic shrug at the bleak future. The police reassure us that they'll meet "force with force", a meaningless banality they know doesn't work. Above all, it is the boys that dominate, the uncontrollable masters of their miserable bit of universe. Is it worth dying for, asks the reporter, gesturing to the bleak estate. "Yes," the boys answer, "it's been our whole lives". Majority opinion has it that guns are black people's problem. So long as black young men were murdering each other, it was a convenient myth. Politicians could talk tough about law and order and avoid committing themselves to any action. Shaun Bailey, in his testimony to the home affairs committee on young black people and the criminal justice system nailed the myth: "What I would say about black people is, we suffer from what I call the 'Amazon green frog syndrome'. If something happens in the ecosystem in the Amazon the little green frogs die first – that is us." Gun culture thrives where social life is dying. The working-class estates devastated by de-industrialisation are where a defeated, unwanted people have been herded away to suffer a self-inflicted fate of drugs and violence. Decades of unemployment have destroyed the old patriarchal order of male breadwinner and head of household. Not only has it meant poverty, it has lost many men their dignity and self- worth. In communities deprived of the markers of status that bring respect, violence takes the place of authority. Sons inherit the legacy of their fathers' humiliation. Without work and affordable housing, it is impossible for many to create an independent life of their own. The traditional rites of passage into adulthood – leaving home, getting a job, establishing a family, and taking on legal obligations and rights – disappear.In these areas, enterprising young men pursue status and advancement using primitive forms of capital accumulation. Without legal property rights, ownership in this criminal economy is guaranteed by violence. A small dangerous core creates a nihilistic street culture of intense machismo and psychotic violence that engulfs a wider circle of boys and young men. The psychological damage caused by poor parenting and their exclusion from the mainstream leaves them feeling faceless and inferior. It's a form of symbolic violence that is endemic to our status-pursuing, class society. Violence is provoked by this experience of feeling shamed, disrespected and ridiculed. As the penal reformer James Gilligan argues, violence represents the attempt to prevent or undo this "loss of face". Punishment does not deter. Prison rates for 18-20 year olds have been rising year on year with the main offence being violence against the person. Prison doesn't work. Reconviction rates are around 7%. A quarter of these young men are or are to become fathers, so threatening to reproduce the same pattern of paternal failure and criminally wayward sons.Gun culture is the lethal collision of masculinity and class inequality. It has thrived in areas cut off from prosperity. Its step up or be shot down ethos has rippled outward and led to the widespread carrying of knives. The knife provides a potent symbol of bravado and protection. Like a talisman, the feel of it in a pocket is the illusion of a safe passage.The spread of this toxic masculine culture is a consequence of our disconnected society. Adolescents are more autonomous than ever before, but as a result they occupy spaces which no longer benefit from the protective authority of adults. Adults have retreated into their homes, abandoning the streets to the young and to the impersonal authority of the state. The elites are cut off from the rest of society with no idea how most people live their lives. Those gangs of violent, disturbed, frightening boys lording it over their disintegrating neighbourhoods are not so much an aberration as a mirror showing us what we have made. We must deal with them, but we won't succeed unless we recognise they're a symptom of a greater problem.