A report cataloguing widespread vile and obscene racism within Britain's jails yesterday led the head of the prison service to speak of his "shame and horror" at reading its findings of intimidation and discrimination against black prisoners.Phil Wheatley, the director general of the prison service, said a major new action plan was being put into place after a devastating three-year inquiry published yesterday by the Commission for Racial Equality found it guilty of unlawful racial discrimination on 17 separate counts. Mr Wheatley also acknowledged that the higher custody rate among black prisoners means that inmates from black and other minority backgrounds are now the majority in two of London's prisons - Brixton and Feltham. Trevor Phillips, the CRE chairman, warned yesterday that there were more African-Caribbean young men who went to prison last year in England and Wales - 11,500 - than went to university - 8,500. He also warned that the prisons were being targeted for recruitment by far right parties, including the British National Party. The £670,000 CRE investigation was launched following the murder of teenager Zahid Mubarek in Feltham young offenders' institute in 2000. It also investigated conditions in Brixton prison, south London, and Parc prison, Bridgend, south Wales. The CRE said it was confident that although much of the research was two or three years old, its findings were still valid and relevant to the whole of the prison service. "They are a reminder that good intentions and the presence of sophisticated policy documents are not enough to deliver race equality practice throughout the way an organisation works." This is confirmed by the publication this week of a report into Wellingborough prison in Northamptonshire by Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, which found that race relations were badly neglected with complaints about racist staff. The investigation found that racist abuse, harassment and racist graffiti are persistent features of prison life for many staff and prisoners. The culture among many prison staff meant that anti-racism procedures are ignored and racist attitudes and behaviour are tolerated. Minority staff who did complain often found their comments ignored and were sometimes subsequently victimised. At Brixton, black prisoners were over-represented among those who were singled out to be punished under an unauthorised disciplinary regime known as "reflections" under which they were unofficially "banged up" or banned from using the gym. One senior manager at Brixton told a prison service inquiry in 2000 that he regarded the term "Paki" as acceptable. Graffiti were found in the staff toilet that said: "Preserve wildlife, pickle a nigger." It was removed but reappeared two years later along with: "KKK for ever in Brixton." At Parc prison, a modern, privately run jail in south Wales, the investigators found racism among the "blatantly nationalistic" Welsh staff against not only black and Asian prisoners, but also against white English inmates. Letters from prisoners at Parc often carried the initials KKK and RVS, for Rhondda Valley Skins. The CRE said it would be hard to find more obscenely racist material, yet there was little attempt to confront such racist behaviour. The CRE found that one inmate at Parc had pictures of Hitler and newspaper cuttings about racist attacks pushed under his cell door. While racist graffiti persisted, black power posters, some featuring Malcolm X, were removed by officers. Access to Asian television stations were denied and suitable food for Muslims was often not available. Mr Phillips said: "Despite wake-up calls, prison service managers persistently failed to tackle racism in their institutions and that very often they also failed to implement their own policies on racial discrimination, abuse and harassment." He said that the detailed action plan that had been agreed with the prison service meant the CRE had decided to suspend the "nuclear legal step" of formally issuing a "non-discrimination notice" under race relations legislation against the prison service. A notice can be issued at any time within the next five years if the prison service fails to improve. But Mr Phillips also warned of the wider consequences for the African-Caribbean community in Britain. Mr Wheatley said of the 213 page report: "I felt as I read it there were some shameful things in there that as a prison service we should look at with horror. We should work hard to ensure that doesn't happen." He said that the action plan would prove "a milestone" and that the prison service's commitment to racial equality would not stop at mere compliance with the law. He said: "I want to go beyond that. For real change to take place it is essential that we learn and take appropriate action. I determined we will bring about the cultural changes necessary to create fairness and equality in all we do." Prison officers who were found to be members of the National Front or BNP were now dismissed and the Prison Officers' Association now took an aggressive anti-racist stance. But Paul Cavadino of Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said although the CRE's report was shocking, there was little new in it: "The disturbing picture of individual and institutional racism was identified three years ago by internal prison service reports. Since then the prison service has developed a range of improved procedures to tackle racism. The action plan is an important step further."