A gun-toting Yardie gangster who threatened to shoot three people in a road rage incident was being accompanied by an undercover police officer who could not intervene, it has been revealed.The incident, which took place in broad daylight on the streets of central London, is documented in a new book about Scotland Yard's covert operations unit, known as SO10. In a second twist, it has emerged that the gunman had actually been brought to London by the Metropolitan Police as part of a scheme to gather more information about Yardies in the capital. He was paid 'lifestyle' expenses of £500 per week, given a mobile phone and a two-year-old Golf GTi to drive. He was booked into a plush hotel but later moved to a two-bedroomed flat in Docklands with a monthly rental of almost £1,000. All his expenses - rent, clothes, food and drink - were settled weekly by Scotland Yard. The revelation is certain to fan the flames of controversy that have dogged police attempts to tackle black organised crime. According to Philip Etienne, the undercover officer assigned to escort Skank during his first two months in London, the gangster was one of a number of known criminals specially imported to provide information about Yardie crime. The road rage incident confirmed his suspicions that such men were almost impossible to control. 'I was driving down a narrow road near Dean Street when a Jeep appeared coming in the other direction. I stopped and went to reverse to let them get by but Skank knocked my hand away and insisted that we wait until they moved. Eventually the driver, a young woman, came out to complain and Skank just ripped into her, insulting everything about her. There were two other guys in the Jeep and they came over, looking for a fight. Skank jumped out, reached for a gun hidden in the folds of his jacket and threatened to shoot unless they moved.' Etienne could do nothing while playing the part of a gangster; luckily the Jeep driver gave in. Skank later brought a bodyguard from Jamaica at police expense and he moved into the Docklands flat. The operation was abandoned a few months later and both men vanished, leaving unpaid bills. Bringing Skank to London was an extension of a scheme Scotland Yard adopted in the early Nineties when it was recognised that only true Jamaicans known in criminal circles were able to mingle freely with the Yardie gangs. In 1994, Delroy Denton, a Yardie arrested while entering the country illegally, was persuaded to become an informer. He was released into the community while the authorities considered his application for political asylum. Denton had a history of extreme violence in Jamaica, including the ice-pick murder of a prostitute. In the 11 months after his release, Denton was accused of raping a 15-year-old schoolgirl and then jailed for life for raping and murdering Marcia Lawes, a 24-year-old mother of two in Brixton. The Infiltrators by Philip Etienne and Martin Maynard with Tony Thompson is published by Michael Joseph on 28 September, price £15.99