Danny and Jock are getting to grips with a rail saw, seemingly oblivious to the array of sparks it produces as it slices impressively through the steel track. This is Danny's eighth jail sentence, but he is confident that it will be his last. Due for release next year, he says this is the first time he has received training in prison that will be useful to him on the outside.Jock agrees. "I jump out of bed in the mornings, it's a good feeling, getting your hands dirty and knowing that the work is worthwhile."Leaving aside the question of whether prison "works" or not, working while in prison is often regarded as part of the punishment. From the rock breaking and sewing mailbags of old, to current - usually dull and repetitive - tasks that come under the label of "contract packing", jobs in jails are rarely tackled with great enthusiasm.The low wages aren't likely to enthuse either, with some prisoners earning as little as £6 a week and those in the "top jobs" (kitchens, for example) receiving around £15 per seven-day week. But menial jobs and low pay aside, the biggest gripe among prisoners and reformers is that work in most jails does little to equip inmates for employment after release.It's refreshing then, to visit Ranby prison near Retford, Nottinghamshire, to join Danny, Jock and a team of prisoners carrying out hard and demanding work with smiles on their faces. Their workplace, a compound in the Category C prison, is an unusual environment. Imagine walking on to a life-sized Hornby trainset, minus the trains. There are tracks - two 120ft lines, complete with sleepers and ballast - which the men are being trained to lay and repair. The enthusiasm of the 12-man team stems from the belief that they are working towards a brighter, crime-free future. They are halfway through a 12-week course which, when successfully completed, will enable them to apply for transfer to an open prison and "work out" - via a day-release scheme - full-time on the railways. A large portion of their wages will be saved for their eventual release, when they hope to be offered jobs within the industry.The innovative scheme is operated by Trackwork, a Doncaster-based railway engineering firm with a history of giving ex-offenders opportunities. In 2003, the company was having difficulties recruiting and decided to set up training schools in prisons. The first, at Wolds prison in east Yorkshire, opened last year and schools are now up and running in five jails. Between them, the prisons are turning out more than 100 fully trained track-maintenance workers every 12 weeks. In the last year, Trackwork has found jobs for more than 500 ex-offenders, claiming that 81% are still in work. Impressive when you consider the reoffending rate for ex-prisoners is 65%, rising to over 80% for young offenders.Graduates receive certificates in personal track safety, track induction, safety awareness, basic first aid, fire awareness and abrasive wheel regulations. They will also be competent in the use of rail saws, drills and Hilti guns, and trained to operate the trolleys and scooters used on the lines. The courses cost around £2,400 and are funded by the Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills.Back at Ranby, Danny hopes to finish the course and transfer to Moorlands open prison to work out.Jason, from Nottingham, is also excited at the prospect of getting a "proper job" and sees the scheme as an opportunity to break the cycle of offending that has seen him in and out of jail at regular intervals. All the men on the scheme submit to frequent drug tests and accept the zero tolerance policy laid down.Sean Whittaker, an NVQ training assessor, oversees the team. A prison officer for nine years, he was so impressed by the scheme that he resigned to retrain for his present post. Describing the track-working scheme as the "best I've ever seen", Sean says that his current job satisfaction is "unbeatable". "I know these lads," he says, and I just know that they are going to stay out."Further down the line, in terms of progress, is Jack, from Leeds. In his 30s, Jack is nearing the end of a long sentence imposed for robbery, having previously served time for a similar offence. Statistically, prisoners with that sort of form would be set on course for life as career criminals; but Jack is working out full-time as a trainee assessor for Trackwork. He has a company car and is described by his boss as a "lovely lad" who has "run all the way" since he started the job in January. He plans to move to Doncaster with his partner after his release and hopes to train for management. He is full of praise for the way in which his work colleagues have accepted him."I've had nothing but support and trust, and I'll repay it by making a go of whatever job they give me," he says.Jack's boss is John Belton, training manager for Trackwork. He says that graduates from the scheme are now employed by major rail engineering companies across the UK, including London Underground. Belton is massively supportive of the scheme, but he knows that it has its detractors.In May this year, a Sunday tabloid ran a highly critical article headlined: "Convict gangs put trains at risk". The article breathlessly claimed that a "gang of offenders" was ferried to work on the west coast mainline and pointed to the derailing of a train on that line, earlier this year, an accident in which an 84-year-old woman was killed. Readers were told that another location where prisoners worked was "15 minutes from the site of the Great Train Robbery". The "chain gangs" were said to have completed a "rudimentary 10-week training course" and were paid the minimum wage - less than their non-offender workmates.One of those quoted as opposing the scheme at the time was Bob Crow, the general secretary of the Rail, Maritime and Transport Union.In fact, far from being rudimentary, the training the prisoners receive is more comprehensive than the two-week track induction course used by "civilian" trainees. Dermot McGinley, chairman of McGinley Recruitment Services - which employs ex-offenders on behalf of Network Rail - says that the men are paid around double the minimum wage. McGinley also says that his company does not "differentiate between workers of differing backgrounds and circumstances".Paul Taylor, a spokesman for Network Rail, says the company is proud to support schemes that provide real work opportunities for prisoners. He says the rehabilitation of prisoners is an important social issue that, sadly, still attracts prejudice."But we believe the schemes are all about finding work for people who have demonstrated that they deserve a chance," he says.Justice minister David Hanson also defends the project. "This scheme is an excellent example of our commitment to work with employers from all sectors to deliver vocational training in prisons and improve offenders' chances of finding a job and become law abiding citizens," he says.But are taxpayers getting their money's worth in funding the scheme? Jane Peacock is skills development director for the East Midlands Learning and Skills Council and believes the signs are positive. "The cost of reoffending is enormous, in both financial and social terms," she says. "If this project works - and the signs are hopeful - then it represents real value for money."Back at Ranby, supervisor Sean Whittaker is wondering why some people are unhappy about ex-offenders working on the rail network. "What would you prefer?" he asks. "Have them working on the railway, or climbing through your window?"