A young woman hanged herself in prison last Wednesday morning. She was 29, awaiting trial for petty theft - that is, she had not been found guilty of any crime - and had been in jail for less than 26 days.Her death has not been announced and her name will remain secret until later this week, when her family has been informed. Once it is made public, however, the Government will be forced to make another stark admission: more women killed themselves in prison in 2002 than ever before. Britain's prison population is soaring. Last week the Government admitted that the number of prisoners would increase by almost 40 per cent over the next decade, taking it to more than 100,000 for the first time. Two new jails have been promised to ease the strain, but the figures conceal a more desperate story: that of a female prison population out of control, and increasing at three times the rate of its male counterpart. It is a population in which over 90 per cent of members have severe mental health problems, 63 per cent attempt suicide and almost 95 per cent harm themselves in some way during their sentence. Forced to live in dangerously overcrowded cells, these women face abuse and bullying by officers and other inmates. They are frequently coerced into violent relationships with prisoners or staff. For more than 95 per cent, there is no escape except through drugs - both the illegal substances which flow freely through the jail system and the legitimate sedatives generously handed out by prison doctors. Stephanie Langley, who was sentenced at the age of 25 to 14 years for drug smuggling, a tariff reduced to 11 years on appeal, said prison could make anyone crazy. 'I saw people come in to prison totally sane and normal and, six months later, be zooming about in the exercise yard in a totally mad way pretending to be an aeroplane,' she said. 'I watched people scar themselves with glass, razors, scouring pads, cleaning equipment, burn themselves and dig holes in themselves. It wasn't attention seeking - it was pure desperation. I saw girls literally scoop out parts of their body with whatever they could use: even their own mouths and teeth. There was always a way to hurt themselves and they would always find it. 'My best friend committed suicide because she, like almost every other woman there, had had a very traumatic life and just couldn't cope with prison. Lots of us had personality disorders but everyone hurt themselves in one way or other, out of complete frustration, as cries for help or in serious attempts to die.' Britain imprisons a greater percentage of its female population than any other country in the European Union, except Portugal and Spain, and the number continues to soar. Around 11,000 women have been imprisoned so far this year - about 20 per cent of whom are on remand. There has been a 23 per cent increase in the size of the female prison population in the past year alone, and a 180 per cent rise in the past decade. But law enforcers justify this by pointing out that there is also more crime being uncovered. At least 10,000 new prisoners will be sentenced next year under new Home Office criminal justice reforms. They say that, if crime is rising, punishments must be handed out. Nick O'Shea, research co-ordinator for the Revolving Doors Agency, a penal reform charity, believes there is another side to the argument. 'I am acutely aware that the public want to see people punished for the crimes that they commit and that these people believe the best form of punishment is prison,' he said. 'Clearly we can't refuse to send someone to prison because they are a woman or a mother, but what needs to be understood is that it is not a case of simply locking up uniquely bad women who are motivated by evil. Women prisoners have generally led awful lives of abuse, mental illness, degradation and deprivation, of which prison is just the next chapter. It sounds a contradiction to talk of "vulnerable prisoners", but that is what the majority of these women are.' In the past 10 months, there have been 73 suicides in prisons throughout England and Wales. There have been even more cases of women cutting, poisoning and harming themselves. 'If this happened anywhere else, at a hospital, children's home or even in just one town, there would be a public outcry,' O'Shea added. 'Yet because it is a prisoner, they somehow lose their right to public sympathy - even when they take their own lives. I am not saying that prison can't work, but it is time to make sure they are given the resources to cope with the levels of problems their prisoners have.' Penal reform campaigners believe that if society continues to rely so heavily on prison as punishment, it needs to make sure that the vulnerability of female prisoners is taken into account. Prison, they maintain, is about the protection of the public and the denial of liberty, not pushing someone to the point of a mental breakdown. Langley made around seven serious attempts to commit suicide during her sentence. She also regularly cut her wrists and ankles with razors, hoarded sedatives to take them all at once and developed a range of eating disorders and psychological problems. 'I felt I was useless, disgusting, worthless,' she said. 'I had been a deeply troubled girl before I went to jail, but this was slowly killing me. There was no one to help me, no one I trusted. In a man's prison, there's a solidarity, but in a woman's prison there's nothing but madness, aggression and pain.' Langley was raped when she was a teenager and exposed to a range of sexual abuse during her childhood. Yet in Durham Prison she was forced to work alongside Rosemary West. 'We were supposed to be separated from the paedophiles and murderers in the next wing, but we were all mixed together. I had to stand in the lunch queue and work in the kitchen knowing that the woman next to me had mutilated and sacrificed a child,' she said. 'The pain broke me up, bit by bit. I worked non-stop to get myself through prison alive and I still can hardly believe I managed it.' While a third of men are jailed for violent crime, just four per cent of crimes committed by women in 2000 involved violence against another person. The vast majority were minor, acquisitive crimes such as shoplifting, or low-level anti-social behaviour, such as being drunk and incapable, or failing to pay bills and fines. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, believes these women are not a danger to society. 'In all but a tiny minority of cases, women just don't commit the sort of crime that endangers society or necessitates them being locked away,' she said. 'And yet the number of custodial sentences being handed down is growing.' Recent Home Office research, the biggest-ever study of the female prison population, found that women given custodial sentences were overwhelmingly the most mentally vulnerable in society, with 37 per cent having previously attempted suicide and 15 per cent having been admitted to a psychiatric hospital. Almost 80 per cent of women on remand and 63 per cent of those who have been sentenced have a neurotic disorder, while more than half of all women prisoners have experienced domestic violence and up to a third have been victims of sexual abuse. Laura Trinney, a 24-year-old former Soho shop manager who was sentenced to two and a half years for drug offences, said: 'I walked into prison and walked into a madhouse. I had never suffered any mental problems and I had never spent any time with anyone else who had, but in Holloway I really learnt what it meant to be mad.' Trinney spent most of her sentence too terrified to leave her cell. 'There were women just lying on the floor screaming in distress, others screaming with pain as they cut themselves or threw themselves again walls. There was always someone howling as though their heart was breaking. Even in the early hours of the morning someone would be falling apart,' she said. 'These were women who needed tender help, not the casual brutality of the prison system. But even the most kind prison officer became hardened to all this pain after a while. 'There were also the officers who enjoyed increasing those women's pain, making it worse by turning out their rooms when they were most upset and laughing at them when they cut themselves. Not many women were balanced when they went into prison, but none of us left with our sanity intact.' One of the ways prisons cope is by containing their charges with medication. During an inspection of Holloway Prison last year, it was discovered that although 33 per cent of women were taking mental health drugs when they arrived, 95 per cent were on medication within weeks of settling in. The temptation to take drugs is huge but the problems they cause are immense. Jane, a former prisoner who asked not to be identified, said: 'I was not someone with mental health problems when I arrived at Holloway in 1999, but I was immediately put on medication. Inwardly I was spiralling into depression, loneliness and the most incredible pain, but outwardly, I was numbed. 'They left me taking this medication for a while and then all of a sudden decided to change it and cancelled the prescription with immediate effect,' she said. 'They did this twice and after each time, I sank into an indescribable despair with no idea what was wrong with me. I cried constantly for two weeks, and I do mean constantly. I was suicidal and my days would be filled by thinking about how many ways I could kill myself. 'It was only later, when I began to improve a little, that I came across a magazine article on drug withdrawal and realised I had been suffering the classic symptoms,' she said. 'Women are in danger of becoming mentally ill during their incarceration, especially those who are family carers. The prison system is not equipped to deal with the complexity of women and the issues that affect them on a mental level.' In such conditions, abuse against prisoners by officers can thrive. Nine officers and five managers from Holloway are under investigation for allegedly running and allowing a regime of sexual bullying, which included forcing inmates into sexual relationships, to flourish - despite complaints that went back to 1989. Langley, who had a relationship in prison for two years, said: 'Female inmates were encouraged to find a girlfriend by even the most sympathetic of prison officers. The term was "prison gay" and there was a belief that it gave inmates something to do. But the reality was that these relationships were often enormously violent and highly promiscuous,' she added, admitting that her girlfriend frequently beat her, broke chairs over her head and tormented her with infidelities. 'I'm enormously strong and independent, and I don't consider myself to be gay, but after a few years in a place where there's brutality all around, even I was desperate for someone just to hold me,' she said. None of this, however, is news to the Government. Research it has commissioned and studies by penal reform groups have repeatedly spelt out the problems experienced by women in prisons. The acclaimed Wedderburn Report, the Prison Reform Trust's independent, two-year study published in 2000, called for an overhaul of the criminal justice system's attitude towards women; a new approach towards mental health problems; an alternative to remand prisoners - who make up two-thirds of all prison receptions - and the creation of a National Women's Justice Board. The report was greeted as a seminal work by the Government and campaigners alike, but not a single recommendation has been put into practice. Jackie Lothian, director of Nacro, the penal reform charity which has itself published four in-depth reports in the past 10 years, said there was no lack of available information. 'But these reports are read by the Government, agreed with and then left on the shelf to gather dust. That's the most disheartening and depressing thing of all.' The Government has made loud and positive noises. In September last year a consultation paper called 'The Strategy for Women Offenders' included a call from the Home Secretary for alternatives to custodial sentences and a more 'joined-up' approach to women across different government agencies. In a second paper, 'Women's Mental Health: Into the Mainstream', published earlier this year by the Department of Health, the Minister for mental health, Jacqui Smith, called for women to be imprisoned only as a last resort. Since then, however, an extra 1,000 women have been jailed, predominantly for non-serious crimes and on short-term sentences. Lyon said: 'When you read what the Government says, you feel things must get better. But then you walk into a prison and see a system that is simply getting worse and worse. Everyone acknowledges we have it wrong, but when it comes to doing something about it, they just buy time by perpetuating a system we all know works badly.' From the most radical of penal reform campaigners to the Director General of Prisons, Martin Narey, and Home Secretary David Blunkett, there is agreement on what to do about the problems: Women on remand should be removed from the system and the sentencing process overhauled to replace any term shorter than 12 months with a community sentence. More than three-quarters of women in prison are still serving tariffs of less than 12 months - which means that while they risk losing their homes, jobs and children, they cannot complete any rehabilitation programme while they are imprisoned or receive any help from probation services on their release. Carol, not her real name, is 21 years old and has been in jail on short sentences six times in the past five years. She is due to leave Cornton Vale prison in Scotland in two weeks and is resigned to the fact that she will soon return. 'I get these six-month sentences, which are long enough for me to decide that I want to live better but not for long enough to complete the drug programmes they offer here,' she said. 'Each time I get sent to jail, I lose my home and my job. I usually manage to be strong for a bit when I leave, but I eventually end up back in my old neighbourhood and then all it takes is one slip with the alcohol and I'm back where I started. I wish it wasn't but it's just how things are.'