Police recruitment has risen by 74% in the past year, the Home Office revealed yesterday, on the eve of publication of recorded crime figures showing a further jump in violent crime.The crime figures, covering the year to September 2000, will be the final ones published before a May general election and will form the statistical base on which the politicians will battle for the law and order vote. Ministers forced on the defensive today are likely to point to separate figures in the British crime survey showing a fall in violent crime. The survey measures crime in England and Wales by asking people about crimes they have experienced in the past year. Ministers say the latest police recruitment figures show they are on course to meet their commitment to increase numbers by 3,000 a year, over and above any recruitment planned by local police forces. Until this month 5,268 recruits had entered police training college, compared with 3,030 at the same point last year. In the last financial year 3,964 recruits went through the college, but based on the latest figures as many as 7,000 will be trained this year. Total police numbers cannot be predicted because resignations and early retirements are so variable. The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, has attacked Labour for presiding over a 3,000 fall in police numbers since 1997. A Home Office spokesman said training colleges were "full to bursting point, and it shows we have turned the corner on numbers". The figures did not simply represent requests for information in response to a recruitment campaign. The latest official figures show that police numbers rose by 440 between March and September last year after three years of decline. Although ministers are embarrassed by the violent crime figures, they will will point to the fall in burglary and car crime.Related articles16 January: Violent crime on the rise11 January: How the fad for phones is fuelling crime11 January: Straw pledges crackdown on street crime18 July: False crime statisticsUseful linksHome OfficeHome Office: crime reduction toolkits