Grants earmarked for projects run by the National Black Police Association have been frozen by the Home Office because of fears about the efficiency of the group's administration and financial controls, it emerged yesterday.Officials said payments believed to total around £80,000 would be withheld until the organisation could show that it has revamped procedures guaranteeing transparency. Payments relating to the administration of the organisation itself are unaffected.Though it was emphasised that there was no suggestion of fraud, there was concern that the group could not fully account for the way previous grants had been spent. The national association received a grant of £180,000 last year.The Home Office yesterday confirmed that concerns about the financial recording were first raised by the group itself. The NBPA began an internal inquiry into how it was spending money in December.The issue related solely to the national association and not the individual force offshoots, each of which is separately funded.Keith Jarrett, the NBPA's president, said the body had actively sought help from the Home Office. "We didn't think there was sufficient corporate governance. The way things were done in the past needed to be tightened up," he said.He said a Home Office audit was nearing completion, after which the association hoped to receive a clean bill of health. "No impropriety has been disclosed, although the audit has not yet been completed. I would be most surprised if anything untoward emerged," he said.The disclosures come at a difficult time for the NBPA, which has been hampered for the past year by personality clashes at the top of the organisation.The association was formed with government assistance in the wake of the controversy following the murder of Stephen Lawrence, but has its critics. While many applaud the concept of a body to represent black officers, who say they still suffer from lack of promotion and unfair treatment, others see it as a symbol of political correctness.The Guardian understands the national association has been under increasing pressure from many of the 43 associations under its umbrella who want to see it back on an even keel.Bevan Powell, the deputy chairman of the Metropolitan police's BPA branch, said: "There are financial issues which a number of chairmen around the country have concerns about." But he deplored the fact that the NBPA's difficulties were being played out in public: "I am concerned that this is now part of a broader witch-hunt to undermine the BPA's activities."