A new review of the practices of Customs and Excise was ordered yesterday by the attorney general and the Treasury after the collapse of an abuse of process hearing into a money laundering investigation.The review, announced in London's Blackfriars crown court yesterday, will be carried out by Mr Justice Butterfield, whose report last July into another failed customs case found serious deficiencies in the way Customs handled informers. The case is the latest scandal to grip Britain's oldest law enforcement agency. In 2002, a series of flawed customs operations into duty fraud at a bonded warehouse cost the British Exchequer almost £2bn and resulted in 109 defendants walking free. Following yesterday's decision by the crown not to offer any evidence in the retrial of three men accused of money laundering, at least a dozen other cases where defendants have been convicted are to be internally reviewed. These involved some of Britain's most notorious criminals, as well as several international drug cartels, including a three-year investigation into a Colombian money laundering operation. The cost to the taxpayer is expected to run into dozens of millions of pounds. Prisoners could be freed, have confiscated money returned, and will be entitled to claim for compensation at taxpayers' expense. The development yesterday occurred after it was revealed in court that Mr Justice But terfield had prepared a confidential preliminary report earlier this year that mentioned concerns surrounding two west London bureaux de change. The contents of this secret preliminary report, which have not been made public, are thought to be so damning that Customs lawyers felt that they were unable to contest the hearing further without suffering more damage to their already tarnished reputation. After the hearing, Paul Evans, Customs chief investigations officer, denied the case collapsed because of Mr Butterfield's unpublished preliminary report. "The trial had gone ahead on high-level legal advice that there was a reasonable chance of securing a conviction,"he said. He added that Mr Butterfield's recommendations are being implemented but added we still "have some way to go" After formally acquitting the defendants, Howard Prosser, Jeffrey Chandler and Alfred Henderson, Judge Samuels said if he were to give evidence to Mr Justice Butterfield he would only do so "in a public and publishable form. The one thing I have to say before parting from these cases is that if there is a review in which I am going to particpate, it will have to be in the public arena." Judge Samuels questioned whether the retrial should have gone ahead and described the handling of the current case as "a systemic muddle rather than bad faith". But he added that he had been concerned about Custom spractices as far back as 1998-99. The three men were convicted of laundering £3m of drugs money through two west London bureaux de change, between June and August 2000. They were convicted in October 2001 and sentenced to a total of 11-and-a-half years in prison. Evidence was based on information provided by owners and employees of the bureaux. These informants, recruited by Customs' financial intelligence team, would report suspicious transactions. Customs relied on evidence from the informants, who were presented as honest businessmen, to secure a conviction. Lawyers for the men appealed on the basis that Customs had failed to disclose hundreds of reports from their informants. But the appeal court accepted a submission from the crown that a retrial should be held. The men's lawyers then applied for an abuse of process hearing which began a month ago. During the hearing, Customs officers admitted they could not rely on the informants as witnesses of truth. Employees at the two bureaux did not keep records of large transactions or ask for identification and took a substantial cut from those laundering money for themselves. Andrew Munday QC, for the crown, said yesterday that one reason for not proceeding with a new trial was that two of the witnesses put forward by Customs had themselves been arrested for money laundering.