Three youths who helped the killer of Rhys Jones escape justice were sentenced to jail today.James Yates, 20, was jailed for seven years for his part in aiding Sean Mercer, the teenager who killed the 11-year-old boy as he walked home from football practice through a pub car park in Croxteth Park in August 2007.Nathan Quinn, 18, was sentenced to two years' jail for helping Mercer cover up the "act of brutality and cowardice". Dean Kelly, 17, was given two four-year sentences to run concurrently for two counts of possession of the murder weapon. Boy M, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was given a two-year supervision order with a four-month, 7pm to 7am curfew for assisting an offender.Mercer, 18, a member of the Crocky Crew gang who was 16 when he fired the fatal bullet from a Smith and Wesson revolver, was unanimously convicted of murder in December after a jury at Liverpool crown court had deliberated for three and a half days.Rhys died after Mercer fired shots across the car park of the Fir Tree pub, aimed at someone else. He cycled to the home of Boy M where a cover-up plan was devised. Along with Gary Kays, 26, and Melvin Coy, 25, who were jailed for seven years last month, the boys helped Mercer dispose of the murder weapon and his clothes, and create a false alibi.Detectives bugged the homes of Boy M and Yates and gathered damning audio evidence.Mercer was sentenced to a minimum of 22 years in prison after a nine-month trial. Mr Justice Irwin said at the time that the youths were involved in "stupid, brutal gang conflict"."You were caught up in that from a young age but it is clear you gloried in it. It is wrong to let anyone glorify or romanticise this kind of gang conflict."This month, Mercer's lawyers launched an appeal against his conviction and sentence.The youths were all members of the Crocky Crew, a gang that had been fighting with rivals, known as the Nogga Dogz, from nearby Norris Green. The fighting had escalated into a kind of postcode-based warfare.The judge said the offence took place within a day of the first anniversary of another killing, that of Liam Smith from Norris Green, by other members of the Crocky gang. Smith died in August 2006 when he was ambushed outside Altcourse prison. "I have no doubt that you were well aware of that," Irwin told Mercer. "You are not soldiers, you have no discipline, no training, no honour. You do not command respect." He told Mercer he was a selfish, shallow criminal "remarkable only by the danger you pose to others".