A teenage altar boy died in his brother's arms the day after his birthday when he was slashed across the throat during an unprovoked attack in a baker's shop yesterday. Jimmy Mizen, 16, the son of a school vice-chair of governors, was killed on his way to buy his first lottery ticket. He was the 13th teenager to be murdered in London this year. Police are working on the theory that the rugby-loving teenager was slashed across the neck with a shard of glass when a fight broke out in the shop in Lee, south-east London.His 24-year-old brother Tommy told how he cradled Jimmy as his life ebbed away. He sprinted from the family's nearby home after a frantic call from another brother, Harry, 18, who was with Jimmy at the time.'I ran around as fast as I could and found him collapsed on the floor of the baker's,' he said. 'His eyes were open and he could hear what I was saying. It was hideous, there was a cut down the side of his face and neck and there was blood everywhere. I did what I could, but I think he was dead by the time the paramedics arrived. It seemed to take forever before they came.'The London air ambulance was called, but the teenager was pronounced dead at the scene. Barry Mizen, 56, Jimmy's devastated father, said: 'He wanted to play the lottery for the first time because he'd just turned 16. It was part of his birthday celebrations. 'It was mindless violence, just pure aggression. A fellow picked up a glass dish and smashed it against the side of his neck. We're told he bled to death. Harry is so upset. He said the blood was just pouring out of him, they just could not stop it. I just can't believe it.'His mother, Margaret Mizen, 55, paid tribute to her son - one of nine children - who played for Sidcup rugby club: 'Jimmy was the loveliest, gentlest giant. He was loved by everyone, by his school, the church and his family.'The Metropolitan Police called the crime 'another tragic incident where a young victim has lost his life'. Investigating officer Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons added: 'Our sympathies are with his family and friends. 'At this early stage it is understood that Jimmy was in the Three Cooks Bakery when the young male suspect entered the premises.'There was an argument, following which Jimmy was assaulted. He sustained serious neck injuries.'He was a Year 11 pupil at St Thomas More Catholic Comprehensive, a maths and computing specialist school in nearby Eltham, where his father is the vice-chair of governors. Ofsted inspectors described the school as 'outstanding' in 2006 and placed it in the top 10 per cent of schools they visited in 2005-06. A woman who was standing outside the Three Cooks, who wanted to remain anonymous, said she saw two youths being attacked by a third young man, who was carrying a baseball bat. 'The two guys - who are local - were attacked with a baseball bat. 'They were attacked in the shop. It looked like glass was broken and broken glass cut someone across the neck. It looked like something out of a Tarantino movie. I think it was an unprovoked attack.' Estate agent Paul Godfrey, who works near the Three Cooks, and a colleague tried to help the dying boy. 'We went up with a first aid kit and called for an ambulance while the victim's brother tried to stem the flow of blood. He has a towel round his neck to stem the flow of blood but there was an awful amount of blood.' Friends of Jimmy and his family left tributes at several websites. One, Andrew, said: 'You've always been such a great guy, always, and drama was such a laugh with you there. You were so easygoing, so easy to talk to, you had a heart of gold, and I know I speak for everybody when I say, you are never going to be forgotten. Goodbye Jim, rest in peace.' Another, Sian Marie, said: 'Jim babeee, I can't believe what has happened. Why you? You were lovely and everyone loved you to bits. You were always cracking jokes and making everyone laugh. I was only with you last night. It feels so unreal. It was your birthday and we had such a great night.'