Unlike the Macpherson report into the Lawrence murder inquiry, yesterday's report into Damilola Taylor's murder investigation is not a damning indictment of the police. Indeed, it could be seen as too kind. Like Stephen Lawrence's death, Damilola's murder was made more poignant by the promise that was extinguished. Damilola was just 10, an ebullient primary school pupil, captured on CCTV skipping over urban stepping stones just moments before he was killed. Yesterday's report from John Sentamu, bishop of Birmingham, rightly praises the initial stages of the investigation, including the use of independent community advisers. It commends the Metropolitan police for having moved on since Lawrence and praises their "professionalism, commitment and application". But events began to go wrong in the investigation's middle stages.First there were the disastrous interviews by the police with a young witness, who alleged she had seen the killing. Thanks to a video recording of the interview with the 13-year-old girl, we know there were serious breaches of current guidelines, too much use of leading rather than open questions, and even inducements, such as the reward money being "more generous" if she had been at the scene. Her contradictory evidence was ruled inadmissible by the judge. Then there was a failure of the police to scrutinise the mobile phone defence: one of the four defendants' phones was being used just over two miles from the murder scene within minutes of the killing. Finally, there is general recognition that once the defendants were charged, the police were insufficiently rigorous in concluding their investigation. Yet it is not these police errors that "critically damaged" the prosecution case according to the Sentamu report, but the trial process. It criticises the rules that led to the exclusion of important evidence, the failure of the defence to release an expert report that could have confirmed Damilola's death could not have been an accident, and the inadequate protection given to the 13-year-old prosecution witness, who was cross-examined by lawyers for four days. The report is right to insist that vulnerable witnesses should enjoy the same protection that juvenile defendants and victims already receive. But an inquisitorial system would be even better than the current adversarial approach. It would be fairer to put the defence under the same obligation as the prosecution to release expert witness evidence, although after protests from lawyers, the new criminal justice bill will only require the release of their name and address. Reforming the rules of evidence is more complex. Judges may have become too protective of juries. The Auld report was right to seek to make the system more transparent and reduce the ability of lawyers to play games. But reforming the rules cannot rest on one case. But the new bill is a chance to ban media rewards. Damilola's case shows how these can be used as an inducement. Ministers, alas, look as though they will fudge the issue, and merely release new guidance. Police and prosecutors, deliberately separated more than a decade ago, will now work more closely together. Both sides seem pleased by the new pilots. This should allow prosecutors a better chance of assessing witness credibility. The Met wants a bigger murder squad, but it was not lack of numbers that led to mistakes over the mobile phone defence and the 13-year-old's interviews. What the police need most of all is better training to ensure a professional standard of interviewing techniques.