Boris Johnson has decided to go back on his manifesto pledge to fund four new rape crisis centres (RCCs) in London. These centres provide long-term counselling and specialist care to women who have been affected by sexual violence. Having previously promised to spend £744,000, financed by a 20% cut in the mayor's media and marketing team, Johnson now promises just £233,000. This is not even enough to keep the capital's one existing centre open, let alone fund four more.Demand for the services provided by RCCs is sadly not decreasing. The latest Met figures show that 2,298 rape attacks were reported in London last year. According to Home Office statistics 23% of women experience actual or attempted sexual assault during their lifetime. Across the UK there were 478,000 sexual assaults reported in 2008, including 22,000 cases of rape or attempted rape. Many more attacks are never reported to the police. The extent of sexual violence in our society is shocking, the silence surrounding the issue deplorable and the lack of outrage at the woefully inadequate provision for survivors inexcusable. The complex factors that lead to such high levels of sexual violence need to be tackled, yet at present this failure is compounded by a dire lack of resources to help survivors rebuild their lives. Fewer than one in four local authorities provide any kind of sexual violence support services.Existing RCCs don't have enough money. A survey by the Women's Resource Centre found that the combined annual income of all RCCs in England was just over £3.5m in 2006-07. The fact that the government spent more than twice this amount on advertising and public relations each week speaks volumes about current social priorities.On top of a chronic lack of finance, RCCs are forced to waste time and resources on never-ending applications for grants. Of these grants, 79% last one year or less, meaning there's a constant struggle to secure funds. Only 21% of services are fully funded and two thirds of centres believe they are "unsustainable". In London alone two RCCs have been forced to close in the last decade due to lack of funds – yet where is the public outcry? The government has attempted to respond to this crisis but more must be done. The £1m of emergency funding announced in March 2008 halted the imminent closure of eight centres, but what is needed is long-term, sustained funding. Having declared sexual assault to be one of the "most serious and damaging crimes in our society", the disparity between government words and policy must be dealt with as a matter of urgency.There are some signs that politicians are waking up to the issue. Jacqui Smith has announced a cross-government consultation to find out what other measures the government can take to secure women's sexual safety. And David Cameron has promised that a Conservative government would spend £2.6m to open 15 new RCCs, increasing the number of crisis centres by a third. But with a protracted period of fiscal consolidation waiting for us on the other side of the recession, these welcome statements of intent may never be translated into policy. If this is to be avoided, supporters of women's rights must remain vocal, ensuring that the issue remains firmly on the political and financial agenda.