The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday May 17 2008The story below said that match tickets will double as visas in Russia from May 17 to 25 and that fans who lose their tickets will have to buy visas from the British Council. In fact fans who lose their tickets will have to get a visa from a Russian consular office, or from Russian consular staff who will be posted at Moscow airports, not from the British Council. Russia's minister of sport has promised an unprecedented police presence, a ban on public drinking and the absence of outdoor TV screens to keep order when more than 42,000 Chelsea and Manchester United supporters descend on Moscow for the Champions League final.There will be 6,000 military and police officers on the streets of the Russian capital next Wednesday, when the bulk of fans are expected to arrive, supplemented by a unit of 15 officers from the Metropolitan and Greater Manchester forces who will point out known British hooligans to their Russian counterparts."We want to make our guests comfortable and make sure they are able to enjoy Moscow, but it is also important that the city and its customs are respected," said Vitaly Mutko, who is also president of the Russian Football Union. "The police do not want to bother fans and there will be no problems if respect is shown."Mutko was in Manchester when violence erupted during Wednesday's Uefa Cup final and described the scenes as "distressing". A Russian fan was stabbed and 42 others were arrested after riot police clashed with Glasgow Rangers supporters who became irate when large-screen televisions in the city centre broke down and failed to show the match against Zenit St Petersburg from the City of Manchester Stadium.No such screens will be provided in Moscow and any fans who travel without a match ticket, despite pleas from the two clubs involved not to, have been told they will have to watch in bars and cafes. "Drinking in public areas is not allowed under Russian law but there are plenty of places where consumption can take place," said Alexey Sorokin, head of Russia's Champions League organising committee."Moscow is a city of 11 million people and they all manage to drink indoors so we do not expect so many problems with these extra people." Those drinking outside will be arrested, as will those who participate in antisocial behaviour, which officials say includes the displaying of banners with "provocative comments" and the carrying of objects with "sharp edges".Fans will be put on one of 700 buses when they land at Moscow's two main airports and transported to supporters' "camps" and on to the Luzhniki Stadium. Mutko said that anyone who wanted to explore the city before the final, which kicks off at 10.45pm local time, could do so. "As long as you behave, the city is yours."Darren Mantle, who helps runs the Chelsea fans' website CFCnet.co.uk and is travelling to Moscow, praised the emphasis on safety but added: "British football fans like to drink on the street, it's as simple as that ... I think the police need to be flexible on this and I hope they are."Supporters were also reminded to retain their match ticket as it doubles as a visa in Russia from May 17 to 25, following a dispensation by the Russian authorities. Losing it will require buying a visa from the British Council. "The ticket is as important as a passport," said Sorokin. Gordon Brown warned yesterday he would clamp down on drinking laws if it is necessary to protect the UK's bid to stage the 2018 World Cup following the violence in Manchester. "I want to do everything to avoid us being put in a position where we might be at risk of an application for the 2018 World Cup not being acceptable."The screen failure in Manchester was a catalyst for hours of disturbing scenes across the city centre by a minority of fans. A riot police officer could be seen on CCTV being tripped up and stamped on by a mob of 20 fans. A senior officer was hit so hard he had to have his electronic earpiece removed by doctors after it became embedded in his head. One police officer lost a tooth after being headbutted. The leader of Manchester city council, Sir Richard Leese, said: "The technicians trying to repair the screen had bottles and stuff thrown at them so they had to withdraw. I think there were clearly a fair number of fans that had been drinking since before breakfast time." Plans to erect big screens in Manchester for the Champions League final have been abandoned.ClampdownSecurity measures for final:· 6,000 military and police officers on foot, in cars and on horseback throughout the day· Ban on public drinking· No large outdoor screens· 700 buses to carry supporters from airport to Luzhniki stadium via supporters 'camps'· Regular checks to see if supporters are carrying banners with 'provocative messages' or have objects with 'sharp edges'. Arrests where necessary· No alcohol sold at the ground