In a recent article Kit Malthouse, Boris Johnson's deputy for policing in London, called for all "weapon dogs" of the "bull-type" to be not only registered and muzzled but also neutered and so humanely yet effectively phased out of existence. He was writing in response to a sharp rise in the Metropolitan police's seizure of canine suspects and of prosecutions of owners under the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act (DDA).A search of London news sites yields a plentiful supply of unpleasant stories about dog attacks, such as this and this and this. Last week Malthouse hosted a summit with members of the Met's status dogs unit and the RSPCA. All agreed on a need for further action, but none have publicly endorsed Malthouse's call for a policy of managed extinction similar to that in Ontario. Why not?It's an emotive notion, of course. Packs of dog-lovers have turned on Malthouse. K9 magazine called him the "biggest moron in Britain" and a blogger opposed to the DDA has (the brute) compared him to a grumbling appendix. I feel the dog lobby has yet to fully capitalise on the potential for mockery inherent in the name and title of the man it would like to see – forgive me – hounded from City Hall. What's wrong with "Kit Doghouse"? Whither, "Deputy Dawg"? Even so, it has made its feelings known.So have others. Roger Evans, who leads the London assembly's Conservative group, commented here that there is a real problem with dog nastiness that needs to be "tackled robustly" But he gave expression to gut Tory instincts when adding:On the whole I'm not in favour of banning things – deprived of 'status' dogs, the owners would just find another way to make a nuisance of themselves. We need legislation which targets those few antisocial individuals and removes them from circulation.On the same thread dennymeta, who hosts and writes for Police State UK, wondered if Malthouse will be "taking a look at the dangerous dogs that keep turning up at protests. Specifically, the ones the City of London police and other forces bring with them to bite the protesters."Both these views seem broadly congruent with the stock line of dog defenders, as repeated by skinnysprinter: "There are no dangerous dogs, only dangerous owners … give me the puppy – any breed – and I'll give you back the well-socialised, friendly pet we'd all like to see."Here's where scope for common ground seems limited. "Bull terriers were bred as weapons, to duel or bait with, for their owner's entertainment and status," Malthouse wrote, "and only once we recognise their atavistic instincts, as those who train them to fight do, can we start to frame legislation that may have a lasting effect." He argues, in other words, that laws to nail bad owners can do only so much to tame beasts that are inherently bad; where bull-breeds are concerned no amount of nurture can guarantee to get the better of this variety of canine nature.I'm in an instructive quandary. I share the view (as does Malthouse) that bad owners are integral to a problem that is growing, and I have no objection to the full powers of the authorities being brought to bear. Though I quite like dogs in general I dislike even passing encounters with "status" varieties on the streets or in parks; I resent the apprehensive tingle in my calves. At the same time I've an aversion to crude prohibition measures on much the same grounds as Roger Evans.It is partly my need to resolve this dilemma that causes me to look on the long-term "phasing out" idea with a degree of sympathy. I can see there might be practical problems and I'm no expert on human manipulation of canine genetics – dog breeding, as it is known. But until someone convinces me that bull-types have not been deliberately evolved with a view to maximising and perpetuating their capacity for aggression I'll find it hard to disagree with Malthouse's point about their psychological hard-wiring.Like many other kinds of dog, bull-types are the product of human intervention to serve a specific human purpose. If that purpose has resulted in adverse social consequences, is there anything morally or intellectually inconsistent about the principle of humans intervening, using the instrument of law, to see that these are gradually bred out?