A report into the death in prison of the serial killer Harold Shipman concluded yesterday that his suicide could not have been predicted or prevented.But the prisons and probation ombudsman, Stephen Shaw, said prison staff did not appear "to have been alerted to the man's long-term risk of suicide or what might finally trigger it".Mr Shaw said it was "extremely regrettable" that the prison where he died, Wakefield, did not have the correct next-of-kin details for Shipman, and that the former GP's wife, Primrose, learned about his death from a relative who heard of it on the radio.Shipman, convicted of the murder of 15 of his patients and thought responsible for another 235 deaths, hanged himself in Wakefield jail on January 13 2004, the day before his 58th birthday.The officer who found Shipman dead at 6.10am said he had looked into his cell and seen him partially obscured by a curtain. Shipman had hanged himself using bed sheets. There were three other strips of material under his pillow. "One had knots in either end, one had one knot and one none. This suggests that he had practised with various alternatives," the report said. "The fact that the material did not properly belong in his cell suggests the man's death was to some extent planned rather than purely spontaneous."In his report, Mr Shaw said staff at Wakefield continued trying to resuscitate Shipman for approximately half an hour despite "clear indications that the man was dead".They then failed to call an ambulance, and a doctor did not arrive until nearly two hours after the discovery. "I am critical both of the failure to call paramedics and the delay in contacting the doctor. I have no reason to believe the doctor could have got to the prison any faster, however, as he lived on the other side of Leeds."Mr Shaw also criticised the record keeping at Wakefield, which meant exact timings for events leading up to Shipman's death could not be established. Instructions for entering the cells of category A prisoners at night were also "not clearly understood by staff".He dismissed reports that Shipman had killed himself after being taunted by prison officers. Shipman had lost privileges after refusing to attend behaviour courses and could no longer afford to ring his wife. He was described as "very emotional" by a prison doctor weeks before his death."I am critical of the fact that staff at Wakefield do not appear to have been alerted to the man's long-term risk of suicide," he said.The report refers to the fact that Mrs Shipman was due to receive her husband's pension if he died before he was 60. But Mr Shaw adds: "I could find nothing in relation to [his] pension which explained why he killed himself when he did."