Margaret Porter, 50, hit her 72-year-old brother William with rhubarb and was in turn hit with an antisocial behaviour order.Last month magistrates in North Yorkshire were told that she had hurled the rhubarb when she thought her brother was going to run over her dog Gismo. Ms Porter, whose rhubarb and marrows have won prizes, said she had thrown the freshly picked sticks but did not know they had hit her brother. But she accepted that his eye had been "caused to water". She was given a six-year Asbo ordered to do 40 hours of community service. Until Ms Porter's appearance in court, the country's most bizarre Asbo involved Brian Hagan's wandering pigs, which went foraging on land that was not their own in north Norfolk. Last December Cromer magistrates made the pigs the subject of an Asbo served on Mr Hagan after hearing that the porkers were a threat to traffic and public health. The pigs went wandering again the same day and Mr Hagan was arrested. But the case against him was dropped in January. Manchester is proud to be Britain's Asbo capital. At the beginning of 2004, a court in the city banned alleged members of a notorious gang from wearing body armour or riding bicycles. Police said the bikes were used in drug deals. Three months later magistrates in the city banned a 16-year-old boy from disrupting his classes, meaning that he could, in theory, be jailed for misbehaving in school. Another Manchester youth was banned from wearing a single golf glove because it was the badge of a criminal gang. Earlier this year Mike McNulty, from Manchester, was threatened with an Asbo after neighbours complained about his noisy rows with his wife, some of which had allegedly spilled into the street. "The problems were between ourselves and did not affect other people," Mr McNulty said. "They were rows between man and wife. Because someone has complained, I am going to get an Asbo. It's just stupid." In the end, Manchester city council relented. The Bridge family from New Brighton were not so lucky. Last week five members of the family who allegedly terrorised their local community were banned from the entire Wirral peninsula for up to seven years each. They had allegedly engaged in threatening and violent behaviour, verbal abuse and intimidation, and criminal behaviour. In June 2004, the record label Sony promised not to commission illegal poster campaigns after Camden council in north London threatened two executives with Asbos in a bid to tackle flyposting. In the same month the NHS secured a nationwide order which restrained a violent fetishist from entering its premises in England or Wales. In September magistrates in Plymouth won the admiration of motorists when they clamped a wheel clamper with an Asbo. He had intimidated drivers and illegally immobilised vehicles, including a police car.