Potentially crucial evidence of possible sexual abuse suffered by a man who was found dead at the home of Michael Barrymore was never seized by police, an independent report found yesterday.The results of an inquiry by the Independent Police Complaints Commission into how Essex police investigated the suspicious death of Stuart Lubbock, 31, eight years ago were welcomed by the man's father, who said he was considering launching a civil case.Terry Lubbock said he was considering suing the force for negligence after reading the IPCC report. However, the most crucial allegations made by the dead man's family against the force - that officers were corrupt and the inquiry was incompetent - were not upheld by the IPCC. Upholding six out of 36 complaints, the watchdog found that mistakes were made by officers in securing the scene and evidence.Lubbock was found face down in Barrymore's swimming pool after a party held at the entertainer's home in March 2001. He was pronounced dead in hospital and post mortem results showed severe internal injuries consistent with sexual assault and evidence he had ingested cocaine, ecstasy and alcohol. An inquest recorded an open verdict.The IPCC, which began an inquiry after complaints from Lubbock's father, found that two important pieces of evidence - a swimming pool thermometer and a door handle - were never seized by police at the scene and had gone missing. Both of these may have been used to assault Lubbock, they said. IPCC commissioner David Petch said there were "lingering fears" that potentially crucial evidence may be lost. He rejected Lubbock's father's allegation that the inquiry was incompetent. As well as the missing thermometer and door handle, the IPCC report found that blood on Lubbock's boxer shorts was not properly investigated, and the police also failed to "promptly investigate" blood stains found on towels and a robe. Barrymore and two other men were arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and murder in June 2007 but later released without charge. No one has been charged in connection with the death. Essex police maintained yesterday that witnesses had not shared information.Andy Bliss, deputy chief constable of Essex police, said: "Somebody knows exactly what happened to Stuart, but so far they have not shared this information with us." He said the investigation remained open and the police would pursue all leads. But the shortcomings of the first investigation are likely to hamper any further police inquiry because the crucial golden hour in which the evidential trail is fresh was not exploited. The missing evidence was never forensically tested so it was impossible for the police to establish whether the implements were used to cause the injuries, the IPCC report said.The complaints which were upheld included: the scene not being effectively preserved, unauthorised people allowed to stay at the scene, a member of the public being allowed to take the temperature of the swimming pool, and the investigation being suspended prematurely. Terry Lubbock said: "If they had done the job properly in the first place we would have had people in court charged. I am sure of that ... I want justice to be done and I will not rest until it is."