The parents of Stephen Lawrence, the black teenager stabbed to death by racists in 1993, have demanded to see fresh police evidence from new witnesses that they hope will finally bring their son's killers to justice.The evidence includes the remarkable testimony of a witness who claims to have made a covert recording of one of the prime suspects confessing to the murder and naming the man who wielded the knife. The development follows a decision by the Crown Prosecution Service in May 2004 not to proceed with a new prosecution against the Lawrence suspects, a group of five friends acquitted of the murder after their trial collapsed in 1996. The ruling followed a five-year police investigation following up new leads and witnesses. New legislation to be introduced next year will abolish the rule of 'double jeopardy', which states that people should not be tried again for the same crime. Many campaigners had hoped that the change in the law would see the killers brought to justice. In 1997 the Daily Mail named Luke Knight, David Norris, Neil Acourt, Jamie Acourt and Gary Dobson as members of a gang that surrounded Stephen at a bus stop in Eltham, southeast London, before stabbing him and leaving him to bleed to death. Last week police officers visited the homes of a number of new witnesses to obtain their permission to pass their statements to the Lawrence family lawyers. One set of statements is known to describe claims made by Rob Stanley, a former journalism student, who told friends that he had interviewed Acourt and recorded him admitting he was at the scene of the crime. Acourt also named 'Lukey' (Luke Knight) as the man who struck the fatal blow, according to witness statements taken by the police. Civil rights activist Julie-Ann Davies, 40, told The Observer that Stanley contacted her in 2000 in connection with her campaigning around the David Shayler spying case. He told her about the interview in an email and several phone calls that followed. She spent several months trying to persuade Stanley to go to the police. Stanley, who now works in advertising, claimed he had met Acourt in The Banker's Draft pub in Eltham, where he interviewed him for a project for his journalism course. The confession came after the interview had ended and Stanley had turned off his tape recorder. But he told Davies that he had a second, hidden recording device which he kept running without Acourt's knowledge. Stanley consistently kept to his story in subsequent conversations with Davies. However, Stanley has been unable to locate the original recording. Police have dismissed him as a witness. When The Observer contacted him last night, Stanley, now aged 27, said that he had been advised not to comment on the matter. Officers who arrived at Davies's home last Tuesday said that the Lawrence family had asked to re-examine 11 recent witness statements, including her own account of her dealings with Stanley. 'The Lawrences have waited far too long for justice. There was no way I could have not made a statement and am happy to make it available to the family,' she said. She added that she remained convinced by Stanley's story. 'I tried everything to get him to co-operate. If he did make the whole thing up, he owes everyone an explanation for why he did it.' The Crown Prosecution Service last night issued a statement confirming the new development: 'We have asked police to assist us by contacting some witnesses who provided statements during the investigation in order to seek their consent to disclose the content of their statements to solicitors acting on behalf of Neville Lawrence [Stephen's father]. 'This is in order to answer questions raised by them so that we are able to provide as full an explanation as possible of CPS advice in the case.' The Lawrence family solicitor, Imran Khan, said that he would be making no further comment until a full examination of the statements had been made. The family's hopes have been raised on many previous occasions, only to be later dashed. In February 2000, John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's Racial and Violent Crimes Taskforce, was reported to be 'confident' of a breakthrough when two new suspects were identified, but it came to nothing.