Leon Black just nods when I say the words "terrible irony". He must be sick of hearing them. Until a couple of weeks ago Black was best known as the actor who played Stephen Lawrence in a TV film about the teenager who was stabbed to death in a racist attack. Now he is known as the actor who played Stephen Lawrence, who was also stabbed in a racist attack.He says that it was a blur when it happened, and that it is still a blur. He has tried to remember the incident for the police (who have yet to make arrests) and for his family, but these things happen in seconds. He didn't even realise he had been stabbed until the police arrived. Black had been out with friends from the Anna Scher stage school in Islington. They were happily drinking in a pub when he realised things were getting a bit loud and aggressive. "I just saw some guys starting on my mate Lee and I tried to stop it. I went over and asked the main guy to calm down because my friend was smaller than him." Black and his friends didn't want any trouble so they left the pub. They were followed. Again, he says it's a blur. "There was more of the same outside, all the shouting and that, and everyone was breaking it up, and everyone was getting all fired up. I remember them shouting loads of racist words." The racism was directed at him, not Lee, who is white. "They were saying things like, 'You black nigger, shut up' - racial abuse. I'd been punched in my lip and I was angry and people were calming me down. It was confused and mad." He has this image of himself running around hopelessly, fired up on adrenalin, oblivious to the fact that he had been stabbed. "That's the crazy thing. I don't even remember being stabbed. I didn't know. I can't tell you when and how. I just remember running around. I wasn't thinking of anything apart from running away, just running." Fortunately, Black's friends and independent witnesses were able to give the police detailed descriptions of his attackers. It's a horribly familiar story. As Black attempts to recount the mayhem, I can't help picturing the killing of Stephen Lawrence, and how impossible it must have been for his friend, Duwayne Brooks, to recount the attack, blow by blow, stab by stab, as the courts demanded.We are sitting in Black's mother's house in Walthamstow, north-east London. He says that he's feeling a lot better; that he can walk around without pain now. He lifts his shirt to show me a large plastered bandage over his ribs, which covers the stab wound. His mother, Beverlin, a social worker, says that she is still in shock. Black says that it was only a couple of days after the attack that he began to feel unnerved. "It's actually more scary thinking about it now. Now I think back to the Stephen Lawrence thing and it just seems twisted. I played a character, and the next thing I'm getting stabbed. It's just mad..." He comes to a stop, bewildered. It's four years since Black, who was 20 on Tuesday, played Lawrence in Paul Greengrass's film. At the time, and wearing the little boy-man moustache, he looked eerily like him. We talk about what attracted him to acting. He was only four or five, had just been in a school production of Max and the Wild Things, and was watching the commercials on the telly. "I remember saying to my mum, 'I don't see no black people on TV'." "I remember it well," Beverlin says. "He just said to me, 'How come there's never any black children playing with the toys on the telly?'" How did she answer him? "I didn't. It wasn't until he was older that we could discuss issues like that, and have lots of fights about it." Why did they fight? "When Leon was little he didn't see that kind of stuff. He used to argue with me and say, 'Mum, you see things in black and white too much, and not everybody is the same'." She looks at her son. "D'you remember those discussions?" "Yeah, yeah, yeah," he says. "I just thought my mum was different, that it was weird she thought of these things." Everywhere she looked, she saw racism, he says. And he didn't? No, not at the time he says: things had moved on, people had become more tolerant. "Now I'm older and I can think back I can remember loads of times where people have passed on racial jokes I didn't even understand." "I'll tell you one," Beverlin says. "When Leon was about seven he came home, and he had one of those tricycle things, and he was riding around in the kitchen going 'Jingle bells, jingle bells, black man smells'. I'll never forget that. And I said, 'Leon, where did you hear that? You mustn't say that because you're actually saying that you smell.'" "I was little," Black says. "I used to argue. I'd be like, no, it doesn't mean that, it's just a song. It's only because that's all you see, black and white, that's all you know." Do they still disagree about racism? "No," Black says. "I've gone over to my mum's side." Had he changed his views before the attack? "Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, YEAH. Since I was about 14." He explains why he changed - how he went to school and started learning about history. "You kind of get a feel for where racism comes from and, once you know where it comes from, you just pick on things quicker." It was when he was 14 that, like so many black teenagers, he was first stopped by the police while walking home. "I had just come back with a black carrier bag with speakers from my nan's house. Nothing classy or anything. So I've come off the bus, and two police officers have stopped me - ripped open my black bag in the middle of the street so everyone could see. Then they asked me where I got the speakers from, so I told them. They then took me to my mum's house to confirm it." "I heard him shouting 'Mum, Mum'," says Beverlin. "I looked out of the window and I see him standing with these two policemen. I said, 'What's going on?' and they just said, 'Oh, we wanted to verify where he got these speakers from'. And I said to them, 'Have you any concerns that there has been a robbery in the vicinity for you to have stopped him?' And they said, 'Anybody we see with a black bag, we stop them'. I said, 'But lots of people use black bags to carry all sorts of things. Do you stop everyone with a black bag?' They said, 'Oh, you've got to understand if it was your car that got broken into...' and I just said - I swore, actually." Beverlin doesn't seem like a woman who swears easily. Two years later, at 16, Black was cast as Stephen Lawrence. He had been with the Anna Scher stage school for nine years. He had grown up with it. Did he know much about the Lawrence case? "No, I was only 11 when the the murder happened." When he read the transcripts from the various court cases and inquest, he began to comprehend the enormity of the attack. "It was a crazy attack. Five dudes on to one guy and they're all hammering him and pounding him. It was a shock that things can get like that. I've never really seen violence like that. Crazy. How can people just stand there kicking someone lying on the floor?" he asks. "You've got to really hate someone to do that." But the boys who attacked Stephen Lawrence, like the boys who attacked him, were strangers. Black's eight-year-old sister Tyra walks up to him, and wraps herself around his legs. "Guess what Leon calls me?" she giggles. "He calls me my bubbeh." Beverlin passes me another mug of coffee. "I've often said to Leon that if you see a problem, just keep away from it. Don't get involved." She says that she has spent days thinking about why her son jumped in, and now she understands. "These are the principles that the theatre has taught all these kids. They're like a family. When they're in the theatre, together as black and white kids, it's totally different to what you see out there. I asked him what happened, and he said, 'Mum, it was Lee, he was getting beaten up and I had to step in'. And I understood that because, for him, Lee is family." Black tells me, and his mum, that he has been lucky, his wound is healing, he can get on with his life, though it still hurts to laugh. He talks excitedly about his future - he has just won his first regular role on television, playing firefighter Craig Ross in the new series of London's Burning. When he played Stephen Lawrence, did he have any sense that it could just as easily have been him? "Yes. It was a docudrama, so we had to make it look real. So I was trained to breathe so that I could feel my chest getting tighter as I was getting weaker, and then the dudes were pretending to give me the blows. You can imagine putting yourself just there. So yeah, I could think it was me there... and it was in the end."