The courts are sending people to prison for breaching the terms of antisocial behaviour orders even though their original offences, such as begging or prostitution, do not carry a prison sentence, according to a new survey.The report on the use of antisocial behaviour orders by the probation union, Napo, also reveals that a geographical lottery is operating, with wide variations in practices around the country. The survey shows that the number of Asbos has escalated since they were introduced in April 1999, when 104 orders were issued against individuals in the first eight months. More than 2,600 have been issued since November 2003. The police or local authorities can apply for an antisocial behaviour order against an individual or a group of people whose behaviour causes alarm, distress or harassment to others. Although a court will grant an order on the balance of probabilities - the civil standard of proof - it is a criminal offence to breach its terms, with a maximum penalty of up to five years. Home Office ministers have told parliament that more than 30% of the conditions laid down by the courts in the orders issued since November 2003 were breached by offenders. The latest published figures show that in 2001, 114 of the 322 Asbos that were issued ended in the offender being jailed. In 2002, the figure rose to 212 imprisoned out of 403 orders that were issued. The figures for 2003 have not yet been published. The probation union said it had evidence of cases in which people had been sent to prison for breaches of Asbos issued for offences which did not carry a prison sentence in the first instance. They include: · A 40-year-old woman who made 700 emergency 999 calls from various public telephone kiosks. The police secured an Asbo banning her from the kiosks from and making 999 calls. She made a further emergency call within days and was given a two-week prison sentence. · A girl who was served an Asbo for spitting in public is in prison on remand after an allegation that she breached it. · A 28-year-old man was banned from shouting, swearing, banging windows and moaning after he alarmed neighbours by standing on his windowsill and pretending to dance with a Christmas tree while moaning. He was jailed for two months in August this year after the howling continued despite an Asbo. He has since been imprisoned for a further four months and has spent this Christmas in jail. The union says that it also has cases in which a prostitute was told she could not carry condoms in a prohibited area despite the fact that the drug clinic which provided her with free condoms was in that zone. The survey also reveals variations in the use of Asbos, with courts in Manchester far more likely to issue them than courts on Merseyside. In the first six months of 2004, 155 people were made subject to an Asbo in Greater Manchester, compared with 27 over the same period on Merseyside. Harry Fletcher, Napo's assistant general secretary, said his union's survey showed there was an urgent need to re-evaluate the use of Asbos: "Far too many people are being jailed where the original offence was itself non-imprisonable. There is evidence that people with mental health problems are being made the subject of antisocial behaviour orders when what is needed is treatment." He said he found it worrying that what was in effect a civil injunction carried a criminal sanction of up to five years in prison.