A curry house owner has been found guilty of murdering another takeaway worker who was hacked to death after being lured to a quiet street with a fake order nearly 20 years ago. Foyjur Rahman, 44, was accused of being one of four men involved in the attack on 25-year-old Abdul Samad in Islington, north London.Following a trial at the Old Bailey, he was found guilty by a majority of 11 to one. Rahman faces life in jail when he is sentenced by judge Peter Rook QC later on Friday.Members of the victim’s family burst into tears and there were cries of “yes” from the public gallery as the jury delivered its verdict after more than 12 hours of deliberations.The court had heard how the victim, who was known as Kamal, from Bow, east London, turned up in Alwyne Road after receiving a bogus order on the evening of 21 May 1997.He dropped the curry he was delivering and ran for his life when two men in black masks intercepted him armed with a meat cleaver and a knife, jurors were told. As he was being chased down the street, the married father-of-two warned one shocked resident: “He’s got a knife. He wants to kill me. Be careful,” the Old Bailey heard. Samad, who ran the Curry in a Hurry takeaway with two business partners, was then set upon on the ground before being left in a pool of blood. He was rushed to hospital where he died early the next morning. A doctor described his injuries as “horrific – the like I have never seen before in my career”, the court heard. A postmortem examination found 18 separate chopping and stabbing injuries. The cause of death was identified as bleeding from multiple wounds and shock, prosecutor Mark Ellison QC said. Two black masks, a bloody meat cleaver and carrier bags used to transport the murder weapons were found discarded near the scene.At the time of the murder, Rahman was living in east London and helped to run a different curry takeaway in east Putney. Ellison told jurors that in the weeks leading up to his death, Samad had been put under pressure to act as an intermediary between two groups of Bengalis. When he refused to help sort out the dispute with the “Stoke Newington Boys”, he had been threatened, jurors were told. Ellison said the defendant was linked to the crime by fingerprints on a bag and DNA from saliva on one of the masks. DNA from the other mask matched an associate who was extradited from Bangladesh and convicted of the murder in 2012, jurors were told. The day after the killing, Rahman went to New York and he was only extradited back from the US in January this year.