A row over missing money could have led to the murder of British student Meredith Kercher, Italian police said after studying cash machine withdrawals she made before her death.'Kercher may have accused her flatmate Amanda Knox of stealing €250 [about £177] from her,' said investigator Edgardo Giobbi. 'That accusation, which Kercher possibly made in front of Rudy Guede, sparked a row.'American student Amanda Knox, 20, has been held since 6 November on suspicion of participating in the sexual assault and murder of Kercher, 21, five days earlier at the house they shared in Perugia. Both Knox and her Italian boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, 23, also held, have denied involvement. On Friday, their applications to be released from Perugia's Capanne jail on bail were refused.Meanwhile, police are seeking the extradition from Germany of Rudy Hermann Guede, 20, the Ivory Coast national who admitted being at the house on the night Kercher was left dying from a knife wound to her neck. Guede, who was picked up by German police, also denies involvement.'Kercher usually withdrew around €30 a time from cash points, but took out €250 two days before her death, most likely to pay her rent,' said Giobbi, a member of the Rome serious crimes squad assisting Perugia investigators. 'Her landlord did not receive the money and there is no trace of it, although Amanda Knox was carrying €215 when she was taken into custody.'Knox and Guede were possibly alone together at the house when Kercher walked in on them some time around 9pm, said Giobbi. 'Alternatively Guede may have stolen the money from Kercher's room which he then used to pay for his train ticket to Germany,' he said.In statements made to his lawyers in Germany, Guede has said Knox was not present in the house at the time of the murder and claims Kercher told him her money was missing and suggested Knox had taken it. Guede, whose DNA was found on Kercher's body, claims she was then killed by an unidentified Italian man while he was in the house's bathroom.Newspapers reported yesterday that Knox has implicated Sollecito. In a diary written in jail and seized by police, Knox reportedly wrote: 'Perhaps this is what happened: Raffaele went to Meredith's house, raped her and killed her and then came home, where he put my fingerprints - while I slept - on the knife. But I can't begin to understand why Raffaele would have done it.'Police have found DNA traces of both Knox and Kercher on an 8in kitchen knife found in Sollecito's kitchen. Knox denies being at the crime scene.While Knox has reportedly suggested Sollecito killed Kercher, Sollecito has continued to offer a partial alibi to Knox. After telling police she spent time away from his house on 1 November, he now maintains he cannot recall whether she left him or not that night, possibly due to the marijuana he had smoked.In the Friday hearing, Sollecito was able to give a detailed description of his use of the internet at home that night, proof, he said, that he did not participate in Kercher's murder. Police have claimed their own analysis of Sollecito's computer shows that he was not online.