I recently heard the following story. Two mothers at the same London primary school were so desperate to get their daughters into one much sought-after secondary that they decided to set up home together temporarily in the catchment area (which they lived outside), claim they were in a same-sex relationship (which would technically make their children siblings) and beat the admissions system.An urban myth? Apparently not. According to the Office of the Schools Adjudicator, whose annual report has just been published, some of the examples of fraudulent and misleading school applications he uncovered, when asked by Children's Secretary Ed Balls to investigate this fraught subject, were too "bizarre" for easy categorisation.But others weren't. The list of "bog standard" methods used by a minority of parents to cheat their way into preferred schools was lengthy and involved a sophisticated degree of collusion between friends, neighbours and family members to pass off temporary addresses, moves and marriage break-ups as genuine.Predictably, the suggestion that the cheats should be penalised in some way has lead to a chorus of theatrical rage from the Tories and various other commentators who don't use state schools but who feel cheating is justifiable on the grounds that so many schools are allegedly "failing". Even if that were a legitimate defence against lying and taking a school place away from another child rightfully entitled to it, it is the "failing schools" line that is the real urban myth.Most schools aren't failing, and most children with a supportive home environment can get a perfectly good education in their local school if it is, as the vast majority of them are, good enough. The sort of parent who is prepared to devise an elaborate scam to win a school place is probably the sort who will see the homework gets done.The parents alluded to above actually live in the catchment area of a perfectly good school, which had recently been acclaimed by Ofsted. The Harrow mother, whose fraudulent application to one local primary school thrust this issue into the spotlight after the local authority had to drop their attempt at prosecution, had, in fact, been offered a place at another very good school. It just wasn't quite as good as the one she wanted for her five-year-old son.Balls and the chief adjudicator, Ian Craig, are treading carefully when it comes to all-out prosecution of cheating parents. It is easy to see why. Successive governments have preferred to present schools as a market, dressed them up as a hierarchy, and then urged parents to "do the best for their child" and not give a stuff about anyone else's.It must be difficult, then, to accuse parents who use the tools of the market, whether it is a false address, a temporary move or copious private tuition, of being criminals. But some sanctions are necessary. Nobody should underestimate the bitterness and resentment felt by families who do play by the rules – often the less affluent and less well-equipped to work the market – when they see others gaining at their expense.The government is apparently still looking at what to do next, now the problem has been laid bare in today's report. In the meantime, local authorities should be doing more to smoke out the cheats and publicly stating that intention with a warning on every school admissions form. It would help restore integrity to the system and benefit the majority who play by the rules.