The official inquiry into racism in Britain's prisons has taken more than two years to complete because the tapes of 60 interviews about the racist murder of an Asian teenager at Feltham young offenders' institution have gone missing, the Guardian has learned.It is believed that the tapes were never transcribed and the Commission for Racial Equality, which is conducting the inquiry into prison racism, is trying to reconstruct the interviews from sketchy notes taken at the time.The interviews with staff and inmates at Feltham, in west London, took place over a year and are at the heart of the official investigation into racism in prisons which was set up after the murder of Zahid Mubarek by a racist skinhead, Robert Stewart, at the youth jail in March 2000. It is believed that the tapes disappeared after they were moved to the CRE's headquarters before transcripts could be made. The inquiry is supposed to send a transcript of evidence back to each interviewee for checking. But it is believed the interviews have had to be reconstructed, instead, from sketchy notes taken at the time. The CRE said last night that its report would not be published until the end of the year and explained the delay by saying that it would be "irresponsible to rush a complex investigation of this kind". The race watchdog was responding to unprecedented criticism from the director-general of the prison service, Martin Narey, yesterday who said the failure to complete the investigation had "cast a blight" over attempts to tackle racism in prisons. He said parts of the inquiry had been conducted as an attempt to "damage" him and the prison service's race relations adviser. "As things stand the two year long inquiry remains like a dark cloud over our attempts to make further progress," said Mr Narey. "I need desperately to sit down with the CRE and see where we go next." The director-general said he had asked the CRE to conduct its inquiry into racism in the prison service after the killing of Zahid Mubarek in Feltham. "Two years after the start of that investigation there is no sign of it coming to an end." The CRE defended the delay yesterday saying it was surprised by Mr Narey's attack but had every intention of maintaining a working relationship with the prison service. "We would much prefer to produce a thorough, accurate report, than publish something that has not been properly investigated or thought through," the watchdog said. A CRE spokesman confirmed that those interviewed are to be given a chance to check their evidence for factual inaccuracies but made no comment on the allegation of the missing tapes. At the launch of the inquiry the CRE promised it would be a "no-holds-barred" investigation that would be as influential in the prison service as the Stephen Lawrence inquiry has proved for the police. The investigation also looked at Brixton prison, south London, Parc prison, South Wales and the prison service's general policies on racism.