April 20 is the most dreaded day in suburban Middle America, a dread that is still grossly under-reported. Tax day on April 15 gets all the glory in the media, with recycled stories about fist-shaking folks and evil Big Government, but April 20 is far darker, unleashing all the latent paranoia and violent suspicion that underlie Middle American culture.The reason is Columbine. April 20 is the anniversary of the 1999 Columbine high massacre, the worst schoolyard rage attack in American history.As massacres go, only 9/11 can compete with Columbine in terms of its impact on contemporary American culture. Yet, unlike al-Qaida's attack, the Columbine killings have found widespread sympathy within America - and what makes it so genuinely threatening is that this sympathy comes not from some marginalised minority, but from those who should be benefiting most from the American dream: white, middle-class suburban kids, protagonists from those cute John Hughes movies.The massacre has not just found fans, but also converts. Columbine has inspired countless kids to take up arms. In this sense, it strongly resembles a kind of internal rebellion that is both persistent and spreading, a rebellion that hasn't yet been recognised.As in previous years, the lead-up to April 20 again saw a number of "plots" uncovered at schools across the country. Just to give a few examples:• Two students at Gulf Shores high in Alabama were arrested in late March on suspicion of plotting an April 20 "Columbine-style shooting";• In Platte City, Missouri, two teens were arrested this week and charged with threatening a "Columbine-type" massacre on April 20;• A dozen seventh graders were suspended this week after being accused of plotting to bring weapons to their school in Fairbanks, Alaska, and kill other students;• Near Tacoma, Washington, three boys, ages 12, 13 and 14, were arrested on April 7, planning to shoot up and burn down their school with everyone inside;• Four teenagers at Winslow high school township in Atco, New Jersey were arrested last week on suspicion of plotting an elaborate lunchtime attack on their school;And so on. It reads like a green zone military press briefing, except that the armed plots and attacks are taking place in what should be the happiest, most content places on earth.These are just some of the plot massacres uncovered and reported; most never even make the news, and rarely does the accumulation of nationwide plots get put into the context of something larger.Ever since Columbine, massacre plots always start to peak around April 20, both because angry students are inspired by the anniversary, and because adult paranoia goes into hyper-overdrive, leading to the usual American response: heavy-handed crackdowns, such as charging the four Winslow high teens with terrorism .In their video diaries, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris, the two Columbine killers, openly declared that they hoped to "kick-start a revolution". Which would explain why the hours of video diaries are still being kept from the public, sealed by Jefferson county officials to this day because they have been deemed "contrary to the public interest". Which is probably true. The rage that motivated Columbine's killers, Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris, remains grossly, wilfully misunderstood by the official mainstream, yet it has found persistent sympathy in unofficial Middle America. The pain and rage are real: since 1950, America's teen suicide rate has soared by 400%.Why, when even attempts were made post-9/11 to understand Arab anger (feeble though they were), does America refuse to even try understanding Columbine? Why do they continue to blame cheap, easy suspects like video games, the internet, lax morals and the NRA, when the most obvious suspect - Columbine, and every other school like it - is sitting right in front of them? Because that would be tantamount to suspecting that something is genuinely hateful about Middle America.Better to ignore that; it leads to a dark, dark road. So instead, this anniversary, once again the media is telling comforting lies about "the healing" following Columbine, while ignoring the persistent widespread outbreaks of armed plots and attacks across the country, and the rage and pain that continue to fuel these rebellions.