A sharper than expected fall in the conviction rate in the past two years has forced the home secretary, David Blunkett, to retreat on Labour's 2001 manifesto election pledge on crime.The climbdown was buried in a Home Office report published yesterday as background to an announcement of a new police computer tracking scheme to target the 33,000 most prolific adult offenders. The Home Office says that there has for some time been a "justice gap" in which only 20% of the 5m crimes recorded by police every year end in a criminal being brought to justice. But it adds that "an even more worrying trend has emerged - since March 2000, the number of offences brought to justice has fallen sharply", and adds that this is true for every type of crime, except robbery, and has happened in 33 of the 42 police force areas. The "justice gap" varies from 9% of burglaries ending in a conviction to 37% of sex offences. Despite repeated "crime crackdowns", the number of crimes ending in a successful prosecution has fallen by 80,000, down from 1.1m in the year to March 2000 to 1.02m in the year to March 2002. Home Office civil servants say it is difficult to pinpoint why the conviction rate has fallen so sharply, but candidly add that the fall in police numbers in 1999 to 2000 is partly to blame. The collapse in the conviction rate has led Mr Blunkett to drop Labour's manifesto pledge to meet "a short-term target of 100,000 more crimes ending in a criminal brought to justice" on the way to reaching the long-term aim of "doubling the chance of a persistent offender being caught and punished" by 2010. A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed the "short-term" manifesto pledge which was supposed to be achieved within three years, by April 2004, had been revised. The new "public service agreement" with the Treasury says the drop in conviction rates means that to hit the promised 1.2m offences ending in a conviction, an extra 175,000 crimes will have to end in a successful prosecution. The timetable has also been put back by two years with a target date of April 2006 - beyond the likely election date of June 2005. The Home Office report, Narrowing the Justice Gap, describes this target as "the key measure of the effectiveness of the criminal justice system" and as a "crucial indicator of success in reducing crime". The persistent offender scheme, to start in February, means local police commanders will receive regular lists of the most active criminals on their patch. Those flagged up on the national computer will have been convicted of six or more offences in the previous 12 months or have been identified by local police intelligence.