A group of offenders on a community rehabilitation programme have been shown the reality of car-related crime by firefighters from Greater Manchester fire service.Eight offenders recently spent a day at Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service training centre where they took part in a simulated exercise to pull a passenger free from a mangled car after a serious road accident. Thai Smith, 25, from Burnley, was given the job of holding the “injured” car driver in place while the other offenders and fire crew worked to remove the passenger safely from the wreckage. “Getting the passenger out of the car safely took a lot longer and was a lot more intense than I thought it would be,” says Smith.They also met Gary Walker, who was a passenger in a fatal car accident. Walker and the driver were in a stolen car in a police chase when the driver lost control of the car and was killed. Walker suffered severe facial and body burns and had to have part of his leg amputated as a result of the smash. “I can’t put into words the impact this collision had on me or on the people around me. I wouldn’t want anyone else to go through it,” says Walker, who now works with the fire and rescue service to teach people about the dangers of the road. His 90-minute frank talk clearly hits home.“It was very touching and made you think about your actions and what it can lead to,” says Smith. “One of the group was moved to tears and had to leave the room.”Yussef Sonne, 21, convicted for dangerous driving, says that the extrication exercise was a “real eye-opener.” “It showed me the risk of what could have happened when I was driving,” he says.The aim of the exercise was to show offenders the impact of car-related crime. Attendees were convicted of various vehicle-related crimes, including drug or drink-driving and stealing cars. But instead of being sent to prison, they were sentenced to an intensive community order (ICO). This is an option for young males aged 18-25 living in Greater Manchester who have committed a serious enough crime to warrant a custodial sentence of up to 12 months.An ICO is delivered by a probation-led multi-agency team and can run from five months to two years. As its name suggests, it may include two or more probation appointments a week, weekly meetings to find the offender education, training or job opportunities, and it engages with their family to help reduce the individual’s likelihood of reoffending. Offenders also have to attend special programmes aimed at addressing their offending behaviour, such as the day with the fire crew.Two companies to run more than half of privatised probation services Cheshire and Greater Manchester Community Rehabilitation Company (CRC) manages the ICO programme on a payment-by-results contract. The CRC replaced the local probation trust in June, following the government’s outsourcing of probation services to 21 CRCs across England and Wales for lower-risk criminals. The Greater Manchester CRC is owned by Purple Futures, a partnership of private companies and charities (including Shelter and Addaction) led by outsourcer, Interserve, which was one of the big winners of the shake-up of the criminal justice system, getting five of the contracts.The ICOs build on the success of the former probation trust’s intensive alternative to justice (IAC) project. Data collected showed a 10% reduction in reoffending over a five-year period and 40% of offenders on an IAC gained employment despite low educational attainment. Nicola Pugh, the Greater Manchester CRC’s strategic implementation manager, says that the current ICO, despite only starting in June 2014, is showing a reoffending rate of around a similar 10% among the approximately 520 offenders on the scheme. “This is significantly lower than offending rates in general across the area,” she says.Pugh adds: “Many offenders freely admit that the ICO is harder than a short-term jail sentence [because] the activities and interventions are much more victim focused.”Daniel Cherrington, an ex-offender who was convicted of a vehicle crime, testifies to that: “A lot of offenders find that it’s easier to go to prison. If you get sentenced in a magistrates court to six months then you’ll serve four months in prison, take a third off for your guilty plea, you’re out after eight weeks and you’re free. If you’re on an ICO you might not be ready for the help. A lot of people aren’t. You’ve got to want to change, and you’ve got to stop taking drugs and committing crimes. I’m only just getting through it myself.”Pugh says that although it is too early to say what long-term impact the day had on the offenders she hopes to run more with the fire and rescue service.Laura Saidler, GMFRS crime and disorder co-ordinator, says: “We want to work with probation and other partners to provide support and alternatives to custody. The day has been a worthwhile exercise and if it can help one person to make a change about the way they run their lives it’s worth it.”