Neighbours and passing friends remember Derrick Bird as a friendly, even-tempered man; the kind of neighbour with a ready smile, who would also stop for a chat. Their shock at his unprovoked shooting spree is resounding.Ryan Dempsey, a neighbour, had known Bird since he was 10. "He was a very easygoing sort of fellow; never walked past without saying hello. The last time I saw him was last night or the night before, and he was just as happy as before. He waved through the window, nodded and smiled, and the next thing I hear is this tragedy."Bird had a very good reason to be an apparently happy man: he had just become a grandfather. Last week, his son Graeme and his wife, Victoria, who lived only a few miles from Bird's ill-kempt and shabby cottage, had a son.But today, the curtains in their home were tightly drawn. On the sitting room window sill was a row of greetings cards crammed tightly together. Their neighbours, alerted to the day's shocking events, were unwilling to talk. "I have no information," said a young woman next door.The couple had retreated to Graeme's mother's home in the bucolic village of Lamplugh, just a few miles away, which is a rambling collection of farms, pubs and idyllic country homes surrounded by pastures and hedgerows plump with spring flowers. Lamplugh is also home to Bird's brothers, David and Bryan.At the gate of the housing association home where Bird's former partner, Linda Mills, lives, a young police woman stood guard. She politely told reporters that no one inside was prepared to talk to the media. A family liaison officer was on their way.While his son's and ex-partner's homes are smart, carefully tended and welcoming family homes, Bird's own cottage in the village of Rowrah has the air of neglect and loneliness. Rowrah is a small place, one of a string of hamlets and villages, mostly home to people who commute to Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant down the coast or to Whitehaven and Workington.Bird's home is one of 13 small two-up-two-down pebble-dashed cottages in a tight row opening out onto the street. Its paint and plasterwork are peeling and stained; a dusty upstairs bedroom window is paint-splattered. A rusting satellite dish leans upwards from under the eaves. The downstairs curtains were tightly drawn, but on the window sill were lawyers' letters and one from the Criminal Injuries Compensation board.There were strong rumours reported in Whitehaven that Bird, known to locals as "Birdy" had had feuds with other taxi drivers and was known to the police. But for many who knew him, Bird was "very placid" and well known on the Whitehaven taxi ranks.One man who knew him told BBC Radio 4 he appeared to be a mild-mannered, content individual: "I can't see how this piece [the murder spree] fits into his jigsaw. It's just completely out of place."Dempsey, 26, who works for a power company, had first met Bird when Dempsey's parents bought their cottage two doors away 15 years ago. He knew him as a child and six months ago had taken over the property.Dempsey never saw Bird – a man reputed locally to be keen on railways – with guns or heard him talk about an interest in shooting or any membership of a shooting club. "I wasn't aware of it; I didn't see him with a firearm," he said.But in this rural area with its gamekeepers and farmers, he said, shotgun ownership was common. He had heard that Bird had used a shotgun on his victims. But then many gun owners tend to keep their firearms out of sight."I can't remember seeing him with a firearm, no. Like I say, my dad is a gamekeeper and my dad doesn't like people openly seeing him with a firearm. It just puts people off."• This article was amended on 10 June 2010 to remove the name of a young member of the Bird family.