The death of the traditional county police force in England and Wales was foreshadowed yesterday with the publication of the second stage of the government's police reform plans.The home secretary, David Blunkett, said the time was right to consider a new structure of larger regional "strategic forces", coupled with the development of local neighbourhood policing, that would include the introduction of "community advocates" to hold them to account. A government consultation paper on the future of policing published yesterday also raises the prospect of chief constables being recruited from abroad, and the introduction of a 999-style non-emergency number for local police services. Mr Blunkett also promised greater community involvement in the recruitment of constables and made clear that membership of the British National party is incompatible with being a police officer. His plans for greater local accountability of the police mark the first installment of a much wider "going local" agenda in the public services which is being adopted by the main political parties in their manifesto plans for the next general election. Mr Blunkett said local residents could no longer just be "passive receivers of public services". "I am not interested in reform for reform's sake," he said. "Nor do I want 'big bang' structural change for its own sake. But to get the modern service that the public and I want, structural changes may be inevitable." A move away from the structure of 43 separate police forces in England and Wales would mark the first change since their boundaries were set in 1964. A unit similar to the American FBI to tackle serious and organised crime is also being considered. The green paper suggests that more "lead forces" other than the Metropolitan police need to be created to bring together specialist intelligence and expertise. It adds that "strategic forces" would need to be able to deal with neighbourhood and local crime and disorder, as well as with serious crime and public occasions, such as marches. The green paper, Policing, Building Safer Communities Together, does not detail any specific amalgamations. But the proposals could well spell the end for small county forces such as Cambridgeshire, Warwickshire and Cumbria, which may face merger or be subsumed into a regional federation of forces. It says that any move towards larger, strategic forces raises new questions about the accountability of the police. New Home Office research published yesterday shows widespread public ignorance of the current role and make-up of the existing police authorities. But two-thirds of the public say they want more influence in how the local police serve them. The green paper sets out six separate options, ranging from directly elected police boards for each area to a mixture of appointed and elected members drawn from local government, local magistrates or neighbourhood panels. Ministers are keen to see the development of "community advocates" to help ensure that the public's concerns about the service they receive from the police are dealt with. This would be underpinned by the introduction of reliable data on neighbourhood crime levels and police performance. The package was broadly welcomed by the Association of Chief Police Officers, particularly the idea of moving towards larger, more strategic forces. But the senior officers said it was important to retain the three-way balance of power between the police, local police authorities and the home secretary, to ensure that no one group could dominate the other two.But Ruth Henig, the chairwoman of the Association of Police Authorities, said she doubted whether the proposals would increase accountability. "The issue for me is: would directly electing police authority members be the key to enhancing local accountability? I don't think it would. The areas we are involved in, such as financial management, are not very sexy issues for election campaigns." The Local Government Information Unit, a body founded by Mr Blunkett in the 1980s, was also critical of his proposals. Its chief executive, Dennis Reed, said: "The idea of community advocates risks reinventing the wheel, with an unnecessary layer of officialdom. We already have well-established community advocates. They are known as local councillors."Main points· Time to overhaul structure of 43 police forces in England and Wales · More local crime data and more visible policing of local communities · Introduce "community advocates" and neighbourhood panels to give public greater say · Directly or partly elected police authorities · New 999-style non-emergency number · Ban on BNP joining police