A factory worker was today convicted of murdering his teenage stepdaughter, then burying her body in a shallow grave.Michael Baldwin, 36, set out to cover his tracks by trying to convince his wife Desiree and the police that 15-year-old Jenna Baldwin was still alive. He made silent telephone calls to family members and sent text messages purporting to be from the youngster, who went missing from her South Wales home last September.The jury of eight men and four women took about six hours over a two-day period to find Baldwin guilty of murder at Cardiff Crown Court. Judge John Griffith Williams QC thanked the jurors for their "obvious care and attention" in the case. He told them: "There may have been times when you found it very worrying and troubling indeed."Jenna's father, Nigel Brookfield, from Abergavenny expressed his relief at the verdict of murder. He said: "It is the right verdict most definitely. He murdered Jenna and we all feel a big relief."Jenna's boyfriend, Christopher Jones, who was in tears after the verdict, refused to comment. The judge adjourned the case while he decided whether or not to proceed to sentence Baldwin this afternoon.The acting headteacher of Jenna's school paid tribute to the teenager. Geoff Thomas, of Abersychan Comprehensive School, said: "This has been an extremely difficult year for pupils and staff at the school. He said: "Jenna was very popular and her many friends here have felt her loss keenly but I am proud of the strong and mature way in which they have come to terms with this distressing situation. "It has been an emotional period and we are glad to see the trial is now over and as a school we can now look forward to the new term as a fresh start. I would like to extend the sympathy of everyone at the school to Mrs Baldwin and her family."Detective Chief Inspector Geoff Ronayne, who was in charge of the investigation, said after the verdict: "We should remember why we are here today, that a 15-year-old girl has lost her life and had it completely ripped away from her. The family can now at least begin to grieve. "Michael Baldwin has deliberately and cynically killed Jenna before then disposing of her body and deceiving her family in the worst possible way. "Gwent police would like to pay tribute to the way in which Desiree, Nigel Brookfield and other members of Jenna's family have borne the pressures of the investigation and the trial. Without their persistence we would not have been where we are today. "I would like personally to thank the prosecution team for their hard work, commitment and skill in presenting this case and the officers and support staff of Gwent police who have worked tirelessly on the inquiry and were determined to find Jenna and ensure that justice was done. "I would like to thank members of the public, the press and media for their assistance and those who had the strength to come to court and given evidence." Speaking about Baldwin, he added: "I think he is a calculating, deceitful liar who is determined to try and cover his tracks and put his wife and his family through the most horrendous experience that can ever be inflicted on anyone and I am pleased for them that he has been found guilty of murder." Mr Ronayne added of Baldwin that he would go to any lengths to get himself "off the hook" even if that involved using members of his family.Baldwin denied murdering Jenna last September. He told the court the teenager fell down stairs during an argument. He said he panicked and put her in the car to take her to hospital, and that she died on the way. Baldwin, of Lime Kiln Road, Pontnewynydd, Pontypool, Gwent, claimed that as a result of panicking he decided to bury her. But the jury heard how he faked text messages from her after killing her to make police and her family believe she was still alive.