Police issued a public alert yesterday after military explosives experts defused a crude homemade bomb sent to activists in the Cambridge Labour party.The warning followed a series of incidents in which hate mail and suspicious packages have been sent to groups and individuals in Cambridge and London.Eighteen letters have been sent, plus six packages containing a small amount of white powder that turned out on analysis to be starch.Among those targeted are believed to be left-leaning political figures, gay and lesbian groups and a synagogue.The bomb package, though small and primitive in construction, contained enough explosives to cause serious injury. The device comprised an A5-sized padded envelope containing a cardboard tube.Chief Superintendent Rob Needle of Cambridgeshire police said: "This was a small but potentially dangerous device which could have caused injury. I am appealing to the public to take extra care in opening their post. If they have any suspicions about any letter or package leave it unopened and call the police."He stressed that officers are not linking the incident to any terrorist activity. Police are reluctant to make a link between all of the incidents.Alex Mayer, the Labour party local agent, had just removed the tube from the envelope when she became uneasy and called the authorities. Five neighbouring roads were cordoned off and hundreds of residents were evacuated until the package was made safe six hours later.Ms Mayer said: "We are told to look out for suspicious packages. It is worrying when you are sent something that is an explosive device rather than something just sent to worry you. It seems to have stepped up a level."The letter was hand-addressed and forensic experts are examining the package and the handwriting in detail.Officers believe that an individual or small group, most likely local to Cambridge, is behind the letter bomb. They are also seeking to establish any possible link between the latest incident and an arson attack on the Labour party headquarters two months ago.David Howarth, Liberal Democrat MP for Cambridge, said: "It is absolutely appalling. I just hope the police can bring to justice the responsible person as quickly as possible. I won't speculate about who the perpetrators are, but the police need to act swiftly."Postal companies use security scanners to weed out suspicious packages but the tactic of sending mail bombs remains popular with petty criminals and groups such as animal rights fanatics.