A rich but lonely woman who worked as a part-time escort was murdered by a pair of gambling-addicted conmen who plotted to drain her accounts, a jury has heard.Rakesh Bhayani, 41, and Nicholas Kutner, 48, deny murdering Carole Waugh, a former accounts clerk who worked for an oil firm in Libya during the Gaddafi regime before returning to London.Waugh, 49, disappeared in April last year. Her badly decomposed body was found with a single stab wound to the neck in the boot of a car in south-west London four months later.On Friday, the Old Bailey heard how in the weeks and months following her death there was a "wholesale stripping of her identity and her assets", with several women allegedly used as impersonators. Her attackers drained her accounts of hundreds of thousands of pounds, pawned her designer jewellery, bought gold bullion and attempted to sell her £650,000 flat.Patrick Gibbs QC, opening for the prosecution, said Waugh "was a woman who had plenty of money, that was to prove her undoing".He said Waugh may have met and been intimate with Bhayani after advertising herself as an escort on the internet, and believed they were friends. She lent him £40,000 in February 2011 and wrote in a reference that he that he was "one of the good guys". But at the time of her death she had begun to demand that he repay the money, and threatened to expose him."Like everyone else who has met Mr Bhayani, she was taken in by him," Gibbs said. "She thought he was her friend, but you may decide when you have heard the evidence in this case that Mr Bhayani doesn't really do friends."Bhayani and Kutner – who Waugh knew less well – were both compulsive gamblers who had met in prison and shared "a taste for grand and expensive things". They were "professional conmen, lifelong gamblers" who had "a long history of tricking people and defrauding people to get their hands on large sums of money they required to fund their gambling habits."The jury heard that despite her wealth, Waugh was a lonely woman. A "Walter Mitty" character with "slightly fanciful" ideas about herself "she wanted to be thought of as successful, for others to think of her life as more interesting than perhaps it was", said Gibbs. He described Waugh as someone who disguised "some of her disappointments in life, and althought she was good company she was "lonely and looking for love".On AdultWork.com, under the pseudonym "poshtottyfun", Waugh described herself as "not a professional, but an enthusiastic amateur" who could give "the genuine girlfriend experience" and was interested in "good clean adult fun", the court heard. Men who had answered her advertisements told police she was less interested in money than the company.Gibbs said the work had played no part in Waugh's death, apart from possibly introducing her to Bhayani.When Bhayani was released from prison he knew "how much she had" and, because he wanted it, "he planned she should die", the court heard.The jury heard that Waugh had spent the Easter weekend with her mother and brother in County Durham and she had spoken to her mother on 13 April. "They didn't hear from her after that," said Gibbs.Increasingly worried, the family reported her missing on 7 May.The jury heard that Waugh was killed in her flat in the Marylebone area of London on the night of 16/17 April.Gibbs said there was no CCTV in the flat, so it was not possible to say "whose hand was on the weapon or exactly how she was killed".He told the court: "It is the crown's case that whoever struck the fatal blow, Mr Bhayani and Mr Kutner planned it and were responsible for it and having taken her life they then systematically took all her worldly goods as well."Earlier that day Bhayani posed as a heart surgeon called Ricky Patel who had a sideline in property development. Accompanied by a woman, he went to a jewellers off Bond Street in central London and attempted to buy a diamond ring worth £45,000 with counterfeit cash. Told that neither cash nor his Amex would be accepted, he left, "tipping" the security guard who had guarded his car with a fake Rolex. The court also heard Bhayani constructed an elaborate mock-up of a gambling rehabilitation centre, to convince his wife he was tackling his issues.Before Waugh's death, Kutner had spoken to the landlord of a nearby pub and said he was likely to be in the premises more often because he was about to rent a flat from a friend who was going away, the court heard. "Before and on the night of 16/17 April he [Kutner] is hanging around the shadows on occasions that matter," Gibbs said.After the killing, a number of women recruited by Bhayani were used to impersonate Waugh to speak to banks and make purchases, the jury was told. "They were rehearsed by Mr Bhayani, nursemaided by Mr Bhayani and usually accompanied by Mr Bhayani around London, and on the telephone, stripping Carole Waugh's assets."The court heard that records showed Waugh's bank accounts were steadily drained of cash and her cards were used to purchase gold bullion. Expensive jewellery she owned disappeared – all that remained were the two Cartier bracelets that she proudly wore on each wrist, that were later found on her corpse.Both men have pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud but deny murder.Kutner denies conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, while Bhayani has pleaded guilty to the same charge. A third defendant, Elie Khoury, 40, denies conspiracy to defraud.The trial continues.