All forms of domestic violence – psychological, economic, emotional and physical – come from the abuser's desire for power and control over other family members or intimate partners.Domestic violence is the result of an abuser's desire for power and control.Domestic violence is a pattern of controlling and aggressive behaviours from one adult, usually a man, towards another, usually a woman, within the context of an intimate relationship.Those three bald statements are taken from the top three British links offered by Google UK when you type in the words "domestic violence", namely Women's Aid, Refuge and the BBC respectively.They reflect the 40-year-old orthodoxy that places domestic violence largely or entirely in the context of patriarchal power and control. Domestic violence is a gender-based phenomenon that serves the purpose of subjugating women and entrenching male privilege. This is an article of faith for many feminists. It is also, to a large extent, false.If this theory were merely an ideological rallying cry for political activists, or an academic standpoint for polemicists, it might be relatively harmless. When it is influencing the delivery of essential, potentially life-saving, publicly-funded services, not to mention legal systems and law-enforcement practices, it cannot be allowed to stand unchallenged.There are few debates more tedious or ignoble than the domestic violence numbers game. Ever since women's refuge pioneer Erin Pizzey first demurred from the consensus by suggesting that women could sometimes be not only the victims but also the perpetrators of domestic violence, feminists and their opponents have been engaged in a sporadic game of male v female Top Trumps, with one side trying to outscore the other on frequency, severity and justifiability of offences.It's a pointless, unwinnable and demeaning exercise for those involved, and utterly degrading to those actually caught in abusive relationships. What I would hope could be agreed by all is that domestic violence is horrific whoever the victim might be, and that as a society we must find approaches that minimise the incidence of offences and maximise the support and security that can be offered to victims. By even arguing about symmetry, we buy into a thoughtless, sexist dichotomy that attributes qualities to people solely by virtue of their sex. Every victim deserves our compassion and our help. Victims and offenders alike should be respected as unique, complex individuals, not representatives of one random half of humanity.What can and must be addressed, however, is the theory that domestic violence is a monolithic phenomenon, with a single explanation and a straightforward pattern of innocent female victims and evil male offenders. Over the past 15 years, a huge body of academic work, most notably by Michael P Johnson and colleagues, has sought to define and refine a typology of domestic violence. Different theorists have different categories and different labels, of course. In the most frequently quoted models (pdf), there are four distinct types of incidents. Johnson calls them coercive controlling violence, violent resistance, situational couple violence, and separation-instigated violence. Whatever interventions, harm-reduction policies or judicial approaches one may advocate, it should be unarguable that these different types of abusive situations have very different causes and will therefore require very different responses.Since 1980, research has consistently shown that as few as a quarter of domestic violence cases are straightforward examples of a man violently asserting patriarchal power over a female partner. And yet to this day pretty much all mainstream services hold this as their default assumption. The almost total absence of refuges and support services for abused men has been well documented, but it is also worth noting that if a man seeks help to address his violent behaviour and control his abusive impulses, almost every town and city has a range of self-help groups and treatment programmes available to him. After a fairly exhaustive search and inquiries to leading organisations such as Relate and Respect, I've been unable to identify a single organisation in the UK offering an equivalent service to violent and abusive women. Not one. Linda G Mills is a lawyer turned professor of social work at New York University, a self-declared feminist and also a survivor of abusive relationships. In her essential new book Violent Partners, she takes issue with the orthodoxy of domestic violence services. Using many heartbreaking case-studies, Mills details a litany of deficient services, ineffective responses and miscarriages of justice – all with roots in the ideological model of patriarchal power.Much more significantly however, she shines a light on several alternative approaches, founded not on dogma but on a huge body of cross-disciplinary research and practice. Mills sees violent behaviour as being part of a cycle of abuse, learned responses that spiral within relationships but also across generations, for men and women alike. In a radical break from feminist doctrine, she suggests that the most effective ways to address those destructive habits involve blame-free counselling, including self-help groups, couples therapy and healing circles, alongside judicial processes based on restorative justice.Around 75% of women and 85% of men who suffer in violent relationships do not report the incidents or seek help and support, most commonly because they do not want to risk breaking up their family or seeing their partner jailed. Similarly, many victims refuse to cooperate with investigations and prosecutions. Mills argues convincingly that a less threatening, less divisive, less judgmental approach to this kind of violence could lead to far greater use of support services at a much earlier stage, with far greater effectiveness, thereby avoiding immense human suffering and saving lives.We shouldn't underestimate the contribution made by feminists to the struggle against domestic violence. Without the arguments and the activism of the women's movement, police might still dismiss serious physical and sexual assaults as "just a domestic". Without their energy and dedication there would be no refuges, no hostels, no support services for anyone. We can gratefully acknowledge all this, but that does not mean that our understanding the issues has to remain frozen sometime around 1975. I have no doubt that feminist activists, with their vast experience and passion for a better world, still have a huge amount to give to domestic violence campaigns and voluntary projects. They would do so more effectively without the burden of false dogma.