Two men were each jailed for five years last night at the Old Bailey after being found guilty of a £50,000 blackmail attempt on a member of the royal family, after they were caught in a police sting operation while trying to sell tapes containing allegations of sex acts and cocaine-taking.Ian Strachan, 31, described in court as a "Walter Mitty fantasist" and his friend Sean McGuigan, 41, a recovering alcoholic and occasional van driver, both of south London, had pleaded not guilty during a three-week trial in which 30 witnesses gave evidence under the cloak of anonymity and an alphabet soup of initials. Some of them gave their evidence in court behind curtains, with the public gallery cleared. Only four journalists, including a representative of the Guardian, were admitted for some of the hearing.Under a contempt of court order the witnesses and the member of the royal family who was targeted, as well as others named on the tapes, cannot be identified. The royal victim, who was known in court as Witness A, did not give evidence.Jailing the two men, Mr Justice Cooke said: "The corrosive evil of blackmail means any sentence must have a deterrent effect." He described the member of the royal family as "particularly susceptible" and said the two encouraged the making of scurrilous accusations against him.In what was at times a bizarre trial involving anonymous and sometimes risible claims, the jury of eight men and four women heard evidence of a bungled and amateurish plot.Strachan and McGuigan developed a scheme apparently to discredit an acquaintance, known as Witness D, an employee of the royal, who was enticed while drunk to disparage members of the royal family and a number of celebrities he claimed to know. The jury were played extracts from more than eight hours of tapes and videos made of the man, during which he claimed to have received an oral sex act from A at a party, allegedly encouraged by a nightclub dancer. Witness D - who remains in A's employment - was also seen to be apparently snorting cocaine on one of the tapes.Egged on by Strachan, D could be heard giving his opinions of other members of the royal family. Strachan and McGuigan initially tried to sell the tapes to a succession of tabloid newspapers, including the News of the World, the Sun and the Daily Express, none of which chose to buy them because there was no independent evidence and because they decided that neither D nor A was important enough. They also asked the publicist Max Clifford to help, but he too declined. The pair then approached A's office and entered negotiations with his associate C, who informed first the French police, because he was on holiday there at the time, and then the Royal Protection Squad, which in turn called in members of SO15, the anti-terrorism branch, which carries out investigations if a royal family member is involved in allegations.In a statement to police before the pair were caught, A said the allegations made against him were "spurious and without foundation". He added: "I wish to make it clear ... that I am making a formal complaint with regards to this matter. I wish [it] to be fully investigated and undertake to support any prosecution arising."