A 14-year-old girl and a QC clashed repeatedly at the Old Bailey yesterday over her claims that she saw four boys surround Damilola Taylor and stab him with a broken beer bottle.The teenager, the prime witness for the prosecution, told the court she saw one of the group "hit him with the thing", but that she left Damilola lying in the street, even though the 10-year-old was crying for help, because she did not know he was badly injured and was reluctant to get involved. Her account was contested during a tempestuous cross examination by Courtenay Griffiths QC. He said she concocted the story because she craved attention and probably thought that coming forward made her "look incredibly brave and important". A furious exchange followed. "For one, I'm not a liar," said the girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons. "You may think that I am a liar ... [but] no matter how many times you try to catch me out you are not going to catch me out, because I am not a liar." Mr Griffiths said: "Which police officer gave you that little speech to repeat?" "No police officer," she replied. Later, the girl told Mr Griffiths that if he talked to her as if she were a little girl, then she would talk to him as if he were "a little boy". Four teenagers have been charged jointly with the murder of Damilola on November 27 2000. They have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers, one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17, plead not guilty. The prosecution alleges that Damilola was "stopped, surrounded and trapped" by the youths as he walked home in Peckham, south London, and that they stabbed him, possibly "for a laugh", because he struggled to get away. The girl, who gave evidence from behind a screen, told the court that she was in Peckham on the afternoon of the attack and that she saw three boys she knew - the two brothers and the 14-year-old - running into Blakes Road where the attack occurred. She said she followed them because she was "being nosy", and saw them standing in a semi-circle around "a little black boy", whom she had not seen before. Hiding behind a car on the opposite side of the street, the girl, who was 13 at the time of the incident, claimed she saw one of the youths walk towards a rubbish dump, then return with something in his hand. She realised the object was a bottle when the same boy smashed it against a fence, the court heard. The girl said that she saw one of the brothers hold his hand near to Damilola's face. "They passed the bottle around," the girl told the jury. "They were saying something to the little boy. They just hit him with the thing. The [brothers] were standing in front of [Damilola], the other two were standing beside them, looking out to see if anyone was there. Then they all started to run off." She said she followed the youths and "didn't take much notice of [Damilola]". "He was saying 'help'. He got robbed and I didn't want to go up to him because I might have got into trouble for this." She told the jury that muggings in Peckham were common and that it was "not unusual for the brothers and them lot to rob people". She said she decided to come forward a month later because the police were arresting the wrong people and she realised it was "time to do something about it". Under questioning from Mr Griffiths, who is defending the brother known as boy A, the girl admitted telling a number of lies to detectives when she was first interviewed. He said her final statement was also inconsistent. When the girl claimed she could not say exactly where she was standing in Blakes Road, Mr Griffiths said: "The reason you cannot remember is that you were not there." He told the court her story was "complete nonsense". The hearing continues.