The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday November 20 2006 The article below about the failings of South West London and St George's Mental Health NHS Trust had substantial new material added to it after the first edition. The byline of the second journalist, David Brindle, was omitted from the revised version and, unfortunately, an editing error caused the combined stories to become confused and difficult to follow. An independent inquiry into Finnegan's death found that serious failures by a mental health trust had resulted in John Barrett, who had a history of extreme violence, being allowed to walk out of a secure unit.Campaigners described the inquiry into the care and treatment of Barrett, who admitted to hearing voices before the attack, as the most damning in 10 years.In her reaction to the report, the mental health minister, Rosie Winterton, said the new mental health bill would "make it easier to ensure people with mental disorder receive the treatment they need".But mental health groups expressed anger last night after the government used the random killing of Denis Finnegan by a paranoid schizophrenic patient to justify its third attempt to overhaul the law to introduce compulsory community treatment of people with mental illness.The Mental Health Alliance, representing almost 80 organisations opposed to the law reform, said the report into the killing in Richmond Park in south-west London, made no case for the changes. Its chairman, Andy Bell, said: "This report demonstrates that what often lies behind the rare and tragic cases such as the murder of Denis Finnegan is that mental health services can fail those in their care and that there is no need for the government to be granted broader powers of compulsory detaining people in the guise of protecting the public."Today's bill, a move to amend the 1983 Mental Health Act, follows two previous failures to introduce powers of compulsory community treatment and preventive detention of people deemed to have dangerous and severe personality disorder, considered untreatable by some psychiatrists. Most mental health groups strongly oppose such changes.The government faces a stiff battle in parliament, and especially in the House of Lords, and critics will suspect that release of the Barrett report was timed to coincide with today's move.The inquiry, chaired by the mental health lawyer Robert Robinson, suggested that the failings of South West London and St George's mental health NHS trust were so comprehensive that it was incapable of putting its own house in order. It recommended that an external team be appointed urgently to overhaul its care of dangerous psychiatric patients. It also questioned whether the unit in which such patients are treated should be closed until the failings can be put right.Finnegan, a 50-year-old former banker, was cycling through Richmond Park on September 2 2004 when he was attacked at random by Barrett and stabbed to death. Despite his history of violence, Barrett had been allowed to walk out of the secure psychiatric unit at Springfield mental hospital the day before.He bought a packet of knives and went to the park with the intention of killing someone. He was jailed for life in March last year and will be detained indefinitely in Broadmoor secure hospital.The inquiry found that he had been hearing violent voices in the months before the killing; in August 2004 his family reported that his behaviour was becoming increasingly erratic. He was admitted to the hospital on September 1, but his consultant psychiatrist said he could leave the grounds for an hour, without assessing him. He absconded.More than two years before, Barrett had attacked three people in the hospital's outpatients department. He was committed to the secure Shaftesbury unit, but in October 2003 was conditionally discharged, against the strong opposition of the Home Office.Repeatedly, the inquiry found, too much consideration was given to "rehabilitating" Barrett and too little to public safety. Finnegan's killing is only one of a number of violent incidents involving patients at the hospital. A report is pending into the random killing of Matthew Carter, a fitness instructor, by another Springfield patient in February.Michael Howlett, director of the Zito Trust, described the report as "the most critical and most damning that I have read in the past 10 to 12 years". He said: "John Barrett was known to be non-compliant with his medication, he was known to abscond whenever he could. He wasn't seen by a psychiatrist for 11 weeks when he was meant to be seen once a month. There were so many errors that were made with a patient whose history was known."Peter Houghton, the trust's new chief executive, read a statement apologising to Finnegan's family and said that "a great deal of change" had been implemented.But Teresa Kelly, Mr Finnegan's sister, said his family had little faith in the trust to reform itself. "They should have known what was happening in their own departments. We have all been badly, badly let down. I know a new team has come in but that is lip service. Until people lose their jobs, I don't think we'll be satisfied."Victims of dangerous patients· In December 1992 psychiatric patient Christopher Clunis, 30, stabbed musician Jonathan Zito, 27, outside a London tube station· In 1993 David Usoro, 28, stabbed roommate Samuel Vernon, 59, at a Nottingham care home after refusing to take tranquillisers.· John Rous, 49, killed volunteer hostel worker Jonathan Newby, 22, in Oxford, in 1993 because he wanted to live in Broadmoor special hospital.· In 1994 Sanita Kaura, 27, was run down at random in a car park in Hounslow, west London, by Nilesh Gadhe.· In April 1994 Stephen Laudat stabbed Brian Bennett at a day centre in Newham, east London after his release from hospital where he had refused to take his medication, saying it would make him impotent.· Michael Folkes, who had a history of violence against women, stabbed his girlfriend Susan Crawford 70 times in 1994. Hundreds of pills he should have taken were found under his bed.· Anthony Smith, 24, was treated for less than a month at Derby City hospital before returning home and killing his mother and stepbrother, 12.· Anthony Joseph stabbed his social worker Jenny Morrison, 127 times until the knife blade broke in 1998.· Matthew Newland stabbed 79-year-old Adelaide Howard 42 times in her home in Bristol, in March 2002.