Two French students were murdered in scenes of "unimaginable horror" in south-east London last summer as part of a robbery that netted less than £400, a court heard today.Their two "inhuman" killers tied up their victims and tortured them with knives for two hours to extract their pin numbers before setting fire to their bodies, an Old Bailey jury heard. In an "orgy of bloodletting", one of the students was stabbed 196 times."These two bright, talented, and engaging young men had brilliant futures ahead of them," Crispin Aylett QC, prosecuting, said of the victims. "They were dearly loved by their family and friends. Neither of them had an enemy in the world. In what circumstances could they have met such terrible deaths?"Dano Sonnex, 23, and Nigel Farmer, 34, both from Deptford, south London, are pleading not guilty to murdering Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, both 23. The court was told that, while both of the accused admit being present at the scene, each is blaming the other for the murders. Sonnex has already pleaded guilty to burglary.The two French students, from the University of Clermont-Ferrand in central France, were taking a three-month biochemistry course at Imperial College and often spent time together. On the day before their murder, 29 June last year, they had gone to Wimbledon to watch the tennis but had been unable to get tickets. After watching rugby on television in a pub, they returned to the bedsit that Bonomo had rented only two months earlier in a cul-de-sac in Sterling Gardens, New Cross. They were both apparently asleep when a break-in occurred in the early hours of the morning."They must have thought that all they had to do was co-operate while the burglars helped themselves to what they wanted and it would soon all be over," said Aylett. "Whatever the burglars may have had in mind, the young men could not, for a moment, have anticipated that they would then be subjected to such an attack – otherwise, you may think, they would have fought for their lives …"It may be that, egging one another on, possibly intoxicated by a cocktail of drink and drugs, they [Sonnex and Farmer] simply got carried away. Whatever the reason for it, they subjected their victims to over two hours of hideous terror and suffering. And for what? £360, a couple of telephones and two PlayStation games: enough to keep them in drugs for a few days … You may not be surprised to learn that they are blaming each other."Both students must have provided their assailants with their pin numbers. However, one nearby cash machine retained Ferez's card. "So to take revenge for the fact that they had been unable to steal money from Mr Ferez," the court heard, "both men were murdered in a way that one can only describe as inhuman." A knife had been used with such ferocity that the skull of one of the victims had been penetrated. Later that night the flat was set alight, presumably to destroy any scientific evidence.A next-door neighbour, Curtis Cronin, heard an explosion and saw a man fleeing the fire. Cronin shouted at him: "I've got you," meaning that he had seen his face. An e-fit provided by Cronin looked so like Farmer that he was identified by a family member.Just over a week later, Farmer went to Lewisham police station and told the receptionist that he was the main suspect in the attack. He was asked to take a seat and remarked to a member of the public: "I just killed two people and the police don't fucking want to do anything about it."Shortly afterwards, Farmer, who was suffering from burns to his face and hands, announced: "I just killed two fucking people in New Cross." He was taken into custody. The court was told that he is claiming that he was scared of Sonnex and acted out of duress in setting fire to the bedsit.Shortly after Farmer's arrest, following a manhunt, Sonnex was found by police hiding in the loft of his grandparents' home in Peckham, south London. When arrested, he said: "What fucking murders?" On his way to the police station, "he laughed – long and loudly".Sonnex is claiming that he only acted as a lookout for the burglary, and that "a friend" handed him the bank cards from the window and he then went to the cash machines. However, the jury were told, Sonnex's palm print was found inside the flat."This was a joint venture from the time that Farmer and Sonnex went out on to the street looking for somewhere to burgle," Aylett said to the jury, who were told they would have to "brace themselves" for the photos of the crime scene. "A joint enterprise, you may think, of unmitigated evil." Although the attacks might appear to have been carried out by "psychopaths", neither of the accused had suffered from significant mental illness. The court was shown CCTV footage of the two accused together on the day of the murders.Both men deny murder, false imprisonment, arson, and being reckless as to whether life would be endangered. The case continues.