French local authorities will be free for the first time to ban unaccompanied minors from the streets at night following a landmark ruling yesterday. In a verdict acclaimed as a victory by mayors battling against a tide of juvenile crime sweeping France, the Conseil d'Etat - the highest administrative court - upheld an Orléans city council decree imposing a curfew on under-13s without a guardian in parts of the city after 11pm. "This decision has set a national precedent," said Florent Montillot, the deputy mayor of Orléans. "The court has understood that a curfew is just one facet of a coherent anti-delinquency strategy. "Our aim is to help in children's education by reminding parents of their duties." Six French councils, mostly in troubled high-rise city suburbs with large immigrant populations, have tried to introduce night-time curfews for minors to help cut soaring juvenile crime rates. Offences have risen by as much as 40% in two years in some suburbs. But most councils had been thwarted by local courts, which have systematically declared such bans illegal on the grounds that they infringe the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Opponents of the curfews also claim that they fail to address the root causes of juvenile delinquency in disadvantaged areas, where unemployment rates are often twice the national average, and where parental discipline, particularly in single-parent families, has all but collapsed. "A curfew is just one more example of the repressive approach that has already shown its failings," said Didier Albert, a Paris youth worker. "Councils should be investing in family education programmes and providing alternative youth activities, not cracking down yet further." But proponents argue that drastic measures are required to combat a surge in street crime such as petty theft, vandalism and muggings. They point to the success of a curfew imposed in the Mediterranean resort of Antibes last year which helpedcut youth offences by 10%. A night-time curfew is not an infringement of basic civil liberties, supporters argue, and it is in the interests of young children who are unaccompanied by a relative to be kept off the streets at night. "We are talking about 11-, 12-, 13-year-old kids here," said Charles-Louis Vier, a lawyer who represented Orléans city council at yesterday's high court hearing. "You have to ask if it is one of the fundamental rights of a 10-year-old to be wandering the streets at two in the morning with a gang of young delinquents." Cannes is among a group of southern towns, including Nice and Cagnes-sur-Mer, planning to introduce a selective summer ban on under-13s from nightspots, beaches, stations and certain poorer areas between midnight and 6am. "This ban will apply only during the two summer months and is aimed just as much at protecting young children from sights and influences that might cause them psychological and moral harm as at preventing them from joining older delinquent gangs," said the Cannes' mayor, Bernard Brochant.