Neither the Tories nor the tabloids got what they wanted from the Home Office yesterday. Whatever else crime is doing, it is not spiralling upwards. According to the director of the Home Office research department, Paul Wiles, crime stabilised in the year ending March 2002. This is not good news for the Conservatives, intent on finding failures in public services, or the tabloids, always looking out for a shock-horror story.Both have suggested Britain faces a huge crime surge. Today's annual report on crime brings together for the first time the two different forms of crime statistics: police statistics and the victim-based British crime survey. The BCS reports a 2% fall; the police statistics a 2% rise. In fact, the raw police figures show a 7% rise, but 5% has been deducted because of a new and more comprehensive system of recording crime that had already begun to be applied by some police services last year. Where there is no dispute is in the large rise in street robbery: up 28%. True, robbery accounts for just 2% of all offences, but it is a particularly nasty and frightening crime. Fortunately, in two thirds of the confrontations, no one is injured but 14% go to a doctor and 6% need a hospital stay. There is understandable public concern about this rise. There are at least two reasons: an increase in mobile phone thefts, accounting for 28% of robberies nationwide and 50% in London (frequently by young offenders against even younger victims); and the need of a growing number of crack addicts to finance their expensive habit. The only good news on the robbery front is that the report's figures end in March, since when, under intensive Met policing, the number of robberies have fallen back in London, which accounts for 40% of all crime, to the level of a year ago. The main message of the report is not to believe all you read in the tabloids. Only 4% of people are involved in any form of violent incident a year and the average person will only be burgled once every 50 years. Currently, the risk of being a victim of crime is the lowest for 20 years. The unanswered question is whether the phenomenal 33% fall in crime in the preceding five years has come to an end.Historically, crime rose by an average of 5% a year from 1918 until the middle 1990s. Last year, it looked as though we might be entering a new era of falling crime. It is still too early to say the new era is over, but a drug-driven crime wave is ominous.