Child protection agencies in Lincolnshire and Sheffield are bracing themselves for damning criticism over the case of a man who raped and impregnated his daughters, as details of "unspeakable" abuse against the two women begin to emerge.Repeated incidents brought the family to the notice of the police and education and health authorities as far back as the late 1970s, but though suspicions were occasionally voiced by observers, no decisive action was taken. Lincolnshire police investigated allegations of abuse in 1997, it has emerged, after being contacted by the girls' brother, but no action was taken. Repeated hospital visits also failed to raise suspicions, and on one occasion, when the younger sister was asked outright if her father was the father of her child, her denials were accepted without further question.The women, now in their 30s, were even given genetic counselling because so many of their pregnancies - seven for the older girl, 12 for her sister - were resulting in miscarriages or serious developmental abnormalities, but no intervention was made. Of the seven children who survived, a number have significant health problems.The man, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was not arrested until June, when one of his daughters reported the abuse to a social worker. He was given 25 life sentences at Sheffield crown court on Tuesday, after which an urgent review into the case was announced by Sheffield city council's director of children's services.Gordon Brown yesterday promised to overhaul the child protection system if the review reveals serious failings. "The whole country will be outraged by these unspeakable events. People will rightly want to know how such abuse could go on for so long without the authorities and the wider public services discovering it and taking action," Brown told the Commons at prime minister's questions. "If there is a change to be made in the system and the system has failed we will change the system." Part of the case review's remit will be to investigate communication between local authorities, as the family moved repeatedly during the period of abuse between Lincolnshire and South Yorkshire. The Local Government Association yesterday called for the establishment of a central national database of at-risk families. "When social services identify a new family in their area they should be able to cross-check with that database to see whether there is a history. This has to happen," said Les Lawrence, chair of the LGA's board on children and young people.Medical records show evidence of abuse from very early childhood. The older of the two sisters was found to have bruises on her back, buttocks and arms when she was just five. Police were involved shortly afterwards when her younger sister was admitted to hospital with a broken arm. Claims from the wider family that she had been thrown across the room by her father were apparently disregarded. Police were contacted again when the older girl, aged 10, arrived several times at school in Sheffield with serious bruising and clearly hungry. Again, there were no consequences. In another incident, the older girl crayoned a picture of monsters in her bedroom, which caused suspicion among teachers, but she was transferred by her father to another school, a tactic he used repeatedly. According to relatives, the girls' maternal grandmother contacted South Yorkshire police in 1988 but was warned by an officer that a complaint could be considered as slander. "The police could have stopped it," the man's sister-in-law told reporters. "They let those girls down. Our family has gone to the police a number of times over the years."Speaking in court as the 56-year-old was sentenced, James Baird, defending, said it was "inconceivable" that the abuse could have gone on for so long without being detected. "It's equally incomprehensible that, despite ... real suspicions being raised, nothing was done by social services to investigate how two young women could have endured multiple pregnancies."The only apparent male in these young women's lives was their own father. The complainants and their children attended many, many hospital appointments and were in receipt of genetic counselling, and yet, even among the medical experts, no one sought to probe further as to how these cases arose."The review is being conducted by Professor Pat Cantrill, a former senior civil servant at the Department of Health. Peter Duxbury, director of children's services at Lincolnshire county council, insisted the county's child protection system had "improved a great deal", adding that there had been "a wholesale reorganisation of children's services". Sheffield city council said the report was unlikely until next year. All agencies which had any dealings with the family will give a timeline and written record to Cantrill. Cantrill's task will be to describe the work of every agency. Her report will not apportion blame.Three decades of horrorMid-1970s Daughters are born. Late 1970sPolice are involved when younger sister is taken to hospital with a broken arm. Family members claim father threw her across room. 1981First rapes take place. The sisters told social workers they were raped on average every three days for 27 years. Mid-1980sPolice contacted again when older girl shows signs of abuse and neglect at school. No action taken. 1988Maternal grandmother contacts South Yorkshire police after father removes one daughter and baby from house; officer warns allegation could be slanderous. 1980s and 1990sMultiple pregnancies - seven for older girl, 12 for her sister. Younger girl told court that once when she miscarried, her mother flushed away aborted foetus without asking about the father. Two infants died at birth, five pregnancies terminated and five miscarried. Sisters are given genetic counselling because of frequent birth defects. Family move around Lincolnshire. Girls' mother and brother leave home. 1997Lincolnshire police investigate after the girls' brother contacts them. No action taken. 1998One daughter rings Childline, but hangs up after she is not given guarantee children will not be placed in care if they make complaint.2004Family moves to Sheffield. February 2008Abuse stops, according to the women.June 2One sister tells social worker about abuse. South Yorkshire police alerted.June 6Man charged with 25 rapes and four sexual assaults.