Friends of two buskers who were found dead in a pond within hours of each other have released a song in tribute to them.Hugo Wenn, 17, and Daniel Lloyd, believed to be in his 20s, were found on Monday in Reed pond, on the outskirts of Canterbury. Detectives from the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate are treating their deaths as suspicious and are awaiting the results of postmortems. Two men are in custody.Wenn and Lloyd, who was known as Tige, were regular buskers in the centre of Canterbury, and their friends expressed shock at their deaths. Dulcima Showan, who went to primary school with Wenn, said she and her band had recorded a song in tribute."I saw Hugo on Friday night at about 11pm," she told the Guardian. "He was busking with Tige and another older guy. They were on the high street, they were all in good spirits."We are all totally shocked by what has happened. Hugo was quite a recent busker and had just started to get into it. We busk regularly and we called him one of the band really."Wenn had been due to record with Showan's band, Coco and the Butterfields. Showan said the track had now been recorded and as a tribute the young mens' names had been included on it.Teachers at Archbishop's School in Canterbury, where Wenn studied for his GCSEs last summer, paid tribute to him. Wenn was described as an accomplished beatboxer who excelled in drama, sport and music at school.His former headteacher, Michael Liddicoat, said: "In many ways, Hugo was a gentle giant who was about 6ft 3in so you couldn't miss him around school. He was fantastic with the younger students and he will be missed."Wenn was supposed to have met friends at a pub in Canterbury on Friday but texted at 8pm, before they arrived, saying he was leaving. He was last seen by Showan on the high street at 11pm. Following his disappearance friends set up Facebook and Twitter appeals to try to locate him.The two bodies were found on Monday almost 10 hours apart in Reed pond, behind Howe barracks on the outskirts of the city. The first, understood to be Wenn, was spotted by a member of the public at noon. The second was found by police divers at 9.40pm.The pond is on Ministry of Defence land but MoD officials ruled out any connection between the deaths and the armed forces.Chief Inspector Steve Barlow, the district commander for Canterbury, appealed for anyone who may have been near Reed Pond between 5pm last Friday and 11am on Monday to contact police.A 28-year-old man from Canterbury is being questioned on suspicion of supplying controlled drugs in connection with the inquiry. A 54-year-old man remains in custody on suspicion of murder.Postmortem examinations are due be completed on Wednesday. Formal identification has not yet taken place.