Just when Brian Paddick thought it couldn't get any worse, the phone rang and a familiar voice gave him every reason to believe that it would.Unpacking his bags on Saturday last week - his first day back in London after a three-week holiday in Australia - Paddick was not expecting to hear from James Renolleau, a former boyfriend. Renolleau, though, had a confession to make and seemed to be in something of a panic. The former male model and bank cashier told Paddick that he had given a two-hour recorded interview to the Mail on Sunday about their five-year relationship, which ended in 2000. The Frenchman boasted that he had managed to get the newspaper to agree a £100,000 fee, but had insisted on seeing the story before publication. Disturbed by the first draft of the "kiss and tell" exclusive, Renolleau told Paddick that he had decided not to go ahead with the piece after all. It was of little comfort to the 43-year-old police commander of Lambeth, who was already on edge. During his trip abroad, ill-judged comments he made to a protest website, urban75.com - including saying that he found anarchy attractive - had caused a furore. A meeting with the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, had been arranged for Monday. Though Paddick survived that encounter, Renolleau was to phone him a second time later that day with news he had been dreading. Outcry "James told Brian that the Mail on Sunday had decided to publish the story anyway, because the newspaper said it was in the public interest," said a friend of Paddick. "He asked Brian what he should do. Brian told him that he couldn't believe that he had said those things. He told James to take the money, go back to France and never come back." Since then, Paddick has been preparing for the outcry that he knew would follow Renolleau's allegations that they smoked cannabis together at least 100 times and that he knew cannabis was being stored at the flat they shared in Westminster. The claims of drug taking, which have been vehmently denied, were heaven-sent ammunition for Paddick's critics, who have been gunning for him since he introduced a pilot project that allows his officers to caution rather than arrest cannabis users. The jibes at Paddick in some tabloids have been highly personal and led London mayor Ken Livingstone to declare yesterday that a "profoundly intrusive homophobic press campaign" had been waged against him. In recent weeks, Paddick has been described in the Sun as the "commander (who) brings a whole new meaning to the expression bent copper", and in the Daily Mail as the "camp commander... an icon for our moral decadence". According to his friends, Paddick is privately hopeful that the inquiry by the police complaints authority will exonerate him and that he will be able to return to Lambeth in due course. "But he doesn't want to say anything that inflames the situation," said one. "The rightwing press think they've got him and that there is no way back. We'll see." Few officers at the Met are as well-equipped to deal with this situation. Paddick, 43, has been investigated on several occasions in the last few years. Anonymous calls to Crimestoppers have accused him of a range of offences; from alleged inappropriate use of police cars to the allegedly dubious company he keeps at the Soho bar, the Shadow Lounge. The Met has a duty to investigate allegations against senior officers, but inquiries have always swiftly cleared Paddick of wrongdoing. Other slurs that have done the rounds include claims that another former boyfriend worked for the secret service and that their relationship was a threat to national security. In fact, the partner was the floor manager of a Gucci store. Another said that Paddick had recently abandoned his wife; they split up 14 years ago by mutual consent. There is evidence that at least two of the allegations against Paddick came from another Met officer, but the force has failed to launch an official investigation. "Brian has long been resigned to the fact that he is a target for homophobes and bigots inside and outside the force," said a colleague. "It is the price you pay for coming out in a macho institution like the Met." Early attempts to keep his sexuality a private affair were undermined by a senior officer in west London. "There was a quiz night at a local pub and I was on a team of senior police managers," Paddick told the Guardian last year. "One question to our team was: Who is the local MP? My boss replied: 'Oh, he's that poof.' Then he reached across the table, grabbed my arm and said: 'I didn't mean to offend you, Brian'." Born in Balham and a graduate of Queen's College, Oxford, Paddick joined the Met 21 years ago. He has not always been outspoken, but colleagues say he has always been "bloody-minded and stubborn". Paddick served in Brixton during the 1981 riots and made it a private ambition to return there as head of policing. His chance came in December 2000 when he was the chief superintendent in charge of Merton in south London. While other senior officers were trying to avoid being selected for one of the toughest jobs in British policing, Paddick was lobbying Sir John Stevens to give him the opportunity. The appointment was high risk; Paddick made no secret of his intention to challenge orthodox police thinking, especially regarding the possession of cannabis. His first mistake was to let his plans for the project leak to the press before he had outlined the initiative to senior officers at New Scotland Yard. Two further misjudgments over the coming months made him easy prey for the powerful media lobby that wanted rid of him and an end to his drugs experiment. In evidence to an all-party House of Commons committee last November, Pad dick seemed to say that he turned a blind eye to weekend use of cocaine and ecstasy. That earned him one rebuke from the commissioner. A second came last week over the comments he made to the urban75 website. The Police Foundation announced yesterday it would be releasing details of a survey that has been done in Lambeth to gauge views about the cannabis experiment. It is expected to show that most people in the borough believe that it is a good idea, but that it needs to be explained more thoroughly to avoid the perception that cannabis has in fact been legalised. The Met's study of the project has found that it saved officers 2,500 hours of paperwork in the first six months it was in operation. "Brian's problem is that he doesn't know when to keep his mouth shut," said one Scotland Yard source. "He's obviously a gifted officer, but he undermines a lot of the good work he does by putting his foot in it."Career policeman Born  1959, Balham, south London  Education  Bec grammar school, Tooting Bec, London; Sutton Manor high school, Sutton, Surrey; Queen's College, Oxford. MBA from Warwick business school  Career history Began as constable with Metropolitan police in Holloway, north London. Sergeant in Brixton during 1981 riots and later became a deputy divisional commander, where he devised a coordinated policing strategy. Became crime manager in charge of the CID in Notting Hill; responsible for policing carnival. In 1992 completed two-year, part-time degree at Warwick business school where his dissertation on car clamping and removal became template for a Met reorganisation. Became superintendent in charge of London borough of Merton in 1999. In December 2000 promoted to commander and put in charge of Brixton area. In July last year he launched controversial cannabis initiative, later extended for six months. Member of Metropolitan police service drug education strategy group and supporter of the Lambeth Independent Advisory Group, which gives members of community a say in the Met's Operation Trident campaign against black-on-black shootings.