Police yesterday criticised accountants who allowed a headmistress to strip £500,000 from her school budget to finance an extravagant lifestyle.As Colleen McCabe was sentenced to five years in prison for writing cheques to herself from the school account, and treating its Barclaycard as if it were her own, a fraud squad detective asked how auditors had failed to spot a financial crime that spanned five years. One of the accountancy firms involved is now auditing the accounts of more than 100 schools. The theft from St John Rigby college began in 1994 and did not end until 1999, when the grant-maintained London school was taken back into local authority control and council auditors began to trawl through financial records. While pupils shivered in cold classrooms, the headmistress spent school funds on holidays, theatre tickets, dining out and shoes. Two firms employed to audit the school budget during the grant-maintained years had both missed the fraud, Detective Sergeant Richard Ward said. "It is a classic conflict of interest - the more questions they ask, the less likely the school is to keep them on." The detective named the two auditing firms involved as Baxter, of Orpington, Kent, and MacIntyre, of Holborn, London. At Southwark crown court, Judge Christopher Elwen also questioned "how all this escaped the attention of the auditors and governors for so long, [when] the problem was seen by the London borough of Bromley within a day of looking at the books ..." Baxter did not respond to inquiries yesterday, and MacIntyre has now merged with another firm to become Hays MacIntyre. The managing partner, Bernie Watson, confirmed that MacIntyre audited the school between 1993 and 1998. "The assignment partner is still here but is on holiday so I find it difficult to comment," he said. Hays MacIntyre now audits "in excess of 100 schools", he added. Bromley council is now seeking to recover some of the stolen money and may take legal action against the auditing firms as well as McCabe. The Roman Catholic archdiocese of Southwark has agreed to pay back   more than £29,000 to the council after the school chaplain and other clergy benefited from McCabe's largesse. In a statement yesterday, the church described McCabe's crimes as "highly regrettable". McCabe, a 51-year-old former nun, stood with her head bowed yesterday as the judge said: "You were described by others as arrogant, dogmatic and a bully. "Your performance in the witness box marked you out as self-satisfied, manipulative and mendacious." In the words of her defence barrister, Paul Lewis, McCabe now appeared "a sad and lonely figure" as she stood in the dock wearing a long cardigan that resembled a dressing gown. She was suffering from a depressive illness, as well as hypertension and arthritis, the court heard. Some of her former pupils were moved to pity as she turned to stare glassy-eyed at the public gallery before shuffling off to the cells. "I felt sorry for her," said former pupil Kathryn Jones, 17. Some pupils said that none of them had raised a fuss because they assumed that austerity measures were normal. McCabe was convicted in July of 11 counts of theft relating to the school cheque book, and six of deception relating to the school Barclaycard. The prosecution presented that list of crimes as specimen charges, and said it was impossible to calculate exactly how much had been embezzled from school funds.