Sir Stephen Tumim, who has died suddenly aged 73, found his vocation to reform prisons in late middle-age. He made a considerable mark by pointing unmistakably to what struck him as wrong.An obscure county court judge, in 1987 he was chosen by the then home secretary, Douglas Hurd, to be the new chief inspector of prisons. He had no experience of criminal work, nor knowledge of prisons; he was a convivial member of the Garrick Club, with an interest in the arts and literature. But if Whitehall viewed him as a safe, establishment figure, their expectations were soon shattered by his articulate reports, condemning, in forthright prose, the conditions that he saw. From the start, he grasped that decent jail conditions were his prime concern, and the ending of the degrading process of slopping out was very much to the credit of his crusading zeal. Tumim's life up to that point had been quite orthodox. He grew up in wartime Oxford, the son of an assize court clerk. His mother died when he was 10, and he was a solitary child. Educated at St Edward's school, Oxford, he read history at Worcester College, Oxford, and said that he "drifted into law out of sheer laziness". His work lay in the divorce courts, with show business contract cases providing variety. Blood pressure pursuaded him not to apply to become a QC, but to seek the less stressful area of the county court, becoming a circuit judge in 1978. His interest in the arts led him to become chairman of the Friends of the Tate Gallery. There was, however, a family clue to his involvement with causes that engaged him passionately. His two eldest daughters were born profoundly deaf, and his work for the deaf culminated in his becoming chairman of the National Deaf Children's Society. From the start of his chief inspectorate, he used his lack of knowledge with devastating effect. He considered that his independence, and layman's status, allowed him "to ask very basic questions and press for answers. The service knows that it cannot respond to criticisms with the equivalent of the comment 'Well, we have always done it this way.'" He had a sharp eye for detail, and a matchless ability to converse with all in the prisons he was inspecting - especially the prisoners, who responded to his lively and sympathetic interest. In a characteristic report on Grendon prison, near Aylesbury, in 1991, he wrote, "You go slowly. This is by reason of the unlimited articulacy of the staff and almost every inmate." He could have been describing himself and his method. Douglas Hurd soon realised the advantages of what he had unleashed and, as a reforming home secretary, he tolerated, indeed welcomed, Tumim's criticisms of the "degrading and punitive" penal estate. Hurd's successors, David Waddington and Kenneth Baker, accepted - indeed, sometimes utilised - Tumim's trenchant work. He partnered Lord Woolf in preparing the second, and creative, part of the famous report following the riot at Strangeways prison, Manchester, in 1990. After the 1992 general election, however, the political climate was less tolerant. It caused some surprise that one of Kenneth Clarke's first decisions as home secretary was to ask Tumim to serve a second term, but with the arrival of Michael Howard in 1993, the climate froze. The liberal reformer found himself tangling with a home secretary whose perception that "prison works" required that they should be austere, no more. An uncomfortable period culminated, in January 1995, with the escape of three criminals from Parkhurst prison on the Isle of Wight, where Tumim had warned about the inadequacy of security. That year, his contract was not renewed, and he retired after eight years. A well-deserved knighthood followed. His retirement was busy. His interest in the arts, and the work of prisoners, was well combined in his energetic chairmanship, from 1992, of the Koestler Award Trust, which encourages prisoners to take part in all forms of creative activity. He arranged that former prisoners - whom he had championed, and whose pictures he had collected - should be on its committee. From 1997, he was president of Unlock, the national association of reformed prisoners. Tumim became principal of St Edmund Hall in 1996. But although the undergraduates appreciated his interest, he was impelled to resign in 1998 amid considerable acrimony. He was sad but stoical about this failure. He continued to travel, and inspected many Commonwealth prisons. His reports were searching and charitable, recognising the limits of what was available and the efforts made for humane incarceration. He is survived by his wife Winifred, chair of the National Council for Voluntary Organisations from 1996 to 2001, and three daughters, Matilda, Emma and Olivia. · Stephen Tumim, lawyer and prison reformer, born August 15 1930; died December 8 2003 A beacon of hope for staff and inmatesMartin Narey, commissioner for correctional services, writes: For many in the Prison Service, particularly prison governors, Stephen Tumim was the first chief inspector to have a significant effect on prisons and prisoners. He shone a penetrating light on inadequate prisons, and provided a beacon of hope that the constant compromises with decency might come to an end. Unflinchingly critical when it mattered, he nevertheless sought to work with governors and senior management to effect improvements. He was as quick to recognise achievement, and sometimes effort, as he was to condemn the unacceptable. He was a talented writer, who could capture the nature of a prison in a few lines. Perhaps his greatest achievement was the extent to which he revealed the horrors of slopping out, eventually working alongside Lord Woolf, the current lord chief justice, to ensure the eradication of the practice after the Woolf report into the Strangeways riot. He believed that, in the right circumstances, prison could be constructive, and he was particularly keen on exposing prisoners to the arts. He became a leading light in the annual Koestler awards, and was never unwilling to put his hand in his pocket and buy particularly deserving works: one of them, an 8ft x 5ft portrait of young prisoners at Hollesley Bay young offenders institute, hangs on my office wall.  Stephen Shaw, prisons and probation ombudsman, writes: With his bow tie and Garrick Club manner, Stephen Tumim cut an unlikely figure among prisoners and prison staff. But, paradoxically, his great success was to bring to bear upon the Prison Service the judgments of the common man. He genuinely could not understand why the young men who make up the bulk of the prison population should remain idle (a typically Tumim word) for so much of their sentence. Although frustrated by the civil service - "Why can't they pick up a telephone rather than spending a month on a letter?" he once complained to me - he also knew how to make the system work. To some, his approach to inspection might have seemed impressionistic. He had little time for performance measures and other management tools. Did a place feel right? Were the staff enthusiastic? Did prisoners walk with a spring in their step? These were his tests. They reflected his character: playful, cavalier even, but with a clear understanding that institutions are about people before processes.  Anne Owers, chief inspector of prisons, writes: Sir Stephen raised the profile of the Prisons Inspectorate, and showed how effective it can be. His campaign to end slopping out helped stop this degrading practice years before it was thought possible, or, indeed, necessary.