A fishing boss arrested over the deaths of 19 Chinese cockle pickers in Morecambe Bay said today he was being made a scapegoat for the tragedy.David Eden, 33, the director of the Liverpool Bay Fishing Company, admitted he had done a deal with a Chinese national to buy cockles for £15 a bag four weeks before the tragedy. "I am absolutely being made a scapegoat. I am very angry and upset. I cannot believe what we have been made to go through," Mr Eden told a press conference near his home in Wirral, Merseyside. "We negotiated a price, the price was £15 a bag. This was in excess of the price a British person was being paid for cockles. There is no question of exploitation. He told me he had worked in Southport and Barrow for two years," he said.Mr Eden, who is a father of one, claims that the day after he had made the deal, his family began to receive threats. The Chinese cocklers were also attacked. "They had daily racial attacks. The cocklers were subject to violence and myself and my family had threats to our lives if we carried on dealing with the Chinese," he said. Mr Eden said he had seen official permits issued to the cocklers and he did not believe the Chinese man he was dealing with was a gangmaster. He called for an investigation into how illegal immigrants had been granted cockling permits by the fishing ministry. He also criticised Lancashire police, who he claimed had leaked his name and that of his father, David Eden, 60, who was also arrested, to the press. "I feel deeply saddened by the whole thing. I hope that the police will investigate this matter properly and also hope the government will investigate the matter properly. And that this will never, ever happen again," he said.Mr Eden, who said he had been involved with the fishing industry for 17 years, claimed he was only an agent and had no involvement in the cockle picking. He admitted he paid more for the cockles from the Chinese supplier - who he said spoke very poor English - as they were of a superior quality to those he usually received from the British cocklers. "To the best of my knowledge, these people were not being exploited. I gave the name of the Chinese national to the police but I had no reason to suspect that he was a gangmaster," he said. Mr Eden said he felt no guilt as he had done nothing wrong but that he felt "absolute disbelief" that he may face a manslaughter charge. Detectives leading the investigation into the deaths said their inquiries would continue after the release on bail of five survivors they had been questioning - three of them into the custody of the Immigration Service. More arrests are expected in the coming days as further searches are made, said Detective Superintendent Mick Gradwell, the senior investigating officer. Meanwhile, some of the families of the drowned cocklers have been offered help to sue organised crime leaders for any part they might have played in the incident. Sixteen families from eastern China's Fujian province, who have not heard from their relatives in Britain since the tragedy, have asked Chinese and British authorities for permission to travel to Britain to identify their loved ones and take them home. A representative of Britain's Fujian association, He Jiajian, has reportedly said the support group would help relatives retrieve bodies once they had been identified and provide legal aid to victims' family members. He said the association could help them bring law suits against criminal gangs suspected of employing the pickers illegally and paying them a pittance for their cockles. China's foreign ministry, which is working with British authorities to identify the dead, has said survivors came from 13 Chinese regions.