Saughton, Barlinnie, Peterhead and Perth. The names of Scotland's prisons are cold, hard and miserable. Apparently though, it just ain't so.'They are some of the most positive prisons I have seen,' said Roger Houchin, a former governor of Barlinnie and now a co-director of the Glasgow Centre for the Study of Violence who regularly visits prisons across Europe to advise on their management. 'There are educational classes, employability preparation, rehabilitation programmes. And yet, if you add up everything positive that happens in prisons, the impact is trivial - perhaps 15 minutes of positive experience out of every 24 hours. The rest is boredom, fear, severance from normal relationships and emotional brutalisation.'Still, we are clearly committed to our prisons. A new name is about to be added to the list. Addiewell, in West Lothian, is being built by private company Kalyx to hold 700 prisoners. Enlightened, perhaps; comfortable, no. Addiewell sits over mines on one of the most polluted brown-field sites in Scotland, in the shadow of slag heaps. Others are being reworked. Low Moss, near Bishopbriggs, is about to be closed so that it can be rebuilt to hold another 700.The expansion is moving so fast that people are having difficulty keeping up. At a conference in Edinburgh, Professor Andrew Coyle of King's College, London, stood up and said Scotland spends £270m a year on its prisons. Tony Cameron, the chief executive of the Scottish prison service, interrupted to tell him he was wrong, that the figure had jumped to £340m. According to Houchin, it will soon be £425m.Meanwhile, we are still jailing 6,000 people a year for non-payment of fines. Fifteen hundred people go in and out of Barlinnie every week, exactly the same number who are currently incarcerated there.So, is this massive commitment to prisons the right approach? Andrew McLellan, the chief inspector, is proud that there is such investment in the prison estate. Modern flush lavatories have yet to arrive in parts of Peterhead and Polmont, but slopping out will soon be an odorous memory. There was a revelation a couple of weeks ago that prisoners in Barlinnie are not allocated underwear but are, instead, issued daily with pants that, while they have been laundered, retain stains from previous incumbents. That seemed more shocking than perhaps it was.Currently, the prison population is a little over 7,000. Thanks to legislation currently passing through Parliament which insists that the sentences being handed down are served, this could jump by another 1,100. There is no backsliding here. Meanwhile, there is clear evidence that large sections of our prison population come from very localised areas of Scotland. Twenty eight per cent of the prisoner population comes from the poorest council estates, in neighbourhoods where incarceration rates for young men approach those of the most dangerous parts of the US.Despite this, and despite Jack McConnell's war on small-time criminals, there is a sense in Scotland that we avoid the 'lock 'em up until they learn better' much beloved by the extreme fringes of England's Tory party. 'There is a Scottish way of looking at these problems,' says Houchin. What he means is that it seems deeply offensive to the Scottish sense of social justice not to concentrate on the causes of crime.This turns out to be nonsense; another little mental bandage we use to protect ourselves from the painful truths of our criminal justice system. The absurdity is that those instincts that we believe to be our own are shared by those who work in the jails themselves, but not in government. Alastair MacDonald, the outgoing governor of Inverness jail, sounded distraught in an article published two weeks ago. 'Why are we locking up so many of our citizens?' he asked. 'What has gone wrong?'It's little short of stunning when you consider what we pay to keep someone in prison - more than £30,000 a year. Our jails should produce old Etonians at that price. Dig further and the economics grow maddening. Even an ankle tag is hugely expensive, costing £9,000 for an average four months while community punishments cost as little as £1,000 a year. The SNP's justice spokesman Kenny MacAskill wants to stop building new jails and argues strongly that this does not make them soft on crime. 'We have to tackle drinks, drugs and deprivation, not simply lock up more and more people,' he said. 'We have to get the flotsam and jetsam out of the system.'As others have written in these pages, it is wrong-headed to privatise the prison service. Even if the company is good - and Kalyx, which is building Addiewell does seem to be good - we end up paying far more in the long run. When they are bad - when they pay their stressed staff the minimum wage and when they draw those staff from the communities where the prisoners are also emerging from - then disaster is ensured. Poorly paid prison staff are easy prey to the enticements and threats of drug barons and the racketeers who move in to take control.At current rates, every additional prisoner in the system should be seen as a failure of Cathy Jamieson and Jack McConnell's Executive. It is a failure to the communities, those deprived communities with so many people in jail, from which Labour draws its support. It is a failure to use our tax responsibly. It's ludicrous to think that someone who is robbed and sees the assailant through court is just going to be robbed again by the government that jails them.Devolution is supposed to allow Scottish politicians to deal with unique Scottish problems. When it comes to jails, that has proved so much slop.