A man who was shoved in the face by the Manchester City striker Craig Bellamy after running on to the pitch was banned from attending football matches for three years today.Jake Clarke, 21, from Chorley, Lancashire, admitted entering the playing area at Old Trafford during Manchester United's 4-3 victory over City. Bellamy confronted Clarke after the solo pitch invasion, which came at the end of a highly-charged game on 20 September.The bricklayer, who had to be restrained by four stewards, told officers he "got over-excited" and "just wanted to celebrate with the players" after the United substitute Michael Owen had scored a last-gasp winner. Clarke, who has previous convictions for cannabis possession and common assault, told Trafford magistrates' court that he "deeply regrets" his behaviour. He said: "I'm gutted about what I have done. I know it was a stupid action. I just wanted to celebrate."The court heard that Clarke was leaving the ground when Owen scored deep into injury-time, and the fan was pushed towards the pitch before he decided to enter the field of play.Steve Woodman, prosecuting, showed CCTV footage of the incident, and said that Manchester United were considering imposing their own ban on the football fan. Manchester City could have equalised if it had not been for Clarke, Mr Woodman suggested."The defendant's actions could well have caused a full-scale pitch invasion," he said. "It will have been viewed by millions across the world. It was a very tense, very high-profile match. The game went right down to the wire."The City players were trying to get back to the centre circle to respond to the late goal. City may well have been able to push on and score the equaliser," he said.Police are not investigating Bellamy's part in the incident but he has been warned by the Football Association. Ian Huggan, defending, said football was a large part of Clarke's life and he attended around 40 games a season. He asked the court not to impose a ban on his client, saying: "Is it right that this defendant is made subject to a banning order when the player who took the action is just given a warning?"But Anne Marie Evans, the chair of the magistrates's bench, decided to ban Clarke from all football matches for three years, and imposed a fine of £305. "Your actions could have resulted in disorder and possible violence," she said.