A prison which houses 300 sex offenders has the worst conditions of any Scottish jail, according to a report published today. The practice of "slopping out" at Peterhead prison in Aberdeenshire was branded a "disgrace", with some prisoners being locked in cells with their waste for up to 14 hours. In his annual report, Scotland's chief inspector of prisons, Dr Andrew McLellan, also attacked continuing uncertainty over the jail's future, stressing that a decision must be made. The prison was commended for introducing single cells for all prisoners and fitting electrical power in each cell but Dr McLellan said: "Whilst these changes are important, it does not hide the fact that prisoners in Peterhead are living in the worst conditions in any prison in Scotland. "The ending of slopping out in several prisons in the last two years has been welcomed in reports. Its continuation in Peterhead remains a disgrace. It is the worst single feature of prisons in Scotland." The inspector noted a number of cells were very small and there was no access to sanitation in five of the seven units, just a chemical toilet which was emptied twice a week. The food and visiting arrangements at the prison were praised in the report as was the limited drug use at the jail and the good relationship between staff and inmates. But Dr McLellan said he was concerned about the limited number of prisoners taking part in the jail's Stop rehabilitation programme and the limited number of opportunities for inmates to be prepared for release in the community. In one of the report's nine recommendations, the inspector calls for a decision to be made over the jail's future. The move follows speculation Peterhead could be merged with Aberdeen's Craiginches to create a "super-prison". Dr McLellan said the issue had been raised in last year's inspection and added that the "demoralising effect of uncertainty" had now been given another year to work. The inspector's recommendations also include the development of a suitable pre-release programme, further rehabilitation programmes to address the current waiting list and an allocated supervising social worker for every prisoner. Responding to the report, the Scottish Prison Service (SPS) said getting rid of slopping out was "not a realistic cost-effective option", given the age and architectural structure of the prison, but that prisoners were able to access out-of-cell facilities as far as possible.