It was a rite of passage for many teenagers: being plucked out of town by a police officer to take part in an identity parade in exchange for a tenner. The police would pick people who bore some resemblance to the suspect, and then stand them in a line next to the alleged criminal, while the poor victim squinted and tried to pick out the real perpetrator. And everyone just hoped to goodness they wouldn’t be chosen.Wrongful conviction throws spotlight on unreliability of eyewitness evidence But identity parades are being gradually phased out in most police stations, in favour of a typically high-tech alternative.The Video Identification Parade Electronic Recording Bureau (Viper), developed by West Yorkshire police in 2003 before it was rolled out nationally, is visiting train stations, businesses and call centres across the country to encourage more people to become part of its video database. Also in exchange for a tenner, of course. Anyone – not just slightly shifty-looking teenagers – can now volunteer to be part of the database, as long as they don’t have facial tattoos or an inordinate amount of piercings.At Manchester Piccadilly train station, where Viper recently set up temporary recruitment stalls, scores of passengers queued to make back the money they had just spent in the Little Waitrose. One, James, said “I’ve been in identity parades before, and once I was even the suspect. I’m just doing it today for the money.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Victims of crime can view an ID parade on DVD. Photograph: Neil KitsonIt’s an easy enough job – all you have to do is perform a simple head turn in a passport-style photobooth. Your video is then added to a national database based in Wakefield and could be used in a virtual identity parade at any time – although sadly, the £10 is just a one-off payment, with no ongoing royalties.Crucially, Viper is a lot cheaper than traditional identity parades, which can cost up to £800. The average digital parade costs £150 and can be viewed by the victim on DVD in the comfort of their own home, making it a far more convenient option – although perhaps one that puts a damper on the crime writer’s favourite trope of a good old-fashioned identity parade.