Police and community leaders in Preston, Lancashire, appealed for calm last night after 20-year-old Shezan Umarji was stabbed to death amid running battles between white and Asian youths early yesterday.The young man was attacked outside his home in Fishwick View, on the city's deprived Callon housing estate.Shock, anger and threats of retaliation reverberated in the community yesterday. A close friend of Shezan's told The Observer: 'We have lost a very close friend. He was like a brother. We won't let this go. His dreams were to get away from the street. He was a funny, kind character. He had a normal life, playing football and cricket and chilling.'The family released a photograph of Shezan taken last weekend at his sister's wedding. Around 40 men, some of whom were armed with knives, bottles and baseball bats, were involved in the fight at around 1.45am yesterday.Witnesses said the attacks continued even when police and ambulance workers were trying to save Shezan's life, and told of vicious retaliation against the father and younger brother of a white man believed to have been involved.They said a middle-aged deaf man who tried to stop the violence was badly beaten. Police confirmed four other people were injured but said they were all later released from hospital.Around five streets of terrace houses were cordoned off yesterday as police conducted a search involving forensics officers and sniffer dogs.Valli Patel, a county councillor who was with the young man's parents, brother and two sisters when they were informed yesterday morning, urged any witnesses to come forward. 'They are utterly distraught, it is a huge shock to them,' he said. 'The Asian community is close-knit and everyone will gather round to help and support them, but at the moment they are numb.'Community leaders played down any suggestion the attack may have been racially motivated but police sources said it appeared the battle was between Asian and white youths, some armed with baseball bats.Councillor Taalib Shamsuddin denied racism was involved. 'There were two groups. It was a hot night and there were people who were drunk. It's as simple as that ... The early indications are that this wasn't a systematic racial issue. It was a disagreement between two guys that got out of hand.'Jeannie Goodwin, a 66-year-old who now lives in the Scottish borders but was visiting her daughter and granddaughter, said the area had changed beyond recognition over the years. 'I lived here for 30 years and I can't believe how much it has deteriorated,' she said. 'It's not quite the Bronx, but it's not far off it ... When I lived here we always had Asian neighbours and we all got on really well. We all used to babysit for each other, but in the last 10 years that has all changed.'A young mother-of-two living across the street from the spot where the fatal attack took place described how police and paramedics had to fight through the rival groups to get to the dying man. 'Everyone was standing around him still screaming, crying and fighting,' she said. 'Someone said it was over drugs and about bikes ridden on the estate.'Last night Superintendent Peter White of Lancashire Constabulary said around 80 officers were involved in the investigation. He said there would be a heavy police presence on the estate last night and over the next few days but stressed there was no evidence to suggest it was a racist attack.