A policeman involved in the investigation into the murder of Soham schoolgirls Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells was today cleared of indecent assault and possession of child pornography.The crown prosecution service offered no evidence against detective constable Brian Stevens at Snaresbrook crown court, in London, on three counts of indecent assault against two girls, three counts of distributing indecent photographs of children and five counts of possessing indecent photographs of children. Mr Stevens, 42, worked as a family liaison officer with Jessica's family after the two girls, both aged 10, vanished from their Cambridgeshire home on August 4 last year. The father of three played a role in the memorial service for the girls at Ely cathedral, reading out a poem, Lord of Comfort, which had been written for Jessica by a friend of the Chapman family.He was one of two officers in the Soham case arrested and suspended from duty last September after raids on their homes as part of an investigation into child pornography on the Internet. The other, Anthony Goodridge, 34, an exhibits officer in the case, was given a six-month sentence in March after pleading guilty to the possession of 330 indecent photographs of children.Today, Peter Beaumont, the Common Serjeant of London, ordered not guilty verdicts to be recorded on all 11 charges against Mr Stevens. He was discharged, and walked free from court. Prosecutor Andrew Campbell-Tiech QC told the court: "I am instructed to offer no evidence in this case. That's a decision which has caused potential anxiety on those whose responsibility it is to take it."It is a decision which is capable [of being], but should not be, misunderstood. On September 12 of last year, Mr Stevens was arrested at his home address, where a laptop computer was found in the living room. "Forensic examination of that computer showed that there were a number of photographic images upon it, of which 12, the prosecution says, were indecent images of children. "In long interviews which followed his arrest, Mr Stevens consistently denied he had been responsible for downloading these images, that he knew they were there, that although the laptop computer was his he had exclusive use of it and he identified particular circumstances where people other than himself used the computer. "Later investigation showed for sure that Mr Stevens' assertion that he was not the exclusive user of that computer was correct."Mr Stevens said he was "tremendously relieved" as he left the court hand-in-hand with his wife Jane. The couple were accompanied by their son Ian. Mr Stevens said that he was looking forward to "a decent night's sleep", but refused to answer other questions.Asked how indecent images came to be on his laptop computer, he said: "I have got no further comment to make." Cambridgeshire police said that the officer would remain suspended from duty while internal disciplinary matters are resolved.