There are three reasons to be seriously concerned by yesterday's report from the Commission for Racial Equality documenting the failure of police services to conform to 1999 race-equality legislation. First is the irony of a law-enforcing agency failing to obey the law. What sort of an example does this set other public bodies? Second is the fact that although the 1999 law applies to all 43,000 public bodies - in the biggest ever anti-discrimination drive in the UK - it is particularly pertinent to the police. Its passage was prompted by the Macpherson inquiry's conclusion that racism within the Metropolitan police was a major factor in the force's failure to carry out a proper investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence, the black teenager killed by white racists. Third is the break with an historic trend under which much police reform has been scandal-led, from tighter controls over eye-witness evidence (Devlin report), through to stricter regulation of police interrogations (the Maxwell Confait case).Yet yesterday's report should not have come as a complete surprise. Racism is not just pernicious but particularly difficult to erase. The reforms proposed by the Scarman inquiry, the previous big in quiry into racism and the police, evaporated as the 1981 Brixton riots faded from memory. Recent reports from the police inspectorate - in 2002 and 2003 - suggested this Scarman syndrome was in danger of being repeated. But this was one eventually anticipated by the 1999 law, which rightly gave the CRE a strong monitoring role. Yesterday's interim report, supervised by the former director of public prosecutions, Sir David Calvert-Smith, found 14 out of 15 forces picked to provide a representative cross section of services had failed to produce race-equality plans that passed the minimum standards set by the law. (The Met was one of the 14.) Worse still, training officers who were supposed to play a vital role in eradicating prejudice, were often hostile to race equality. More ironic, selection tests aimed to detect racist officers were more likely to catch black and Asian recruits than white ones. The chief constables of the 14 offending forces are rightly being told by the CRE to improve their policies or face enforcement orders. Meanwhile ministers need to signal their concern. One reason eradicating racism has dropped down police agendas is that it has dropped down the political agenda.