Respect is a simple notion. We know instinctively what it means. Respect for others - their opinions, values and way of life. Respect for neighbours; respect for the community that means caring about others. Respect for property which means not tolerating mindless vandalism, theft, and graffiti. And self-respect, which means giving as well as taking.Respect is at the heart of a belief in society. It is what makes us a community, not merely a group of isolated individuals. It makes real a new contract between citizen and state, a contract that says that with rights and opportunities come responsibilities and obligations. The theme of rights and responsibilities will be central to the Queen's Speech.We are putting behind us the narrow, selfish individualism of the 1980s, but also the 1945 'big state' that wrongly believed it could solve every social problem. We are building an enabling state founded on the liberation of individual potential. From the 1940s to the 1970s government sought to address social and economic problems through intervention and state planning. Social democrats in Britain and the US who held a liberal view of the 'permissive society' divorced fairness from personal responsibility. They believed that the state had an unconditional obligation to provide welfare and security. The logic was that the individual owed nothing in return. By the early 1970s this language of rights was corroding civic duty and undermining the fight-back against crime and social decay. It led Robert Kennedy to lament of America, 'the destruction of the sense, and often the fact, of community, of human dialogue, the thousand invisible strands of common experience and purpose, affection and respect, which tie men to their fellows'. From the 1970s to the 1990s governments tried to prevent the decline of civic society by strengthening individualism. But while the individualism of the New Right in the 1980s and 1990s in part restored personal responsibility, it too often simply abandoned individuals and communities to help themselves. The obligation of society to advance the individual was denied. This had devastating consequences still with us today. By the mid-1990s crime was rising, there was escalating family breakdown and drug abuse, and social inequalities had widened. Many neighbourhoods became marked by vandalism, violent crime, and the loss of civility. The basic recognition of the mutuality of duty and reciprocity of respect on which civil society depends appeared lost. It evoked the sense that the moral fabric of community was unravelling. The separation of fairness from responsibility was a failure both of policy and of philosophy. Crime and social breakdown affect everyone, but it is the poorest and most disadvantaged whose quality of life suffers most. Residents on our poorest estates still face a risk of burglary that is three times higher than the national average, an unbearable burden, while everyone in our society suffers as a consequence of the social disintegration around them.There is a dreadful irony that at the height of Thatcherism, when the central idea of the neo-liberal Right was to place individual choice above all other values, the old Left became a mirror image of the Right. It stressed social rights to the exclusion of individual responsibilities, just as Thatcherism stressed individual economic rights to the exclusion of social responsibility. Rights and responsibilities have always been at the heart of my politics. It was the inability of either mainstream party to offer a coherent response to crime and anti-social behaviour that made me so determined to transform radically Labour's position when I became Shadow Home Secretary in 1992. I had seen from my own Sedgefield constituency the destructive impact of lawlessness on local communities. As the 1980s had progressed I sensed increasingly that the task for the centre-Left was not to replace crude individualism with an overbearing paternalistic state. It was to rebuild a strong civic society where rights and duties go hand in hand. Crime and anti-social behaviour is a Labour issue. In many of the poorest parts of Britain, in many traditional Labour areas, it is the issue. For, however much schools and hospitals improve, if people walk out of their doors and are confronted by abuse, vandalism, anti-social behaviour, they will never feel secure or able to take advantage of new opportunities.In today's world people want a society that is free from prejudice - racism and intolerance - but not free from rules. Stability and order in our communities is as fundamental to our progressive project for change as the extension of opportunity. Our new approach starts with opportunity. We are investing heavily in the biggest anti-poverty programme for half a century. Record investment in education, the New Deal, the Working Families Tax Credit, record increases in child benefit and income support, and Sure Start. Excellence in Cities has seen deprived boroughs such as Tower Hamlets sustain a 7 per cent improvement in GCSE results this year. The New Deal is a symbol of this mission. It explicitly seeks to provide new opportunities in return for new responsibilities. It reaches not only the unemployed but single parents and sick and disabled people. Our commitment to equalising opportunity has also meant a concerted effort to support and sustain poorer families under pressure. The life-chances of children are hugely influenced by their earliest experiences, which is why access to post-natal support, parenting classes and early years provision are so important for a fair society. With these new opportunities come responsibility. The street crime initiative, for example, has been one of the most successful partnerships between government and the police in living memory. But the truth is people don't feel more secure and they know the system is not yet working as it should. It has become inceasingly clear what the problem with the system is: · A nineteenth-century criminal justice system trying to solve twenty-first-century crimes; · Too little joined-up working between police, CPS and other agencies; · Too little focus on the hard core of persistent offenders who commit more than half the crime; · Court procedures that are cumbersome; · Justice weighted towards the criminal and in need of rebalancing towards the victim; · Police not freed up and given the flexibility to focus on the crime and antisocial behaviour; · Punishment that often does not fit the severity of the crime. So this autumn we will focus on tackling these problems. We are pursuing radical reform of the Criminal Justice System, tackling anti-social behaviour and restoring social cohesion to fragmented communities. Over the coming year we will turn up the pace of reform in seven key areas, confronting the vested interests that hold back change, and implement tough new measures against those who persistently flout the law. We need to drag the English legal system away from what Lord Justice Auld describes as 'centuries of haphazard statutory and common law accretion'. First, in a major reform of criminal justice, we will re-balance the system emphatically in favour of the victims of crime. Offenders get away too easily. Old rules must be swept away; court procedures simplified; sentences built around the offender as well as the offence, with those on drugs getting treatment or custody. Previous convictions should be properly taken into account, so should hearsay evidence; there should be a change to the double jeopardy law. If there is overwhelming new evidence that implicates the accused again, they should go back to court. That has long been the case in Germany, Finland and Denmark. Magistrates should be able to give tougher sentences and we will bring together the magistrates and crown courts to speed up prosecutions. Second, we must introduce tougher sentences for violent and sex offenders with release from custody only when they no longer present a risk to the public. We must ensure that sentencing fits the crime and deals with the offender to prevent reoffending. The 'Custody Plus' programme will ensure that all short-sentence prisoners are supervised after release. Our aim is a Criminal Justice System that identifies every drug-addicted offender and aims to get each one of them off drugs and away from crime. Third, we will ensure that people pay for their crimes. From early next year, suspected drug dealers or organised criminals with money in their bank account or a home or an asset but no visible means of support will have it taken away from them unless it can be shown that it was come by lawfully and not by crime. Fourth, we are reforming what the police do. Too often red-tape distracts the police from catching criminals. We are doing a wide-ranging review of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act. We want to introduce street bail so the police can stay on the street and not always return with the suspect to the police station, and enable the police to impose bail conditions before a suspect has been charged to prevent them from committing further offences or intimidating witnesses. Fifth, we will extend both the principle and the practice of instant 'on-the-spot' fines to tackle anti-social behaviour. We will also bring forward measures to deal with parents of tru ants who refuse to co-operate with the school. They will face a penalty. Far too many parents still condone truancy by their children so we will make it far easier to impose these penalties. We need a new, simpler and tougher approach to anti-social behaviour. It is petty crime and public nuisance that causes so much distress to people; vandalism, graffiti, low-level aggression and violence. Anti-social tenants and their anti-social landlords can make life hell for their community. Families have a right to be housed. But they have no right to terrorise those around them. We will give local authorities new powers to license private-sector landlords, ensuring that landlords and their tenants behave responsibly. But a modern civic society, underpinned by reformed public services and an active welfare state, won't emerge simply through better laws, tougher enforcement of obligations, sanctions and more police. As well as modernising the Criminal Justice System and tackling anti-social behaviour we also need to revive the spirit of community and social cohesion. As Martin Luther King argued in the 1960s' struggle for civil rights, laws 'restrain the heartless; they cannot change the heart'. A bigger role for the voluntary sector, in framing and delivering local services, is central to our vision. Urban regeneration programmes backed by large extra resources have made a real impact particularly where decisions have been made by local people, as I saw for myself in Teesside and east Manchester. The informal networks between people and families are what best protect communities and build a strong society. William Morris put it well: 'Fellowship is life, and lack of fellowship is death.' We are encouraging volunteering through TimeBank, the Experience Corps and the volunteering option in the New Deal. Many different initiatives are taking hold. Teach First for example is a pioneering programme to get some of Britain's brightest graduates into London's toughest schools. Citizenship is now part of the national curriculum. The national lottery will put an extra £750 million into new sports and communities facilities. Only by rebuilding cohesive communities and reforming our criminal justice system can we achieve our vision of a strong and fair society. It means abandoning the rhetoric and false choices of the past. Since 1945 our politics has too often failed to articulate a coherent response to crime and anti-social behaviour. Restoring civic responsibility is not a betrayal of social justice, but essential for its realisation. We are determined to succeed in the task of reform.Send us your viewsIs Tony Blair's approach to crime and justice on the right track? Email us at debate@observer.co.uk