Times Editorial, December 18 "The abduction and murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman numbed and appalled a nation 16 months ago ... The nature of the trial of Ian Huntley has reinforced the country's outrage. The [previously withheld] information ... made available to the public ... will turn anguish into anger ..."[An] inquiry is now certain. This will surely concentrate on three questions: first, the manner in which Humberside police kept, or did not keep, records on Huntley that involved 10 separate inquiries into his sexual behaviour; secondly, whether the fashion in which Cambridgeshire police conducted their investigation reflects a wider weakness of small, rural, police forces when obliged to cope with [such] crimes ... and thirdly ... whether practice has to be different when there are allegations, but not convictions, relating to sexual misconduct." Scotsman Editorial, December 18 "What will doubly appal the country ... is the long series of inquiries and contacts that we now learn that Humberside police had with Huntley between 1995 and 1999 ... Each one of the 10 incidents was properly investigated by the police. But a combination of human error and application of the Data Protection Act worked to prevent any of these incidents being brought to the attention of his employers at Soham school. It could thus be said that, but for a police records system wanting of memory, two innocent young children might still be alive today. "The inquiry, together with a separate police review and a case review by social services, should be swift and their recommendations acted on. Huntley should never have been allowed to become a school caretaker. The least we can help ensure is that the system should work to detect the Huntleys of this world, and not to act as the murderer's accomplice." Independent Editorial, December 18 "One remark made by the father of Jessica was especially telling, and that was his judgment that Huntley was a 'time bomb ready to go off' ... The question now for the inquiry into the case ... is whether the police or the social services could have done more to prevent the time bomb going off ..."There is a compelling argument for a review of the data protection law, if only to ensure its consistent application ... It is true that, had the authorities at Soham Village College known about Huntley's past, they would never have employed him, and Holly and Jessica would probably still be alive. But the harsh truth is that, wherever he was, Huntley would have continued to molest young girls and would probably eventually have killed in any case." Simon Heffer Daily Mail, December 18 "There is, quite simply, no reason to keep Huntley alive. Yet for the next few decades he will be held, at high expense, in one of Her Majesty's prisons. As is the way with the liberal society, his welfare and well-being will undoubtedly be the subject of far more concern than those of Holly and Jessica's families ..."I happen to believe that, with democratic consent of the people, the state does have the right to take life. I do not know whether, if the death penalty had existed, Huntley would have been deterred from murder ... For me, though, that is not the main issue. Instead it is a question of what the appropriate punishment is ..."For a crime as bestial and calculated as this, where a young man has murdered two small girls for what can only be construed as his own gratification, anything less than Huntley paying with his own life is singularly inappropriate. Thanks to the liberal society, of course, Huntley will not pay the fair price ... The only position taken by our rulers towards such wickedness is their surrender to it - and their utter hypocrisy in claiming to be fighting it." Joan McAlpine Herald, Scotland, December 18 "We have all come across girls like [Maxine Carr] - weak women who nevertheless show a steely resolve when it comes to keeping their mate. Mostly, we just observe them letting the side down by enduring exploitative relationships. But ... we shouldn't be surprised that Carr shed so few tears for Holly and Jessica, who were not related to her. Many mothers who share her character traits stand aside as boyfriends and husbands murder their own flesh and blood ... "Many women get a raw deal from men. But that does not excuse the abandonment of all moral responsibility. To excuse Carr on the grounds of female weakness is to infantilise her and, by implication, womankind ... She is an adult. There is no excuse." Sue Carroll Daily Mirror, December 18 "There are many people who believe that Carr is another of Huntley's victims. I'm sorry but I don't subscribe to that view ... As she faces a jail sentence for [conspiring to pervert] the course of justice, it's a decision she no doubt regrets ... Life will never be easy for her but I don't believe it should be. For 12 days she lived an unforgivable, unspeakable lie which impeded a major police investigation ... Of course we're all capable of telling little white lies. But Carr went nuclear. I don't know how she can live with it - but I've the feeling that she will."