Police are investigating a triple murder in which a baby was left in a flat with the bodies of a 62-year-old man and his two daughters.Police discovered the bodies of the man and the two women, aged 34 and 27, at the four-bedroom flat in Harlesden, north-west London, yesterday afternoon along with the nine-month-old baby, who is thought to have been the son of one of the women.The victims all died of gunshot wounds and the infant was found in the second-floor flat by a relative. The child was taken to a London hospital but was unhurt and is now in the care of social services.Police were called to the flat in Clark Court, Stilton Crescent by a woman who discovered her dead relatives. She notified police yesterday afternoon.Scotland Yard said last night: "A family member who went to the address and discovered the bodies notified police. Officers attended and discovered a man and two women."They were pronounced dead at the scene. All the deceased are believed to have received gunshot wounds. The two women and the baby are believed to be related."Neighbours reported hearing shots on Thursday night at around 11pm.One neighbour, Nilesh Mansuklal, 36, described the male victim, who is believed to have been a cleaner, as an active and popular man.He said: "He was a nice, clean-cut guy. He took the time to talk to people and always seemed to have a smile on his face. I often saw him wandering around the shops with his friends."For a man in his 60s, he was incredibly active. He worked hard and had a big, loving family. It makes no sense that somebody would want to take his life. He didn't look like the type of person to ever get into trouble."All three victims were black and a police spokesman said that officers from Operation Trident, which investigates gun crime within the black community, was investigating the murders.Fal Patel, 28, who lives opposite the eight-storey block of flats where the murder took place, said she noticed six police cars parking outside her house shortly before 4pm."At first I didn't know what was going on. I came running out of my house thinking it could be anything, it could have been a bomb. But officers told me there had been a serious incident at the flat and I realised it must be murder," she said."The police often circle this estate. It's notorious for drugs and crime, but even here seeing this number of police teams is rare."Inquiries were continuing and no arrests had been made, a spokeswoman said.She said: "All three deaths are being treated as murder. We are keeping an open mind re motive."A post mortem examination could be held today.High visibility patrols are in the area, and armed officers at the scene, police said.