It is a good rule of thumb that all generalisations about the character of the English - their individualism, tolerance, love of justice - are, once you get down to the hard facts, hogwash. According to the national myth, no country regards eccentricity with greater broadmindedness. 'So long as a man rides his hobby-horse peaceably and quietly along the King's highway, and neither compels you or me to get up behind him - pray, Sir, what have either you or I to do with it?' wrote Laurence Sterne in the 18th century.In his England, you were free to be as odd as you wanted as long as you didn't break the law, and were innocent until proved guilty beyond reasonable doubt if the authorities alleged you had broken the law.That world's gone, as the history of antisocial behaviour orders shows. When Jack Straw introduced them in 1998, the then Home Secretary said they were to tackle serious misbehaviour. Presumably, he had in mind behaviour like that of the Bridge family who last week were banned from their home in the Wirral. The Merseyside mother, father and three grown-up sons had been accused of assault, threats to kill, damaging property, driving cars recklessly and intimidating witnesses. All of these are crimes. But the Bridges won't face imprisonment in future for committing crimes. They will be locked up if they are found inside the Wirral's boundaries between now and 2012, even though it's not a crime to go to Birkenhead: a mistake, perhaps, but not a crime. I doubt if the most conscientious civil liberties lawyer would shed many tears for them. Rebecca Cotton, one of their terrorised neighbours, said that hers had been a friendly street until they arrived. 'The atmosphere changed almost overnight. If the family ever found out someone had grassed them up, their house wouldn't be left standing.' If they were to move to my street - and they're going to have to move into somebody's street - I wouldn't be too fussy about the methods the police used against them. But I doubt, too, if the loudest supporter of law and order can be entirely happy with the new powers. Take the case of the Manchester prostitute who was ordered not to carry condoms. She went to her drug clinic. It wanted to give prostitutes condoms for sound public- health reasons. It handed her some, she was arrested and now faces jail. Or the story of the 18-year-old who was ordered not to congregate with three or more people. The order was meant to stop him hanging about on street corners and joining a gang. He went to a youth club instead, where there were more than three people and was duly arrested. No other democratic country imprisons people for carrying condoms or going to youth clubs because no other democratic country has anything like Asbos. The police say they are necessary because thugs like the Bridges terrify witnesses into silence. Sceptics believe they are a bureaucratic short cut around the police's long-standing indifference to minor crimes which don't get detective superintendents on Crimewatch. If so, they are a short cut that works. The wonder of the new system is that the police don't have to go to the trouble of collecting evidence for a criminal case which stands-up in court. To make it better from the official point of view, anti-social behaviour orders are given by magistrates with barely a second's thought; a study by the Economist found that of the 2,497 orders sought before the end of March 2004, only 42 were refused. As with the holding of alleged terrorists under house arrest or the plans to send alleged psychopaths to prison if a psychiatrist thinks they may at some undefined point commit a crime, anti-social behaviour orders are a part of an authoritarian revolt by the state against the due process of law. If they just hit families like the Bridges, few would complain. But con trary to what the government imagined, antisocial behaviour orders aren't only catching the usual suspects. A curtain-twitching, vindictive nation is demanding that they should be used against all who don't fit in. Britain is ageing and, let's face it, isn't growing old gracefully. The baby-boomer generation, with its advantage in numbers, allows the old's traditional fear of the young to dominate the rest of society. Neil Pilkington, chief solicitor of Salford City Council, is shocked by the intensity of the intolerance. 'There are people in every community who believe that if you're under 18 and breathing, you ought to be on an Asbo,' he said. But there's something beyond the crabby children of the Sixties turning on the children of today. Asbos have created a new outlet for the small-minded and allowed them to treat people who would once have been dismissed as unlucky or unconventional or simple-minded as villains. As Jan Wilson, the leader of Sheffield City Council, said: 'This thing seems to be gaining a momentum of its own.' It's not an imprisonable offence to beg, for instance, and you aren't a criminal if you do beg, although the odds are that you will be an alcoholic or drug addict. Leonard Hockney was ordered not to beg in an 'earnest and humble manner' or sell the Big Issue. He carried on begging, was jailed and died in prison. However much people dislike seeing beggars on the streets, it is absurd to pretend that they are behind crime waves. Locking them up is the petty tyranny of a country which can't look itself in the eye, not a stand against crime. Nor, from the evidence, is the country keen on coping with the mentally ill. There's a poor 23-year-old woman in Bath who keeps trying to kill herself. She's been fished out of the Avon three times and was once found hanging by her fingertips from a railway bridge. Instead of doing anything so daring as offering treatment, Bath magistrates have threatened her with a jail sentence if she goes near a railway, multistorey car park, river or bridge again. Do they think that's going to help? Margaret Porter, a 50-year-old from Northallerton in Yorkshire. lost her marbles when her father died. She proved she'd gone batty when she threw three sticks of rhubarb at her brother, one of which caught him in the eye. The brother has also had to put up with his windows being smashed. In the past, most families coped with similar strains without having their dotty relatives sanctioned with antisocial behaviour orders. Ms Porter, however, will go to jail if she is caught handling rhubarb with malice again. Then we have the punishment of simple exuberance. The best case is that of the landlord of the Swan with Two Necks in Bristol who decided to call his car park 'the Porking Yard', in part because the area had a lot of butchers and in part because he liked bad puns. First, teachers complained that the sign was sexually suggestive, to which the landlord replied that a dirty mind is a perpetual feast. Then worshippers at the local mosque joined in and complained that the sign mocked their religion, although it didn't in either content or intent. He had to take it down and will be sent down if he displays any sign which could be regarded as 'threatening, abusive or insulting' by anyone, however thin-skinned. It's a far cry from the crack house to the car park of the Swan with Two Necks. And it's a long journey from the wrecked streets of Merseyside to the garden of Caroline Shepherd, 27, in East Kilbride. But after complaints from her neighbours, she will be jailed if she tends her plants while wearing an Ann Summers bikini or opens her front door wearing bra and knickers. Harry Fletcher from the Probation Officers Union, Napo, said that anti-social behaviour orders are out of control. Their original purpose has been forgotten and they are being exploited by the type of people who used to write poison-pen letters. Along with Matt Foot, a criminal barrister, he's launching Asbo Concern at a conference at the Friends Meeting House in Euston, central London on 7 April. I wish the campaign well because the way this country's going the last word on the national character will be from Julian Clary who said: 'The English like eccentrics. They just don't like them living next door.'