I do not know whether or not Barry George shot Jill Dando. What I am sure of - and have been since his trial in 2001 - is that he should not have been convicted. The paucity of the evidence against him (rehearsed for the umpteenth time on yesterday's Panorama) was one reason. The other was the overwhelming atmosphere of "he must be guilty" which a combination of police and media excess had erected. A few years before, Colin Stagg had suffered the same treatment. The police, and therefore a compliant tabloid media, were so openly certain that he had killed Rachel Nickell on Wimbledon Common that they scarcely bothered to remind the public that he hadn't yet been tried. He had better luck than Barry George. The trial judge threw out the case for total lack of evidence. A few months ago the police, without any admission of past mistakes or apology to Stagg, announced that they had found Nickell's killer.But now the stakes have been raised. The country is facing a succession of trials in which clusters of defendants have been charged with various terrorism offences, among them the alleged conspiracies to blow up transatlantic flights. One would have thought that the police and the media would have been particularly careful to make sure that they did not divulge information or opinions that might be prejudicial to subsequent trials. This isn't just a question of newspapers risking being in contempt of court (a possibility the attorney general keeps warning them about, sternly but ineffectually). The consequence of the media's injecting prejudicial material into the mind of a jury could result in an accused - who may well be guilty of a terrible crime - being set free, because he could not get a fair trial. Imagine the public outcry then.Instead of this much needed caution and responsible restraint, I see the police, many newspapers and, let us not forget, a succession of home secretaries, recklessly trespassing on the frontiers of forbidden legal territory. We are being told too much about terrorist suspects. We know about their families, their jobs and leisure activities, their neighbourhoods, and what the people next door think about them. Fine. But we are also being informed that they went on a trip to Pakistan - that's a bit suspicious these days, apparently - and that they worship at the very same mosque where so-and-so once preached violence. The picture builds up and it is one which points to guilt - and to an unfair trial.I can understand why the police feel the need to demonstrate to the public that they are being super-efficient. In the Jill Dando case, the Metropolitan force were feeling bruised and sensitive, just a month after being savaged by the MacPherson report on Stephen Lawrence; they needed a success and were perhaps over-enthusiastic in presenting Barry George to the world as Dando's killer. The anti-terrorist police clearly need a similar public boost, especially after the Forest Gate debacle. But their (and John Reid's) extravagant announcements of the alleged aeroplane bombing plot they had foiled were prematurely boastful; and proudly revealing the inventory of what they had seized was just weird.In one sense, defendants charged with heinous crimes that make the front pages can never have the same kind of trial as ordinary alleged criminals. It is beyond human capacity for jurors trying, say, Rosemary West, Ian Huntley or Barry George to come to court with wholly blank minds shorn of all views and attitudes. That is all the more reason for the police, the media and government ministers to restrain themselves, rather than pile on material which could, unfairly, sway a jury. I don't believe such a sense of responsibility can be achieved in our current agitated climate. The result will be a succession of messy trials and appeals, with many defendants claiming to be victims of unfairness. There will be dangerous terrorists set free, and wholly innocent persons incarcerated. That will be the future face of English justice.· The Ballet Nacional de Cuba, which I saw a few days ago, was, as always, stunningly good. Not for the first time, I marvelled at the inspiring fact that from a small, poor island of 11 million people, starved of money and opportunity by the indefensibly cruel behaviour of successive American governments, emerges as one of today's great ballet companies and phenomenal dancers of the calibre of the Royal Ballet's current superstar, Carlos Acosta. Then I felt sad because I thought that I might never again see them as good. Ballet's pre-eminence among the arts in Cuba was the result of the vision of two dictators.The story goes that Fidel Castro, hiding in the mountains before the attack that was to bring him to power, sent a message to the Cuban ballerina Alicia Alonso, then performing in the US, urging her to come back as soon as the revolution was won, to start a national ballet company. Alonso, who had worked with the great choreographers Balanchine, Fokine and Massine, returned after the victory of 1959 and is still in full control of her creation. But she is now 85, and Castro at 80 has shown that he may not be immortal after all.For how long can the Ballet Nacional continue its greatness? When Alonso ceases to dictate, there will undoubtedly be changes. Her insistence that the classical repertoire must remain dominant - a policy already under some criticism - will no longer be law. The delightful anomaly that some of the worlds' most moving interpreters of Tchaikovsky's music are natives of a sunny Caribbean isle will slowly disappear. And when Castro ceases to dictate, the inspiration behind ballet's pre-eminence will be gone. How can any successor emulate a man who was thinking of the future of dance in his homeland at the same time as he was polishing his guerrilla's rifle in the sierra? The fear is that, deprived of their two spiritual and political driving spirits, more of the best dancers will gradually leave to seek their fame and fortunes elsewhere. The Ballet Nacional will probably still be very good for some time to come, but no longer unique. I hope I'm wrong. You may be thinking that, in the vast uncertainty that is soon to overwhelm Cuba, the future of its dance company is of minor importance. Symbolically, I think it says a lot.· This week Marcel saw Stella Duffy's play Prime Resident at London's Soho Theatre: "A clever, funny and disturbing look at Britain in 2009 - a country where all planes and boats have been banned." Marcel also saw Tom Stoppard's Rock'n'Roll at London's Duke of York's theatre: "An "ill-thought-out jumble of a play, saved only by a terrific performance by Rufus Sewell."