Police hunting the killers of a 15-year-old boy stabbed for his mobile phone were yesterday searching a west London park for the murder weapon.Kieran Rodney-Davis had gone shopping in Daisy Lane, Fulham, on Wednesday afternoon. He was outside the gates of the Hurlingham and Chelsea school at about 2.45pm when he was approached by three masked youths demanding his phone. The teenager was stabbed once in the chest and staggered about 50 metres to the block of flats where he lived. He was rushed to the nearby Chelsea and Westminster hospital but died shortly afterwards. Police said the three youths, who are black and about the same age as the victim, fled on foot. They wore balaclavas or bandana-style scarves, one of which was red. Detective Chief Inspector Dave Little appealed for witnesses. "Did you see this incident? Did you see the youths making off on foot along Daisy Lane, into Peterborough Road, heading towards Wandsworth Bridge? It is possible they may have gone into South Park or into Hugon Road," he said. Detectives have questioned a 16-year-old girl in connection with the attack. She was not arrested but treated as a witness, police said. Yesterday cards and flowers marked the scene of the attack, and pupils and teachers at Phoenix High School, where Kieran was studying for GCSEs, held a minute's silence. The headteacher, William Atkinson, paid tribute to Kieran. "He was a lovely young man. He was bouncy, lively, and had a tremendous sense of fun. He never got into any trouble at school." Kieran lived with his mother, Antoinette Rodney, 37, in a council flat only metres from where he was stabbed. She had kept him off school on Wednesday because he felt unwell and his teeth braces were hurting. She allowed him out in the afternoon to buy some computer disks and gel for his mouth. "About 20 minutes later his friend buzzed me on the intercom and said 'Kieran's round the back on the floor'," said Ms Rodney. "I thought they were mucking about. I couldn't see anything. His friend said he'd gone in the ambulance and had all blood on him. I knew it was going to be critical." By the time she and her ex-husband, Paul Davis, 41, got to the hospital their son was dead. Mobile phone thefts account for more than half of all street crime in London, according to Home Office figures.