Resistance to the recruitment of ex-offenders is weakening, according to a survey published last month by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD). The survey of 550 HR professionals launched at the CIPD's annual conference in Harrogate on October 25 found that more than two-thirds of those who have recruited ex-offenders reported that it had been a positive experience. They also found a general willingness to employ people with a criminal record (42%). Increasingly, it seems, employers are prepared to put aside their prejudices and offer people with convictions a chance. That's not unsurprising, says Peter Cox at Comeback, a charity that offers advocacy and work placements for ex-offenders. "You won't find many employers saying openly that they discourage equal opportunities. Quite the reverse. They'll say they give everyone a fair chance." In light of the CIPD's findings, it appears to be a relatively ripe time for ex-offenders to make a fresh start, but conflicting messages are spilling out of Whitehall. The government recognises employment as the single most important factor in reducing reoffending rates. The Home Office estimates that employment can slash reoffending rates by between a third and a half. But while a recent review of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, published in July, stresses the importance of easing the task of job-hunting for ex-offenders, new legislation obliging them to disclose "unspent" convictions seems to contradict these intentions. From late summer, employers have been able to ask their workers and interviewees for a "basic disclosure" certificate from the Criminal Records Bureau listing any "unspent" convictions. This could soon become a standard part of the recruitment process. There is unanimous support for increased disclosure in the case of teachers, nurses and care workers dealing with the elderly, disabled and vulnerable, but the fear is that the progress of many reformed offenders will be stymied by all-but forgotten crimes. Despite the refreshing feedback from HR departments, the hurdles for ex-offenders in the job market remain considerable. "Employer discrimination is by no means the only barrier that ex-offenders face," says Del Fletcher, a reader at Sheffield Hallam University's Centre for Regional Economic and Social Research. "Often they have problems with basic skills because a lot of them have truanted or been excluded from school. Many have little or no experience of undertaking paid work, so employer references can be a problem." Where ex-offenders do find work it is typically low-paid manual work. A quarter of the prison population has alcohol-related problems and more than half have problems with drugs. "Prisoners typically bring with them a raft of other baggage rooted in family problems, low self-esteem and self-confidence," says Mervyn Barrett at Nacro, the crime reduction charity. "They are simply not able to go straight into employment, they need a lot of help and building up." The new provisions to do with basic disclosure are bound to be viewed as a further knock-back for ex-offenders looking to wipe the slate clean. "It will be very easy for an employer to ask for a certificate almost as a matter of routine, and then any application that comes with a certificate attached will get thrown away," says Cox. Four years ago, Dave M was convicted of credit card theft, a crime motivated by a chronic gambling addiction. In 1998 he drove away from his car valeting business in Devon to a caravan park in Wales where he was eventually arrested. The following year, he was sentenced to a community rehabilitation order with the Staffordshire probation service. He then got a BTEC in horticulture at Stoke-on-Trent college, attended counselling sessions at Gamblers Anonymous, and began writing poetry about his addiction. Soon he began filling in job applications. But the response was always the same. Silence. "I was in a catch- 22," he says. "Application forms always ask if you've got a record. If you don't put it down, there's a chance they could find out. If you do put it down, you don't even get a phone call to say you haven't got the job." Dianah Worman, policy specialist at the CIPD, sees the new disclosure legislation as an opportunity to re-educate employers. She believes that if companies are given clear guidelines about how to deal with people with convictions, the transition from parole to payroll can be made more effectively. "In many companies, however, there is no policy and if there is, it is not implemented by the managers," says Fletcher. The views of the HR department are not necessarily mirrored by the company directors. "Even in large multinationals which may have policies, a lot of the decisions are taken by management staff who have had little or no training to deal with this issue. So what many of them do is fall back on their prejudices. If the person employed goes and commits an offence against an employee or customer, they would feel personally responsible." The biggest problem is the attitude of current employees, says Worman. "It's the same with employing people with disabilities - it's a matter of changing people's perceptions." There is also increasing pressure on the government to step up security checks in the workplace. During the recruitment process, two out of three companies now ask potential employees whether they have a criminal record. "That is simply a barometer of the times," says Worman. "Society deals with crime on the basis that all criminals are the same, but they are not a homogenous group." The CIPD is hoping that employers will take a more balanced view and treat each ex-offender as an individual case. "Signalling that you're happy to employ ex-offenders to your customer base sounds exactly the wrong thing to do," she says. "In many cases, the reaction is still, 'God, the customers won't wear it, and the person will re-offend.'" So should ex-offenders just keep quiet about their crimes? "I'd like to think if I was being honest with my employer, they could be honest with me," says Dave, who has recently been offered a job in a stocktaking firm. "I wrote down that I had a criminal record on the application form. I sat down with the bloke and chatted to him. He gave me a new form and said, 'Don't put it down, you've been honest with me, I'll be fair with you now.' That's the first time in 40 years anybody has shown any faith in me." It is usually the employers themselves who want to keep quiet. A train company that Fletcher researched as part of a report for the Joseph Rowntree Foundation said that even the top-flight management weren't aware that many of their trolley-service staff were from an ex-offender agency. He says: "Even when employers appreciate the need to reach out to offenders, they are very hostile to actually publicising that. You can imagine what the tabloid press would make of it." There is, however, no evidence to suggest that ex-offenders are any more likely to offend in the workplace than anybody else. Of the 144 HR professionals in the CIPD survey who had employed ex-offenders, only eight reported cases of people reoffending. "Ex-offenders, including those who have served prison sentences, are simply looking for work. They have no ulterior motive," says Worman. "What happens is that they commit an offence, they do their time, and when they come out there's that stigma about having been inside." "My probation is spent now, my crime's done," says Dave. "I've been punished for it. It seems that everybody else wants to punish me for something that happened in the past." Peter Cox has found that ex-offenders often make the most loyal workers. "If an ex-offender does manage to get a job, and they are serious about wanting employment - and it's not just empty words leading up to their release - they tend to stick with it. That's partly because an ex-offender won't want to go through the process too many times. They will also have greater sense of loyalty to the employer who has given them a chance." Retraining programmes and intervention schemes such as those run by Nacro and Comeback help to bridge the gap between prison and the workplace. They provide advocacy and placements for ex-offenders, as well as assisting them with skills such as CV-writing and interview techniques. But more needs to be done, says Worman. "The shorter the time you're in prison, the less likely you are to get on one of the schemes. That doesn't make sense because a lot of people who are given short sentences are constant offenders. We want to give everyone a chance to make a contribution to society." Cox agrees, but for many business leaders the idea of recruiting ex-offenders continues to be a liability. "Employers will only be attracted to employing ex-offenders if it makes financial sense and if they can employ someone who is better than someone off the high street. For us, it's a question of picking the right person who actually recognises that the job is the way out of their difficulties." "You've got to want to do it," says Dave. "A lot of it is will-power and self-belief. You have to have someone behind you, too, on the bad days, and I did have relapses, but there were people there to give me a good kick up the arse." · Comeback, call 020 8316 4342· Nacro, call 020 7582 6500, or visit www.nacro.org.uk