Armed police mounted a rescue mission to free an 11-year-old boy snatched off a west London street and held hostage for 24 hours by kidnappers who threatened to kill him if a five-figure ransom was not paid.The Asian boy was on his way home from school in Southall at 4pm on Wednesday when a man and a woman grabbed him and bundled him into a car. Two hours later his parents received a phone call, saying he would be killed if a substantial amount of cash was not handed over. They contacted police, and Scotland Yard's kidnap unit immediately coordinated an operation involving 150 officers from the flying squad, armed response and the serious crime unit. Asian officers made inquiries within the local community, leading to armed police raids on three addresses at 7pm on Thursday. The petrified boy was discovered locked in a bedroom at one of the properties. He was taken to hospital and police said he was "extremely distressed and traumatised" but otherwise unharmed. Police refused to comment on whether the boy was tied up or threatened. He was interviewed yesterday by specially trained officers and is now back home with his family. Four women, aged between 19 and 44, and seven men, aged between 22 and 47, were arrested and are being questioned by detectives at several undisclosed London police stations. The Metropolitan police dealt with 85 kidnaps in London last year - all of adults and all resolved successfully. However, the vast majority were linked to drugs feuds or criminal gang vendettas. Kidnaps of ordinary members of the public, especially children, are very unusual. Detective Chief Superintendent Sharon Kerr, head of the Metropolitan police's serious and organised crime unit, said: "Kidnap usually involves criminal gangs or drugs, so this is fairly unique. "It is very rare for this type of incident, where an innocent person is taken, to occur, particularly where a child is kidnapped in this way. I can't recall a similar event since 1997." Detective Superintendent Rick Reynolds, head of the Met's kidnap unit, said: "Threats were made to the victim's family, serious threats. This was a serious threat to the boy's life. The boy was extremely distressed, shocked and traumatised, as were his parents." He confirmed that the kidnappers demanded a substantial ransom, but said that the boy's family were not wealthy, famous or even well-known in their community. Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur said: "It is extremely rare for a child to be kidnapped in this way. Londoners should also be reassured that our officers are very skilled in dealing with such offences. In every single kidnap we have dealt with in recent years we have successfully released the hostage. "One of the keys to the success of this particular operation was the assistance we received from the Asian community in Southall. They provided us with vital advice and I'd like to thank them for their support." But Mr Ghaffur pointed out that every kidnap was a potential murder. "Reaching a hostage is a race against the clock to prevent a murder taking place. The Met treats kidnap with utmost seriousness. "Make no mistake about it, anyone who commits this type of crime can expect a tough police action and a very high penalty."