Senior police officers have agreed a seven-point plan to combat racism, in the light of a BBC programme which showed deeply entrenched racist attitudes among rank and file police officers.Andy Hall became the sixth police officer to resign yesterday in the aftermath of the programme. He was the fourth officer from the Greater Manchester force to quit. A colleague of his, Andy Turley, remains suspended pending an imminent disciplinary hearing plus potential criminal proceedings. The Chief Constables' Council met in London on Wednesday and agreed the action plan. Within a week, every chief constable or police commissioner will meet their local Black Police Association and related interested groups and listen to and talk through the impact of the programme. They will identify any immediate local issues that need action.Every force in the country will review its own statutory race equality scheme. The Association of Chief Police Officers has already been in touch with HM Inspectorate of Constabulary to suggest an independent inspection of those arrangements. They will examine the current state of training on race and diversity issues. Although much work has been done, "it clearly needs to be accelerated", according to the senior officers. They are asking police forces to submit their views on this to Acpo as soon as possible. The Police Training and Development Board and the inspectorate will consider arrangements for recruitment, selection and training and a meeting will take place within a fortnight to discuss progress. Meanwhile forces will assess their own selection procedures and their relationship to the national assessment programme. "We need to be sure that they deliver the right level of assessment identifying and weeding out those who should not be in our service," the senior officers said. Acpo will review its diversity strategy within three months; this process has begun but will be accelerated. Its president, Chris Fox, will meet the National Black Police Association within the next week to develop an agreed action plan for the future. Tony Blair said yesterday he had been appalled and shocked by the revelations of racism in the Secret Policeman programme. But he said the vast bulk of police officers were not racist. He urged that they should not be tainted by the actions of a small minority. "It's just important that when a shocking report - and it is shocking - comes forward like this that we keep that sense of perspective and balance," he said. "The vast bulk of police officers are thoroughly decent, committed people who are not in any shape or form racist, but want to do the best for their communities." The National Black Police Association called the BBC's undercover reporter, Mark Daly, "heroic" for his investigation into racism. It called on Greater Manchester police to drop the charges against him of obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception and damaging police property, and also demanded a public inquiry into recruitment. Its president, Ray Powell, said: "We feel very strongly that the individuals concerned were allowed to resign rather than being sacked - which would have sent out a much stronger message. "It beggars belief that they escaped justice by being allowed to resign without punishment or prosecution." Keith Cheshire, from North Wales police, who remains suspended from the force, denied being a racist. "I would not consider myself in any way a racist," he said. "I'm absolutely gutted. There are no ethnic people in my family, but I have had some quite close ethnic friends for about 18 years." The acting deputy chief constable of North Wales police, Clive Wolfendale, had said he felt physically sick while watching the film. The far-right British National party claimed that several serving police officers were among its members. Its spokesman, Phil Edwards, said: "I know we have several serving police officers in our party and why not? I should imagine most police sympathise with the BNP's view that a multicultural society is not a stable society." Centrex, which runs the police training centre in Bruche, Cheshire, said: "We will actively consult with Acpo on the proposal they have suggested." The outcome would be incorporated into the review of the probationer training programme being carried out by the Home Office. The BBC has agreed to hand over more secretly filmed footage to the head of discipline at Greater Manchester police. Police chiefs had been frustrated by the refusal of the corporation to share its evidence with them before broadcasting the programme.