  Melanie Hall disappeared after a night out in Bath in 1996. Bones near the M5 on Monday were identified as hers. Photograph: PAA man who handed himself in to police yesterday has been eliminated as a suspect in the murder of Melanie Hall, whose bones were found 13 years after she went missing.The 37-year-old, from the Manchester area, walked into a police station in Cheadle Heath, Stockport, and said he wanted to talk about her disappearance. Avon and Somerset police said today he was no longer part of the investigation.Hall, 25, vanished after a row with her boyfriend at a nightclub in Bath, Somerset, in June 1996. Her remains were found part-buried in undergrowth close to junction 14 of the M5 near Thornbury, Gloucestershire, on Monday. They included arm and leg bones, a pelvis and a skull.Hall was working as a clerical officer at the Royal United hospital in Bath when she disappeared. The police operation included searches of the river Avon, TV appeals and reconstructions.At a press conference yesterday, police urged anyone keeping the secret of the young hospital worker's death to break their silence. Hall's parents, Pat and Steve, spoke of their "untold anguish" over the loss of their daughter.Speaking at Bath police station, Steve Hall, 65, a former chairman of Bath City, said: "Thirteen years ago we had a young, vibrant daughter. Today we have a bag of bones People out there know, they have lived with that knowledge for 13 years. Now is the time to lay that to rest."Someone may have a good idea that something may not be right. I'm hoping that now her body has been found, they find that change of heart or strength of will to come forward."This morning, Mr Hall said the man who had handed himself in was not the first to try to confess to her murder."These things sadly occur on a regular basis," he said. "Usually there is a fairly early assessment of whether there is any gravity to the situation. The police would have told us if it was likely this was Melanie's killer. We have had 13 years of practice at this and we can usually work out what's important or not.''Police arrested two men in connection with Hall's disappearance in 2003, but they were released without charge after police searched buildings and a field near Bath.At an inquest held eight years after her disappearance, the Avon coroner Paul Forrest said circumstances surrounding the case suggested she had been unlawfully killed, but a lack of evidence forced him to record an open verdict.