A friend of a gay man allegedly attacked in Trafalgar Square told a court today the victim "fell like a corpse" after being punched.Ian Baynham, 62, was subjected to homophobic taunts before being knocked to the ground and died 18 days later in hospital, jurors heard.He had been out in Soho, central London, with his friend Philip Brown when the attack happened in September last year. It is alleged that after he was punched by a youth, two females kicked and stamped on him "like a scene from Clockwork Orange".Brown told the Old Bailey how his friend had challenged a girl who shouted "fucking faggots, fucking faggots". "I said 'just ignore it, just walk on by'," he said. "But he turned around and confronted the female."Brown said words were exchanged before his friend and the girl started kicking each other. Baynham grabbed her hair to try to make her stop, he added, before a young man ran up and punched him in the head. "I heard a noise like a crunching noise," he said. "He was out cold and he fell backwards into the prone position, on his back." Brown said the back of his friend's skull hit the pavement with a "cracking noise".Asked by Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, whether Baynham had put his arms out to stop himself falling, he said: "No, he fell like a corpse." The whole episode had taken a minute and a half, he added.Brown said he went up to the youth and asked why he had done it, but the youth responded by "baiting" and trying to intimidate him. His friend was lying on the ground, bleeding from the back of the head and making a "snoring" sound, Brown said. An ambulance was called and the youth, with two females, ran off "as fast as they could", he told the court.Brown said he managed to catch up with one of the girls, grabbing her by the hair and pulling her to the ground. They were separated by a passerby and she then punched him in the face, he said.Joel Alexander, 19, of Thornton Heath, south London, Rachel Burke, 18, of Three Oaks, East Sussex, and Ruby Thomas, 18, of Lichfield, Staffordshire, deny manslaughter.Earlier, the court heard Thomas's pumps were found with bloodstains matching Baynham's DNA. She made no comment when interviewed by police.When Alexander was questioned by officers, he said he had "instinctively" run over and punched Baynham to protect Thomas.Burke had denied any part in the violence, the court heard.The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.