The family of a woman raped and murdered by a Yardie gangster whom Scotland Yard had helped stay in Britain, yesterday won the court's permission to sue the police.Scotland Yard recruited Delroy Denton as an informer to fight a rising wave of Yardie related crime. The force assisted him with his wish to remain in Britain despite his track record of violence. But Denton was jailed for life after he raped and murdered Marcia Lawes, a mother of two, in her south London flat in 1995. At his trial he was branded a "sex fuelled psychopath" and "premier league danger to the public". Yesterday the court of appeal overturned a ruling by a lower court which had barred Ms Lawes' family from suing Scotland Yard and the immigration service for misfeasance in public office. The family, which includes Ms Lawes' children, now aged eight and nine, are now set to sue the police and Home Office for more than £1m. Lord Justice Stephen Sedley, sitting with Lords Justices Simon Brown and Scott Baker, allowed the appeal by Ms Lawes' sister, Mercy Akenzua, and Caroline Coy, administrator of her estate. Denton arrived in Britain in 1993, and using a false passport, got entry to the country for six months. An immigration officer, Brian Fotheringham, who was also attached to a special operations unit at Scotland Yard, arranged for Denton to become a police informer after he was arrested during a raid and charged with intent to supply drugs and having an offensive weapon. Within three days he was bailed, and he informed on Yardie activity in return for payments from officers. During this time he was arrested for rape but the charge was dropped. He claimed asylum, admitting several murders in Jamaica which he claimed were politically motivated. "It is a logical inference that the application was made at Fotheringham's instigation," said Lord Justice Sedley. Although the Home Office refused his application, notice was not served until the following year, a delay described at Denton's criminal appeal as deliberate so as to prolong his usefulness as an informer. Allowed his freedom again, Denton murdered Ms Lawes, a beauty therapist, cutting her neck 18 times. Lord Justice Sedley, in the judgment, wrote: "We do not know whether, if the action goes ahead, the defendants will seek to defend as reasonable, or at least not reckless, the decision to set Denton at large. For the present, the pleaded allegation is that Fotheringham, as an immigration officer, knew the only proper course was to detain Denton pending his removal from the UK. Instead he colluded with police officers, who also became implicated in the misfeasance - in setting Denton at liberty recklessly as to the risk at which this put the potential victims of his violent proclivities." After the judgment Ms Akenzua said: "The police and Home Office have added injury to insult by seeking to wipe this case under the carpet and in failing to make any offers to settle the matter." In 1999 the crown prosecution service said no officers would face charges over the scandal - first exposed by the Guardian - which arose from chaotic management in the Metropolitan police and law breaking by officers. After yesterday's court ruling Scotland Yard did not comment.