A man who put fellow plane passengers through a five-hour air rage ordeal was jailed today.Drunk on vodka, Steven Pekar, 50, was just an hour into the six-and-a-half hour flight from East Midlands airport to the Gambia last April when he started to cause trouble, Leicester crown court heard.The forklift truck driver kicked the seat of a woman sat in front, slapped her when she complained, threw a bottle of water across the cabin when flight attendants went to calm him down, tried to light a cigarette and then tried to bite an off-duty policeman.Sentencing Pekar, of Burton upon Trent, Staffordshire, to six months behind bars, Judge Michael Pert QC said: "The plain fact is that travelling in an aircraft is a situation that most of us have to undertake with a greater or lesser degree of trepidation, so to have someone drunk in an aircraft is terrifying or disturbing for anyone to sit through."At 30,000ft there's nowhere to get away from a drunk. For you to be drunk in the way you were on this flight is simply inexcusable. Others must know that if they behave like this on an aircraft they deserve to go to prison."Pekar, a man with a previous conviction for alcohol-fuelled disorder, was on holiday with a friend aboard the Thomas Cook Airlines flight from Leicestershire on 8 April when his air rage began.After enduring an hour of the defendant knocking her seat, the female passenger complained to flight attendants, the court heard.Victoria Rose, prosecuting, said: "He had been drinking vodka out of a litre bottle. Cabin crew took it off him and the defendant responded by slapping [the passenger] and stating, 'That was you, you evil cow.' "Pekar continued to be abusive towards her, swearing, ruffling her hair with his fingers and then slapping her on the arm, the court heard.Cabin crew members tried to calm the "extremely intoxicated" traveller down, but to no avail, said Rose.A flight attendant gave him a bottle of water but he hurled it across the cabin.An off-duty police officer, on ­holiday with his family, said the defendant was "swearing, flailing his arms around with fists clenched, rowdy, rude and belligerent".When the officer approached Pekar, the defendant told him to "fuck off", she said. Pekar tried to light a cigarette and then attempted to bite the officer.The defendant was eventually restrained and remained so until the flight's end, the court heard. He was kept on board until other travellers had left the aircraft before being taken to be interviewed by Gambian police.The court heard that Pekar said he had been taking six types of medication which he knew he was not meant to mix with alcohol. He has seven previous convictions, including being drunk and disorderly in 2006, the court heard.Grace Hale, defending, said: "He is genuinely sorry for what he has done. At no time did he cause any danger to the plane. Nevertheless I concede that it was exceedingly unpleasant and distressing for other travellers."