An ex-cavalryman who survived an infamous IRA attack apparently stabbed his two young children to death on an isolated bridleway before taking his own life on Sunday.Police believe that Michael Pedersen, formerly of the Household Cavalry, killed his seven-year-old son, Ben, and six-year-old daughter, Freya, and then himself.Pedersen and his horse were caught up in the Hyde Park bombing of 1982, in which four men and seven horses died. Pedersen's horse, Sefton, was terribly injured but went on to become something of a national hero, making numerous television appearances and winning a Horse of the Year prize, which Pedersen picked up on Sefton's behalf.It is understood that Pedersen, 51, had separated from his wife, Erica, a few weeks ago and feared he would lose contact with the children. Surrey police confirmed they had had previous contact with the family and would be referring the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission to investigate.Pedersen, a lorry driver, had taken the youngsters, who were living with their mother in Ashford, Surrey, for a day out on Sunday and was visiting members of his family in Andover, Hampshire. When Pedersen and the children failed to return at the agreed time of 5pm, his estranged wife called the police.At 6.15pm a dog walker in the hamlet of Newton Stacey, near Andover, discovered three bodies lying on a bridleway near a blue Saab convertible. By Monday morning the bodies had been identified as those of Pedersen and his children.Muriel and Eric Broadway, who live near the scene, called the police after the dog-walker who found the bodies knocked on their door. Mrs Broadway, 84, said: "The woman was very distressed. All she could say was that she had seen a car with the doors and the boot open, and a child lying in a funny position on the ground next to it. She didn't want to go any closer because she had her dog with her."The first three police cars turned up within minutes, Mrs Broadway said. "We didn't know if they were looking for a killer, or what was happening. I just feel so terribly sorry for the poor children."DS Tony Harris, of Hampshire police, said it was one of the most tragic cases he had dealt with. "It appears that the children suffered fatal stab wounds and Mr Pedersen took his own life soon afterwards. We are not looking for anyone else in connection with this investigation."We are currently investigating the circumstances surrounding this terrible incident and are working to establish what has led to these tragic deaths," Harris said."We are treating this as an isolated incident. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of those involved at this extremely difficult time and I would ask that they be allowed to come to terms with what has happened in a dignified and respectful way," he said.At the family home in Ashford, the children's maternal grandfather, William Clifford, said: "We are obviously devastated and what we would ask is that you respect our privacy in this matter. It is extremely distressing and that is all I want to say."A friend of the Pedersen family said: "You must have to be in a very dark place to do something like that, and I only saw him [Pedersen] on Friday. He was round my house with Freya. It's so sad."The children attended Ashford C of E primary school. The headteacher, Caroline Dyer, said: "Two of the children who attended our school have died in tragic circumstances. We are all deeply shocked and saddened at this news."There have been a spate of tragedies in which fathers have killed their children before taking their own lives. Last month Graham Anderson apparently killed his two sons, Jack and Bryn, at his flat in Tidworth, Wiltshire, after splitting from their mother, who lived in Andover.In July the bodies of Ceri Fuller, 35, his son Sam, 12, and daughters Rebecca and Charlotte, eight and seven, were found at a disused quarry in Shropshire. The children had been stabbed.