A group of customs officers systematically committed perjury in court and lied to judges in secret hearings or allowed others to do so, according to evidence seen by the Guardian.An internal Customs document shows that the officers deliberately withheld from the judges and defence teams in a string of court cases the fact that a crucial prosecution witness was a registered Customs informant. His evidence resulted in more than 200 convictions. The evidence is likely to undermine dozens of trials and appeals involving long-running fraud operations that led to losses in tobacco and alcohol tax revenue to the government of an estimated £2bn. Customs may also be forced to return tens of millions of pounds in confiscated assets from those wrongfully convicted and could face huge bills for damages and compensation. One defence lawyer said the concealment of the informant record had probably cost the taxpayer £30m in wasted court of appeal costs alone. It is understood that a number of defendants whose convictions were quashed on appeal have already been offered out of court settlements for wrongful imprisonment. In all the trials, which resulted from more than 80 operations targeting alcohol excise fraud at a London bonded warehouse, Customs should have disclosed the three-page informant record document. This shows that Alfred Allington, the owner of London City Bond (LCB), which runs a string of warehouses, had been a registered informant since 1994, four years before the trials started. Yet the document was never disclosed and in every case where Mr Allington gave evidence, both he and Customs repeatedly denied his true role. Customs said they could not comment on the Allington document "because it is now in the hands of the police." The Guardian has also learned that Customs did not hand the document over to a high court judge appointed by the attorney general while he was conducting an inquiry into Customs' handling of the fraud investigations. After a six-month investigation, Mr Justice Butterfield concluded that he could find no evidence of criminality by Customs and wanted to "draw a line in the sand" to end allegations surrounding their activities at LCB. But he was not given the vital document until after his report was complete, even though it had been discovered by a team of Scotland Yard detectives investigating allegations that Mr Allington and Customs officers had committed perjury. Fraudsters convicted of duty evasion at LCB were sentenced to up to 12 years in prison before the trials started to unravel in the appeal court. Many of them also had all their assets confiscated, lost their businesses and properties and even their homes. Lord Justice Rose, who quashed the conviction of one man who had served a three-year sentence, said in his summing-up: "Lies were told by reason of a deliberate decision on the part of Customs and Excise to conceal from the judge the true status of Alfred Allington and the real nature of the relationship between C & E and LCB ..." John Early, who was convicted with five others, said yesterday: "I have never denied that I was involved in the transport and documentation of diversion frauds and pleaded guilty at my trial. "But we could not have done it without the active cooperation of Alfred Allington who invited us in like he did with everyone else. He was always everybody's friend, saying in telephone conversations and at lunches that everything would get sorted and there would be no problems." Mr Early alleged that Mr Allington was receiving backdoor payments from unscrupulous traders. Mr Allington has never commented on his role in the frauds and he has never been charged with any offence. Customs bosses have been formally warned by police that at least 16 officials from all ranks, including the solicitors' office in charge of the LCB prosecutions, could be charged with offences including perjury, perverting the course of justice and malfeasance in a public office. But the immediate consequence will be to hasten the collapse of remaining convictions based on evidence obtained at LCB. Five men appealing against their convictions for a £25m duty fraud in Operation Puma were informed last week that Customs would no longer be opposing their appeals. Matthew Frankland, of Byrne and Partners, who is representing two of the men, said yesterday: "Shocking and implausible as it is, I cannot say I am entirely surprised that this document has now surfaced. It should have been openly disclosed years ago and the fact that has at last come to light demonstrates either staggering incompetence or blatant corruption - there is no room for half measures." Another dozen or more prosecutions still pending before the court of appeal will almost certainly collapse.