Fifteen-year-old Daniel had an excellent school record with good attendance before his father was sent to prison. Now his experiences have led him to the point where he is struggling to maintain his place in an alternative to exclusion facility.He said: "On the morning he was going to court, I asked him to wake me up at 6am before he went because I wanted to see him go. Dad didn't wake me up before he went. I felt sad and upset I couldn't say cheerio."My dad had explained before, what might happen. I didn't really understand, I was just like 'aye, nae bother'. The social worker asked daft questions and that didn't help. I happened to be at my IT worker's office when a call came through. He told me my dad got eight years."I cried for two hours and broke a window and two doors. I went to my mum's pal's house where my mum was and she said 'What are you crying for?' I had to tell her. I didn't really think about her - I was thinking about myself. The lawyer was supposed to get back in touch with us and let us know what was happening but he still hasn't to this day."Daniel describes how he and his mum have been constantly arguing since his dad went to prison. Before all this happened, he would never have shouted at his mum or his dad."Some people at my school found out - people my own age - they would keep away from me. The teachers must have known but they didn't mention anything," he said."I'm never relaxed, always wary since my dad went to prison, always aware of what's going on around me. I've never talked to any of my pals at school about it ... scared to. Other kids might give me hassle. I've had enough hassle."As for the times he went to visit his father, Daniel said: "There were cameras spinning about. Dad used to say 'don't look at them son'. I thought there was, like, a prison officer at the other end looking down the camera at you. It would be better if there were things to do, like videos, Gameboys, computers - you could pay for it - just something to do."Daniel says he feels angry towards his dad because he wasn't there for his birthday. But he isn't able to speak to anyone about it. "I don't want to worry my mum with my worries. I do worry about my dad. He went into prison at 20 stone, now he's 12-and-a-half stone. He's got false teeth, disgusting, and he's been in and out of hospital."I'd want to turn back time. Never be bad at school, have a better life, better place to stay. I've adapted to it, you have to. I was 15, and my dad got sent to prison. You'd think someone would've sat down and said to me 'Is something wrong?' Mad isn't it?"