Tony Blair will today make the provocative claim that Labour's new five-year crime plan heralds "the end of the 1960s liberal consensus on law and order" by putting the values of the law-abiding majority at the centre of the criminal justice system.In tandem with the home secretary, David Blunkett, who has also attacked "Hampstead liberals" in the past, the prime minister will seek to refocus public attention on a key feature of the domestic agenda which is of growing concern to Labour voters. While insisting that the sixties removed ugly prejudices and expanded individual freedoms, Mr Blair is expected to concede that the new lifestyles did not sufficiently foster responsibility to others, family discipline or role models - and focused the law and order system too much on offenders' rights. In less populist terms, an expansion of the national DNA database and new satellite tracking technology to keep tabs on Britain's 5,000 most prolific offenders are at the core of the Home Office's five year anti-crime plan being published by Mr Blunkett today. It will be matched by a new approach to neighbourhood policing, with "community-focused justice" at the centre of the government's next phase of its drive against antisocial behaviour. But Mr Blair, who faces another gruelling week to re-establish his authority, will seek to sex it up by appealing to the kind of Middle Britain anxieties that marked last week's score-draw byelections. Thatcherism's economic reforms further fragmented the social cohesion of communities, he will suggest. "People do not want a return to old prejudices and ugly discrimination. But they want rules, order and proper behaviour. "They know there is such a thing as society. They want the society of respect and responsibility, they want a community where the decent law-abiding majority are in charge, where those who play by the rules do well and those who do not get punished," he is expected to say. To this end the number of "trailblazer" areas to tackle antisocial behaviour is to be expanded from 10 to 50. Police and community safety workers will be expected to identify and deal with the 50 worst offenders in each of the rundown communities. Mr Blunkett hopes they will develop a new way of policing which will see a team based in each neighbourhood with forums so that residents can determine their priorities for action. They will be given the specific crime figures for their neighbourhood with league tables showing how they compare with similar communities. New measures are also expected to improve the treatment of victims and witnesses by the criminal justice system, including the appointment of a dedicated witness officer in every court to ensure they are kept fully informed. The emphasis on targets appears to contradict Labour's declared wish to cut them and, in an article in the Guardian today, the Blairite former minister Stephen Byers warns the prime minister that the style that used to work for him - "identify the polar opposites in any debate and then position yourself in the middle" - is no longer enough. "This is the time for New Labour to define itself positively, not negatively," writes Mr Byers. Labour's crime, transport and defence plans are all due this week, before Mr Blair faces critics at the party's national policy forum at the weekend. Today's plan will explain how Mr Blunkett intends to meet his unprecedented pledge to cut crime by 15% within three years. This week's new crime figures are expected to show that overall crime remains stable, but violent crime, especially alcohol-related incidents, continues to rise. Mr Blair now admits that the police were the least fit public service in 1997 and argues that renewed community policing, tackling the offence rather than the offender; and giving the police the necessary powers to restore respect on the streets are crucia.l Mr Blunkett yesterday talked of the problems arising from a new breed of "lager loutettes" with the number of women drinking over the safe limit of 21 units a week rising from 14% to 33%. He said they were changing the nature of pub culture and the presence of women in the bar was no longer necessarily the calming influence on young men starting to lay about each other that it might have been in the past. Ministers hope the extra 15,000 civilian police community support officers announced last week combined with more fixed penalty notices will underline the new drive against low-level offending that blights communities. It will be underpinned by a growth in youth inclusion projects which offer sports and mentoring focused on out-of-control "feral teenage children" in high crime areas. But the five-year plan will also place a strong emphasis on using new technology to cut crime. Satellite technology is to be used to tag and track offenders after they have been released from prison and while they are serving community penalties such as work orders. Ministers hope that this new generation of electronic tagging will enable the police and probation services to know where offenders have been, including scenes of crime, and help boost public confidence in alternatives to prison. A decision is to be made later this summer on whether sex offenders will also face compulsory lie detector tests after their release from prison to ensure that they have no inten tion of reoffending. A new national register of violent and sex offenders containing details of the 5,000 most prolific offenders is also to be developed, to give the police instant access to the most accurate and detailed information on all known dangerous offenders. The controversial national DNA database will also get a funding boost to ensure that it contains samples from all known prolific active offenders and is kept up to date. 