Baroness Scotland, the attorney general, ruled this week that there would be no appeal against the sentences meted out to the two children convicted in the notorious Edlington torture case. The boys, now aged 11 and 12, have been given indeterminate sentences, which means that they can be incarcerated forever, if those with a say in the matter decide that this is appropriate. Yet far from questioning whether this sentence is too imprecise and too draconian to be handed down to minors, those pushing for an appeal were upset that the tariff – which decrees that the boys can be considered for release after they have served five years – is too lenient.Even more surprising is that these criticisms came from groups styling themselves as children's rights campaigners. Michelle Elliot, of Kidscape, believes that a 10-year tariff would have been more appropriate for the sake of the victims who, at nine and 11, were subjected to a sadistic 90-minute attack which left one of them barely alive. Elliot argues that even the possibility of their tormentors being released while still in their teens is "too worrying" for them.It is a horrible thought: that these two tiny victims of violence that few people will experience even a fraction of in their lives, might be haunted by nightmares about the unpredictable future as well as the unchangeable past. But it is also a horrible thought that the boys who did this to them could, just could, come, quite quickly, to a genuine and profound understanding of what they did, and why it was so far beyond the pale. Would it really be productive, if they had come to experience genuine sorrow and contrition about their actions, for them to count off many years in adult prisons, brooding about the new perspectives they would have developed about the abusive start they had to their own lives, and the horror its legacy visited on others, before they could be said to have "paid their debt to society"?What debt does any child owe to society? What debt do these two owe to a society that left them for so many years with a violent father and drug-dependent mother, who gave them access to drugs and violent films, and poured into the developing minds of these children their own frustration and their own anger? It has already been established that Doncaster Council's children's services, under whose watch these children's lives were left blighted, had been in an awful state for years.That's what "society" did for these children – nothing like enough to save them from themselves, let alone from others. What's really appalling is this: that those boys did not attract the attention they needed, or the help they needed, until they had found victims of their own and committed an unconscionable crime against two children even younger and more vulnerable than themselves. All four of the young boys involved in this case were let down by the adult society that allowed this to happen.David Cameron may have been revoltingly opportunistic in trying to make political capital out of the Edlington case. But this case is just an extreme example of a wider problem. There is a danger now in reacting to Cameron's games by insisting that this case is truly singular, and hardly relevant to wider issues about how Britain manages difficult childhood. Sure, it would be nice to subscribe to the idea that a good, stiff punishment for the perpetrators would wipe the state clean for the victims too (which can never be done). But that's tendentious rubbish.I find the left's denials of Cameron's "broken society" almost as useless as Cameron's own laughable insistence that the breakage has nothing to do with the Conservatives. The left argues that society is not broken, but that a big chunk of it has merely been unfortunately damaged. "Hey, this dress might have a big, jagged hole round the back! But it's still a lovely dress! You shall go to the ball!" The idea is to reassure people that their lives are fine, even though they must not forget that the lives of the less fortunate – happily distant from their own – are less fine. The idea is that a little, isolated tear in an otherwise lovely fabric is easily mended.Sadly, Tony Blair was swept to power in the belief that social problems could be easily mended, and if there is one thing to learn from 13 years of Labour rule it is that this was a mistaken belief, like so many of Blair's other beliefs. Instead, Labour clings on to this bankrupt notion, while another shallow man punts the same delusion in another plea for "change".But the Edlington torturers, and their indeterminate sentences, say something different. Indeterminate sentences, introduced by Labour and seized on with enthusiasm by judges, say something very harsh and very important about human psychological development, and how close society has come, silently, to acknowledging how awry it can go. Until recently, only the insane could be detained indefinitely. Everyone else was considered able to comprehend their guilt, and expected to serve the time deemed commensurate with their crime.No one suggests that the child criminals in this case are insane. The word "psychopath" is bandied around, but that's not an insanity, that's a personality disorder – and personality disorders are not curable, though they are sometimes manageable. Anyway, no child can be clinically diagnosed as psychopathic. A child showing psychopathic symptoms is diagnosed as having "conduct disorder". Intervention during childhood, it is reckoned, can be effective, in a way that intervention at a time when the brain is fully developed cannot.In other words, the five-year tariff for these boys is clinically crucial. It is the window during which they can make real progress, if they are capable of real progress at all. If their minds cannot be changed in the next five years, then their minds are unlikely ever to be changed.Of course, Labour brought in Sure Start, alongside many other initiatives that emphasised the importance of early intervention. But Sure Start largely draws in children with parents who are engaged with them, to some extent or another. Children who suffer sustained neglect or abuse are the last to be caught in this net, and they are the ones who need it most.Children who become used to feeling only negative emotions learn quickly that it is better to feel nothing at all. That's why that supposedly small tear in Britain's fabric is hard to mend. It's not just social deprivation. It's brain damage; brain damage caused by the twin psychological cancers of childhood neglect and abuse, which thrive best in socially and economically jettisoned areas, like Edlington.