Ministers must urgently review the law on home education to prevent further tragedies, the independent review into the death of Khyra Ishaq recommended today .Seven-year-old Khyra starved to death in 2008 at the hands of her mother, Angela Gordon, and Junaid Abuhamza, who were both jailed after admitting manslaughter earlier this year.The review concluded that flaws in home education laws were partly to blame for the death. The laws' sole focus on parents' rights – rather than their children's – enabled Gordon to ignore social services and made it impossible for them to intervene.The review calls for changes to the law to ensure that social services speak to children to assess whether home education is in their interests, as well as their parents. The review found Gordon had become increasingly aggressive towards her children's teachers when she removed Khyra and some of her siblings from school in December 2007.Gordon wrote to authorities to tell them that she wanted to educate her children at home. Birmingham city council's education welfare service – known as the Education Otherwise team – visited Gordon with a social worker to assess whether she was fit to home-educate her children.The serious case review found the welfare worker used a "tick-box" approach for this assessment. The welfare worker did not ask to see examples of the kinds of lessons Khyra would be taught or inquire into how many hours of education Gordon's children would receive each week. At no point did the welfare worker request to see Khyra or her siblings. Nonetheless, the welfare worker concluded that Gordon was fit to home-educate her children.Other authorities held "great store" by the welfare worker's assessment, the review found, and this led to a catalogue of missed opportunities to spot neglect and abuse in the home."There is no safeguard to ensure that a satisfactory education is being received by children and that their welfare is being safeguarded," the review stated. "The current legislation enables parents to move their children from state education with minimal reasons and provides an opportunity to render young people virtually invisible. This is a particular advantage to parents who may wish to conceal abuse."On this occasion, the legislative framework contributed to the unintended outcome of isolating some children within a home environment and restricted access to those children by professional agencies, effectively removing any oversight of their welfare or development. Without doubt, the legislative armour ... enabled [Gordon] to resist the advances of professional intervention and added to the perceived impotence of professionals to intervene."Michael Gove, the education secretary, said "lessons needed to be learned" from Khyra's death and promised he would "see what changes need to be made to the existing arrangements … in due course".Fiona Nicholson, from the national home education charity Education Otherwise – a different organisation to the one mentioned in the independent review – said blaming home education was a "red herring designed to distract attention from Birmingham's lamentable child protection record".In April, a controversial clause to the education bill that would have compelled every parent who home-educates their child to register with their local authority was dropped. It was one of the concessions made by the then-Labour government to push through an education bill before parliament was dissolved ahead of the general election.Ed Balls, the then education secretary, wanted to force home-educating families to accept annual visits from local authority inspectors, a move that led to home-educators demonstrating to parliament. Balls, now shadow education secretary, said he strongly urged Gove to re-introduce the legislation on home education as "an urgent priority". "He will have our full support," he said.