The body of a young woman found in a flooded river in Cumbria was confirmed yesterday to be that of the missing student Shafilea Ahmed.Police officers said the investigation was still being treated as a murder inquiry, but until they could establish a cause of death they could not say any more. Shafilea, 17, from Great Sankey, Warrington, was last seen five months ago. She was described as "vulnerable, not very streetwise and with no money". Last week her parents were shown jewellery found on a badly decomposed body which was taken from the river Kent at Sedgwick, south of Kendal, on February 4. A spokesman for Cheshire police said: "Results of the DNA tests confirm that the body is that of Shafilea. "We can't say any more about the cause of death at present." Her father Iftikhar, 44, a taxi driver, and her mother Farzana, 41, were arrested in December on suspicion of kidnapping. They were later released on police bail. The teenager disappeared on September 11 last year after a trip to Pakistan, where her parents introduced her to a potential suitor. During the visit she drank bleach and was admitted to hospital with severe internal damage. She was unable to eat or drink without medication because of her injuries. Her parents did not report her disappearance to the police. Teachers contacted officers after they overheard her younger siblings discussing it. Mr Ahmed later denied that he had harmed his daughter. He said no arranged marriage had been planned and the trip to Pakistan was only a family holiday. "I love my daughter," he said. "Why would I ever want to do anything to hurt her? The police are trying to frame the family." At a press conference last December detectives said they believed she was dead. They asked Shobna Gulati, who plays Sunita in Coronation Street, to read to two of the poems written by the teenager. In one she wrote: "I don't pretend like we're the perfect family no more. Desire to live is burning. My stomach is turning. But all they think about is honour. I was like a normal teenage kid." Gulati said: "I think she is definitely looking as though she is trapped between two cultures. She wants to express something and is unable to do that." Cheshire police liaised with Interpol and the Foreign Office to find out more about what had happened to Shafilea in Pakistan.