Murder squad detectives were today investigating what prompted a knife fight in which one teenager was killed and three were injured.A 15-year-old boy, named locally as Kasey Gordon, suffered fatal injuries during the violence in Tottenham, north London, as he made his way home from school yesterday afternoon.He was near the Park View Academy when the fight broke out outside a takeaway in West Green Road. Three other teenagers, aged between 14 and 16, were taken to hospital with stab wounds, but their injuries are not life-threatening.Witnesses said the youngsters could be seen kicking and punching an older man armed with a knife. Police arrested a 33-year-old man at the scene, and he is in custody at a north London police station.One line of inquiry is that the victim confronted the older man over an inappropriate comment he made about a young girl before the fight broke out and his friends stepped in to defend him.Taxi driver Yilmaz Yuce, who works for West Green Cars, said he saw officers raid a Turkish cafe and take away a man in his 30s, who had blood on his hands and face. He claimed the man, a regular at the cafe, had a mental illness but was regarded as "harmless".Jean-Pierre Laville, a 30-year-old carpenter who was in a nearby internet cafe, said he saw a fight between three boys and a man on the pavement."There were punches being thrown and I saw him stabbing – it was very quick," he said. "Two of them collapsed on the ground, and he just walked off up the road. He had blood on his face."A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said officers were called out at 3.45pm yesterday following reports of an assault. An ambulance and the air ambulance also attended.The victim was pronounced dead shortly after 4.30pm, and the other three were taken to hospital.A police spokeswoman said: "A boy aged 15 years was pronounced dead at the scene. It is believed he was stabbed. Detectives are retaining an open mind at this early stage [about] the circumstances of the incident and any motive." A postmortem examination will take place today.Dozens of tearful children laid flowers beside a tree in the school grounds. A Facebook tribute page has been set up.A group of girls hugged each other as they left a tribute. A card left with the flowers read: "Kasey, I never knew it was possible to cry so much. This has come as such a shock."A bunch of yellow roses laid at the scene had a message that read: "To my bro Kasey. You didn't have time to grow into a man! I loved you! I still love you! God bless you. RIP. From your sister Dione."A police cordon spanned a long stretch of West Green Road, and traffic was being diverted. A number of shops had to close following the stabbing.