Four of five police officers at the centre of a long-running controversy over a black paratrooper's death in custody have been pensioned off after years of legal action.The men, in their late 30s and early 40s, were all cleared of the manslaughter of 37-year-old Christopher Alder, who choked to death on the floor of Hull police station while the officers chatted and joked around him. Humberside police authority has agreed to their retirement on medical grounds. The force's chief constable, David Westwood, who would normally settle such issues, referred the decision to the authority to ensure independence. The tragedy in April 1998 was caught on closed circuit TV film and an inquest jury later returned a verdict of unlawful killing. But the officers, Sergeant John Dunn and PCs Matthew Barr, Nigel Dawson, Neil Blakey and Mark Ellerington, were cleared at Teesside crown court when a judge halted their manslaughter trial and ruled there was no evidence to convict. Mr Alder, a computer studies student who was awarded a medal for service in Northern Ireland, was arrested for refusing to leave the grounds of Hull Royal Infirmary where he declined treatment after being hit on the head during a fracas outside a local night club. The five-minute journey to the police station from the hospital was thought by medical experts at the inquest to be the cause of Mr Alder's sudden, largely unexplained collapse. He had to be "partially dragged, partially carried" into police custody by PC Blakey, the only one of the five not being retired, and PC Dawson. Mr Alder's sister Janet said last night: "They are just kicking the family in the teeth by paying these police officers off." The family's solicitor, Ruth Bundey, said: "This is another nail in Christopher Alder's coffin. But this case is not going to go away." The chair of Humberside police authority, Colin Inglis, said: "The applications were dealt with in the same way as any other requests for early retirement on health grounds." Humberside Police Federation spokesman Jon Savage said: "The federation considers the matters discussed are private and confidential to the individuals concerned and will not comment further."