The government should change its approach to confiscation orders, according to a report by the National Audit Office. Confiscation orders are what the government uses to get money back from criminals. It includes work by a plethora of organisations including the police, the Crown Prosecution Service and HM Courts Tribunal Service. In 2012-13, 6,392 confiscation orders were made, attempting to get £318m returned from £1.6bn acquired illegally.The amount that was actually recovered last year through the process was about £133m.The NAO used the £52bn that National Fraud Authority estimates is made from fraud each year to give an overestimate of how much of the criminal economy was being seized.Not much.It's equivalent to at most 26p out of every £100 made by criminals. Not that recovering that full £100 is in any way realistic.There are plenty of crimes that have not yet been discovered by the police and when they are found out then there are means to conceal or dispose some or all of those earnings.However, what makes this total more problematic is the amount it costs to enforce these orders takes up so much of the money made: The NAO estimates that 76% of the amount recovered using confiscation orders each year is spent enforcing confiscation orders. This gives the UK government a net income of £31m from confiscation orders. Why is so much of the total being spent?The enforcement of confiscation orders is spread out between a number of different organisations. The NAO estimates that investigation, prosecution and enforcement are all roughly spending a third of the £103m total.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Organisations involved in confiscation orders. Photograph: /National Audit OfficeOnly 2% of offenders paid in full last year and just 41% of the total amount of all orders since 1987, including interest, has been collected.There is around £1.46bn waiting to be claimed from the 20,000 cases still outstanding.While most organisations have close to an 100% rate for returning money from cases under £1000 that proportion keeps decreasing as they pursue the bigger confiscation orders. The fact that there are so many groups working on it plays into one of the report's main findings: There is no coherent overall strategy for confiscation orders. Without knowing what constitutes success overall or in individual cases, the bodies involved have no way of knowing which criminals, court cases, or uncompleted orders should be prioritised for confiscation activity and resources. Many criminal cases do not end up with a confiscation order which is a missed opportunity, and for those that do, law enforcement agencies have not systematically revisited cases to find new evidence on criminal proceeds.Other key problems the NAO cite include:A flawed incentive scheme with limited oversight. Lack of good performance data or benchmarks for organisations means there is limited perspective on which cases to pursue.Bad ICT systems have helped contribute to the HM Courts and Tribunal Service spending 45 hours a week manually keying details into the system, with numerous data-entry errors also a problem.The central sanctions used to enforce confiscation orders, which prison sentences and 8% interest on the amount, "do not work".For more read Caroline Davies' piece: Confiscation orders take only 26p in every £100 from criminals, NAO finds.