Zoe Williams is right to bring out the futility of the argument about whether "prison works" (Yes, prisons work. No, I am not a Michael Howard clone, 16 December). People who have a stable family, a home, a job or a religious faith are less likely to become offenders than people who lack those things. The most effective way to reduce offending is to help a person to achieve an identity as a parent, partner, worker or citizen, and so to find some respect and perhaps affection as a person and not as a criminal. There is plenty of evidence for that, but the courts and the prison and probation services cannot by themselves do much about it. Civil society can do more, and probation and prison staff can do a lot to help if they are given the chance, but this aspect of rehabilitation has been for too long neglected. It deserves more recognition than it received in the government's green paper.Incidentally, the prison service realised much more than 30 years ago that the "punitive element" can "never be the main point of incarceration".David FaulknerUniversity of Oxford centre for criminology• Zoe Williams falls into the trap of focusing on the polarised nature of the prison debate – a debate that it is too seldom linked to the facts. Here are some that tend to be ignored:1) Prison numbers have gone up primarily because of the increased time spent in prison by violent and sexual offenders. The number of other offenders being sent to prison has not increased significantly.2) The reduction in reoffending from prison has a parallel with the increased length and intensity of licence supervision by the probation service and the increased rate of recall to prison by probation staff. The highest rate of reoffending of ex-prisoners is by those whose sentences are less than 12 months, and so are not eligible for statutory supervision.3) A significant proportion of these short-sentence prisoners are those who have been breached by probation staff because of the failure to comply with court orders. There must be consequences for those who fail to comply. Yet over 70% of community orders are completed successfully. Even though not in prison, these offenders have chosen to make use of the guidance provided in the community.Over the past 10 years rates of reoffending have dropped markedly. Many offenders on community orders manage to turn their lives around with the help of probation or prison staff and many others in the voluntary or statutory sector.Some offenders have to go to prison, both to be punished and to protect everyone else. But the alleged causal link between a larger prison population and reduced crime is not proven.Gerry MarshallChief executive, Thames Valley Probation• Zoe Williams asks "How is it that the prison system could have such a socially beneficial impact on nearly half the people who pass through it?" The question seems to be based on the fact that 45% of prisoners do not reoffend. If so, the underlying argument is false.Many defendants decide before sentence that they will not commit further offences. Serious offenders may instantly and permanently regret their conduct. Many have little opportunity to repeat the offending. The dishonest professional or careworker will not hold a similar post again, for example.I know of no way of measuring the number who have received a socially beneficial impact, but it cannot be 45%. It does not follow that the sequence of offending, imprisonment, release and going straight means prison has worked. The result could often have been achieved without the imprisonment.Judge Alasdair Darroch Norwich Combined Court• One way in which prison definitely works is in the production of the next generation of offenders. Studies have consistently shown that the children of prisoners are between three and six times more likely to show antisocial delinquent behaviour than their peers. Surely it is time that we took their rights and needs into account.Sue KingLeicester