A man was today remanded in custody in connection with the rape of a 15-year-old British girl found dead in Goa.Samson D'Souza, 28, appeared at the magistrates court in Mapusa today after witnesses came forward alleging they saw him raping Scarlett Keeling on the beach on February 18.Scarlett's body was found on Anjuna beach last month. After pressure from her mother, Fiona MacKeown, there was a second autopsy, which showed that she did not die from drowning as police had first claimed.Goa police inspector Kisham Kumar said today that they were satisfied D'Souza was involved in the rape, but no formal charge had yet been brought against him."As far as the murder is concerned, we are still investigating," he said.Kumar said D'Souza was remanded in police custody for 14 days. His court appearance came hours after MacKeown expressed doubts that police had got the "right person".She told BBC Breakfast: "I am not confident that they have got the right person, I think that they are just making a public show, to be honest." Speaking from Goa, MacKeown said she feared police would "continue to try to cover themselves up – their mistakes".She revealed she had written to the chief minister of Goa asking for the central bureau of investigation (CBI) to take over the case."Only then will I be satisfied that somebody from outside the area is dealing with this case, and I would want them to deal with the police as well, not just the people that have done this to Scarlett," she said."The police really need dealing with as well because this is an ongoing thing, it has happened before many times, and if they had dealt with it in the past, Scarlett may still be alive today." Under the Indian legal system, police had to present D'Souza before the court within 24 hours of his arrest. The Goa police inspector, Kishan Kumar, said: "We have sufficient evidence to show this man was having sex with the girl in the early hours of February 18. We have established that he was raping her." The second postmortem examination showed that there was not enough water in Scarlett's lungs for her to have drowned, and that she had been attacked.The teenager was found a few metres from the beachside bar where she had been seen drinking two hours earlier, at 4am. Much of her clothing had been removed.The new postmortem report said there were cuts and bruises all over her body.Scarlett, from Bideford in Devon, had been on a six-month holiday with her six siblings, her mother and her mother's boyfriend. The rest of the family was travelling in a nearby state and Scarlett had stayed with a tour guide in Anjuna.MacKeown found pieces of her daughter's clothing on the beach and had also taken witness statements in an attempt to find out what happened. She has said she will fly her daughter's body home for a funeral and then return to Goa to keep pressuring the police in their investigation. Goa is a popular destination for western tourists, but in recent years there have been problems with tourists dying from drug overdoses and women being attacked and sexually assaulted. According to the Times of India, 126 foreigners have died in Goa over the past two years, and in January this year a 30-year-old British woman was raped.