Only five days after he arrived in the UK from Ukraine in April this year, Pavlo Lapshyn murdered Mohammed Saleem. Saleem, an 82-year-old man, was walking home from prayers at his local mosque in Birmingham. He was stabbed three times in his back, and his head was stamped on. Two months later, amid the charged atmosphere that followed the murder of drummer Lee Rigby, 25-year-old Lapshyn detonated an explosive device outside a mosque in Walsall. The next week, he detonated another device near a mosque in Wolverhampton. Two weeks later, a third bomb packed with nails exploded outside a mosque in Tipton. The only reason the bomb did not result in hundreds of deaths was that prayers had been moved back one hour because of Ramadan.Lapshyn, who will be sentenced on Friday, has not concealed his motive. Though many like to dismiss so-called "lone wolves" as irrational and mentally ill, like others before him he drew influence from a wider extreme-right subculture. He admired the Oklahoma bomber, Timothy McVeigh, and Norwegian mass-murderer Anders Behring Breivik, and absorbed Hunter and The Turner Diaries, violent novels by an American neo-Nazi that detail the assassination of minorities and advocate race war. Asked about his own campaign of violence, Lapshyn responded: "I would like to increase racial conflict."These ideas reflect a deeply held set of beliefs among hardcore rightwing extremists, which give them a compelling rationale for violence: the survival of Europe or the nation is under threat from multiculturalism or Islam; established politicians are unwilling to save the native group, or complicit in their downfall; only urgent and radical action can fend off the threat; and activists have a moral obligation to act to save their group and future generations. Lone wolves are rare creatures, but the narratives they use to justify their violence are widespread on the extremist fringe.In a world that continues to view terrorism as a group-based activity, lone actors present a daunting challenge and one that might simply never be overcome. Security officials have spent at least 50 years shaping law enforcement tools around the assumption that terrorism is at least cell-based with chains of command. But disrupting group dynamics, infiltrating organisations and exploiting weak links in a longer chain suddenly appear redundant in the fight against isolated individuals, who might never even have met a fellow believer. Instead, the Breiviks of the world engage in extreme "narrowcasting", visiting the same websites day after day, encountering little that challenges their worldview. Even terrorist groups now recognise the advantage of keeping their operatives outside of traditional channels.This is why, this week, one of the UK's most senior security officials has warned about the lone wolf threat, claiming activists driven by a hatred of immigrants and Muslims are often more skilled in using explosives, harder to track, and not constrained by the weaknesses that undermine groups. "The biggest weapons caches found in this country in the last five years," explained Charles Farr, director of the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism, "have been connected with people sympathetic to extreme rightwing causes." (Meanwhile, in Germany, authorities recently confiscated almost 1,000 weapons from known rightwing extremists). Nor is this the first warning. The central intelligence agency (CIA), UK home affairs committee and department for homeland security, who in 2009 pointed to the economic downturn and disillusioned military veterans returning from fighting Islamists in Afghanistan and Iraq as possible triggers, have all flagged the growing impact of lone wolf action.While the homeland security report was attacked by Tea Party activists, who saw it as an attempt to stain their radical right views, the agency was soon proved correct when a military veteran and white supremacist, Wade Michael Page, embarked on a shooting spree at a Sikh temple in Wisconsin. In fact, between 1990 and 2010 the US saw almost 350 ideologically motivated murders by rightwing extremists, 37% of which were perpetrated by lone individuals. More than half of the victims were targeted simply because they belonged to a racial or ethnic minority group.Yet the reality is that we know little about this challenge. A cursory glance at research entries on Google Scholar highlights the general trend: a staggering 10,400 books or articles on "Islamic terrorism"; more than 7,000 on "racist violence", but less than 250 on "lone-wolf terrorism". It is perhaps unsurprising that a researcher would call for more research, but unless we produce the reliable and objective studies of what pushes young men like Lapshyn into violence, then all we are left with is speculation and the consequences of these actions.