It is a well-worn criticism of the Labour government that it has excelled at being tough on crime but has largely failed to be tough on the causes of crime. Britain's burgeoning prison population - double what it was for most of the long period of Conservative government between 1979 and 1997 - is the most obvious sign of its toughness on crime. Labour's often tokenistic expenditure on broader-based social interventions is testament to its superficial commitment to prevention.Youth justice is in many ways a microcosm of the difficulties Labour has got itself into over the criminal justice system as whole. Major reforms have been embarked on since 1997, including the establishment of the Youth Justice Board and of the multi-agency Youth Offending Teams. And with reform and structural upheaval has come significantly increased expenditure. Spending on youth justice grew by 45% in real terms between 2000 and 2007, outstripping growth in the budgets of the police, courts and the Crown Prosecution Service.On some specific targets related to the bureaucracy of criminal justice, the government might claim success. The time taken to process a young person defined as a persistent offender through the youth justice system, from arrest to sentence, has been halved, from 142 days on average in 1996 to 72 days in 2006.On other measures the government wobbles between claiming success and conceding that more needs to be done. Targets to reduce the number of children in prison, for instance, have been regularly missed, with the numbers in youth custody remaining stubbornly high. The government has managed to reduce the number of so-called "first time entrants" into the youth justice system. But overall, more young people are being processed than ever before.But the most striking fact, given all the time and money spent by Labour on youth justice in the past decade, is that there has been no measurable impact on the level of reported youth offending. Since 2001 the same proportion of children - a quarter - year on year admit to having committed one offence or more. Looking further back in time the picture remains roughly the same since at least the early 1990s. Put simply, the government has spent 10 years reforming the youth justice system, spending several billion pounds, to no noticeable effect.The lesson of the last 10 years is that seeking to solve the problem of youth crime through the criminal justice system, however tough, is unlikely to be effective. A feature of Labour's youth justice reforms of the past decade is that money that previously would have been available to spend on social programmes has been diverted into youth justice spend. Some 15% of funding for Youth Offending Teams, for instance, is drawn from social services budgets. The youth justice system has, in effect, become a de facto social service designed to provide a range of social support services to some of the most troubled, troublesome and needy of young people.A decade on from the start of Labour's bold youth justice experiment, the time has come to reappraise the role and purpose of youth justice and consider what it realistically can achieve.