The home secretary, Jack Straw, has been strongly criticised by the chief inspector of prisons for failing over two years to prevent conditions getting worse inside Winson Green, Birmingham - by common consent the worst jail in Britain. Sir David Ramsbotham said in a report published today that the appalling conditions which he revealed in a 1998 report have got worse. He made clear his frustration that Home Office ministers, including Mr Straw, reacted to his earlier findings by demanding £860,000 of budget cuts in Birmingham instead of sending in a taskforce and extra funds as they had done with other failing prisons. "Having already appealed to ministers without success, what is the chief inspector of prisons meant to do or say, and to whom, when he and his team return to a prison, only to find that, despite some peripheral improvements, conditions for and treatment of prisoners are if anything worse than before?" he said. The report is the most scathing the chief inspector has published in his five years in the job. He leaves the post this summer without his contract being renewed. The prison service responded to his report by arguing that the newly appointed governor must be given time to turn the prison around. Sir David said: "This appalling report describes treatment of and conditions for prisoners that are far worse than other failing prisons, such as Brixton, which very recently have been so roundly and rightly condemned by both the minister and me. It describes some of the worst conditions we have ever seen in a prison in England and Wales." Birmingham was named as "one of the six hellholes of the prison service" by the director general, Martin Narey, when he threatened to resign if governors and staff did not fully support his modernisation programme. Mr Narey agreed little had changed at the jail since an inmate, Barry Prosser, was "kicked to death by staff". Sir David said Birmingham was the country's second most overcrowded prison with a population of 1,060 inmates held in cells built for 734. Each inmate had only five hours' "association" out of cell each week. A shortage of 500 workplaces, and only 120 education places, meant half the population was bound to be idle every day. The report also revealed an even darker side to the prison in which beatings of inmates were common and mentally ill prisoners were left to rot. Mr Narey said the £860,000 efficiency cuts had now been reduced to £160,000. He said the prison would receive a new healthcare centre, significant support from NHS mental health in-reach services and a further investment of about £500,000. The Ramsbotham report reveals: • In the healthcare centre one prisoner, an epileptic, lay on a mattress on the floor. Conditions in the single rooms were appalling. Many were unfurnished apart from a concrete plinth as a bed. • "We were very concerned to see a framed cartoon on the wall of the principal officer's office with very offensive remarks on it including Join the National Front". • Prisoner survey showed 62% felt unsafe and 11% claimed they had been assaulted by staff. • Hygiene on some wings was appalling. Many prisoners were short of clean clothes, some did not even get weekly showers, toilet paper was rationed to six sheets each.