Detectives investigating the murder of Special Constable Nisha Patel-Nasri in May have found the murder weapon and have a DNA profile of the suspected killer, it was announced today.Officers released CCTV images of a car that was in Wembley, north-west London, on the night of her murder. They believe it could have stopped to pick up the killer.Ms Patel-Nasri, 29, was fatally stabbed in the leg with a kitchen knife outside her Wembley home on May 11. Police said the the 30cm (11.8in) John Lewis cook's knife, part of a block set, was missing from the house, but refused to discuss when, where or how it had been found. However, they confirmed that, in addition to Ms Patel-Nasri's DNA, it provided the DNA profile of an unknown person. Officers believe that will be enough to eliminate potential suspects or confirm someone as the killer. The current level of DNA technology means the sample taken is not of sufficient quality to run a comparison against the 2m samples on the police's DNA database, but this could change as techniques improve.The CCTV stills released today show a light grey Audi A4 saloon that was seen near Ms Patel-Nasri's home, in Sudbury Avenue, before and after her murder. The car was caught on CCTV on Harrowdene Road, which runs parallel to Sudbury Avenue, around an hour before the attack, and again two to three minutes after Ms Patel-Nasri was killed.Detectives are investigating whether it pulled over in Harrowdene Road to pick up a suspect they described as a black male wearing a hooded top.Detective Superintendent Julian Worker, of the Metropolitan police, today said the car's suspicious movements led him to believe it had been "directly involved" in the murder. It has a number of distinctive features including a black underseal that does not match its bodywork, a possible blemish on the roof and a licence plate light that was apparently not working on the night of the attack. Detectives are appealing for help in trying to trace the car, which they believe was manufactured between 2001 and 2004. There are approximately 6,000 similar vehicles in the country, with around 1,000 in the London area. Four months after the attack, detectives are still unclear about what motivated it. Ms Patel-Nasri's husband, Fadi, had left the house shortly before the murder. Police are investigating whether someone had intended to either burgle the property or steal two limousine-style cars parked outside. Mr Nasri ran a limousine hire business, and police are trying to determine whether the killing was linked to the business or to Ms Patel-Nasri's work as a special constable. They are uncertain whether she had gone outside to investigate a disturbance or had found someone in the house. "I really don't know the circumstances of what happened on May 11," Det Sup Worker said. "There are only two people that do, and one of them is dead." A few days before the murder, there was an attempted burglary at the house. Detectives have not yet ruled out a link between the two incidents. They will tonight issue an appeal on the BBC's Crimewatch programme for help in catching the killer.