Tony Blair reaffirmed his hardening line on law and order today, signalling action on knife crime and urging judges to crack down on anti-social behaviour.The prime minister also acknowledged tougher gun laws may be encouraging people to switch to knives.He told ITV1's This Morning programme headteachers should be able to search pupils to help rid schools of knives but action was also needed outside the playground gates. "There are a few other things we need to do as well, because, actually, one of the problems is not just with children but with adults carrying knives," he said. "You now get a mandatory five-year sentence if you carry a gun. And I think some of these people are switching to knives which is why we are now looking at how do you make that tougher?" Relatives of stabbing victims travelled to No 10 yesterday to plead for a change in the law. They are demanding a five-year minimum jail term for carrying a blade longer than three inches, the same as for a gun. Mr Blair also urged judges to "come down very hard" on youths who breach anti-social behaviour orders. Although the majority of those who break orders already go to jail, Mr Blair said it was frustrating when powers given by parliament were not used to the full. "In the end, the courts should be tough on these people and in many areas they are," he said. "In the end, what I can do is give them the powers, I can't tell the judge what to do. "Once these orders have been breached, the judge should come down on them very hard indeed. There are areas where Asbos have been very successful. For the majority of people who breach Asbos, they are actually going inside." He added: "The most frustrating thing is you can pass the laws, what you can't always do is make it happen on the ground in quite the way you want. It is frustrating." He went on: "The one thing I feel very, very strongly about is that people should be able to have some respect from other people when they are out and about in their local community. That's not a lot to ask, that you get respect and give some respect." The Home Office is due to publish a new package of measures on knife crime tomorrow.