John Reid is a glass-half-full sort of chap - water, of course - but even a pessimistic home secretary could not fail to be encouraged by one element of this week's Youth Justice Board study, which suggests that Asbos are widely perceived by teenagers as a badge of honour. "You are inviting little Johnny Smith to... run over the imaginary line, then run away from police," one police officer said of geographical exclusion zones. "You've actually invented a game for the kids to play."This seems a genuine achievement - Mr Reid's department has sent out self-congratulatory press releases for less - given that one timeworn cry is that these youngsters are disaffected because they have nothing to do. Conventional wisdom requires us to see them as loitering in some kind of civic no man's land - too old to be diverted by rusting playgrounds, and too young to drink in pubs (you do have to admire the far-flung horizons of our social ambition).Happily, such ennui appears to have been addressed by this exciting variant on British bulldog. Indeed, to the surprise of no one who has ever been within a one-mile exclusion zone of teenagers, they have turned out to be contrary creatures, viewing Asbos as a kind of inner-city peerage. "Some of the friends are left out now because they're not on Asbos," worries one of the mothers quoted in the study. "I think they all want one."For this report to emerge in isolation would be cheering enough; for it to be published days after Tony Blair advocated the limitless expansion of the DNA database, with police calling for genetic samples to be taken from every newborn baby - well, it suggests that the Home Office is well on its way to becoming fit for purpose, assuming that the purpose is creating the impression that children are the enemy within.A child's first experience of being under suspicion by the state is precious, of course, and the government has already made an excellent start on this commitment to cradle-to-grave surveillance. Already on the system is the DNA of 51,000 innocent juveniles, children arrested and freed without charge, and it was barely a month ago that the home secretary was instructing Muslim parents to spy on their children. If they found anomalous teenage behaviour - keeping strange hours, for instance, or hanging out with new friends - they would be encouraged to rat their offspring out to the equivalent of a committee of Un-British activities.When you consider all these initiatives against the backdrop of the privacy watchdog's warning that we are waking up to a surveillance society, it seems ever more baffling that children should find themselves drawn to cloaking devices such as hooded tops. With so many exciting opportunities to be recognised by the state, there has surely never been a better time to be a child.Naturally, it would take someone as academically qualified as Dr Reid to point out the idiocy of what follows, but the simpler souls among us might assume that if you appear to demonise children from the second they leave the womb, film them the moment they set foot outside their front doors, and encourage the idea that their parents are working for the authorities and against them, you ingrain indelibly in them a sense that not just the state but society as a whole is something that is out to get them. Being blessed with the energy of youth, they may feel moved to kick against it, or attempt to outwit it.As adults, alas, we seem incapable of being anything other than supine as encroachments on our liberties mount up, the limits of our protestations summarised by the caller to Five Live this week who demanded to know why young people have become so rude. Convention demands that we blame their parents or a computer game but, knowing the Blair government's mania for "taking responsibility", one wonders whether in their secret hearts they recognise their own contribution to the coarsening of public life. It was Alastair Campbell's corrosive influence that made "bollocks" New Labour's catchphrase, but his vulgar aggression was joyfully echoed by others such as David Blunkett, who as home secretary would talk of "nailing" criminals. Do recall that, when asked for an official comment on the suicide of Harold Shipman, this holder of an office once entrusted to Winston Churchill cackled: "Is it too early to open a bottle?"Blunkett's still banging on, using a recent Sun column to counter any suggestion that expanding the DNA database is an intrusion. "It certainly is," he parried. "An intrusion into the arrogant confidence of criminals who think they can cock a snook at society and walk free to carry out other crimes which would otherwise go undetected." Perhaps we can do without his thoughts on DNA, given that it was arguably his arrogant confidence that he could accept a lucrative directorship with a DNA testing firm without taking advice from the relevant Commons committee that precipitated his second departure from cabinet. But it is becoming increasingly difficult to dispense with the sense that the government's fatuously conceived "respect agenda" works one way only.marina.hyde@theguardian.com