 3.23pm GMT SummaryI’ll wrap up now with a summary.• Two reports have been published into Jimmy Savile’s crimes.• The first, from the Metropolitan police and the NSPCC, entitled Giving Victims a Voice, says the late TV presenter sexually assaulted children as young as 10 over six decades.• Savile abused children at 14 hospitals, the report finds, including Great Ormond Street, and a children’s hospice. Offences also took place on BBC premises and there were 14 assaults in schools.• The report says that Savile abused up to 500 children and young people, and may have raped 34, from 1955 to 2009, two years before he died. Most of his victims were children – 73% – although they ranged in age from eight to 47 at the time of the abuse, and and 82% were female. Most of the crimes took place in Leeds, Savile’s home town, and London, his main place of work.• So far 214 criminal offences have been recorded across 28 police areas. Of offences recorded against Savile 126 are indecent acts with 34 involving rape or penetration.• There is no clear evidence of Savile being part of a paedophile ring, although investigations are continuing.• Peter Watt, director of child protection advice and awareness at the NSPCC, said Savile was one of the most prolific sex offenders the NSPCC had dealt with in its 129-year history.• The report shows that Savile was able to brush off police investigations into his behaviour. • The majority of victims had never reported their experiences to authorities before, saying they feared they would not be believed or did not trust the judicial system.• The second report was by the Crown Prosecution Service, and covered assault complaints made against Savile in 2007 and 2008. It found that Savile might have been prosecuted over three allegations of sexual abuse had police dealt with the complainants differently.• Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, apologised on behalf of the CPS for treating those making allegations against Savile with “a degree of caution which is not generally justified”. He urged all victims of sexual abuse who felt their complaints had been mishandled by police to come forward to have their cases reinvestigated. The CPS will set up panels across England and Wales to assess the complaints.• Read the Metropolitan police/NSPCC report here.• Read the CPS report here. 2.56pm GMT Police response   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Here is Metropolitan police commander Peter Spindler discussing the Giving Victims a Voice report into Savile's crimes.And here is my colleague Josh Halliday talking about the scandal. 2.40pm GMT Savile nephewGuy Marsden, a nephew of Savile's, was just interviewed on Sky News. He said the report was "what he expected – which I've known all along, really."He said these crimes could never have come out while Savile was alive; "he was such a powerful person."Within his family, none of this was ever talked about, he said.Marsden said he'd been a "bad 'un" when he was younger, so he was the only one in the family who was able to see Savile's behaviour for what it was.He said he could give 10 other names on air now – presumably other sex offenders – but the presenter would stop him. She did."In my family, nobody else has said they've known about this," he said.He said Savile was not a one-off: "it's happening now exactly what was happening then, and these people will never been caught because they're so powerful and so big."The only time these things ever came out was when these people died, he said. 2.34pm GMT Yvette CooperThis is Paul Owen taking over for now. The shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, has called on Theresa May to order a single overarching review into Savile, to replace the separate inquiries currently planned. Cooper said: These reports are not enough, and this is not just a historic problem. We need to know how on earth he was able to get away with this for decades, because action is still needed today.A myriad of small reviews and inquiries into how it could happen in different hospitals or the BBC are just not enough. We need a proper overarching review led by child protection experts into why everyone failed to stop Savile and what should be done now.The home secretary should step in now, in the light of these reports, and establish an overarching inquiry led by child protection experts to draw together the fragmented investigations so we can make sure vulnerable young people are listened to and better protected from these horrible crimes.  Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary, in the Commons on 8 January 2013. Photograph: PAUpdated at 2.58pm GMT 2.19pm GMT Response from Surrey policeSurrey Police Assistant Chief Constable Jerry Kirkby has issued a statement, after a report from the CPS stated that the force failed to tell victims that other young women had made sexual abuse allegations. The women said that they would have been prepared to give evidence if they had known there were other victims.From 2007-9 Surrey police investigated two alleged offences at Duncroft School concerning two victims and a witness, and a further victim who alleged she was assaulted at Stoke Mandeville Hospital.Surrey police has carried out its own investigation. Kirky said: Victims of historic abuse cases are often reluctant to speak out for fear of not being believed and I welcome acknowledgement by the Principle Legal Advisor in her report today that officers at Surrey Police took the allegations seriously.It is important the actions taken by the investigation team are viewed in context. This should take into account what information was known about Jimmy Savile in 2007 and the necessary consideration given by police to the impact of their actions on securing successful court action against him.She added at the time there was no indication of the scale of abuse now being reported. And that "national systems" had been used to conduct intelligence checks on Savile with all other police forces, but acknowledged previous allegations had been made including two in London, one int he 80s and one in 2003.  The individual who reported witnessing an incident of sexual abuse at Duncroft Children's Home in the 1970s was taken seriously by Surrey Police, as were all victims subsequently identified by the investigation. Contact was made with West Yorkshire Police, where Savile was residing, and with Surrey Children's Services as part of the investigation strategy.The initial allegation prompted a series of enquiries both to former residents of Duncroft and to Barnardo's who managed the children's home during that period. Two further reports from the 1970s came to light as a result. One related to Savile asking a Duncroft resident to perform oral sex which she declined. The other was an allegation he kissed a teenage girl who was attending a concert at Stoke Mandeville Hospital. The girl was unconnected to the hospital and was not a patient.The force had sought advice from the CPS because of the "complexities of securing a conviction in historic abuse cases", and "the indication from the CPS was that they considered it unlikely" that the allegations would result in a prosecution.  As the investigation continued it was escalated to a senior level in the Force for oversight. At the time, the action taken was considered proportionate to the information being received. In hindsight, the focus of the investigation on a specific time period in the 1970s was too restrictive.The decision not to share accounts between victims has also been examined by the review. This decision was initially taken to ensure the integrity of evidence so there could be no suggestion of collusion, contamination or prompting between accounts - a factor which has led previous cases involving multiple victims to be dismissed in court.The decision not to share account was "best practice at the start of the investigation", she said. However, it is right to question whether this was later balanced against the confidence of victims to support further legal action.It is not possible to know how this would have influenced individuals at the time but decisions around disclosure and victim care should have been reviewed at a later stage in the enquiry. The Force accepts more could have been done to encourage victims to support police action and we have apologised to each of the victims involved. 1.59pm GMT Savile in numbersKatie Hodge of the Press Association has produced a list of some of the figures that have emerged in the Savile report: • 450 people have come forward alleging sexual abuse by Savile since October. • 328 of these people were children when they were preyed upon. • 214 criminal offences have been linked to the disgraced presenter across 28 police forces. • 34 of these were allegations of rape. • 126 of the recorded crimes have been defined as "indecent acts". • 26 of Savile's alleged rape victims were women and eight were men. • 14 offences were committed at schools, in some cases after children wrote to Savile as part of Jim'll Fix It. • 600 people have provided information to the investigative team. • £450,000 has been spent on the police investigation to date. • 57 allegations have been linked to hospital premises, including hospices. • 33 claims of abuse have been linked to television or radio studios. • 14 inquiries or reviews have been launched since allegations against Savile were broadcast on 4 October. Updated at 2.11pm GMT 1.48pm GMT Women's groups respond to Savile reportThe End Violence Against Women Coalition and Rape Crisis England and Wales have issued a statement in response to the Savile report.  Sadly, yesterday's sexual offence statistics and the recent Rochdale sexual abuse scandal show that this is still a huge problem in our communities, homes and institutions and that too many agencies continue to fail women and girls who are abused, and to deal properly with abusive men.We believe that this must be a turning point for how we deal with sexual violence. The criminal justice system and other agencies must dramatically improve their response and we must change the cultures and attitudes which allow abusive behaviour to go unchecked. This means starting with young people in schools. There is a real opportunity now to make the UK a global leader in how it deals with sexual and other violence against women and girls. 1.43pm GMT Details of hospital abuseRoyal Devon and Exeter Hospital NHS Foundation Trust is leading an investigation into one offence which is alleged to have taken place at Exeter Hospital in 1970. Another offence is said to have taken place at St Catherine's Hospital in Birkenhead in 1964. A spokesman for Wirral Community NHS Trust, which runs services at the new St Catherine's Health Centre, on the site of the former St Catherine's Hospital, said: We are shocked to hear of the allegation about Jimmy Savile which has been revealed by the Metropolitan police. The alleged offence took place many years ago when the former hospital was run by a separate organisation and we were unaware of his involvement. We will fully co-operate with the police investigation and have started our own internal investigation which we will share with the Department of Health.One offence is alleged to have taken place at Portsmouth Royal Hospital, which closed in 1968. Another is said to have taken place at Wycombe General Hospital, which is run by the same trust at Stoke Mandeville. In 1969, another alleged offence took place at Dewsbury Hospital in West Yorkshire. This brings the total number of offences at hospital and hospice premises to 50. Updated at 1.44pm GMT 1.25pm GMT Savile timelineMy colleague Peter Walker has produced a Savile police report timeline.  1.21pm GMT Sussex police respond to CPS reportSussex police have issue a (lengthy) statement regarding the CPS report on Jimmy Savile. Deputy Chief Constable Giles York commented:  We welcome the DPP’s Statement including the finding that the Sussex police case was handled by experienced and committed officers, who acted in good faith, seeking to apply the correct principles. We also recognise that we could have done better and are committed to honest reflection and learning lessons for the future.The force launched an investigation into the Savile scandal as soon as publicity developed and spoke to the victim involved, according to the statement.The CPS report details the case of one of Savile's victims who said she was told by a Sussex police officer in 2008 that no one would believe she had been abused because Savile was a "big celebrity" and would make "mincement" out of her at a "big court in London".York said the report was based on "partial information". He said: We put victim care first and reflect on our actions and we note that the DPP’s full report is based on partial information. We would have welcomed the opportunity to engage with the review and provide full access to our people and information, as we are doing with a similar review being conducted by Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary.He added that the force was providing ongoing support to the victim, who "remains positive about the support we provided to her at the time of reporting and since".  Despite her unwillingness to support a prosecution, we took a full statement from her and carried out further enquiries. Records of the investigation and her statement were forwarded to Surrey police who submitted them to the CPS to help inform their charging advice.We understand the conclusion the DPP has drawn, that our officers may have inadvertently dissuaded the victim from supporting any prosecution. It can be difficult in such circumstances to achieve the balance between supporting and reassuring a victim, whilst providing honest advice about the prosecution process and standard of evidence needed.The force would now consider the report and review policies were appropriate. He concluded: Meanwhile, I must reassure victims that they should continue to have the confidence to come forward and report this horrendous type of crime. We will always attempt to seek justice, even if many years have passed. We carry out many such investigations which often result in substantial sentences.Updated at 1.27pm GMT 1.01pm GMT Savile's veiled threatsJosh Halliday has more from the CPS report: Savile appears to have issued a veiled threat to two Surrey police officers when interviewed under caution in 2009.A police log of the interview records Savile saying: "I have no kinky carryings on. But because I take everything seriously I’ve alerted my legal team that they may be doing business and if we do, you ladies [the two female officers] will finish up at the Old Bailey as well because we will be wanting you there as witnesses. But nobody ever seems to want to go that far."Updated at 1.12pm GMT 12.54pm GMT Statement from Broadmoor psychiatric hospitalAccording to the report, patients at four psychiatric hospitals, including Broadmoor, have come forward to report incidents. Savile had his own set of keys to Broadmoor, in Berkshire. He also had an office and flat outside the main building. He has been accused of committing one offence there in 1991. Steve Shrubb, chief executive of West London Mental Health NHS Trust, which runs the hospital, said: The trust welcomes the Metropolitan Police report into the alleged criminal activities perpetrated by Jimmy Savile. The scale and nature of the incidents described in the report is deeply distressing for all those involved.He said the trust had commissioned its own investigation into Savile's activities at Broadmoor.  The investigation team have already begun reviewing thousands of files and records as part of the information gathering process and they will meet with witnesses in due course," he said. The trust expects to be able to submit a final report to the trust board and the Department of Health by year-end. 12.50pm GMT Statement from Stoke Mandeville HospitalThe report details 22 reported cases of abuse at Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Aylesbury, between 1965 and 1988. Savile was a fundraiser and volunteer at the hospital, with an office in the main building and a flat on site. Anne Eden, chief executive of Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, which runs the hospital, said the trust set up an independent investigation into allegations of abuse last year.  The investigation is serious and complex and is currently reviewing files and records from the last 40 years before it moves on to meeting and hearing from witnesses. We expect it to complete the investigatory part of the work by the summer and to complete the report by the end of 2013.Updated at 12.52pm GMT 12.37pm GMT Savile's denials of abuseJosh Halliday, who is going through the CPS review in detail, reports on shocking revelations that Saville brushed off police investigations into his behaviour. Josh writes: Jimmy Savile told Surrey police in 2009 that the sex assault complaints against him were "invented" and an "occupational hazard" for an famous entertainer, according to the CPS review.Savile made the comments when he was interviewed under caution.He told police he had a "policy" for dealing with sex assault complaints made against him and that he had sued five newspapers in the past.A police log of the interview records Savile as saying: "If this [these allegations] does not disappear then my policy will swing into action".Updated at 12.39pm GMT 12.34pm GMT NAPAC accuse BBC TrustThere have been a frank exchange of views today around the accusation made by the head of the National Association for People Abused in Childhood (Napac) that the BBC refused to set up a hotline for adults abused as children in addition to the line operated by the NSPCC. The BBC strongly denied this.My colleague Sandra Laville reports:Peter Saunders from the National Association for People Abused as Children claimed that Lord Patten, the BBC chairman has refused the request for the corporation to help set up a hotline for adults who were abused as children - similar to Childline.Saunders said that the outgoing director general George Entwistle had wanted this to be carried out but Patten killed the idea. He called for the BBC chairman to reconsider.The BBC however denied this.In a statement the BBC said: This is not an accurate account of events. The BBC worked with, and took advice from, both the NSPCC and NAPAC in the immediate aftermath of the Savile revelations. Initial discussions were held with both organisations around the need for a dedicated hotline for victims, which would have been run by NSPCC with the assistance of NAPAC. The Chairman of the NSPCC told Lord Patten that he believed that there was no need for the BBC to establish a separate hotline as he was confident that they were fully able to deal with the volume of calls. Lord Patten never dismissed the idea. Although NAPAC would still have preferred to launch a new helpline, the BBC decided not to proceed following further discussions with both charities. Updated at 12.57pm GMT 12.28pm GMT Great Ormond Street statementGreat Ormond Street Hospital, where one of Savile's victims was abused, has issued a statement: The contents of this report are clearly extremely distressing for all those involved.In regards to the allegation made in connection with our organisation, we were made aware of this by the Metropolitan Police very recently. It relates to an incident in the early 1970s. This was not reported at the time and therefore neither the police nor GOSH hold any records relating to the matter. The police have said that they do not intend to investigate further. 12.11pm GMT Department of Health calls for hospitals to conduct inquiriesMy colleague Esther Addley has been in touch with the Department of Health, following the revelation that Savile carried out abuse in 14 health institutions.  The Department of Health has asked all 14 health institutions named in the report - 13 hospitals and a hospice - to conduct inquiries into Savile's offending and report to the department. These will then feed into an investigation being carried out by barrister Kate Lampard into Savile's abuse across the NHS, and what lessons can be learned.Lampard, the former deputy chair of the Financial Ombudsman Service, was appointed in October to oversee the investigations into Savile's offending at Leeds General Infirmary, Stoke Mandeville and Broadmoor. She is also investigating the DoH's own conduct in the period when it had direct management of Broadmoor, during which time Savile was appointed to chair a taskforce overseeing the secure hospital's management. In a statement, a DoH spokesman said: This report highlights the shocking scale of offending by Jimmy Savile over five decades and shows the need to learn lessons from his crimes.When these allegations first came to light the Department and relevant trusts started work to investigate these issues, and we expect any new NHS organisations named today to do the same.Findings from all trust investigations will feed into the report Kate Lampard will write for the secretary of state on any lessons for the whole system in relation to safeguarding and access.Updated at 12.13pm GMT 12.07pm GMT Downing Street responds to Savile reportA spokesman for the prime minister called the details of the report "appalling". He said:  These are further appalling allegations. What is required is that every organisation involved has to investigate what has gone on and get to the bottom of it.There are a series of investigations that were already ongoing into a number of hospitals. The department of health had already announced that Kate Lampard QC was overseeing those and she will also report to the secretary of state on what lessons can be learnt for the health system as a whole.Clearly the prime minister is absolutely aware of these further appalling allegations.Updated at 12.09pm GMT 12.02pm GMT Victim told Savile too difficult to prosecuteMy colleague Josh Halliday has been going through the CPS report into the Savile scandal. One of Savile's victims claims she was told by a Sussex police officer in 2008 that no one would believe her, according to a CPS review of the case.The victim, referred to as "Ms A", says she was told that it would be difficult to prosecute Savile because he was a "big celebrity" and his lawyers would make "mincemeat" out of her at a "big court in London".The shocking finding is recounted in the CPS report by Alison Levitt QC: " Ms A told me that she felt that DC T believed her and had said to her that he would leave “no stone unturned” if that was what she wanted. However, he had left her in no doubt as to how difficult it would be for a prosecution to take place because Jimmy Savile was a “big celebrity”; she said to me that the police had told her that no one would believe her. She remembered DC T telling her that because he had plenty of money, Jimmy Savile would have the best lawyers, it would all take place in a “big court in London” and his lawyers would make “mincemeat” of her. She also got the clear impression from the police that she would be publicly branded a liar and that her name would be all over the newspapers, particularly if she “lost the case”."Levitt concluded that the officers had "dissuaded her from pursuing her allegation" even if unintentionally.The executive summary of the CPS report can be read here.Updated at 12.07pm GMT 11.53am GMT BBC statement on SavilleThe BBC has issued a response to the Met and NSPCC report into allegations of sexual abuse made against Jimmy Savile under Operation Yewtree. A BBC spokesperson said: The police report into Jimmy Savile contains shocking revelations. As we have made clear, the BBC is appalled that some of the offences were committed on its premises. We would like to restate our sincere apology to the victims of these crimes. The BBC will continue to work with the police to help them investigate these matters. We have also set up the Dame Janet Smith Review to help us understand how these crimes could have been committed and how we can avoid them happening ever again. 11.39am GMT Leeds Teaching Hospitals respond to reportLeeds Teaching Hospitals have responded to the report, saying they will investigate allegations of abuse carried out at at Leeds General Infirmary and St James's University Hospital, where Savile worked as a volunteer and fundraiser. They said they would also investigate information given directly to the Trust about this "extremely distressing subject". A spokesman for the Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust said: In early December, the Trust published the terms of reference for its internal investigation into matters relating to Jimmy Savile's long-standing involvement with the Leeds Teaching Hospitals as a volunteer and fundraiser. This will be a thorough and detailed piece of work and will be carried out in conjunction with parallel investigations by the Department of Health and other NHS trusts. Work is now under way and we expect our report will be ready towards the end of this year. As part of this work our panel will look at approaches from people who have contacted the Trust directly to share information on this extremely distressing subject. The panel will also examine in detail any information the police pass to us about incidents reported to them at Leeds General Infirmary and St James's University Hospital.Updated at 1.07pm GMT 11.36am GMT Savile's final abusesDetective Superintendent David Gray, from the Met's paedophile unit, has said Savile must have thought about his sex offending "every minute of every waking day". The report revealed that Savile was accused of sexually touching a teenager aged 13 to 16, who was in a hospice. His final offence at the BBC was during the recording of the last Top of the Pops, sexually touching another victim in the same age range. His youngest victim was an eight-year-old boy, who was sexually assaulted. The DJ was "clever enough" to pick on the most vulnerable victims so that they would not speak out. Allegations against him include 14 offences relating to schools across the country, partly when children had written to him as part of Jim'll Fix It. Gray said: Much as I think Savile could turn up at a hospital and expect to be given a warm welcome, he went to a number of schools because children had written to him. His peak offending came with the peak of his success.Gray said there was no evidence to suggest that he was part of a paedophile ring, but he might have been part of "an informal network" of abusers.Updated at 11.45am GMT 11.30am GMT NSPCC: Savile 'prolific sex offender'Peter Watt, director of child protection advice and awareness at the NSPCC, said Savile was one of the most prolific sex offenders the NSPCC had dealt with in its 129-year history. The publicity surrounding the Savile inquiry had resulted in a surge of victims coming forward, including those who were not linked to Savile. Its hotline took 5,000 calls in October alone.  It's clear Savile cunningly built his entire life into gaining access to vulnerable children ...The sheer scale of Savile's abuse over six decades simply beggars belief. He is without doubt one of the most prolific sex offenders we have ever come across and every number represents a victim that will never get justice now he is dead.But with this report we can at least show his victims that they have been taken seriously and their suffering has been recognised.Updated at 11.44am GMT 11.18am GMT Scotland Yard provide further detailsMy colleague Sandra Laville, who is at Scotland Yard, has sent more details of the Giving Victims a Voice report.  Savile raped 34 people, including 28 children. He used every opportunity and every institution he had access to because of his fame to target young people. The report reveals Savile abused children at the BBC between 1959 and 2006 – his last offence there took place at Top of the Pops in 2006 when he sexually assaulted a teenage girl on the show. Fifty-seven of the allegations took place in 14 hospitals and a hospice in the UK. At Great Ormond Street hospital the child Savile abused died, but someone who witnessed what happened came forward.He assaulted 16 victims at Leeds general infirmary, 1 at Great Ormond Street, and he assaulted someone who was visiting a dying child at the Sue Ryder Wheatfield hospice in Leeds.He also assaulted children and young girls 33 times in TV and radio studios and there were 14 assaults in schools. Savile was invited into the schools – which have not been named – by children who wanted to appear on Jim'll Fix It, police said.Peter Spinder, a spokesman for Scotland Yard, said of Savile's offending: "He groomed a nation."The youngest of Savile's victims was an eight-year-old boy who he touched sexually, and his last victim was a 47-year-old woman who was assaulted in 2009.Detective Superintendent David Gray, who led the inquiry, said: "He has spent every minute of every working day thinking about this. Whenever an opportunity came along he took it. He picked on vulnerable victims and he was clever enough to choose people who he knew would not speak out."Gray said he expected the number of crimes recorded to rise above 214. *This blog was amended at 11.55am. There were not 22 victims at Great Ormond Street, but 1. Updated at 3.16pm GMT 11.11am GMT Police report: key pointsMy colleague Peter Walker has summarised the main findings of Giving Victims a Voice, the report by the Metropolitan police and children’s charity NSPCC into abuse carried out by Savile.While the police investigation, Operation Yewtree, is looking into the activities of other people, the report focuses solely on allegations against Savile, whether he was acting alone or with others.• Since Operation Yewtree began on 5 October, around 600 people have come forward with information. About 450 of these are expected to be linked to Savile, mainly alleging sexual abuse.• Most victims have been interviewed. So far 214 criminal offences have been recorded across 28 police force areas. • The allegations span 54 years. The earliest reported incident was in 1955, in Manchester. The last took place in 2009. The bulk of offending took place in Leeds, Savile’s home town, and London, his main place of work.• The peak rate of offending was between 1966 and 1976, when Savile was between 40 and 50 years old. • Of offences recorded against Savile 126 are indecent acts with 34 involving rape or penetration. The reported victims ranged in age from eight to 47 at the time of abuse, with 73% aged under 18. The bulk were aged 13 to 16, with 82% being female.• Offences were mainly described as “opportunistic sexual assaults” but there were others which involved planning or grooming.• Victims have complained of abuse connected to Savile’s work at the BBC between 1965 and 2006, up to the final recording of Top of the Pops. Abuse was reported at Leeds General Infirmary, where Savile had close links and worked as a voluntary porter, between 1965 and 1995. At Stoke Mandeville Hospital, for which he was a major fundraiser and where he often stayed overnight, reported offending happened from 1965 to 1988. At Duncroft School, which he also regularly visited, there are allegations between 1970 and 1978.• The accounts of the victims, who are mainly not known to each other, “paint a compelling picture of widespread sexual abuse by a predatory sex offender”. There is no clear evidence of him being part of a paedophile ring, though investigations are continuing.• The majority of victims had never reported their experiences to authorities before, saying they feared they would not be believed or did not trust the judicial system.Updated at 11.42am GMT 11.07am GMT Starmer apologyKeir Starmer said: I accept the conclusions reached by Ms [Alison] Levitt QC [the CPS's principle legal adviser, who was in charge of the CPS review], and, in the interests of transparency and accountability I have decided to publish her report in full. In doing so, I would like to take the opportunity to apologise for the shortcomings in the part played by the CPS in these cases.But I also want to go further. If this report and my apology are to serve their full purpose, then this must be seen as a watershed moment. In my view, these cases do not simply reflect errors of judgment by individual officers or prosecutors on the facts before them. If that were the case, they would, in many respects, be easier to deal with.These were errors of judgment by experienced and committed police officers and a prosecuting lawyer acting in good faith and attempting to apply the correct principles. That makes the findings of Ms Levitt's report more profound and calls for a more robust response.He added that there were clear links to be drawn between how police handled Savile complaints and other cases involving vulnerable sexual abuse victims, including the Rochdale sex trafficking scandal.Updated at 11.40am GMT 11.06am GMT CPS apologises for role played in Savile scandalBritain's chief prosecutor, Keir Starmer QC, has admitted that police and the Crown Prosecution Service were likely to have mistakenly dropped many sexual assault complaints against Savile because the victims were treated with a "degree of caution which is not generally justified".Speaking after the publication of an internal CPS review into assault complaints made against Savile in 2007 and 2008, he urged all victims of sexual abuse who feel their complaints were mishandled by police to come forward and have their cases reinvestigated.Today was, he said, a "watershed moment" in how authorities deal with vulnerable assault victims.Police could now be forced to reinvestigate thousands of historic sexual abuse complaints where the victim felt their evidence was disbelieved. The CPS will set up panels across England and Wales to assess the complaints.The review, by the CPS's principle legal adviser, Alison Levitt QC, found that Savile might have been prosecuted over three allegations of sexual abuse if police had dealt with the complainants differently.Updated at 11.22am GMT 10.51am GMT Met police and NSPCC inquiry reveals extent of Savile abuseA 30-page report from the Met police and the NSPCC has revealed that Jimmy Savile sexually assaulted children as young as 10 over six decades as a paedophile.He abused children at 14 hospitals including Great Ormond Street and a children's hospice, according to the report Giving Victims a Voice.The report details how the celebrity abused up to 500 children and young people, and may have raped more than 30 from 1955 to 2009. Most of his victims were children – 73% – and he committed most of the offences when he was between 40 and 50 years old.Updated at 11.35am GMT