The MPs heard directly from young Londoners about their experiences of knife crime:Peter Nzeqwu, 22, from Stockwell, south London"The estates that we live in, we see it as being caged in and when [we] do come out anything can happen. It has become commonplace for people to grow up thinking everyone is against them - that is where change is needed. I know nine-year-olds who carry knives ... a lot of young people actually like prison. They see it as a holiday. They get away from the drama they have on the street. They are out of the situation for a while ... I am talking about people I know."Milton Wacha, 22, from Fulham, west London "Yes, they do use kitchen knives. They come from everywhere. They carry [them] to commit crimes. They carry them to feel protected and safe. They do whatever they have to do. I was expelled from school at 15 for being disruptive. Bored and frustrated, I fell in with the wrong crowd and left home at 16. Without a job I turned to crime in order to survive. Everyone carried a knife - some of us for protection, others for status. At the time I never found it shocking or scary - it was just a fact of life. I don't know what would have happened if I'd found myself in serious trouble, but I kept my head down, and thankfully I have never had to use mine."Tara, youth worker in Haringey, north London, talking about what knife crime victims tell her"The simplest answer they came up with was that 'they wanted to make a mark on me'. It may be the way you look at me ... I want to scratch you with a knife so when you see the mark you think of me and won't look at me that way again. It is not intended to kill. People try to hide these wounds from their parents. In some cases they are deliberately 'scratched' on the face so everybody can see it."Michael, who runs a south London community radio station"When I was growing on the estates in Peckham if somebody was a victim of crime one day they would go to school with a knife in their bag the next day. I am talking about ordinary people, some of who would get GCSEs and go on to university."Sean Benson, 19"I don't agree that young people are wild, caged animals or that prison is a holiday. I don't dislike the police. I have had officers disrespect me and I have had other officers who have treated me with respect. Young people will join a gang. They don't read books or watch the news. They watch TV and listen to music. If your favourite music artist wins an award and all you hear all day is 'make money and deal drugs', what are you going to think?"