On the 9 August 1963, Elvis Presley was number one in the pop charts with The Devil in Disguise. On the front page of every national newspaper was the story about a gang who had, in the early hours of the day before, held up and robbed the Glasgow-to-London mail train and got away with £2.6m.I served time with Gordon Goody, one of the Great Train Robbers. I did not get to meet Ronnie Biggs inside because he had escaped, before my time, preferring an extended holiday in Brazil to a prison cell in Blighty. Who could blame him?I call the Minister of Justice, Jack Straw, "Knee-jerk Jack" because of the way reacts to tabloid headlines. Back in June this year, the Parole Board did actually recommend in Ronnie Biggs' case that he should be released. But, because Ronnie Biggs was sentenced before the law changed to allow the Parole Board to direct release, the ultimate decision rested with the justice minister. Jack Straw decided not to accept the board's recommendation. Marcel Berlins wrote, "I disagree totally with his decision, but I acquit him of cynicism."We trust the Minister of Justice to dispense justice. His initial decision not to release was highly questionable. He made a political decision when he should have taken a legal/judicial decision. He was wearing the wrong hat on that day.The test was whether Ronnie Biggs was an acceptable risk – whether he would be unlikely to commit a serious offence in the future – for example, the Great Train Robbery part II. Instead, Jack Straw refused parole on the grounds that he was "wholly unrepentant" about his crimes.Unrepentant for escaping from Wandsworth prison? I have served time there when "Mad" Frankie Fraser was on the same landing. It was then and still is a grim and frightening place to do time. Ronnie Biggs did not club the train driver; therefore, there is no requirement he show repentance for an act he did not commit.Moreover, justice must be tempered with mercy. Jack Straw will have been advised that he could legally have released Ronnie Biggs on compassionate grounds. How would it have looked for Jack Straw for the Lockerbie bomber to be released on compassionate grounds while Ronnie Biggs wasn't and so would be condemned to die in custody? The death penalty was abolished decades ago; what could Jack Straw have been thinking when he tried to reintroduce it in through the back door?Belatedly, he has come to his senses and decided to release Biggs. Is this change of heart a case of the devil in disguise?