Police in London were today questioning a man after a married father of two was hacked to death with an axe in broad daylight.Police yesterday arrested the 37-year-old man at the scene, a smart north London residential area. Local officers arrived to find the man standing over the victim's body with a 60cm axe in his hands. The suspect, who is from the Camden area, surrendered to police without resistance. Witnesses said the victim's head had turned to "mush" following a sustained attack. Police today said they believed they knew the identity of the 67-year-old victim, but were awaiting formal identification. A postmortem examination was taking place at St Pancras mortuary while officers continued to notify next of kin. The victim lived locally, though not in Eton Avenue, where the attack took place.Witnesses have described how the attacker struck yesterday morning, shouting at the victim "you've had this coming for 20 years". Two workers from a nearby building site tried unsuccessfully to stop the attack.Detectives are investigating links between the 37-year-old suspect and the victim, who are thought to have known each other but were not related. "Officers believe that this is unlikely to have been a random attack, but an open mind is being kept as regards motive at this stage. Inquiries are under way to establish any relationship between the victim and the suspect," Scotland Yard said.Sussex University student Nick Blackford, 20, witnessed the aftermath of the incident from a third floor window after being woken by screams. He saw the attacker, his hands covered in blood, drop the axe when he was arrested at gunpoint.The victim was lying on the ground with a dustbin lid near him which he may have been using to protect himself. Mr Blackford said: "I saw a guy lying down with a huge flat red mushy mess instead of a head, just across the road. I didn't notice it at first because it was there on the street, not in a book or a film. I was so taken aback that I had to second take. It is horrific." A neighbour, Margaret Mikkelsen, 29, said: "I heard shouts and I saw a couple who had stopped their car and were shouting at the man who was just standing there with an axe. He was just standing there, I could see the victim was dead and he was lying face down. "A man who lives in my building was telling him to put the axe down then two men grabbed scaffolding poles to try to stop him hurting anyone else. But he didn't respond to all the people shouting at him." Police said the victim had suffered severe head and facial injuries but had not been decapitated. Eton Avenue was sealed off while detectives carried out a forensic examination of the scene. Police said a murder inquiry had now been launched and an incident room opened.