A BBC Radio 4 presenter drugged and raped a man he met at a New Year's Eve party after inviting him home to see his art collection, a court was told yesterday.Nigel Wrench, 47, presenter of the PM programme, had earlier been snubbed by the then 26-year-old student during a party in London on December 31 2006, the Old Bailey was told. But after promising the younger man work experience and giving him a line of cocaine, Wrench persuaded him to go back to his flat to view his paintings.There he poured them both a glass of champagne, but when the younger man took a gulp he realised "not all was well", Constance Briscoe, prosecuting, said.There were "flashes of darkness" and "periods of blackness" as he drifted in and out of consciousness. The next thing he knew he was naked on Wrench's bed and the presenter was putting a pill into his mouth, it was alleged."In order to get his way with the victim, he drugged him and he raped him and he sexually assaulted him," Briscoe said.The student was punched, bitten, scratched and pinched by Wrench as he was forced to submit to the presenter's sexual demands. "The more he resisted, the more he was punched and kicked," said Briscoe. She said the student asked Wrench to stop, but he would not.The court heard that the alleged victim, who is now 27, did not wake up until 1pm on New Year's Day. Later that day he went to the police. A doctor examined him and found him to be covered in scratches, bruises and bite marks. A blood test revealed that he had temazepam in his system. The drug has side effects of dizziness, sedation, drowsiness, disorientation and reduced alertness.The younger man, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, told the court he had chatted with Wrench at the party about doing work experience at the BBC.After chatting for about two hours, Wrench offered him cocaine and chopped out two lines on the toilet lid. The man asked if both lines were for him and was upset at the response, he told the court. "He said 'I'm not your sugardaddy'."Briscoe said: "It was a little while after that that the defendant approached the alleged victim in the lounge with a clear intention to kiss him. "The alleged victim stepped back to a point where he was against the wall. He made it clear he didn't wish to be kissed by the defendant."At around 4.30am the defendant approached him again and asked if he would like to go to his home and look at his art collection."When the police arrested Wrench they found two tablets of temazepam in a bedroom. He was interviewed, but made no comment to all police questions. He is accused of rape, sexual assault and administering temazepam with the intention of "stupefying or overpowering" his alleged victim. He denies all the charges.The trial continues.