A primary school caretaker who carried out a letter bomb campaign in which eight people were injured as a protest against Britain's "authoritarian surveillance society" will be sentenced today after being found guilty yesterday.Miles Cooper, 27, from Cambridgeshire, earlier told the jury at Oxford crown court he was "genuinely ashamed". But in the first explanation of his actions he said he had turned to violent methods "as it became more and more obvious that the government was not going to listen to peaceful protesters". Britain was "one of the most watched societies on the planet".Cooper was convicted of 11 counts under the Explosive Substances Act and the Offences Against the Person Act.The seven crude nail and broken-glass bombs, posted in January and February this year, were sent to three forensic science laboratories, a computer company, an accountancy firm, the DVLA and a residential address. The targets aroused suspicion that the sender could be an animal rights activist or disgruntled motorist.One of the letters had a Cambridgeshire postmark. Cooper, who was described by neighbours as shy and introverted, was arrested at his home in the village of Cherry Hinton, which he shared with his mother and sister. The police found three more devices. He told the jury he wanted to spread fear and denied any intention to cause serious harm. "I was angry at authority. I was disappointed that so much peaceful activity had been completely ignored. I was very concerned about the direction my country was heading in."At first he had campaigned about proposals to introduce ID cards. His anger intensified when his father, Clive, was unable to get DNA samples removed from the police database after he was cleared in 2003 of assault. "I felt my father had been used and I felt unable to do anything about it," he said.Cooper said the treatment of anti-nuclear protesters further angered him. He cited the case of Walter Wolfgang, then 82, being thrown out of the 2005 Labour party conference for shouting "nonsense" at Jack Straw, then foreign secretary, during a speech. "He was refused re-entry on anti-terrorist grounds, which is utterly bizarre," he said.He singled out organisations he believed were connected to government control, surveillance and monitoring and watched the impact on the TV news. His first efforts did not achieve the publicity he wanted, appearing only on a BBC website.The second batch of higher powered bombs were made by putting explosive material into nail varnish bottles, a device designed to flash and shatter. "I was hoping to achieve a bomb scare, to shut down a building, but cause no real harm to any individual."When he saw the news coverage, he changed them again. "When I realised people had been more seriously injured than I had intended, I decided to redesign the devices to make them harmless."