Why do our prisons remain immune from scandal? I don't mean that scandals don't happen, but that they don't seem to attract attention - and through that public shame and political action. This includes everything from prisoners at Doncaster prison discovered sleeping in toilets, to self-harm and suicide and the fact that the murder rate inside can be double the rate outside.One of these killings was that of Wayne Reid, who was stabbed to death in 2005 at Rye Hill, a prison run by the private company Global Solutions Ltd. At the recent inquest it was revealed that, under the prison contract, discoveries of "serious items" - such as knives and other weapons - carried stiffer penalties (50 penalty points) than a serious assault on a staff member (10 points), or indeed the suicide of an inmate (one penalty point).Is it any wonder that prison officers regularly returned "nil" finds in their weapons searches, or that there were no random cell-search procedures in place at Rye Hill? In any event Reid was murdered just five days before he was due to be released.As a penal reformer I have thought over the years about how to create a scandal over what happens in our jails. The title of today's conference on penal abolition - Creating a Scandal: Prison Abolition and the Policy Agenda - comes from one of my books about deaths in prison custody, and my attempts to muckrake about what goes on inside. Some readers may be enraged by the idea that we could do without prisons for all but the most dangerous offenders. Indeed, one of my favourite ways of trying to create a debate is to argue that instead of planning to build three new Titan jails to house an extra 10,000 prisoners by 2012, we should be planning on closing prisons and investing more heavily in community-based punishments. While that gets some media attention, it does not worry politicians because penal reformers need to take the public with them - and all too often the public are led to believe that it is impossible to have safer communities, a lower crime rate and fewer people locked up.But a recent visit to New York showed it is possible to reduce the numbers of people being incarcerated through community-based punishments, and to take the public with you on that journey.Of course the New York story is still in its early days, but the reaction to the Channel Five series Banged Up - where 10 prolific young offenders are "imprisoned" with ex-cons who've seen it all before - is heartening. I agreed to play the prison governor because I believed the series would help to undermine the labels we apply to young people who commit crime - hoodies, chavs, feral youth, Asbo kids - and allow the complexity and despair of their lives to take centre stage. Moreover, the series demonstrated the skills of ex-offenders, and the dramatic impact mentoring schemes can have.Above all I agreed to take part because it was a way of actually showing the public what a prison was like - without the interference of the prison service's paranoid press office - and revealing that strange and perverse institution as redundant and largely ineffective in dealing with the issues that these young offenders came into prison with. I'm not certain that Banged Up will have the policy impact that all of us involved with the programme might have hoped for, nor am I certain that penal abolition is just around the corner. What I am certain of is that we have to continue to resist the many political, financial and social pressures in this country for mass incarceration, because that is a road that leads us nowhere and that, ironically, will perpetuate all the problems that we say we want to do something about. The simple reality is that more prisons create more offenders and make communities less safe. The opposite is no less real - fewer prisons means safer communities and less crime. Isn't that what we all want?· The 12th International Conference on Penal Abolition starts today at at King's College London; the final episode of Banged Up is on Monday on Five david.wilson@uce.ac.uk