We are living in a boom time for rape. Last year women reported 27% more rapes than in the year before. At the same time, convictions have plummeted to a record-breaking low: only 5.8% of reported rapes end with a conviction, down from 7.5% in 1999 and 33% in 1977. Not just a boom time for rape, then - also a boom time for rapists. There has never been a better time to rape and get away with it.Whether the police, the law, or something more fundamental in the culture is to blame for this shocking state of affairs is difficult to tell: all we tend to hear in the media about rape is the undoubted trauma of those men acquitted of rape having been accused in the first place - never how bad it is for women who suffered 27% more rapes last year than the one before. And discussion of rape law never focuses on what can be done about all the rapists getting away with it; instead, campaigners push for anonymity for men accused of rape - a privilege not accorded those charged with any other crime, not even murder or child abuse.When this idea was tried before - in 1976 - it heralded a further plummeting of the conviction rate for rape. Anonymity for rape defendants, which Lord Woolf appeared to be proposing this week - but which parliament will surely reject - wouldfinally make rape the 100% unconvictable crime. So who is to blame? Surely not the police, you might think, since it is widely believed that police handling of rape victims has improved dramatically since the she-asked-for-it bullying of the 1970s. But sensitive treatment of rape victims by police is in fact a postcode lottery. A handful of areas have sexual assault referral centres (Sarcs), which give victims access to female doctors, counsellors and specialist, non-uniformed officers. But the majority have old-style dreary examination suites, officers who know little about sexual violence, and only men on duty. The evidence shows that specialist treatment by the police - such as the policy of accepting allegations made by any victim as being true - is more likely to lead to a conviction. Yet women fear the "culture of disbelief". Newspaper coverage of false allegations of rape reinforce the idea that women make it all up; in fact, false allegations of rape are just as rare as false allegations of any other crime - about 2%. The law itself has always been a key part of the problem - high court judges are infamously backward when it comes to sexual politics, from commenting on a victim's past abortion to the fact her skirt had a zip in it. But the high court judges - 101 out of 107 of whom are men - must now attend training courses in how to deal with rape cases before they sit in a trial. And the government's sexual offences bill, which should become law by Christmas, could make a real difference to the conviction rate for rape. Crucial to the bill is the central issue of consent. The current legal framework was set in 1976 by the infamous Morgan ruling, in which a husband had taken three men back to his house, where all four raped his wife. The three claimed that the husband had told his friends that his wife was likely to say no and struggle, but that this was just a fetish: she was, they believed, "kinky". The House of Lords, in which a woman judge has never sat, ruled that a man was not guilty of rape if he honestly believed a woman had consented to sex - even if that belief was unreasonable. This Morgan ruling has been catastrophic for raped women, because it means that they can say no a thousand times, they can shout and scream and fight, but if a man says "my mates said she was up for it" or "he told me she liked it rough", the law supports him. The planned changes on consent would mean the three Morgan men would now have to explain exactly what they did to be certain that when she was demanding that they stop, she was in fact consenting to sex. This change is also likely to make it harder for lawyers to bring up a woman's sexual history in court. Discrediting a rape victim's evidence by trawling though her past lovers - a classic way to undermine women - is still permissible in some cases. Furthermore, women are rarely believed by juries, as Sue Lees documented, if they have "suffered from depression, taken Prozac, been in care, been abused, had an abortion, allegedly had more than one relationship, or invited home someone whom she had just met". And don't even get started on whether they've had a drink, drugs or a flirt. As women have been liberated from the constraints of traditional behaviour, it seems that they get punished in court for those very freedoms. And while juries routinely disbelieve what women tell them, they do believe the defendants: both men and women find it hard to accept that ordinary, pleasant-seeming blokes could have committed such a heinous crime as rape. But, as DCI Richard Walton, who leads the Metropolitan Police's highly regarded Project Sapphire, says: "Rape is far more common than people realise. All people see of rape in the media is the stranger rapist hunted down around the country, or the woman who invents a rape allegation. These two extremes are not representative of what's really going on out there." It is ordinary-seeming men who rape. But then juries only reflect our culture, which is increasingly sexualised in a cold, disconnected way - from the proliferation of ever more vicious pornography to the loading of our email boxes with invitations to witness "live rape". In our society, loving sex has been replaced with soulless extremes, and violence has become normalised. Ex-cricketer Phil Tufnell, despite being convicted in 1994 of actual bodily harm of his ex-wife, has become a national hero for winning a celebrity gameshow - the Observer called him "the nation's favourite Jack-the-lad". And comedian Frank Skinner tells Arena magazine a "funny" story about a bloke he met who was left bleeding but happy after sex with his girlfriend and concludes: "I think a woman who can still smile and say 'it was worth it' from her hospital bed would be my ideal partner." (And he's one of the highest-paid men on television.) So when commentators say that the 27% rise in rape is "unexplained", might there be an explanation which goes beyond the fact that more women are reporting rape? Is it so difficult to accept that there might actually be more rape taking place? Police say that gang rape is showing a marked increase; that drug-assisted rape is burgeoning; that there are more rapes in nightclubs and at gigs; that rapists are turning away from stranger rape (harder to get away with) and instead befriending their victims before the assault. And what greater incentive than the common knowledge that rape is the crime you can commit and still walk free? There are concrete things the government should do: Sarc centres in every region; a one-number helpline for rape victims; changes to the law on consent and sexual history. High court judges need to go on more training courses - and perhaps they could appoint a few extra women, too. But reversing the rape culture is about much more than that: it's about admitting to the brutality with which society has responded to women's freedoms, and how we have been desensitised to abusive relationships and sexual violence. We must challenge the epidemic of rape - not only in the courts, but in our culture too. katharine.viner@theguardian.com