A businessman who says he took a stand against a gang of boys after months of antisocial behaviour appeared in court yesterday accused of intimidating one of the teenagers. Christopher Fulke-Greville, a financial adviser, claims he took on the gang after months in which they frightened residents in a Surrey suburb with their aggressive behaviour. Over a 14-month period they threw bricks and eggs at cars and houses, hurled abuse at householders and ran amok in the neighbourhood, the court heard. At an earlier court hearing, Mr Fulke-Greville, a 6ft-tall businessman, admitted a charge of assault after he punched one of the gang members. He said he had intervened in a rock fight outside his house during which he received a blow to the back of his head and had struck one of the youths in return. He had been charged with assault and had admitted that offence. In the current incident, Mr Fulke-Greville is accused of threatening to kill a 13-year-old boy, who cannot be named, when they bumped into each other. Tom Cleeve, prosecuting, told Guildford crown court: "The defendant came up behind him and said, 'Hello, how are things with you? I see you have not moved out of the area yet.' He then leaned in close and said, 'If I were you, I would move out of the area as soon as possible. At 2am your mum and step-dad are going to get it'." In another incident, Mr Cleeve said, Mr Fulke-Greville, a father of two, wound down his car window and threatened the teenager, saying: "When you are 18 I will hunt you down." The court heard that the boy had been in regular contact with police for a variety of offences, including assault, criminal damage and breaching an acceptable behaviour contract. Giving evidence, Mr Fulke-Greville said the boy and the gang had terrorised residents in Addlestone, Surrey. Admitting he had a history with the gang, he said that problems with the 13-year-old began when he asked him to stop smoking cannabis outside his home. "I said, 'Come on lads, how old are you - 12 or 13? If your mum gets to hear about it you will be in big trouble'." He told the recorder, Laurence West, that his £500,000 home and his wife and two daughters had subsequently become the target of the gang, and that their home and cars had been repeatedly bombarded by eggs, stones and bricks. Matters had come to a head in January last year after Mr Fulke-Greville caught the boy and two friends trying to set fire to a neighbour's van. "As they went past my house there was a massive amount of flame coming from a rag they were holding on a stick," he said. "One of the boys threw it under a neighbour's van, and the teenager I recognised got hold of the stick and pushed it under the engine." Mr Fulke-Greville said he chased the boys away before raising the alarm and finally catching the teenager hiding behind a wall. Mr Fulke-Greville denies two charges of intimidation, with the intention to obstruct, pervert or interfere with the course of justice. The case continues.