A property developer was murdered in his garage after he disturbed an intruder, police said yesterday.As Kenneth Iddon, 57, parked in the garage of his home in Ormskirk, Lancashire, he was attacked with a blunt instrument and stabbed in the neck. He had been playing snooker with friends and had driven home in his white three series BMW - later found abandoned five miles away near junction three of the M58. His 55-year-old wife Linda reported him missing at 5.30am on Monday. Mr Iddon's 21-year-old daughter and 30-year-old stepson Lee were in the house at the time. His body was discovered slumped against the wall of the garage by his sister, Veronica Duckworth, 4 hours later. Witnesses reported screams and seeing his car screech away at around the time he had his throat cut. Yesterday forensics experts were examining the garage and abandoned car for clues. Detective Superintendent Mick Turner, of Lancashire police, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "It appears Mr Iddon was the victim of a vicious, sustained and cowardly attack. We believe he may have disturbed an intruder as he returned home." The results of a postmortem examination last night revealed Mr Iddon died from multiple injuries. Another car in the family's garage was untouched. Mr Iddon was a businessman with several property interests in Merseyside. "He was a member of Dean Wood golf club for many years and played snooker with a group of friends at the clubhouse every Sunday night," said Mr Turner. Mr Iddon left the clubhouse at 11.45pm on Sunday and went home. Detectives believe he disturbed one or more intruders in the garage. Police are convinced the killer had an accomplice and appealed for help from the public. No murder weapon has been found. Marian Prescott, 69, Mr Iddon's next door neighbour, said she had known the family for 30 years. "He was a lovely man. My husband Tommy, who died three years ago, would go and watch Liverpool with him". Another neighbour, Stuart Irving, said: "He had two dogs and whenever you saw him walking them, he'd stop and say hello. "It is a horrible thing to happen, and right in your neighbourhood it is terrifying. I feel sympathy for his family - they must be going through hell. I hope they catch his killers quickly." The flag at Dean Wood golf club was flying at half mast yesterday as a mark of respect. Alan McGregor, club secretary, said Mr Iddon had been a well-liked social member of the club for seven years. "He didn't play golf, but he visited the club twice a week to play snooker with two friends."