For once I thought John Humphrys alarmist tone on Radio 4's today programme was more than justified by the topic under discussion. Far too much anti-social behaviour is tolerated on our streets and the police have "retreated" from their basic, historic task of keeping the peace.Who says so? No less a figure than Sir Denis O'Connor, chief inspector of constabulary, whose report, "Stop the Rot" got measured coverage on an inside page of today's Guardian and other broadsheets. It was splashed all over the front of the Daily Mail. On this one, I'm with the Mail.Discussing the under-policing problem – "a big error" he conceded – with Humpo Sir Denis sounded as if he might be part of it. Rather too pessimistic, too resigned. Surely, he's the man paid to crack the whip and get chief constables to make their officers do what they're paid to do which includes putting the fear of the law into louts?Yet the coppers are already saying that looming cuts will hurt frontline forces most, just at a time – they shamelessly declare – when rising unemployment and other cuts-related difficulties – may lead to social unrest and even riot. A shameless bit of special pleading is that. Yet the police have had big budget increases like everyone else.It's a bit like school or the NHS, explains Sir Denis, if you catch a problem early enough you can deal with it. By the time the kids get to the asbo stage it's often too late. Pointing to drug litter, verbal abuse and casual violence, not to mention graffiti he said: "I think we have given up quite a lot on the streets already."I think we can all recognise that picture, can't we? Buses and trains, pub closing times, sports crowds can all be noisy and a bit scary, especially if there is booze in play. Big city centres, small ones too (I once saw a town vs gown standoff on a Saturday night outside Chichester cathedral), can be boisterous too, although Liverpool city centre looked surprisingly quiet at 10pm mid-week.That said, apart from noisy late-night pedestrians in the street below my bedroom window and lager cans in the garden, I rarely witness anything nasty in my own comings and goings. But then, I work in a heavily policed bit of central London, live in a quiet suburb and have reached an age when officers do not assume I am a mugger.No, it's what goes on in poorer neighbourhoods, especially in tougher estates which is shaming.In fairness to Tony Blair – not a sentence you are likely to encounter too often in this neighbourhood – he cottoned on to this early in his career. As a young MP Blair gave what he calls in his memoirs "an Islington answer" to a crime question in his Sedgefield constituency and got taken to task by one of his most sensible local supporters.He took the hint, hence the famous "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" mantra. Hence all those crime bills, asbos and the rest. But did it work? Not as well as widely mistrusted crime stats (it doesn't help that Britain has rival sets) would suggest when they keep telling us most categories of crime have fallen sharply. Failed asbos are worse than no asbos.Fear of crime, as fomented by the Mail, its red- and blue-topped rivals, is part of the problem. But there is also the reality for people who complain to the authorities – most obviously the police – and do not get the support to which their taxes entitle them. They are in their cars, in the office doing paperwork or having coffee, no doubt hunched behind computers like so many of us.A smart doctor said at a Lib Dem conference fringe meeting I chaired this week that "the plural of anecdote is not data." Good point and, boy, do we collect data by the ton these days. But it does not mean we can ignore the welter of anecdotal evidence that something is badly wrong with policing.In recent years I have come to feel British policing is becoming more French, not a good way to go judged by their clean-up rates and notorious absence from the street or (until the recent push against soaring road deaths) even motorway.In any case, do we analyse our data properly and do we act on its findings? Someone else joked in my hearing this week: "Everything points to a change of policy – except the evidence."Backed by an Ipsos-Mori survey O'Connor describes how the public bundles up anti-social behaviour and disorder with real crime, a sliding scale of grief and harm that faces a police force which considers that only crime-fighting is "real police work." The rest is beneath them.The perspective encounters another problem; the suspicion, correct in my experience, that the police prefer to tackle "crimes" committed by law abiding citizens to be a more attractive way, safer too I expect, to keep their clean-up rates on target than going after the heavies except in large numbers.I routinely pass what are clearly minor incidents, say a traffic accident, being attended by what seems to be several too many cars and officers. Three hundred yards away from the Lib Dem conference's "ring of cardboard" security net yesterday, I counted six officers guarding a concrete ant-bomber barrier that could probably have guarded itself. But they chatted happily in bright sunshine.Of course, individuals and communities have a duty of care to themselves and each other. The police often need support they don't get. But the same is even truer in reverse. One feels that, like nurses who have become too sophisticated to do basic nursing tasks, too many police officers don't do the basics – just as O'Connor says."It's not just about presence (on the street), it's about control," he said on Today. He even hinted that evictions of troublesome families should be back on the agenda – something Blair backed off (I think it was Frank Field's idea) after the usual uproar about homeless children from the usual suspects, including the Guardian.In troubled and troubling times when old-fashioned social controls and disciplines have been severely eroded and only partly replaced by new ones, all this has the potential to become nasty.Blame the politicians alone if you like. But they may reply that, just as they let the soldiers devise a flawed military strategy in Helmand province, they let the police run operational matters, the same police in many cases who resisted the push towards community policing – where beat officers know their miscreants by name and habit.As good headteachers routinely demonstrate, you have to let the villains know that you know where they live and that you are on their case. With a little tough love they often turn out not to be serious villains after all.