 Daily Express Editorial, June 12"David Blunkett's plans to give communities a greater say in the way we are protected have to be applauded. Local people obviously have the best idea of the problems in their areas... [Schemes] which would deliver punishments tailored to the needs of the community have been proven to work across the Atlantic. There is no reason they should not do so here. "However, the Americans have combined such measures with a highly visible police presence. In other words, if such schemes are to work, they must be accompanied by more bobbies on the beat... If this initiative actually delivers more police officers in the street, then it will be welcomed by us."  Times Editorial, June 12 "Most voters would probably rather have policing arrangements that were more effective than more elective... The aspect of American policing that Britain could and should import urgently concerns the timely collection of crime statistics that can assist in fashioning an appropriate response to emerging trends... Such a strategy, if supported by sufficient numbers of officers on the ground, can make a significant difference... "If police basic command units (BCUs) had the right information available to them, it would make sense to devolve autonomy as Mr Blunkett is suggesting... The best solution might well be the combination of decentralisation of BCUs across the board, a case-by-case scrutiny of the numbers and the boundaries of existing local forces and the possible introduction of a British equivalent of the FBI."  Independent Editorial, June 12 "Local democracy could be used as a spur to efficiency in failing forces. The danger is the police would find their priorities hijacked by the sort of agitation we saw in the campaigns to 'name and shame' paedophiles... The most likely result is that figures such as Ray Mallon, known as 'Robocop' and the mayor of Middlesbrough, will turn up on police authorities with fairly empty promises... "This new localism remains flawed... As those who were victims of the old care in the community policy found to their cost, there are few functioning communities worthy of the name to be found in our towns and cities... And has anyone in government given the slightest thought to the fact that we already have a local democratic structure in place, called local government?... It probably won't work any better if its remaining responsibilities are taken away."  Daily Telegraph  Editorial, June 12 "We would give a much warmer welcome to David Blunkett's proposals for devolving more powers in criminal justice and policing to the localities if we thought he was actually serious about implementing them... But the trouble is that the home secretary is a bit of a tease... "He sits in a cabinet and is a member of a party whose instincts are opposed to those of the bulk of their working-class voters. They believe, for instance, that prison is part of the problem, not part of the solution... The end result is a set of proposals that offer the illusion of local 'ownership', but not the reality... But if Mr Blunkett's ideas do put the concept of Ray Mallon-style crime-busters taking over some of our forces at the forefront of the national debate, it will not have been a total waste of time."  Matthew Taylor  Financial Times, June 12 "While it would be churlish not to welcome the government's apparent conversion to localism, there are serious questions about the clarity and realism of its thinking... To propose new models of local democracy without first having a realiseable commitment to decentralising power is putting the cart before the horse... No democratic system will be neat and tidy or satisfy the purists but we urgently need some clarity. The government must explain the endgame of decentralisation before any further complexities are bolted on to our ailing democracy."