Terry Lubbock has got the coroner's report out before I've even taken off my coat. His fingers are trembling as he scoops the document up from neat piles of papers laid out on the living room carpet, in an ordinary house on an ordinary estate in an ordinary Essex suburb. Lubbock is smiling - "Here it is!" - and I have not yet sat down, when he begins to read out what must be extra-ordinary words for a father to have to share with a stranger about his own son.The clinical description of the internal injuries found in Stuart Lubbock's body is graphic, and stomach-turning, and details the probable cause: "the insertion of some firm object". Lubbock reads with the emphasis of someone so familiar with the words that he has passed beyond the reach of their shock. "My point," he concludes, "is the police knew about those injuries from day one. It should have been a suspicious death, which should have led to a murder inquiry. Cos those anal injuries killed Stuart."The conversation seldom gets less distressingly surreal over the course of the afternoon we spend together. Lubbock is a small man of 64, frail but animated, with a high, reedy voice that frequently cracks into falsetto as he struggles to articulate the tangle of legal bureaucracy, medical jargon and unbearable loss that has consumed the last eight years of his life. Picking it apart is complicated, for he rattles along in a scattergun of non-sequiturs, darting between detail and bewilderment. Occasionally his adviser, Harry Cichy, intervenes to clarify a point when Lubbock loses his thread and pauses to apologise - "Sorry, I'm mopping about all over the place." Sometimes he steadies himself by reading aloud from his own handwritten notes. "This is the cover-up theory," Lubbock reads haltingly from a small ring-bound notebook. "From day one a crime scene should have started. The first autopsy was carried out on day one. Injuries were found. These injuries led to my son's death. There's a killer on the loose." He breaks off, grinning bashfully. "I don't know whether you're going to use that line or not. But I believe a cover-up started on that day. Oh Christ, I've lost my place. Yeah, let me read it all, then you can ask me questions. Where did I get up to? Right, I'll start again. 'Cover up theory'. Underlined. 'From day one . . .'"What emerges with painful clarity by the end is not so much what happened to Stuart Lubbock, but what happens to someone when they lose a son to such a devastating mystery. Lubbock has, as he says, "led two completely separate lives". His first life ended on 31 March 2001, the day Stuart was pulled dead from Michael Barrymore's swimming pool - and this one, strange and unfamiliar, won't end until he finds out who killed him.It began with the collision of two worlds only a few miles apart, but divided by unimaginable difference. Eight years ago Terry Lubbock was living here in Harlow with his two sons, in the family home where they had grown up - a modest working-class household in a drab neighbourhood of modern brick terraces and flats. He had a job as a courtesy-car driver for a local dealership, and his sons worked at a nearby bacon-packing factory; at weekends the brothers would go out drinking with friends in town. Stuart, 31, had moved home six months earlier, having split up with the mother of his two children, and was known as a bit of a womaniser. When the pair were out together in Harlow's Millennium nightclub one Friday night, and became separated, his brother Kevin assumed he had gone home with a girl.In fact, Stuart had met Barrymore and his entourage in the nightclub, and been invited back to the star's mansion for an after-party. Barrymore was one of the country's most famous TV entertainers - a charismatic, wildly hedonistic, gay celebrity - and Lubbock doubts his son thought twice before jumping in the taxi with him. "Stuart was a show-off - that was his weakness. He'd have gone straight up there to the house just so he could tell everyone about it the next day."But just before dawn, Stuart's body was found in Barrymore's pool. When the ambulance arrived, Barrymore had already fled, and the remaining guests said Stuart had drowned. Only later that day, when an autopsy found "horrific" internal anal injuries, did the house became a crime scene. Cocaine and ecstasy were found in Stuart's system, as well as alcohol, and the cause of his cardiac arrest was never conclusively established. Three months later, two of the party, Jonathan Kenney and Justin Merritt, were arrested on suspicion of murder, but no charges were brought. Eighteen months later a coroner recorded an open verdict."I trusted the police. I trusted the police right up until the inquest. I wanted unlawful killing, and I thought that was going to happen. But then after the verdict, the family liaison officer said to me, 'I bet you're glad that's over, you can gradually start now to put it behind you.' It was only then that the penny dropped. And I thought, they've stitched me up. They've stitched Stuart up. The police have thrown a googlie here."Since then, Lubbock has been campaigning for a conviction. He has made a DVD, co-written a book - Not Awight - and tried to mount a private prosecution against Barrymore. In 2005 he suffered a near fatal stroke, and can no longer work, but his campaign did not falter. The police investigation was reopened in 2006, and in June 2007 Barrymore, Kenney and Merritt were arrested on suspicion of sexual assault and murder, but again no charges were brought. Then, last week, a report by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) upheld six of Lubbock's 36 complaints about the Essex police investigation. Most damningly, it found that two implements photographed by police at the scene - a 12in pool thermometer and a door handle - were never subsequently found or accounted for. Two senior officers visited Lubbock to offer a personal apology."The whole thing," Lubbock declares, "has been covered up. We've got to dig a lot deeper. There's a cover-up triangle and it starts with Barrymore, and goes to the police and ends up with the IPCC. We've got to dig a whole lot deeper. Michael Barrymore's name will for ever be linked to my son's suspicious death." Lubbock says he had trusted the police all his life - "I always thought, they're doing their job!" he exclaims. But that trust is just one more of the things he has lost since his son died, for it appears he can no longer trust almost anybody. A particular pathologist is dismissed as "very suspect - he was in the police's pocket", and even though the IPCC rejected his claim of corruption, he remains convinced that senior police were paid to cover up his son's murder. "Barrymore has friends in high places," he mutters darkly. Although he admires the officer who carried out the IPCC investigation, he suspects he was "leaned on". "He phoned me in October and said, 'Terry, I've finished my investigation and passed it to a higher level. Now, what were the higher level doing from October to yesterday when we got that [IPPC report]? They were bloody well - I tell you what - that investigation was so damning that they had to water it down." Even so, he seems happy with the report. Does he consider this a good day? "Yeah, publicity! The publicity was all I was aiming for."It is a feature of contemporary campaigns for justice that media publicity and legal progress risk becoming confused, even conflated. Lubbock has almost limitless faith in the power of publicity to effect the sort of breakthrough the police have so far failed to achieve for him. "I mean," he says, "the media are very helpful, they get people to come forward. You guys out there, I trust you more than you can trust the police." While we are talking, other journalists are phoning, and it's easy to see how they must have come to seem infinitely more responsive than the statutory services whose job it actually is to find his son's killer. He is always wary of being, as he says, "stitched up". But at moments his faith in the media to deliver justice can be heartbreaking. When I ask if he thinks he will ever get a conviction, he says, "Until yesterday I'd say it was 60-40 against. After yesterday I'd say it's narrowed to 50-50. And when this goes out," he adds, nodding towards my notepad, "I reckon it'll narrow even more. And then we'll be rocking." In recent months, while waiting for the report, he admits he felt so low that thoughts of suicide crossed his mind. Impotent in the face of so much official intransigence, for Lubbock the media has become his only defence against a powerlessness that has threatened to destroy him."I think the police were trying to dilute the impact of the report, that's why they came round to apologise. When they left here they must have been thinking," and he rubs his hands, "'Well, that's job done, he took that quite well.' But Sky News had been down here that day, so they phoned me up and said how did you get on with the police?" Lubbock hoots with satisfaction. "So unknowingly I tripped the coppers up. Cos they were going to do a big press conference after the report came out, and say, 'We've apologised to Mr Lubbock,' smooth it all over. But I kicked it up the arse! When you turned the telly on, it was all over the place. 'Police apologise!' And they never had the press conference! We caught 'em," he chuckles. "We caught 'em good."Lubbock has also had to negotiate the minefield of homophobia that the case inevitably invites. He is adamant that his son was not gay, and there is no evidence that he is mistaken. Only one man ever sold a story to a tabloid saying Stuart was gay, but Lubbock claims that the man made it up for the money. But his insistence that Stuart wasn't gay has been interpreted by some as homophobia; the denial of a father who would rather believe his son was murdered than accept he had simply liked rough anal sex. "Stuart wasn't gay, but I've got nothing against gay people!" Lubbock protests, despairing at the dilemma he finds himself trapped in. "In fact they've helped us quite a lot - and if Stuart had been gay, I wouldn't have had a problem. I'd have loved him just the same. He was my son, so that doesn't even raise its head." Whether it was a factor in the police's attitude to Stuart's death remains unanswered; had a young woman been found in a pool at a straight man's party, perhaps suspicions would have been aroused more quickly. But it certainly seems to have been a factor for one of the more colourful characters drawn into Lubbock's life since Stuart died. As the bizarre story of Tony Bennett's role in the campaign unfolds, you begin to wonder what else can possibly happen to Lubbock.Bennett used to be a Ukip activist and candidate until he was temporarily banned from holding office for publishing a pamphlet branding the Prophet Muhammad a paedophile. In 2004 he became Robert Kilroy-Silk's researcher, and a year or so later became interested in the Lubbock case, offering his services to run a trust and a campaign website. But you have only to read the chapters of Not Awight c0-written by Bennett to see how he feels about homosexuality - and in 2007 a complaint was made about homophobic material on his website. Essex police launched an investigation against Bennett for hate crime, Lubbock was horrified and dispensed with his services, although the police took no further action.Cichy is now Lubbock's only adviser. A thoughtful, sensible presence, there is a touch of the home counties golf club treasurer about him, and it feels a relief to find him there, for Lubbock is single-handedly trying to battle overwhelming odds to get justice for his son. Lubbock remains indefatigably chirpy, and the impression of a sweet-natured and rather vulnerable innocent, struggling to survive a tragedy, is at times almost unbearable.Does Lubbock feel the campaign has helped save him? "Oh yeah. Kept me going, yeah. Harry, what was the phrase I used to use for Barrymore? Teflon Barrymore! That's it! Write it down cos you might want to use it. They can't touch him!" Lubbock breaks off, laughing. "You see you've got to have the element of comedy. I've still got a comedy side, still see the comedy side. Cos I'd be six foot under otherwise. I mean actually I've got more of a sense of humour now than what I had before. I think that is a safety mechanism. I think everyone's got a built-in safety mechanism to stop them going screwy. I think if I'd gone the other way, I'd have been in the ground."The next stage, he says, will be legal action against the police for the failings in its investigation. And how does he feel now about Barrymore? "Nothing," he says. "Just nothing." Can he remember how he used to feel about the star, in the days when he was just another famous face Lubbock would see on television? "Never ever had any feelings," he shrugs. Then he adds, "I'll tell you something. When I was in my 20s and working in Old Harlow there was a big posh restaurant, used to be called Harlow Mill, and we used to go down there every Christmas for a Christmas dinner. It was a smashing place, really upmarket, and it had a cabaret. Now do you know who the cabaret was? Barrymore. He'd only just started out, and he was doing his Basil Fawlty."Lubbock shakes his head in wonderment, and turns away. "Innit a small world?".