Tommy Sheridan has just joined a very elite club of politicians found guilty of committing perjury. After a lengthy trial, it was found that he had lied in 2006 when he successfully took News of the World to court for libel, in the process winning £200,000, over allegations about his sex life. The company he now keeps is with disgraced former Tory MPs, Jeffrey Archer and Jonathan Aitken.For many, he was a "working class hero", to use the phrase of his favoured lyricist, John Lennon. Raised in a working class scheme in Pollok in Glasgow, he was jailed in 1992 for breaking an interdict against a warrant sale to recover a poll tax debt. This led him to national prominence, and while in jail he was elected to Glasgow city council as an independent socialist. This paved the way for his further elevation to become the most widely acclaimed socialist tribune of his generation when he was elected to the Scottish parliament in 1999. His clenched fist defiance at the swearing in ceremony became the defining image of the birth of the new Scottish parliament.More than anything else, he stood up for what he believed in and fought tenaciously for his socialist principles without regard to any personal considerations. He became the leading "conviction politician" in Scotland, full of conviction for his principles and prepared to be convicted for them. He became a guest of Her Majesty as a result of his fight against nuclear weapons.With now being found guilty of perjury, many of those same people may now equally well think he has become "a working class zero" because he has squandered the credibility and support he so astutely and successfully garnered in the fight for socialism. But worse than that, Sheridan has done so on issues which were not concerned with that fight. The issues concerned lying over his sex life and then asking his party to cover him in doing so.His political career now lies in tatters. Electorates can usually forgive those that get caught out. But they are usually less accepting of hypocrites and liars, and especially those that challenge the establishment with such vehemence. The fact that Sheridan continually portrayed himself as a happily married family man did not exactly help.His socialist message may still be the same but the willingness of people to listen to it is now very much reduced. And if he is jailed for more than a year when he is sentenced on 26 January, he will be disqualified from standing for parliament again. He now also faces bankruptcy because the News of the World will no doubt come after him for its costs from the 2006 case. Being a bankrupt is another disqualification from standing for parliament.For the radical socialist left in Scotland, this is the continuation of a fratricidal nightmare. Tommy split the Scottish Socialist party, by far the most successful socialist party in the British postwar period, which he helped found and lead. He wanted the SSP to back him up. When it would not, he then left it and set up a rival party, Solidarity. As a result, both parties were wiped out from the Scottish parliament. The electorate looked at both and said: "A plague on both your houses". Sheridan fell along with the five other socialist MSPs. It has been said by some that this is the one crime Sheridan will never stand trial for. For Tommy Sheridan, spending most of the past six years fighting former comrades and preparing for a perjury trial meant not only that he trained far less of his fire on the forces of capitalism and neoliberalism but he also missed out doing so at the time of these enemies' gravest crisis. The credit crunch, which led to an economic depression and a crisis for neoliberalism, is now being resolved by making citizens pay for the mess through an attack on the welfare state, courtesy of thegovernment's age of austerity. That is the tragedy of Tommy Sheridan.