The actor and writer Chris Langham was today found guilty of possessing child pornography and warned he could be sent to jail.The 58-year-old was cleared of having sex with an underage female fan. Jurors at Maidstone crown court, in Kent, took less than three hours of deliberation to find him not guilty of six charges of indecent assault and two charges of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. However, immediately afterwards they convicted the star of The Thick of It on 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child between September and November 2005. Judge Philip Statman remanded Langham in custody prior to sentencing on September 14. "In my judgment, and I have thought long and hard about this, it would a misplaced kindness to give you bail at this stage," he told the actor, who listened to the verdicts with his eyes closed. In a brief statement, read out later by his solicitor, Angus McBride, Langham thanked the jury and conceded that the child pornography charges were ones he had "made admissions to from the moment of my first arrest", despite his not guilty plea. The statement said there would be no further comment before the sentencing. During emotional testimony to the court, Langham had denied claims by the female fan, now aged 25, that he had taken her virginity in a London hotel when she was 14.He admitted sexual relations with her, but said this had happened when she was an adult. Langham described the woman, now 25 - whom he met when he was starring in Les Miserables in the West End of London - as "a sick person" who had invented much of her testimony. "I mean that in a completely compassionate way," he told the court. "It's not a criticism or judgment. I can't say I like her very much, but everybody deserves compassion." Langham admitted downloading child pornography, but told the court he was pleading not guilty in order to emphasise that he was not a paedophile. The actor recounted having been abused as an eight-year-old child, and said he looked at the images to better understand what had happened to him. He described the experience of seeing the films as like "putting my face in a chainsaw". Langham also claimed he had sought out the images as research for a new series of another television show, Help, which was to have featured a sex offender as a character. After the verdict, Ken Goss,a Crown Prosecution Service spokesman, said the defence was baseless."Chris Langham thought that he could possess, download, and view indecent images of children," he told reporters. "His defence was it was only research. That was clearly wrong." Detective Inspector Derek Cuff, of Kent police, said some of the images and video the jury had been shown were "harrowing and disturbing"."There is no excuse for accessing any images of child abuse," he said. "We treat every case very seriously and we will prosecute any offenders."During the trial, prosecutor Richard Barraclough QC, cross-examining Langham, called his various defences "pseudo psychobabble". "You weren't doing it for research but for your own personal motives," he told the actor, who responded: "It's to do with resolving a long-standing psychological problem." Langham, a married father of five, achieved recognition as a writer for the likes of Spike Milligan and the Muppet Show, but also sought treatment for addiction to alcohol and cocaine. He gained nationwide fame shortly before the court case, playing hapless government minister Hugh Abbott in The Thick of It, a BBC satire on politics and spin, and winning last year's Bafta for best comedy performer. He also co-starred in Help, playing a therapist treating a series of comedic grotesque characters played by Paul Whitehouse. Mr Whitehouse was to have played a sex offender, Pedro, in a second series of Help. He told the court there was no reason for Langham to look at child pornography to research this. Langham, who lives in a farmhouse in Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent, announced his withdrawal from all BBC projects pending the outcome of the court case. A BBC spokeswoman said today: "We are aware of the verdict. Chris Langham is not currently contracted for any work with the BBC."