The hitman who killed a Hell's Angel biker on the M40 on Sunday was travelling at around 70mph when he fired the fatal shot, police said yesterday.The killing was carefully planned and executed, it emerged, as biker friends of the dead man vowed to avenge his murder. Gerard Michael Tobin, 35, a Canadian mechanic who had been living in England for 10 years, was killed with a single shot from a handgun as he headed home from last weekend's Bulldog Bash at Long Marston airfield, Stratford-upon-Avon.Mr Tobin, who worked for a Harley Davidson garage close to his home in Mottingham, south London, did not have a criminal record, according to police, and had nothing in his past to indicate why he might be targeted. Mr Tobin, with two Polish biker companions, was driving south on the motorway when a green Rover 620 pulled out of a layby just before junction 15. A gunman, one of at least three men in the car, fired two shots, one of which hit him in the back of the head just below his helmet. He fell from his Harley Davidson Softail Night Train FXSTB which travelled a further 200 yards."Astonishing is the best word to describe this case," said Det Supt Ken Lawrence of Warwickshire police yesterday. "It is an incredible story. This man was travelling at... about 70 mph." Six years ago a Canadian biker leaving the same festival was shot in the leg but not fatally.Mr Lawrence said there was no obvious motive. The dead man had been in a stable relationship, was known as hard working and of good character. He added: "The key to this is what we can find in Mr Tobin's backyard. If he has been targeted then there must be a motive."Mr Tobin's girlfriend, Rebecca Smith, 25, was too upset to speak. His colleagues closed the Harley Davidson garage where he worked yesterday. Harley Davidson UK issued a statement of condolence to his family and partner.Police are studying hours of CCTV footage in the hope of tracking the movements of the green Rover. They have had more than 200 calls from members of the public. Police hope that Mr Tobin's distinctive bike, with death's head insignia on each side, may jog memories.Julian Sher, a Canadian investigative journalist and author of Angels of Death, a study of biker gangs across the world, said: "When a Hell's Angel gets executed, it's one of two things: an internal cleansing or a rival gang." On the Bulldog Bash website forum, fellow-bikers expressed their anger at the murder. "To you yellow-backed murderers, hope the police find you first," said one posting.