The former publican accused of killing five women working as prostitutes said today he could not explain how the blood from two of the victims was found on his jacket and denied claims he had become "sloppy" in a "campaign of murder".Jurors at Ipswich crown court were told blood from Annette Nicholls, 29, and Paula Clennell, 24, was discovered by forensic teams on a jacket belonging to Steve Wright.Wright, 49, has previously agreed it was "singularly unfortunate" that he may have slept with four of the murdered women on the nights they vanished but insists it was coincidental.He denies murdering Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24, Clennell, Nicholls, and Tania Nicol, 19, whose naked bodies were found in remote locations in Suffolk over a 10-day period in December 2006. Two were found with their bodies posed in a cruciform shape.Today, Peter Wright, QC, prosecuting, asked the defendant: "How did [Nicholls'] blood get on the outside of the back of the right sleeve of your jacket?" He replied: "I couldn't say." The prosecutor then asked: "How did [Clennell's] blood get on the back of your left shoulder?" Wright replied: "I have no idea."The QC also asked Wright about red acrylic fibres found on some of the women, saying: "They came from the blanket in which you carried some of the bodies. That's where they came from, didn't they?" Wright denied this.Fibres, DNA linked to the women's bodies and other evidence were discovered in Wright's Ford Mondeo, the court heard. The defendant had told jurors he cleaned his car "vigorously" and was "proud" of it. The prosecutor asked: "Is it that the position you had reached was this, Mr Wright. So successful had you been at picking up these women and killing them that you were getting sloppy?" "No way. I had nothing to do with their deaths," Wright replied, before refuting the prosecutor's suggestion that he had "engaged in a campaign of murder for a little over six weeks".Wright also denied "tailoring" his story to fit forensic evidence. He finished giving evidence today.