Paul Smith was bullied as "the odd kid" for all 11 years he spent at school, struggling with a form of autism, but yesterday, as he started a life sentence for stripping and smothering a child ballet star, he was revealed as a repeat attacker of young girls.After nine hours, a jury at Nottingham Crown court convicted the 18-year-old, who has Asperger's syndrome and whose stilted speech and learning difficulties singled him out for mockery, of killing Rosie May Storrie, 10, at a Christmas party in Normanton, Leicestershire. They only then learned details of other incidents including how he had previously forced another girl into a car boot at gunpoint, after gagging her and tying her up. But none of the victims brought charges and all the incidents were unknown to the little girl's family when they chatted with friends at the party while she teased and joked with him. Her parents, Graham and Mary Storrie, made an appeal for more openness about potentially violent people, whatever their problems. "Quiet knowledge" of Smith's background would have saved their daughter, who was starring in local pantomime and had won an offer of a place at the English Ballet School which arrived two days after her murder. Mrs Storrie, 42, who runs a nanny agency and has two sons, said: "We feel that not only Paul Smith's parents but the parents of the girl who was abducted and the parents of the girl who was assaulted - if any of those parents had chosen to stick their neck out and be accountable then prevention could have occurred." Mr Storrie, 45 and a fabric technician, said: "It is a warning to other people who think they can cover up these sorts of things within the family. If there had been some honesty, even a quiet warning to watch Paul Smith, we would still have Rosie May with us." His parents, Nigel and Susan, who have another son and a daughter at university, said in a statement: "We are deeply upset and shocked by this verdict. We remain convinced that Paul played no part in Rosie May's death and we will continue the fight to clear his name. It has appeared that the most vulnerable has been selected as the easy target." The three week trial heard that Smith had shown an interest in the "pretty and bubbly" Rosie May when she arrived wearing a black catsuit and talked to him while playing a computer game about relationships. He was the last person seen with her before she was found smothered in a bedroom with her clothes round her legs. Setting a minimum term of 14 years in jail, Mr Justice Astill told Smith, who worked at his uncle's business in Sedgebrook, Lincolnshire: "I am sure that you are, and have been for some time, a considerable danger to young girls. "I do not know if this disturbing part of your personality arises from the condition from which you undoubtedly suffer. "But you made a determined attack upon this young child long enough and forceful enough to overcome the considerable struggle which she put up to survive, to prevent you from suffocating her. I have no doubt that your reason was sexual." The court heard that Smith's condition made him nervous and unhappy at crowded gatherings such as the Christmas party. But Mrs Storrie overheard him say, "I feel like a sexual [being]" when Rosie May arrived, took off her fleece and revealed her catsuit. Later on in the evening, he was seen by another young guest chasing the child upstairs after she grabbed a beer can from him and danced off. The drink was found by Rosie's body with traces of DNA from both her and Smith. Mr Justice Astill said: "Your comments about feeling sexual when she was attracting attention demonstrated that your feelings built up during the course of that evening. I cannot give you the benefit of good character because of your previous attacks on young girls but I do take into account the disability from which you suffer." After the verdict, the court heard how Smith had lost his temper two years before Rosie's death last December, when a girl from his school was chatting in his bedroom and started talking about exams. He threatened her with his air rifle before taping her mouth and legs, forcing her into a car boot and driving off. Suddenly overcome with remorse, he then released her, before swerving away and crashing into another car. Mr Justice Astill ruled that the episode should not be put to the jury because the hallmarks were not the same as in the attack on Rosie May. Smith admitted attacking the 16-year-old when interviewed by officers but the matter was never pursued at the request of his victim. In a statement, the girl's family said: "She would never speak to Paul again but she didn't want to bring charges against her childhood friend. "We were unaware of the other incidents at the time and only heard about them when the police came to see us following the death. I do know that Paul never apologised for what he did that day." A spokesman for the National Autistic Society said: "There would be no reason to suspect that someone with Asperger's Syndrome would be likely to be more aggressive towards other people than any other person of a similar age "We get more issues around people with Asperger's Syndrome being bullied than being bullies. But if someone with Asperger's Syndrome did become aggressive that would be complicated by the fact that they might not be able to understand the consequences".