A family doctor killed 15 women patients because he enjoyed exercising the ultimate power of control over life or death, a court heard yesterday.Harold Shipman, 53, of Mottram, near Hyde, Greater Manchester, is accused of killing the patients between 1995 and 1998 and forging the will of one of the alleged victims, Kathleen Grundy, 82, so he would benefit from her £400,000 estate.Opening the prosecution case at Preston crown court, Richard Henriques QC said: "There is no question in this case of euthanasia, or what is sometimes called mercy killing. None of the deceased was terminally ill. The defendant killed those 15 patients because he enjoyed doing so. "He was exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death and repeated it so often that he must have found the drama of taking life to his taste." The prosecution claims he murdered all 15 patients by administering substantial doses of morphine or diamorphine. Dr Shipman ran a one-man practice in Hyde. Nine of the 15 alleged victims were buried and the rest were cremated. Tests revealed a significant level of morphine in the bodies that were exhumed. "None of those buried, nor indeed cremated, were prescribed morphine or diamorphine. All of them died unexpectedly, all of them had seen Dr Shipman on the day of their death," Mr Henriques said. "The prosecution will point to a number of similarities in each case which cumulatively present a compelling case against the defendant. "In a significant number of cases he has falsified the medical records in order to create a false medical history consistent with the false cause of death attributed to him to his deceased patient.  Wealthy widow "In a significant number of cases he has informed or persuaded relatives that a post mortem was not necessary or desirable, when it plainly was. Of course, from Dr Shipman's perspective it was imperative in each case that he avoided a post mortem. Routine testing would have disclosed morphine poisoning." Mr Henriques said in a number of cases Dr Shipman told relatives that the deceased had asked him to visit them at home, but telephone and surgery records show no such requests had been made. In three cases he had told relatives that at or about the time of death he had called an ambulance - another "series of lies". Dr Shipman is also accused of forging the will of Kathleen Grundy, a former mayoress of Hyde, who died in June 1998. The document purported to leave all her estate to him. "She was a wealthy widow with an estate of almost £400,000," said Mr Henriques. "Not only does a handwriting expert say that the will is forged; so too do the two purported witnesses to the forged will. "When it became clear that Dr Shipman was responsible for the forgery of Mrs Grundy's will, her body was exhumed and when substantial quantities of morphine were found in her thigh muscle, liver and blood, exhumations followed. The defendant had the means to carry out these murders, namely possession of diamorphine accumulated over a period of time." Dr Shipman told police he did not keep morphine or diamorphine. "This was a manifest lie designed to avoid responsibility for these murders," said Mr Henriques. "When each of these allegations is looked at and placed in context of the trial as a whole, it will be very plain that Dr Shipman killed each of these 15 women as he purported to treat them as patients." Mr Henriques said of Mrs Grundy that although 82, "she was quite exceptionally fit and energetic. You will hear that she was exceptionally active, always bobbing about, still driving her car and sitting on various committees." She was proud of her family and regularly visited her daughter, Angela Woodruff, a solicitor who had her mother's will made in 1986. The day before she died, Mrs Grundy called at Hyde town hall and told a meals on wheels officer she had been to Dr Shipman's surgery to sign papers. "Dr Shipman was coming see her at home at 8.30pm for her to sign some more papers and to take a blood sample from her. Later at the charity shop she appeared her usual self and told them she was going to have her ears syringed that evening and she was not looking forward to it," said Mr Henriques. That evening she drove to the home of a friend, May Clarke. Dr Shipman told her he would call the following morning to take a blood sample. "The picture you may well form from the evidence is not of somebody engaged in disinheriting her only daughter and grandsons," said Mr Henriques. "There is no doubt that Dr Shipman visited Mrs Grundy's home prior to her being found dead at 11.55am on Wednesday June 24 by two members of the luncheon club, where she had failed to attend." She was fully clothed on a sofa. One of the men knew she was a patient of Dr Shipman and phoned his surgery. The GP arrived 10 minutes later and told them she must have been well enough to get dressed as he had seen her that morning in her nightclothes. "He said she had had a heart attack and that he would return in the morning with a death certificate. They asked what they should do and very significantly Dr Shipman said that Mrs Grundy used a solicitor in Hyde - Hamiltons. "Mrs Grundy did not use a solicitor in Hyde. However, that very morning her forged will had been received by a local firm, Hamilton Ward, accompanied by a forged letter purporting to be signed by Mrs Grundy. Significantly, the will purported to express a wish to be cremated." In July 1998, Mrs Woodruff learned that Hamilton Ward wanted to speak to her. They told her they had a will and a letter from a Mr S or J Smith. "That letter was typed, as was the forged will, on a Brother typewriter recovered by the police from Dr Shipman's surgery. Mrs Woodruff, who was very close to her mother, was, of course, suspicious and obtained permission to speak to the witnesses." She then contacted the police. A handwriting expert examined both signatures and found that they did not belong to either witness. When the "K Grundy" signatures were examined they were found to be forgeries.  Matching fingerprint A fingerprint expert examined the will and found a left little fingerprint matching one taken from Dr Shipman. Mr Henriques said that when Mrs Grundy's body was exhumed samples revealed morphine in the liver and thigh muscles, indicating a potentially fatal dose of morphine or diamorphine. In August 1998 Dr Shipman spoke to a district nurse, Marion Gilchrist. "The early part of what he said may well have been a rehearsal for what he was to tell the police. He began by saying he suspected she had been taking some kind of drug which had not been prescribed for her. He also told nurse Gilchrist that Mrs Grundy had changed her will before she died and came to the surgery and asked him to be a witness to the will. "On another occasion he told her he read thrillers and said, 'I would have me guilty on the evidence,' and started to cry. He then said, most significantly, that the only thing he had done wrong with regards to Mrs Grundy's death was not being able to arrange for her to be cremated. He said that if he had arranged this then he would not have had any trouble," said Mr Henriques. After his arrest on September 7 1998, he denied being responsible for Mrs Grundy's death. "He asserted that he had visited her home at 8am and had taken a blood sample. But there are no records of any sample ever being taken. The prosecution case is that the arrangement to take a sample of Mrs Grundy's blood on the day of her death was no more than a bogus excuse to visit her at her house." Tests on the body of Bianka Pomfret, another alleged victim, revealed potentially fatal levels of morphine. Mrs Pomfret had been suffering from severe depression and anxiety, but was otherwise healthy. Winifred Mellor was, by all accounts, a fit and active person, the jury were told. A neighbour, Gloria Ellis, saw Dr Shipman's maroon Space Cruiser arrive outside her house at 3pm on the day of her death in May 1998. At 6.30pm she saw him again. He called at her house and said he needed to get into Mrs Mellor's house as he had seen her in a chair, but could not get in. "He just flicked up her right arm and let it drop," said Mr Henriques. "He then flicked her eyes and as he did that he said, 'This lady's gone.' Mrs Ellis could not believe that his behaviour was so callous and disrespectful." The doctor told police he had seen Mrs Mellor in his surgery on the afternoon she died and could not remember going to her house. But he created a computer entry at 4.03pm, an hour after visiting her. "The unhappy inference is that, having administered a fatal injection, Dr Shipman returned to his surgery to create a false medical history to support a cause of death of coronary thrombosis." Tests on Mrs Mellor's body showed morphine. "There are a number of similarities with this and the previous two cases which cannot be explained by coincidence alone," Mr Henriques said. "The sudden death with the deceased sat in a chair in her front room in her day clothes. The doctor on his arrival, after discovering the body, making minimal examination of the deceased. Morphine in the body at a fatal level and the computer records altered between Dr Shipman seeing the deceased and her body being found. All these facts can only be explained by the fact that Dr Shipman administered a fatal dose of diamorphine in each case." The case is expected to last for at least three months.  Other alleged victims were Marie Quinn, 67; Muriel Grimshaw, 76 and Pamela Hillier, 68