An armed robber's itching scalp put him in jail for 15 years yesterday, more than a decade after he left a scattering of dandruff in a stocking mask used on a raid.Advances in DNA profiling trapped Andrew Pearson, 40, after flakes stored on sticky tape by detectives were matched with a swab taken from his mouth when the burglary inquiry was reopened in June. A jury at Hull crown court took 75 minutes to convict Pearson of stealing £38,000 in a hold-up, after hearing that the odds against the dandruff coming from anyone else were a billion to one. Judge Michael Murphy QC told Pearson, who has 76 previous convictions, that criminals would be tracked down in the end. "It is right that people who believe that it may be profitable and worthwhile to involve themselves in serious crimes like this should learn a lesson that the criminal justice system doesn't switch itself off," he said. "As detection becomes more effective and sophisticated, criminal behaviour, which they feel they have evaded responsibility for, will catch up with them in the end. Just as you are about to find out." The court heard that Pearson had used a woman's stocking to mask his face when he and two other men escaped with £38,000 from a caravan company in Hull in June 1993. Threats were made to kill five terrified staff and a gun was fired through a window, leaving one of the employees bleeding from head injuries caused by flying glass. Mark McKone, prosecuting, said Pearson had hoped to get away with £250,000 but the gang had mistimed the raid and missed the main wages delivery at the company, where Pearson had previously worked. There had been gossip about his alleged involvement after an appeal on BBC Crimewatch. But he denied taking part, and pleaded not guilty to robbery and possessing a firearm. He told the jury: "I can only speculate how dandruff got there. I could have got a lift in the car and leant my head back on the headrest, against the stocking, or I might have wiped my head on it." The judge said that some of his victims in the raid were still haunted by their ordeal 11 years later. Receptionist Rita Dixon told the hearing she would never forget the moment staff were ordered to lie on the floor "or someone's head would be blown off." The court heard that part of Pearson's stocking mask was found in the gang's stolen getaway car which was abandoned near the scene. There was no blood, sweat or saliva on it, but detectives spotted and kept the dandruff flakes. Forensic scientist Jonathan Whitaker told the jury: "The profile from the skin flakes absolutely matched the profile from Mr Pearson."