To friends, neighbours, even their relatives, they seemed a normal enough couple. Nathan Matthews held down a job as a takeaway delivery driver and was always good for a laugh and joke. Shauna Hoare was quiet but worked hard caring for Matthews’ ill mother.Behind the facade, however, Matthews and Hoare harboured disturbing sexual fantasies. They exchanged intimate messages about kidnapping petite girls. Their phones and computers were used to access pornography focused on teenagers, young women dressed as schoolgirls, and threesomes. Becky Watts murder: Nathan Matthews found guilty In the end, the pair were not content to watch their dark imaginings fulfilled on a screen. They turned one of their fantasies into reality when they persuaded a friend to join them in a threesome. Then in February Matthews went much, much further when he targeted his 16-year-old stepsister, Becky Watts, intending to use her – as the prosecution put it – as a “sexual plaything”. He went to her home equipped with a kidnap kit including stun-guns and handcuffs. Becky was suffocated in her bedroom and stabbed 15 times in the abdomen after her death. The pair then coolly took her body back to their home. They were calm enough to order a takeaway, play a game of Monopoly and next day laughed over a parody of the song Do You Want to Build a Snowman?, from the film Frozen, called Do You Want to Hide a Body? Together they set about dismembering Becky’s body with a circular saw, packed the remains in plastic and salt, and hid them in a garden shed.  The pair will go down as one of the UK’s most notorious couples who have killed and, no doubt, will be mentioned by some alongside the likes of Ian Brady and Myra Hindley, and Fred and Rose West. Their pasts will be pored over for clues to what turned them into killers.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Becky Watts was stabbed 15 times after her death. Photograph: Rex Shutterstock Matthews was brought up by his grandmother, Margaret May, and her husband, Christopher, in the village of Warmley in south Gloucestershire. As a teenager he spent hours alone in his bedroom, even taking his meals there. It was there he first became fascinated with pornography and by the time of Becky’s death was viewing sexual images almost every day.  After school Matthews studied to be an electrician, but failed the course and became a delivery driver for Domino’s Pizza, for Sainsbury’s and a Chinese takeaway.  From an early age he suffered from the rheumatic condition fibromyalgia, which left him often wracked with pain, depressed and anxious. A close friend said his illness made him feel “inadequate and useless”. Matthews admitted he had anger issues and described himself to police after his arrest as “emotionally unstable, psychologically disturbed ... a caveman.”  His medical condition and fragile mental health did not stop him joining the Territorial Army. While a part-time soldier he learned survival and organisational skills that would come in useful when he disposed of Becky’s body. His “anger issues” meant he would never make a reliable soldier. He would snap – and colleagues recall their terror at the erratic way he drove an army vehicle when he was in a dark mood. Becky Watts: a shy girl who was growing in confidence  Matthews did not have any sort of relationship with his father (the space for his name on the birth certificate is blank) but was reasonably close to his mother, factory worker Anjie. She met Darren Galsworthy and his two children – Becky and her older brother Daniel – a decade ago. Matthews got along with Darren and, at first, with Becky. When Darren and Anjie married, Matthews was best man.  Hoare had a tough start in life. She was taken into care as a child before moving back in with her birth mother, Lisa Donovan, who has seven other children, when she was 13. Just a year or so later, she met and began a relationship with Matthews when she was just 14 or 15 and he was in his early 20s. Donovan was not impressed. She has described Matthews as flirty, sexually orientated and domineering. When Hoare asked him for anything he would ask for a “sexual favour” in return.  Hoare moved out to a hostel owned by Bristol city council and, breaking the rules, Matthews began living there too. Hoare abruptly stopped seeing her mother after Matthews had a terrible row with her. He told Donovan she would never see her daughter again and the pair moved to a modern housing association terraced house in the Barton Hill area of Bristol, a couple of miles from where his mother, stepfather and Becky lived in St George.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The couple were caught on CCTV entering a 99p Stores branch in Bristol, where they bought rubble sacks, duct tape and heavy duty sponge. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police/PA Matthews and Hoare began seeing more of the Galsworthys and Becky. Hoare became registered carer for Anjie, who has multiple sclerosis. And a strange love-hate relationship began with Becky.  In interviews with police and in the witness box during their trial, Matthews and Hoare both claimed they disliked the way Becky treated Anjie and Darren, feeling she was self-centred and manipulated the couple.  He will jump out at her and she will scream and he finds it hilariousShauna Hoare on Nathan Matthews' teasing of Becky Watts Becky told a number of people she was scared of Matthews. Her best friend, Courtney Bicker, said Matthews had given his stepsister graphic details of how he would kill her, once suggesting he would batter her with a sledgehammer. Becky confided to a child psychologist she was frightened of Matthews.  Matthews also appears to have become sexually fixated with Becky. The jury did not hear it but police discovered that when she was just eight – and Matthews was about 20 – she reported that he touched her leg through her clothing. In the months leading up to her murder, relatives noticed Matthews had begun a curious practice of leaping out at Becky to scare her. “He will jump out at her and she will scream and he finds it hilarious,” Hoare said.  At home, Matthews was physically violent to Hoare. The most serious attack came when he pulled her by the hair on their bed and strangled her for four to five seconds. “I couldn’t breathe, I felt panic, I was scared,” Hoare said in the witness box.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Shauna Hoare during a police interview. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police/PA Matthews also used psychological torment to control Hoare. He would accuse her of being fat – though she was always slim – and hated her smoking. She said she had to beg for food and pay him for cigarettes. “I feel like a child. He was my dad almost. He controlled every aspect of my life,” she said in court. He briefly allowed her to attend a further education college but stopped her going when he felt she was befriending other men.Some of those close to Matthews, however, also blame Hoare for the state of the relationship. His grandmother, Margaret, said she disapproved of Hoare and her grandson’s mental health declined during their relationship. He became paranoid she said, adding: “She was dominant in lots of ways.” Certainly, Matthews appears to have been frightened of losing Hoare. In court he said he feared she would leave him. Once when she said she wanted to break up he used a fork to stab himself and violently scratch his own face. “He kind of went psycho,” Hoare said. That Matthews attempted to take the blame for Becky’s murder and the bloody aftermath and absolve Hoare of all responsibility shows either that he was extraordinarily loyal, or she had more control over him than both made out. The prosecution suggested it was the latter, comparing Hoare to Lady Macbeth and claiming she masterminded the cover-up following the killing. Nathan Matthews case reignites debate over violent pornography  At the time of Becky’s death, the pair were spending most of their time holed up in their cluttered, filthy house. They lived in the bedroom, with a toaster and kettle next to the bed so they did not have to get up to eat and drink. Hoare was pregnant. Detectives who investigated the case believe the bond that kept them together – and led to them to kill – was sex. Hoare’s Facebook page – under the surname Phillips, which she was also known by – is full of leery exchanges with Matthews. But the text messages about kidnapping and the pornography their devices accessed show it went much deeper than that. David Wilson, professor of criminology at Birmingham City University, who has followed the case, suggested the couple were gripped by a mental condition known as “folie à deux” – a madness shared by two people. A fantasy that developed from suggestive texts to an actual threesome – and ended with a sexually motivated attack. The case also has some similarities with another recent Bristol murder, that of the landscape architect Joanna Yeates, who was killed in a sexually motivated murder by her neighbour, Vincent Tabak. He, too, was a frequent user of hardcore pornography.   A view of the lounge at the couple’s house in Bristol. Photograph: Avon and Somerset policeGail Dines, professor of sociology and women’s studies at Wheelock College in Boston, US, and a leading expert on pornography, said it was not possible to say categorically if an obsession with sexual images had led to Becky’s murder. But she pointed out that the use of “teen porn” was often a gateway to images of child sexual abuse – and to actual violence. Matthews has insisted he had no interest in Becky sexually and killed her when a plot to kidnap her and “teach her a lesson” for the way she treated his mother went wrong. Hoare maintained she knew nothing of the plot, the murder or the aftermath. The verdicts make it clear the jury thought their stories nonsense. 