The Liverpool captain and England midfielder Steven Gerrard was cleared of affray today after a row over controlling the music playing in a bar.Liverpool crown court heard that Marcus McGee, 34, was punched in the face by the footballer in a brawl at a bar in Southport last December.Gerrard admitted hitting McGee three times but denied affray, saying he had been acting in self-defence as he thought the other man was about to strike him.Gerrard left Liverpool crown court today to applause from fans and shouts of "come on Rocky".Speaking to reporters, he said: "Can I just say how pleased I am with today's verdict. I'd like to put this case behind me. I'm really looking forward to the season ahead and concentrating on football.Judge Henry Globe told the footballer: "The verdict is a credible verdict on the full facts of this case, and you walk away from this court with your reputation intact."The case centred on whether the jury believed Gerrard had been acting in self-defence.Earlier in the evening of the incident last December, Gerrard and a group of seven friends had been in high spirits, dancing and drinking in the Lounge Inn and singing along to music after Liverpool's 5-1 victory over Newcastle, a match in which Gerrard had scored two goals.The footballer had been drinking Budweiser and a sweet liqueur-based shot called a Jammy Donut. In police interviews, he estimated his level of drunkenness as seven out of 10; one being "sober as a judge" and 10 being "legless".However, at around 2am, the mood soured when Gerrard walked up to the bar and asked McGee, a customer who had been asked to take charge of the music, for a card to control the CD player. McGee refused.Six minutes later, Gerrard approached McGee, who was still at the bar. Gerrard's friend John Doran landed the first blow, jabbing his elbow into McGee's face. As McGee reeled backwards, Gerrard thought he was about to be attacked and reacted with punches.Ian Smith, another member of Gerrard's party, joined in. Doran and Smith then kicked McGee.Gerrard was dragged away from the fight by the bar manager and was restrained. Six co-defendants, including two Accrington Stanley players, admitted charges of affray or threatening behaviour before their trial was due to begin. They will be sentenced at a later date.The jurors watched CCTV footage from the bar in which Gerrard could be seen enjoying himself with his friends as a woman danced eccentrically nearby, causing laughter in court.During the trial, the prosecutor, David Turner QC, paid homage to Gerrard's skill, describing him as a world-class footballer and "a star". He added: "Wherever you go in Liverpool, and indeed the world, there are little boys proudly wearing that red Liverpool shirt with No 8 and the name Gerrard on the back of it."When interviewed by the police later that night, Gerrard agreed there had been an exchange of words concerning the music but said McGee had been aggressive. He said he had no intention of having a fight.Gerrard told the court yesterday that he struck McGee "to defend myself". He said: "I thought he was going to hit me."He was on his way forward to me and his behaviour had changed from when I was having a discussion with him. I didn't know why."Asked how he felt now, the footballer added: "I am certainly mistaken in thinking he was coming towards me to throw punches at me. Now I know, obviously, he had been struck, reacted and thought the strike was by me and he came into me and that's when I reacted."I am sorry about the whole incident."Gerrard remained calm and quietly spoken as he gave evidence, repeatedly sipping a glass of water as he stood in the witness box.He said it had been very difficult to explain to the police what he had done until he saw the CCTV footage.He told the jury he had been used to people "mithering" him and making derogatory or insulting remarks and he was usually able to smooth things over.He admitted calling McGee "a prick" to one of his friends when he refused to change the music.He claimed McGee swore at him during their conversation.Gerrard said a member of staff at the bar had given him permission to choose music from a CD player McGee was operating."I couldn't understand why the guy had such a problem with me, why he was so aggressive," he said.Gerrard told the court he had a conviction for drink-driving when he was 19 but had not been in any other trouble with the police.Gerrard welled up with tears as a statement from Liverpool legend Kenny Dalglish was read out. Dalglish described Gerrard as "not the archetypal footballer. He does not like to move in movie star circles."He described him as "quiet" and "very private". Despite his wealth, Dalglish said, Gerrard had "never forgotten his roots"."He is a very respectful man who has always behaved to senior players in a respectful way," Dalglish said. "He is a very humble man."Dalglish, who had earlier met Gerrard on the night of the incident, said he had been with a group of boys who were "normal, polite, eating sushi and enjoying themselves".