As a young journalist, I reported the remarks of a high court judge when he passed a lenient sentence on a convicted rapist. As rapes go, he said, this was a "pretty anaemic kind of rape". He was basing the sentence and his comment on the fact that the couple involved had once been boy- and girlfriend. Mr Justice Melford Stevenson's choice of adjective - anaemic - has stuck in my memory.Not all that long ago, the large majority of rapes that came before the courts were perpetrated by violent men unknown to their victims. I stress "came before the courts" because although many women had been raped by their present or former husbands or boyfriends, or by other men they knew, the law and the general climate of understanding were such that comparatively few women were confident enough to report those experiences.Today, the vast majority of rape allegations are against men known to the complainants, ranging from partners in lengthy relationships to casual acquaintances or first dates. The law and the judges have moved a long way towards minimising the woman's ordeal in court, though the issue of consent continues to cause problems and confusion. The distinctions that used to be drawn between stranger-rapes and acquaintance-rapes do not exist, in theory. Unarguably, in terms of the woman's trauma, there is little difference; indeed, the emotional scar of being raped by a man she trusted can be more severe.Then along comes John Redwood, the wayward Conservative MP, trying to turn the clock back at least 20 years. Date rape, he asserts in his blog, should be regarded as a "disagreement between two lovers" and not be treated as seriously as rape by a stranger; he wants to restore the discredited two-tier approach. I would normally take no notice of anything Redwood says. The reason I'm writing about him is not to discuss the merits of his argument - there are none. But I know that others hold those views, jurors in rape trials among them. I also know (including from personal conversations) that sometimes juries are reluctant to convict and have someone sent to prison - even if they believe he committed the rape - if the circumstances involve a past or present relationship. In other words, men are being wrongly acquitted because some jurors are taking the Redwood approach. Somehow, juries need to be told firmly that a rape is a rape, whoever commits it.Government departments and agencies have been losing people's files and records ever since the invention of bureaucracy, but only since the advent of the internet has an occasional pastime turned into a fully fledged fashion. Spurred by the outstanding feat of the HMRC in losing two disks containing sensitive details of 25 million people, government offshoots are vying to be the "Loss of the Week"; this week's was the revelation that three million learner drivers' details had gone missing in Iowa. But the loss phenomenon is getting out of control. I can see only one solution. A Losing Data Tsar must be appointed, urgently, to coordinate things going astray.Departments cannot be allowed to take their own decisions as to how, when, what and where to mislay. Think of the chaos that would ensue if, for instance, two separate agencies were to decide to lose crucial data in the same US state in the same week. Only a Tsar with draconian powers can ensure that losing valuable information happens efficiently, fairly, and according to clear guidelines.The other day I happened to be walking near Trafalgar Square, past Maggi Hambling's disturbing statue of Oscar Wilde. He lies in what seems to be a coffin, with only his head, shoulders and hands showing; his look is angry, his hair like Gorgon locks. It has been slightly in the news recently because the cigarette he clutched keeps being sawn off by vandals. Hambling would like a CCTV camera trained permanently on the statue, but Westminster Council says it would be too expensive.They do things differently in Buenos Aires. Carlos Gardel is the greatest, most romantic singer and composer of tango. He died in an air crash in 1935, aged 45 or so; his popularity endures. I went to his tomb at La Chacarita cemetery. There's a life-size statue of him there, handsome and debonair. His right hand has two fingers outstretched; the space between them once held a sculpted cigarette, now long gone. I was there on a Sunday morning, a busy visiting time for relatives of the dead. I watched as one old man looked at Gardel, took a cigarette out of a crumpled pack in his jacket pocket, lit it and placed it reverently between the singer's fingers. A few minutes later, another passing visitor, noticing that it had gone out, took the stub from Gardel's fingers and replaced it with a lighted cigarette. And so it went on. The citizens of Buenos Aires were determined to make sure that Gardel, a chain smoker in life, should remain one in death.I do not think the same process would work for Oscar Wilde. Apart from the difficulty of arranging a procession of Wilde enthusiasts to feed his habit, the statue doesn't lend itself to smoking. I tried, helped by the Big Issue seller on the spot. But there is no cradle or orifice in which to place the cigarette; the sculpted bit, now missing, used to stick out, unsupported. Anyway, it will probably soon be illegal to be a dealer for a statue.This week Marcel saw the musical Hairspray at the Shaftesbury Theatre: "An exuberant, witty, spendidly danced delight. Astonishing that it's the first professional role for its sensational star, Leanne Jones." In the middle of the night he listened to a World Service programme on the changing nature and values of television news: "Informative, stimulating, kept me happily awake."