The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday August 17 In the article below, we said in error that the Serious Fraud Office is one of the organisations involved in the merger to form the Serious and Organised Crime Agency. The SFO will continue to operate as an independent government department but will work closely with Soca. The first head of Britain's Serious and Organised Crime Agency, which is to have 5,000 agents, was named yesterday as Bill Hughes, the director of the National Crime Squad.The former head of MI5, Sir Stephen Lander, was appointed chairman of the FBI-style agency, Soca, which is due to be set up in 2006 as part of a renewed drive against the multibillion-pound drug and people trafficking trade in Britain. Announcing the appointments yesterday, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said that Mr Hughes, who will be paid up to £150,000 a year as director general of Soca, had a proven track record in the police service and in managing the police response to serious and organised crime. "As criminals become more sophisticated, so we must raise our game to fight it. The creation of a single agency to tackle organised crime marks a step change in our efforts to reduce the harm it does to the UK and its citizens," said Mr Blunkett. The new agency is to be created from an amalgamation of the National Crime Squad, which Mr Hughes currently heads, with the National Criminal Intelligence Service, Special Branch, the Serious Fraud Office, and the investigative arms of customs and the immigration service. There will also be input from the security services. One of its aims will be to end the occasional turf wars that ignite between the different law enforcement agencies.Soca will be able to call on the resources of about 5,000 investigators when it starts work in two years' time. Legislation to be discussed this autumn will give the agency powers to set up a new "supergrass" system, with US-style plea bargaining used on a much wider scale in the hope that those who turn "Queen's evidence" will help break some of the organised crime gangs operating in Britain. Mr Hughes, 53, was a crash safety engineer for British Leyland before he joined Thames Valley police in 1975. He worked his way up through the ranks to become deputy chief constable of Hertford shire before joining the National Crime Squad in 2001. He has said that he has always been obsessed by organised crime, which he describes as "people who divorce themselves from the dirty end of the business but are fuelling illegal trade". In recent years he has also taken a leading role in Operation Reflex, which combats illegal migration routes across Europe. Mr Hughes said yesterday that he hoped the new organisation would be flexible, innovative and, above all, one step ahead of the criminals. "That means building an organisation that will attack the often very complex and multi-faceted world of serious and organised crime. It means working with our international partners to tackle the criminal across borders as well as national organised gangs." The appointment of Sir Stephen, who was head of MI5 in the 1990s, underlines the importance that ministers place on the degree of cooperation that Soca will need to develop with the security services in order to make any headway.