Police are investigating an armed robbery. The unconscious victim has been taken to hospital, and detectives have discovered a spot of blood they believe to be the robber's. They place a sample in a briefcase-sized test kit and wait for results. Twenty minutes later, a print-out shows the DNA came from a 6ft-tall, middle-aged man with a Scottish background, brown eyes, and a distinctive hooked nose. The manhunt begins.It sounds like science fiction, yet this technology is soon likely to become reality, say scientists. A report by the Laboratory of the Government Chemist, commissioned by the Police Foundation and due to be delivered in a few days, will review a variety of new DNA markers that could soon be used to help police pinpoint the appearance and origins of suspects. At the same time, the laboratory's director of life science, Dr Paul Debenham, will tell the Association of Chief Police Officers that new mobile DNA test kits, currently being developed so that doctors can make bedside identifications of bacteria and viruses, could be used as the basis for mobile DNA fingerprinting laboratories. DNA profiling is changing - as has already been revealed in a series of criminal investigations. In one case Craig Harman, a 20-year-old man from Frimley, Surrey, who threw a brick through a lorry window, killing its driver, was recently jailed after his DNA was linked to a family member with a criminal record. DNA technology - which has already been used to pinpoint thousands of criminals since first used in Britain in 1987 to solve the murders of Lynda Mann and Dawn Ashworth - is now entering a new phase of sophistication. 'We already have a DNA test that can tell us if a sample comes from a person with red hair,' said Debenham. 'At the same time, tests are being developed that will show eye colour. Other tests will tell us their ethnic origins. These new tests could provide crucial leads.' 'Most crime investigators would give their left arms to have a witness for certain crimes, and spend untold hours attempting to locate witnesses who, in the end, may not be telling the truth,' said Dr Tony Frudakis, chief executive of Florida biotechnology company DNAPrint. 'Our tests will serve as an eyewitness for every crime scene where DNA was left, but they will be more reliable.' Of course, the use of hair dye and coloured contact lenses by criminals would affect the usefulness of such tests, but if employed in conjunction with other forensic data they should still prove to be key tools. 'In the end, there is no reason why you could not develop DNA tests that would let you build up a complete picture of a person's face,' said Oxford geneticist Sir Walter Bodmer. 'You would still have difficulties in working out their age, but that is not an insurmountable problem. The real issue is commitment. It would take a great deal of effort and money to work out all the markers that control face morphology. Governments will have to decide soon if they think it is worth the cost.'