Detectives searching for the killer of Jodi Jones, 14, yesterday released recent home video footage of her in the hope of prompting a witness's memory.Although the murder squad set up to investigate her death has received more than 400 calls from members of the public, police have yet to hear from anyone who saw Jodi after she left her Dalkeith home at about 5pm on Monday. Jodi's body was found by relatives shortly before midnight in woodland by a popular shortcut known as Roman Dyke. She was partially clothed and had been attacked with a knife. The picture of Jodi released by Lothian and Borders police on Tuesday was taken 18 months ago. The video footage shows a more accurate picture of Jodi when she was killed: a teenager who liked Nirvana and Sylvia Plath. Detective Inspector Tom Martin, a senior officer on the case, said: "I think they show a picture of what kind of girl Jodi was - a typical teenager, a carefree and happy girl. These happy photos showed that Jodi loved life, was full of energy and had everything to live for. But this was cruelly and viciously taken away from her by her attacker." Det Insp Martin said Jodi's death was particularly brutal and had left the community in shock. He has issued safety leaflets to local schoolchildren amid fears that the killer could strike again. Jodi had arranged to meet her boyfriend at a local abbey on Monday night, but never arrived. Although her body was not found until late at night, Roman Dyke is only minutes from her home, and detectives believe she was killed shortly after she left her house. With such a short timeframe, detectives are keen to speak to anyone who saw Jodi after 5pm and appeals are concentrating on this. There has yet to be any major breakthrough in the hunt for the killer, but detectives hope clothes recovered from where she was found may contain DNA evidence. It will be at least a week, however, until forensic test results come back from police laboratories. In the meantime, police were yesterday continuing searches of Dalkeith and were making house-to-house inquiries. Floral tributes have been piling up at the entrance to the pathway where Jodi was murdered. One of them is from her 14-year-old boyfriend, Luke Mitchell. It contains a quote from Kurt Cobain, Jodi's hero: "The finest day I ever had was when tomorrow never came", followed by "xxx Luke".