According to Mark Twain, "a lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes".In June, the Manchester Evening News reported that there was a contract out on Dale Cregan, jailed for life for the murders of Manchester police officers Nicola Hughes and Fiona Bone, along with father and son Mark and David Short. The bounty, put out by the "imprisoned head of a crime family in the south of England", according to the newspaper, would be paid to the person who removed Cregan's one good eye, rendering him blind.The story quickly gained momentum, with the Daily Mail saying the offer had been made by the "head of a London crime family". Other media outlets have him down as running a north London criminal empire.Now, with Cregan widely reported as starting a hunger strike, the bounty seems to be an accepted as part of the story. The problem is, it just doesn't stand up, which ever way you look at it.Manchester has had its share of big-time criminals who operated nationally and who were well thought of (or "well got" in the parlance) by their counterparts in other cities. The Shorts were not part of that coterie. They were small-time criminals with a reputation for thuggish behaviour. Their passing was not mourned in north Manchester, where they operated, let alone north London.After Cregan was convicted, a resident of Droylsden (where the Shorts lived) who claimed to know him, was asked why nobody had claimed the genuine £50,000 reward offered for the capture of Cregan after the Short killings, when Cregan and his accomplice were known to have still frequented the area despite the price on their heads?He replied: "The Shorts being taken out was the best thing to happen to Droylsden for years. Bullies, they were. Bullies and thugs. Cregan was a hero round here – until he went and killed the policewomen. None of us can understand that." He was not alone, many others testified to the unpopularity of the slain father and son.Yet we are asked to believe some Mafioso-like boss, 200 miles away, is so upset at their passing he has put this bounty on Cregan's head, or rather eye.Bounties have been around as long as criminals, and are often offered but seldom claimed. The 1970s saw the emergence of the "supergrass"; career criminals who gave evidence against their former partners in crime in return for a vastly reduced jail sentence.The most infamous, was Bertie Smalls, a north London bank robber who went bandit after an arrest and fingered dozens of his former associates, sending them down for hundreds of years in total. Unlike other supergrasses, Smalls did not serve a day behind bars. The then director of public prosecutions granted him complete immunity from his many crimes.A price of £1m was reputedly put on Smalls' head, and the signatories to the contract were supposed to include Reg and Ronnie Kray. If this was so, the notorious twins probably assumed their money was safe, given they had issued similar contracts on members of their "firm" who had given evidence for the prosecution when the two were jailed for life earlier. Those disloyal members outlived the twins.Smalls refused police protection and the offer of a new identity. The contract on him was presumably lifted after he died peacefully at home in north London in 2008. He had returned to his roots not long after he had betrayed his former associates and was said to spend his time, and weekly allowance from the police, in his favourite pubs.Informants have also been around as long as criminals. There was never a golden age when villains would die rather than grass. Informing pays, big time; millions are paid out by the police each year, usually to people villains thought they could trust. These are about the only bounties that criminals do get paid out on. The rest, including the one allegedly put on Cregan's eye, belong in the land of The Sweeney and other highly romanticised depictions of how cops and robbers go about their business.Cregan, jailed for the rest of his life, can take heart from this: dozens of grasses, in London alone, followed Smalls into the witness box and years of porridge were dished out as a result. All had prices put on their heads by the villains they had ratted on. According to serious London criminals I have raised the issue with, no bounty was ever paid out on those snitches. It seems to this, somewhat seasoned observer, most underworld contracts are not worth the paper they aren't written on.