Five boys who hurled stones, chunks of wood and abuse at a father playing cricket with his son, triggering a fatal heart attack, were each jailed for two years today.The boys, one of whom was just 10 at the time, were convicted of manslaughter and violent disorder at the Old Bailey last month.Their victim was 67-year-old Ernest Norton, described as an easy-going house husband, who was giving informal cricket practice to his teenage son, James, in Erith, Kent, in February last year.The youngest of the attackers, now 12, and his brother, 13, as well as three other boys all aged 14, were given sentences in youth detention by Judge Warwick McKinnon. The judge described their conduct as "utterly disgraceful and criminally irresponsible".He said: "This was a vicious, entirely unprovoked and sustained group attack involving a barrage of missiles." The court heard that Mr Norton and his son, who was 17 at the time and getting ready for A-levels, had just set up stumps in an open-air tennis court when about 20 boys arrived and started hurling abuse.After shouts such as "rubbish bowler" and "get back to the old people's home", Mr Norton went to confront the boys only to be met with spitting and a hail of missiles. Six stones and bits of broken plank hit him. One rock, the size of half a brick, hit him on the temple and a second, not much smaller, fractured his cheekbone. As his son watched incredulously, he fell to the ground with a heart attack.The trial heard how, before the attack, they had been smashing windows, confronting another group of children for a fight, and running amok in Erith leisure centre. The judge said: "You had each hyped yourselves up by your earlier rowdy mischief and misbehaviour before you attacked the most unfortunate Ernest Norton, who just happened to be there enjoying a quiet Sunday afternoon in the park with his son. He was entirely innocent."First you abused him and his son, then spat at him and then launched a barrage of missiles at him."The judge said the "cowardly" boys ran off after the attack. "He suffered a heart attack and died - all this before the eyes of his son who had to watch his father die in these dreadful circumstances. It is a quite dreadful story. "The conduct of all of you as a group was utterly disgraceful and criminally irresponsible. A child would realise your actions were dangerous, running the risk that injury would result. I am satisfied that each one of you were aware of that danger."No sentence can restore the human life that has been needlessly and senselessly lost by this display of mindless violence."