Britain could slide into a "police state" if the scales of justice were "unbalanced", the leader of the 10,000 barristers in England and Wales said yesterday.David Bean QC, chairman of the Bar Council, used a lecture to criminal justice students at Portsmouth University to respond to an attack by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, on the criminal justice system and lawyers' role in it. In a speech at Leicester University on Wednesday, Sir John accused the system of treating victims and witnesses with contempt, and lawyers of regarding criminal trials as a tactical game. He claimed that muggers were released on bail eight or nine times before they faced trial for the first attack. The Met is preparing a dossier of muggers let off lightly to back up Sir John's claims. Mr Bean said: "We've heard some extreme claims from the police in recent days. It's time to inject some balance into the debate. "None of us wants a police state, where the knee-jerk response to crime is to 'round up the usual suspects'. We've seen too many miscarriages of justice for that. "But if we did unbalance the scales of justice we would, before long, be on the slippery slope to a police state." He added: "My members prosecute and defend in equal measure. They want a system that convicts the guilty and acquits the innocent. "We'd like to see changes. Simple cases need to be brought to trial more quickly, so there's less need for bail. "There are challenges for the police too, not least to investigate crime better, so that the prosecution has reliable evidence to put before the court." Sir John said in his speech: "The fact is that all too often, the criminal trial is simply an uneven game of tactics played out by lawyers in front of an uninformed jury with the disillusioned victims and a bemused defendant looking on. "The public are more than disenchanted with criminal justice in this country - they are fed up with it." He was expanding on the aims of the Search for Truth campaign launched at Scotland Yard in January by the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo). Senior officers claimed that lawyers were obstructing justice and called for a raft of measures to put trials back on an even keel.Sir John called for separate facilities for witnesses in court and rules to prevent defence lawyers from "harassing" witnesses during cross-examina tion, adding: "You sometimes wonder who is on trial - the defendant or the victim." In his speech yesterday Mr Bean responded: "After a three-year delay, new laws are now coming in to protect witnesses. Courts are being adapted to prevent intimidation, though we do share the view that more needs to be done, especially in magistrates' courts. Sir John's speech was seen in part as a response to an attack by the home secretary, David Blunkett, on low police detection rates. But Mr Bean said: "Blaming the lawyers is not a sensible answer to the home secretary's calls for reform of the working practices of the police."