A man has been jailed for Britain's first web rage attack. Paul Gibbons, 47, was yesterday imprisoned for two and a half years for the unlawful wounding of a fellow internet user after an online quarrel over Islam.Gibbons, unemployed and from Southwark in south London, first encountered John Jones, 43, while in a Yahoo chatroom discussing the religion. The pair locked horns after Mr Jones was accused of spreading rumours that his opponent was "interfering with children".After a further volley of verbal sparring, Gibbons was challenged to an encounter and became so enraged he drove more than 70 miles to Clacton-on-Sea in Essex, where he attacked Mr Jones with a pickaxe handle. Joined by an accomplice wielding a machete, Gibbons continued the assault until he was disturbed by Mr Jones's partner.Mr Jones, who had armed himself with a knife, was left with head, throat and hand wounds. Gibbons then boasted to other chatroom users that the attack "went perfectly to plan".Gibbons pleaded guilty last month after the prosecution dropped a charge of attempted murder. Judge Richard Hawkins told the Old Bailey it had been a "most peculiar case". He told Gibbons: "It is accepted that Mr Jones taunted you and dared you to go to his house, where you would be greeted with weapons."Police called the incident the first bona fide case of web rage, and warned internet users to protect their identities. Mr Jones's address was uncovered when he put details about where he lived online."Mr Jones had posted pictures of his family on the web and had chatted to Gibbons on an audio link," said Detective Sergeant Jean-Marc Bazzoni of Essex police."It demonstrates how easily other users can put two and two together, and also shows how children could also find themselves in danger."Visceral arguments have a long tradition on the internet, where the art of combative quarrelling is known as flaming.Sometimes things take a darker turn, and last year one online gamer in China was given a suspended death sentence -effectively life imprisonment - after tracking down and murdering a fellow gamer in a dispute.Qui Chengwei, from Shanghai, stabbed Zhu Caoyuan after a virtual sword he used inside a popular game was stolen and sold to another player for £473. Although Qui took his case against Mr Zhu to the police, they failed to prosecute the theft, because, not surprisingly, there are no laws in China to safeguard virtual property.Other frustrated surfers find less violent ways to vent their rage. Several years ago one man who became so angry over the inability of an online shop to deliver his TV that he ordered £1m of goods from the site in an attempt to clog their system.