A mother and stepfather who forced their 11-year-old son to live in a filthy converted coal bunker have each been jailed for two years.The traumatised boy was made to live and sleep in the room, described as a "cell" by social workers, and was bullied and reduced to using a potty as he was locked up each night until morning at the house in Blackpool.The room was dirty and strewn with rubbish – it had no heating, a bare light bulb, and concrete walls and floor. The child had to sleep on a grubby mattress with a sleeping bag.The couple, in their 40s, who cannot be named for legal reasons, admitted a single charge of cruelty by wilful neglect between January 2010 and January 2011 at a hearing at Preston crown court. Sentencing had been delayed for a week after the man collapsed in court.Judge Norman Wright told them: "This was a flagrant abuse of power and a gross breach of trust."The room has been described as a cell but it seems to me it was akin to a prison cell from a third world country, not the home of an 11- or 12-year-old living in this century in this country."Lancashire police were told by the couple after their arrest that the boy was placed in the room as punishment for raiding the family's fridge.The room, formerly a bunker, was a windowless old outhouse with one exit bricked up and a new one added leading to the lounge of the family home.The boy lived there between the ages of 11 and 12, and the authorities were alerted after teachers became concerned that he was always hungry in class. Police and social workers visited the house and he was placed in foster care.Doctors who examined the boy said he was underweight and below average height for his age, and treated him for anaemia. Since being placed with foster parents he has put on weight and his behaviour has improved dramatically, described as a "remarkable achievement for him". But the youngster will have been left traumatised and psychologically damaged by his experience, the court was told.Lawyers for the defendants said the boy was "undoubtedly" a very difficult child to manage and that the parents were inadequate rather than wicked.Wright said the physical effects on the boy of living in such appalling conditions may have been remedied but the psychological harm was unknown. He added: "It is bound, in my judgment, to be profound."The judge said it had been submitted that the child's mother was subordinate to her dominant partner but he ruled their culpability was equal."You were his mother and it seems to me that you were not someone cowed by your co-accused," he said, addressing the mother. "You were in a position to stand up [to him] and you did not."Your counsel say that you were someone who loved your son very much. If that was so, how can you behave like this?"In an interview with the regional TV programme Granada Reports, the boy's biological father said: "It was horrible to think that someone had done that to my son. It was horrible. I would never do it to an animal, let alone a child."He said the mother had limited his access to the boy and he was unaware of his plight. "I feel guilty," he said. "Guilty because I wasn't there to prevent it."Conditions in prison cells are far better than the way my son had been kept and for his age, to be treated like this, it's just despicable."