We had been married for around 15 years and had four children when my husband first hit me. I had just started my first job since becoming a mother. We were at home and must have been arguing, but I don't recall what about. This was somewhere in the 80s (at this point, I did not want to note dates and details). What I know, without doubt, is that my face took a direct hit - a back-hand whip to my mouth - and I was stunned. I don't think I made a sound, though I remember clearly what went through my mind: that this was serious. Then, "It doesn't have to matter. I mustn't overreact. Maybe it's nothing."We met at university in the 70s, both of us postgraduates. I had just arrived from the US and knew I would stay in Britain. I had been unsettled in America, disgruntled over its hawkish attitude to war. In contrast was the lure and intrigue of an England I read about in CP Snow - fine minds and umbrellas. I had no fear of leaving the comfort of home, privileged as I was as a child who knew unconditional family love. I knew where I was going. I grew up in small-town America and it was always my belief that I was destined for a long and loving marriage and children conceived in bliss, wherever I was in the world.Our register-office marriage was minimalist. We didn't think we needed public validation or celebration. We were somehow above that, accountable only to each other. He had the laid-back yet scholarly discipline I so respected. I had the vitality and independent spirit he so adored. I loved that he was never frazzled, always cool, witty and relaxed.The first 15 years of our marriage were far more rich than poor. We travelled to exotic places; we were ardent evolutionists; we adored our children. I knew that to some we appeared the ideal family.I don't know if the build-up to the abuse was gradual or obvious; I didn't see it coming. Over time I recognised that he was prone to moodiness and not the calm fellow that I and others had thought him. I was not blind to his extreme neediness but as long as I was at home, absorbed with nurturing, many of his emotional needs were being either met indirectly or held at bay. My eyes opened wide only when I was first hit. That this coincided with my "going out" to work was, I now believe, not a coincidence.As the abuse started in a small way - a single strike and a bit of blood and swelling - I did nothing outwardly in response. There might have been as much as a year between the first and second hit. I didn't know how this was going to progress and I tried to forget about it. In some marriages there is just one strike, followed by remorse, recognition, fresh negotiation and a renewal of trust. But this didn't happen with us.Realising that domestic violence had penetrated our home, I tried to protect the family unit from shame and pain. I told no one what was going on. My sincere but perhaps feeble act, which I doubt the children remember, was to apologise to them for their father's behaviour every time they heard or observed him hitting me. I couldn't bear the thought of my marriage and family, in whom I had invested my life, breaking up.Protecting myself was a different matter and took the form of defiance (which he regarded as taunting). I never feared my husband. I knew he could disable me with his bare hands, but I also knew he had a professional reputation to protect. And I would later learn that he had a weapon far more damaging to me than I could have imagined - denial.I kept asking myself if I still loved this man. I could never answer the question, and it detained me from further action. Enlightenment came the day I realised this was the wrong question. I should have been asking myself why I was subjecting myself to this profound humiliation, with or without love.The abuse gradually became more frequent and violent, as did my responses. Sometimes I fought back, which only made him more violent. My capacity for swearing astonished me but I knew that I had not brought this abusive behaviour into the marriage. There may have been better ways to respond to the situation, but I haven't yet thought of them.I had five black eyes over about eight years. When the last three came within a year I realised that a pattern of behaviour had set in to which I could no longer subject the children or myself. On all but one of these occasions I carried on as normal, going to work and explaining the black eye in some way that people were unlikely to believe but which begged them not to challenge me. But the final one left me too emotionally fractured to put up a front. I was off work for three weeks for that is how long it took the bruise to fade.There had, in addition, been many more incidents of manhandling, which had left me on the floor hurt, angry and crying. This is when the children would intervene to try to stop their father from hitting me. If my eldest son was there, he took on this responsibility. When he was not there, my second son stepped in. On one occasion my daughter was the only one around, so she intervened. I recall too often the time my son and my husband kept on wrestling, until they were both on the floor, my teenage son crying and saying he did not want to be fighting his father.As I began to recognise the mood that seemed to lead to arguments and likely abuse, I would attempt to walk away. My husband would block my exit. More than once I escaped from our upstairs bedroom through the window and down the drainpipe. If I got to the door before him, he would follow me up the street shouting that I was crazy and a liar.Once, when he blocked my exit, I hit him first, a slap on the face. His response was so violent that I thought, for the first time, he might kill me. I did not try that again. Even now I feel no shame at having lashed out. I had landed unprepared on a battlefield. I had no idea what to do. I can think only that I wanted to show him that I would not buckle.Amid all this I was given a public appointment. This was a life-saver: it gave me back some dignity. And being in the public arena meant that I had to disclose and take action. Black eyes would have been difficult to explain. I went to a solicitor and chose the mildest of options - to have her write a letter to my husband saying that I had reported the abuse and that his behaviour contravened family law. But my husband denied all of the abuse described in the letter.It was a defining moment for me. I hadn't bargained on his denial. When I tried to talk to him he accused me of character assassination. His response created a rage in me so expansive that I could barely breathe. I felt obliterated; he had taken away my voice. As far as I know, from friends, colleagues and our children, he has never admitted the abuse.I could think of nothing else to do to save the marriage. I had to leave. Telling him he was killing the love between us had no impact, despite his begging me not to go. He was increasingly angry that I avoided going to bed at the same time as him, unable to make the connection between his hitting me and my withdrawal of intimacy. The frequency and severity of the abuse was escalating. One August bank holiday I packed my bags and left, alone. I was never going far, only into the town centre, as I could neither leave nor uproot my children.People tell me I should have left sooner, but I wanted to give the marriage every possible chance of survival. I don't know how I should have reacted to being bullied, restrained, poked, shoved to the floor and hit or having my head bashed against a wall. I cannot put into words what it feels like to be abused by the man you loved and trusted. I must borrow words from Mary McCarthy in her autobiography. "I made a discovery. It really could happen that the person you had loved could exhaust your capacity for suffering."Where does one go from here? Time has passed and I am happy, though damaged, but who isn't? Blood coagulates and bruises fade. Laughter and joyfulness return but friends are fewer because I am more selective. The children are wise and sorted. The betrayal and injustice I have experienced are insignificant compared to millions of others in the world. In this respect I realise I am one of the lucky ones. Having once felt as though I was living on the edge of life looking in, I am now in there, so that is good. I am common and unique in a single blow; maybe that is good too. I am mobilised and immobilised by the tolerated and destructive silence around domestic violence. I accept that there will never be complete closure for me as my former husband will never be willing to know the impact of his abuse upon me. But I have learned a lot and survived. It's not a bad outcome.· Jane Smith is a pseudonym.· Do you have a story about your life to tell? First Person, G2, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER Email my.story@theguardian.com