Vincent Tabak killed Joanna Yeates by grabbing her around the throat after she began screaming but had not meant to seriously harm her, a murder trial jury heard on Monday.Tabak claims he held a hand around the landscape architect's throat for about 20 seconds using no more than "moderate force".According to Tabak, Yeates had begun to scream after he put an arm around her back. He put a hand over her mouth and the screaming stopped.Tabak said he removed his hand and 25-year-old Yeates began to scream again. In a defence statement read to the jury at Bristol crown court, Tabak claims he then put his hand around her neck.Tabak, a 33-year-old Dutch engineer, later sat in the dock with his head in his hands as Yeates's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, described his last moments with his girlfriend before he left to spend a weekend away and his rising concern when he came home to discover her missing.Yeates's best friend also appeared in the witness box and described her and Reardon as the "perfect couple".Tabak has admitted manslaughter but denies murdering Yeates. The prosecution alleges that Tabak strangled Yeates in the flat she shared with Reardon in Clifton, Bristol, before bundling her body into his car and dumping it on a roadside verge.For the first time the jury was given Tabak's version of the events leading to Yeates's death.The statement, read out by prosecutor Nigel Lickley QC, claimed: "The mechanism of death as best the defendant can recall was as follows: the two were facing each other. He put one arm around her back with his hand in the middle of her back and she screamed."He put the other hand over her mouth, which caused the noise of the scream to cease. He removed the hand from the mouth and the screaming continued. He put the hand around the throat."He believes it was the one from behind her back. He held it for about 20 seconds. He applied no more than moderate force. He did not intend death or serious injury."Lickley asked pathologist Russell Delaney about Tabak's claim that he held Yeates's throat "for about 20 seconds". Delaney said: "That period of time would be long enough to result in her death."Reardon told the court how he and Yeates had lunched together on Friday 17 December, the day she died.Later they had a "kiss and cuddle" in the lobby of the office where they both worked and Reardon set off for a family weekend away.Reardon told the court Yeates had planned to get on with Christmas shopping and do some baking that weekend. He was due back in Bristol on Sunday evening and they had agreed to watch the final of the TV reality show The Apprentice together.Reardon said he had tried to contact Yeates four times over the weekend but failed. "I was worried but I didn't think there was a real problem," he said.When he returned to the flat on Sunday night the lights in the hall and lounge were on. The flat was untidy and Reardon found Yeates's boots, coat and mobile phone. There was no sign of her.Reardon said he began pacing around the flat, feeling "a buzzing level of stress". Then he discovered Yeates's rucksack containing her spectacles, wallet and keys. "I panicked," he said.Tabak did not look at Reardon as the boyfriend recalled ringing round their friends, then reluctantly calling Yeates's parents and finally alerting the emergency services at 12.45am on the Monday.Later he found the amethyst earrings Yeates had been wearing the previous week. One was on the bedroom floor, the other under the duvet. She normally put them on a bedside table when she took them off, he said.Reardon was asked about Tabak and his girlfriend, Tanja Morson, who lived together in the flat next door. He said he had "seen them in passing".Referring to the defendant as "Mr Tabak", Reardon said he had not spoken to him before Yeates's disappearance.Yeates's best friend, Rebecca Scott, told the jury that the landscape architect and Reardon were the "perfect couple" and "in it for the long term".Scott said she and Yeates had been planning to meet up in their home town of Romsey in Hampshire on Christmas Eve. Yeates and Reardon had been looking forward to spending New Year in Edinburgh.Scott, who is studying for a PhD, said she was pleased her friend had fallen in love. She told the jury: "I was just happy for her. When she said she was getting a new cat, I knew it was the real deal with her and Greg. They were in it for the long term."Also giving evidence was Detective Constable Karen Thomas, who spoke to Tabak in Holland on New Year's Eve.Thomas said Tabak told her he had been out twice on the night Yeates vanished – which he had not said when she interviewed him a week earlier.Tabak was "overly interested" in the forensic examination of Yeates's flat, Thomas said, and she asked him to provide a sample of DNA and fingerprinted him.The trial continues.