Frank wrote his first letter six months ago, aged 67. It was to his wife, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. The Eastender, who is serving his fourth prison sentence, has always struggled with reading and writing. Until a few months ago, he says, he nicknamed himself Dopey. Now he knows better. A test has revealed he confuses his ds and bs, his left and right, and the months of the year: Frank is dyslexic.And so are 53% of the prisoners at HMP Chelmsford in Essex, where Frank served time until he was transferred to an open jail a few weeks ago.This is not a surprising statistic, says the mentoring firm Mentfor, which estimates that up 60% of our prison population is dyslexic, a figure that contradicts research conducted 10 years ago by Cambridge University's criminology department, which put the rate at only 5%. The charity Dyslexia Action says about 10% of the general population in this country is affected by dyslexia to some degree.Whether or not Chelmsford is typical, its success with dyslexic inmates is indisputable. And, for this reason, the medium security jail has attracted the attention of prisons across Europe.Jackie Hewitt-Main, the prisoners' mentor and special needs tutor, has devised a method to improve the numeracy and literacy of dyslexic inmates within only a few weeks or months.Hewitt-Main - severely dyslexic herself - bases her approach on the theory of multiple intelligences devised by a Harvard professor, Dr Howard Gardner. A quiz helps students establish which type of intelligence they are strongest in.Hewitt-Main's method emphasises phonics - which involves teaching the sounds of letters rather than their names - and she uses a variety of multisensory techniques, including role play, mind maps, magnetic letters and a computer programme from Sweden, called Lexion, which reads out words to learners. She puts coloured acetate filters over black and white pages and has given some inmates tinted glasses if they find these help with their reading.Letters in sandShe has helped Terry, a 32-year-old who has been in and out of jail since he was 14, to write the names of his baby sons into a bar of soap. Serial offender James's spelling has improved since Hewitt-Main suggested he wrote words with toothpaste. And she has noticed that Chris, in prison for the fourth time, reads much better since they traced letters together in sand.Because Chelmsford houses category B prisoners, deemed to pose a medium-to-serious risk to the public, certain items are not allowed. Plasticine, clay and pipe cleaners, which can help dyslexics to remember the shapes of letters, could also be used to copy keys or unpick locks. Computers have to be carted from a secure empty cell to the prison wings each time they are used."Teaching in a prison rather than a school has its challenges," Hewitt-Main says. "These big men are immensely practical and quickly respond to multisensory techniques. But they are very often frustrated with their communication skills. Failure at school has led to anger and disaffection with society."At first I thought I'd be able to teach the inmates in a classroom, but I quickly realised this wouldn't work at all. Most had such bad memories of their undiagnosed struggles at school, they wouldn't consider entering one. Instead, I go into the cells to help them."Hewitt-Main has become a big hit with so-called revolving-door prisoners, many of whom had a reading age of seven and could not use a computer when they first came to her. Take Chris, for example. Without a pass in his driving theory test, the 32-year-old could not work on a building site as a digger-driver. And with his severe dyslexia, he felt sure he'd fail the test. Within three months of Hewitt-Main's help, he has improved his writing and reading so much that he has taken mock driving theory tests. He achieved 98% in the last one. He will take his driving theory and the Construction Skills Certification Scheme (CSCS) exam - which he needs to work on a building site - when his sentence is completed.Goodbye to prison"I thought I was a good-for-nothing," Chris says. "I couldn't work without the pass and my CSCS. I resorted to the high life and a life of crime. Then these techniques of Jackie's came along. I have amazed myself with how much I have improved on the computer. I have been about a long time and no one had sat me down and listened, or told me I had dyslexia. When I take those tests, it'll be goodbye to prison for ever."Terry finds his urge to self-harm has diminished. "I never had the help I think I should have been offered. I wanted to go for jobs, but I knew I didn't stand a chance," he says. "I always found paperwork hard. Jackie was the first person ever to have come to me and given me one-to-one help. It's about time something like this happened in jails. It's blinding."Hewitt-Main's mentoring started as a six-month pilot project, funded with £12,000 by Mentfor. It ended officially last June, but the prison's deputy governor, Vicky Blakeman, decided it must carry on indefinitely. "This project has changed, and is changing, lives," Blakeman says. "There has been a significant improvement in the atmosphere in here. We have formerly uncommunicative, hostile and aggressive inmates opening up and developing positive responses to officers, education, and other prisoners."Prisoners are so keen that nine of them have volunteered to mentor other inmates. Terry says: "There was a self-harmer I spoke to the other day who told me he was frustrated because he found it difficult to read and write. I calmed him down and am now going to mentor him. The governor praised me. I used to be a proper rogue, but I'm turning.""The needs of a young dyslexic are seldom adequately catered for," says Hewitt-Main. "This results in huge numbers of them becoming bewildered, disengaged and failing in the classroom by the age of eight, nine or 10. Without effective support, the dyslexic child might become obstructive, and dismissive of educational goals that are so hard to attain. Many drop out, truant and follow a depressingly familiar downward path that leads them into the courts."