Police are not ruling out the possibility that more than one person was involved in the murder of Joanna Yeates or that her killing was sexually motivated, it emerged today.Detectives also said Yeates's landlord, Chris Jefferies, remains a suspect over the death of the 25-year-old landscape architect.Officers gave more details about the investigation, revealing they had received more than 1,300 pieces of information, which had generated more than 900 lines of inquiry. The investigation team has categorised 239 of these as "high priority". Police said they had so far viewed more than 100 hours of CCTV footage and were sifting through 293 tonnes of domestic rubbish seized in the area around Yeates's flat in Clifton, Bristol.Chief Inspector Phil Jones, leading the investigation, emphasised that the inquiry was complex and could be time-consuming. Speaking at the headquarters of Avon and Somerset police's major crime investigation unit, Jones said officers were exploring every possible hypothesis."We are carrying out detailed forensic analysis of her flat and outcomes from this can take a considerable amount of time."Jones said he was "satisfied" that Yeates got back to her flat on December 17. "But I am not going to speculate whether she let someone into the flat, whether someone was already there or whether someone broke into the flat."Yeates's body was found on Christmas morning on a roadside verge three miles from her flat, but Jones could not say where or when she was killed or when the body was left where it was discovered. Snowfall on December 18 had "considerable impact" on this line of inquiry, he said.Jones highlighted a report of a light-coloured 4x4 vehicle spotted that night close to the spot where the body was found and asked the driver of that car or any other in the area to come forward.Yeates bought a pizza and cider as she walked home on the night she vanished. Neither the pizza nor its packaging have been found – though the receipt for it was at the flat. Jones said it was not clear if Yeates had eaten the pizza.He said: "I assure you we are determined to bring Jo's killers to justice." Asked about his use of "killers" rather than "killer", Jones said the plural emphasised that he was keeping an open mind.He said that there was no evidence Yeates had been sexually assaulted but he had not ruled out that there had been a "sexual motive". Jones said Yeates's landlord, Jefferies, was on police bail and was therefore still a suspect.