A man whose dismembered remains were found in five different locations in two English counties died from a stab in the back, police said today.They believe the killer, or killers, drove hundreds of miles across Hertfordshire and Leicestershire dumping the body parts of their victim, whom police have been unable to identify despite having a DNA profile. They revealed this afternoon that he had been of large build.The most recent discovery, which included the man's decomposed torso, right arm and upper left arm, was made by a walker in Standon, Hertfordshire, at the weekend, three weeks after the first remains – a left leg and a foot – were found in a green holdall in a layby on the A507 in Cottered, also in Hertfordshire, on 22 March.Police believe that the victim was killed in the 48 hours before the first find, and that all the body parts were dumped at about the same time.Crime mapping experts and behavioural psychologists have joined more than 100 officers investigating the death as the police continue to try to trace the dead man through missing persons' databases.Detective Chief Inspector Michael Hanlon told a press conference at Hertfordshire police HQ in Welwyn Garden City it was "one of the most horrific cases I have dealt with", and appealed for help from the public in identifying the victim.The man was killed with a large knife driven into his back, piercing his body cavity. His torso was found in a green Gullivers suitcase of the same type in which his left leg was found.Hanlon said he was convinced someone would recognise the victim from his description. He was aged between the mid-40s and early 60s and weighed between 16 and 17 stone (101 to 108 kg). He had suffered a fracture to his lower left leg between the ages of 10 and 25, Hanlon said."The fracture was such that the man would have needed to have worn a cast at that stage. I can also say the man did not have any tattoos or operational scars. Experts are working to recreate a clay reconstruction of the man's face in the hope that it will assist our efforts to identify him."It was "a very exceptional crime", Hanlon said. "Quite lengthy steps have been taken to prevent us identifying who the victim is … fortunately it is extremely rare that we have to deal with such a crime where individuals have been dismembered."He said officers were concentrating on men who had gone missing in south-east England, and that "significant progress" had been made in the investigation. It was strange that more effort had not been made to conceal the body parts, he said.The police revealed on Sunday that the victim had suffered a number of ailments before his death: he had two front teeth missing, discolouration of the skin around his ankle, eczema, and he was thought to have had a fungal infection on his foot that left his toenails discoloured and thickened. He was white or Asian, believed to have been between 5ft 6in and 5ft 10in (1.68m to 1.78m), with a shoe size of between seven and nine.