A nine-year-old boy remains in hospital as detectives investigate links between his stabbing, the murder of a retired teacher and an incident in which an eight-year-old girl was chased through a garden.Jason D'Arcy was stabbed in an apparently random attack in a skate park near his home in Shipley, West Yorkshire, at 4.40pm on Sunday. Ten minutes later a girl was chased through her garden in nearby Prospect Grove before taking refuge in her house.Detectives investigating the stabbing later found the body of 84-year-old Louisa Denby with multiple stab wounds at her home in Prospect Mount shortly before midnight. A 26-year-old man is being questioned on suspicion of murder and attempted murder, West Yorkshire police said.Jason was airlifted to hospital from the Carnegie skate park with chest and arm injuries, and was in a stable condition in hospital on Wednesday. The man who chased the eight-year-old girl ran off when she screamed and detectives said she was not hurt and did not mention seeing a weapon.Det Supt Lisa Griffin, who is leading the police inquiry, said: "The nine-year-old boy was out playing and was returning home for a drink when he was approached by the male suspect and, with no prior warning and for no reason known to us at this time, he was attacked with a knife – a single stab wound causing him injuries to his chest and his arm."She added: "It's my belief at this time that the three incidents are linked."Griffin said a knife had been recovered and police and forensics officers were working on 10 scenes in the area.Denby was described by neighbours as a "lovely lady" and "everybody's grandma". Lisa Lacey, who said her 18-year-old son, Eli, had seen the boy being stabbed and chased his attacker, said she was distraught when she found out her neighbour had died."I just broke down. I was sobbing," she said. "She was everyone's grandma. She was a lovely lady – just the type of person you want for your nana. She didn't harm anyone. She was always in her garden, she loved it. For something to happen on your own doorstep like this, it's a nightmare. You just don't believe it."The 26-year-old man was arrested at 4.10am on Tuesday after being spotted by a member of the public in Bradford, police said. A second 26-year-old man has also been arrested in connection with Denby's murder, and three men aged 18, 24 and 29 have been held on suspicion of attempted murder over the incident in the skate park. The 24-year-old was later released without charge.Police said they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the stabbing or the murder.