Detectives are investigating the possibility of insider involvement in a daring electronic bid to steal £220m from the London headquarters of a Japanese corporate bank. Sumitomo called police last October when suspicions surfaced that hackers were trying to infiltrate its computer systems. An undercover operation foiled plans to transfer the money into 10 bank accounts around the world and the cyber crime was thwarted with no cash lost. Israeli police arrested a 32-year-old man, Yaron Bolondi, in Holon, near Tel Aviv, on Tuesday. Bolondi, an Israeli who is not a bank employee, has been charged with money laundering and deception. An Israeli police spokesman said there had been a sophisticated attempt to transfer €20m (£13.9m) into his business account. Two officers from the UK's national hi-tech crime unit have flown to Israel to interview him. The hunt continues for other suspects. The criminals are thought to have tried to access the bank's systems by keylogging - surreptitiously installing software to copy every keystroke made on a computer so that vital passwords can be stolen. This can be done in various ways, perhaps installing the software directly on an office computer or tricking an employee to download rogue software on a laptop. Jonathan Mepsted, UK director of computer security firm Fortinet, said increased mobility of staff around the world, contacting offices by laptop, made it easier for hackers. "Why go through the front door of a major financial institution, where the firewall is toughest, when you can simply sneak round the back?" he said. "Hackers can send out a spam email, getting the recipient to open a fake website and unwittingly download a malicious program. The code sleeps until it is transferred on to other PCs, where it is activated to start keylogging." Jacques Erasmus, a former "ethical hacker" who broke into systems and informed firms of their weaknesses before becoming a security expert for Milton Keynes-based Prevx, said: "It's much easier than in the old days, running into banks with guns. Now all criminals have to do is sit at home tapping on a keyboard, and the rewards are potentially much, much greater." Philip Martin, a lawyer representing Sumitomo, one of Japan's largest commercial banks, which employs 500 people in the UK and thousands worldwide, said the failure of the attempted theft showed the strength of Sumitomo's security. But he refused to give more details or comment on whether any staff might have been involved. The hi-tech crime unit also declined to comment, on the grounds that it might jeopardise investigations. However, computer and banking sources said some sort of insider involvement would be one of the first lines of inquiry. "I would suspect insider involvement," said Arthur Barnes, principal consultant with Diagonal Security. "This would require comprehensive understanding of banking infrastructure, not necessarily in senior management but perhaps in technical operations or some specialism." He said large banks usually separated their money management system from other computer communications. But experienced hackers could still install a keylogging device. Sumitomo may well have detected this early but the best way to catch the criminals was to follow the electronic money trail. "The criminals would have a dedicated hacking/counter-forensic team as well as individuals to launder the money," he said. Emlyn Everitt, who has a PhD in intrusion detection, said: "I would be very surprised if there wasn't some insider element. But this might not necessarily be a current employee. It could be a former employee, a contract worker, or anyone who can get near the computers, even a cleaner. "Many large firms spend vast sums on technology but invariably take on some employees and temps on low wages with minimum background checks. You're only as strong as your weakest human link." The Financial Services Authority, which regulates the City, warned firms last November to vet staff thoroughly, citing "evidence that organised crime groups deliberately target firms to place staff to commit financial crime, particularly identity theft". Philip Robinson, of the FSA, said: "Hackers and fraudsters are improving their techniques as we speak. Firms will have to run to stand still if they are to protect their assets and those of their customers." Experts also said that much electronic crime against corporations went unreported because it engendered such negative publicity. "There is big under-reporting of this type of crime, not only because of the money loss, but the slump in investor and customer confidence," said Mr Barnes. But experts said that cyber theft was on the rise, fuelled by lax financial systems in such regions as eastern Europe, and increased hi-tech awareness among organised gangs willing to pay people large sums to hack into big corporations. Mr Erasmus said: "You can open a bank account by post in Latvia. It's completely anonymous and very easy to transfer money there. "It's also interesting that some of the money was allegedly going to Israel, as while they have very good computer security experts there, they also have very good hackers."