The Bill On the video, two uniformed officers in a small panda car are weaving along a flyover in hot pursuit of a small silver hatchback. "Right, that's it," says the younger officer in the passenger seat suddenly. "I'm calling it off. Pull over. It's too dangerous." The hatchback wriggles its way screechily to freedom. "Yes, good. Now that's quite realistic," says Sergeant Ravi Chand, who spent 10 years as a uniformed officer in Luton. "Nowadays, when there is a risk to public safety it is better to call off the pursuit because you might end up killing someone and you don't want to be held responsible for that. You don't see this so often on TV - you'll see all these police cars piling into each other. Totally unrealistic. Police officers firing out of the window of a car in pursuit. You wouldn't get that here at all." The general view inside the force is that The Bill is "pretty good", says Chand, so good, in fact, that episodes of the soap have been used in the past for training. "You would show an episode in a training environment and ask officers, 'What did they get right? What would you do differently?' They do have advisers from the Met who will have told them that this reaction would be quite realistic." Unfortunately, since the particular episode we are watching concerns a suicide (tragic Maxine) in the home of one of the senior officers (tough-but-fair DCI Ackland), we get a lot more anguished forehead-rubbing than we do tough interrogation of the sort that Mike Todd would like to see emulated in Greater Manchester. Not that Chand is terribly impressed anyway. "From what I've seen of The Bill's interrogation techniques they were always pretty unrealistic. Just too aggressive. Interviews taken in this way with suspects would run a high risk of being thrown out of court." (Chand is now president of the National Black Police Association. "Oh look, here's the black guy," he says, as a mixed-race man is taken in for questioning from his tower-block home.) Twenty minutes in, and Mollie Sugden has passed out at the local street market on her way to a wedding. Chand is struck by the sagely experienced air of the two policemen who turn up to assist. "In The Bill, everyone always seems to know what they are doing, but in reality that's not necessarily the case." The truth is that front-line policing is usually done by probationers with less than two years' experience, he says. "So it's true, policemen are getting younger. It's actually a bit unfair of [Todd] to complain about their interrogation techniques, when there are so many more experienced officers on The Bill than in real life." Chand's training usefulness rating: 10/10 Resemblance to reality rating: 7/10 Midsomer Murders  Neither of us having watched a Midsomer Murder before, we're not sure what to expect. Two minutes in, however, we've already met the chirpy milkman, the curmudgeonly lord of a Tudor mansion and Trudie Styler doing yoga in her back garden, and it's quite clear that someone will soon be lying naked in a woody glade garotted by a striped necktie. Carla Constanza, beautiful young Brazilian model and the face of Carla cigarettes, draws the short straw. "Look at that, he's walked straight across the scene of a crime before they've secured the site!" says Chand, appalled that Detective Chief Inspector Barnaby hadn't learned better when he was Bergerac in Jersey. "Forensics would never let a detective walk into a crime scene with his muddy boots. Uniforms will secure the area, forensics clear it and only then will the detectives be allowed on to the site. And look at these guys picking up the exhibits and putting them in their pockets!" Nor is he terribly impressed by the amount of time John Nettles seems to spend kicking his heels until the phone rings revealing that someone has been horribly murdered on his patch. "The reality of policing is a huge volume of work that you rarely seem to get through. A large number of your cases won't even end in an arrest because there's no fruitful line of inquiry. You certainly won't get everything resolved by the end of an episode - or even before you're called aside on something else." Training usefulness: 0/10 Resemblance to reality: "Well it's about a policeman, so I suppose I could give it one." Inspector Morse  Ageing lascivious blonde totty living in remote Oxfordshire mansion welcomes mystery beau to her bedroom and ends up taped to the four-poster with bloody hole in her skull. Morse drinks whisky in curmudgeonly fashion to background of Mozart. "He's a bit grumpy these days," says Lewis with indulgent eye-rolling smile. "Harrumph, what's new there?" asks sardonic chief super... You get the picture. Lewis has at least been on a training course in this episode, which meets with Chand's approval ("Training courses are the bane of a police officer's life, though normally it's very rare to see anyone being trained in anything"). But there are more forensic whoopsies to come - "Look at that guy! It's a shiny surface and he's leaning on it with his elbow, and you can tell he hasn't dusted it yet cos there's no aluminium powder." So Morse is not very realistic either? "I'll tell you the people who will like this one - the senior investigating officers. They'll be going: yeah, that's me, the lone, idiosyncratic maverick, drinking whisky and listening to classical music. It's rubbish of course." That's because today's police force, it transpires, has effectively computerised the lone maverick out of existence. "Nowadays any murder or serious incident will be fed into a computer programme called Holmes [Home Office Large Major Inquiry System], which will tell you how to investigate the murder. So you feed in your information and it generates all your inquiries: go and speak to this witness, go and take another statement from that witness. It plots the whole map for you." But what about insight, brilliance, hunches? "Yes. It pretty much takes the hunch out of it." Training usefulness: "For examples of what not to do, six" Resemblance to reality: three The Professionals  The unavailability at the Virgin Megastore, in Oxford Street in central London, of Z-Cars ("What cars?") or Dixon of Dock Green leaves us with The Professionals, which has the disadvantage of not actually being about the police. "They're CI5, a bit like MI5, so it's more military intelligence stuff," explains Chand. "Nothing to do with us at all." Oh, dear. Still, we decide to watch it anyway to see if the boys in blue could learn anything at all from Bodie and Doyle and the extremely large automatic weapon that Cowley has given them to test ("Guard it, Doyle, guard it with your life." Naturally, it goes missing.) But while Bodie and Doyle may not be police officers, they would certainly be working alongside them, points out Chand. "You would never get a serious incident that was being dealt with solely by a non-police agency. MI5 only get involved if there is a threat to national security, but even in a terrorist or siege situation, the police deal with it as the primary agency, and MI5 only provide the intelligence." The sight of police officers with guns - "and certainly machine guns" - is still rare in Britain, although police Swat teams have become much more specialised over the years, says Chand. "When I joined up, if there was a firearms incident, you got the youngest officer to knock on the door, no body armour or anything, and say, 'Excuse me sir, we have heard some gunshots, do you have a gun?'" Training usefulness: 0 Resemblance to reality: 0 Miami Vice  After only a little strong-arm persuasion ("Hey, stop jivin' on us, man, and tell us what's the action?") Nookie-the-grass tips off Crockett and Tubbs about a big dope deal going down tonight in a waterfront warehouse. A concerned Edward James Olmos offers back-up, but our heroes shrug it off. Finding only a skinny kid guarding the dope, Crockett promises him a long stretch unless he'll cough on the big guys ("How do you feel about not seeing your wife again... until '89?"). Having spent a short period on the vice squad of the Bedfordshire force, Chand would seem well placed to comment on his Florida colleagues. And, perhaps surprisingly, he thinks Crockett and Tubbs are among the most realistic of all our fictional officers. "It's very like [the programme] in that you don't work during the day, you work when the prostitutes work. The US forces are pretty similar to the UK in the kind of incidents they are dealing with. The only difference is that they carry guns and we don't." And white slip-on shoes and blazers? "No, I never wore those to work." Training usefulness: 0/10 Resemblance to reality: "In the UK, zero. In the US, I'd say six."