In a case that proves flattery always gets results, Belgian police this week arrested a notorious Somali pirate after convincing him they wanted to make a documentary film about his exploits. Mohamed Abdi Hassan, also known as "Big Mouth", was taken into custody following an impressive undercover operation that involved approaching his accomplices over a period of months, before finally persuading him to fly to Brussels for filming.The operation follows a long history of ambitious and creative stings used by police around the world to capture criminals. During the 80s, the Fugitive Investigative Strike Team (Fist), which was set up by the US Marshals Service to catch violent fugitives, orchestrated several successful ones. In 1985, the cunningly renamed Flagship International Sports Television Inc offered its targets free tickets to a Washington Redskins football game. To collect the tickets, the fugitives had to attend a brunch where they would get free transport to the game and have a chance to win another all-expenses-paid trip to the Superbowl. Of course, there would be no such luck. The 100 "winners" were promptly arrested.Fist used the same formula again that year, offering 14 criminals a free trip to the Bahamas on the fictional Puño Airlines. They even set up a fake ticket counter at Miami airport, only getting the cuffs out as the targets arrived to collect their tickets.Other stings have involved long periods undercover. One particularly daring example of this was in Hong Kong in 2005 when a police officer spent four months posing as a 15-year-old schoolboy in order to catch 11 schoolboys who had been helping the triads sell drugs and counterfeit videos. The officer, described as looking "very young", attended classes in the boys' school while gathering evidence. The idea may seem familiar as the same tactic used in Fight Back to School, the 1991 comedy starring Stephen Chow, though it is not clear whether the film was the source of inspiration.More recently, police have collaborated with reality television companies to create shows that lure criminals in a style that fuses Crimewatch with Candid Camera. In the controversial US show To Catch A Predator, members of the production team impersonate underage girls in online chat rooms and arrange to meet suspected paedophiles for sex. In some cases the targets are asked to take all their clothes off, before being confronted by host Chris Hansen and finally handed over to police.Perhaps the most famous British example of this was the highly successful programme Macintyre's Big Sting, which first aired in 2004. In one episode, producers offered criminals the chance to win £10,000 on a fake game show called Just The Ticket. They even hired Richard Whitley as the host in order to help West Yorkshire police arrest a number of criminals who had failed to turn up to court hearings.As Big Mouth waits in a police cell for his trial, he will perhaps find some reassurance in the knowledge that he's not the first fugitive to be fooled.