Britain's first prison ship for 200 years should be shut down unless it receives a multimillion pound refurbishment, the chief inspector of prisons said today. Anne Owers, head of the prisons inspectorate for England and Wales, condemned HMP Weare, which is berthed at Portland in Dorset, as "merely an expensive container ... in the wrong place". Ms Owers said the ship, which opened in 1997, was unsuitable for use as a 21st century prison and said a decision on its future must be taken urgently. She said: "If it is to continue in any capacity, substantial and sustained investment will be needed to bring it to an acceptable standard. If this is not forthcoming it should be closed."Her investigation found that the jail was "unacceptably cramped and claustrophobic" with prisoners having "no access to fresh air". The prison healthcare facilities were "very poor" and jobs for inmates were "very limited".Converting the area below decks into much-needed training workshops would cost millions, said Ms Owers. Further significant investment would be required simply to maintain the vessel's seaworthiness certificate, added the inspector. Ms Owers said: "Weare is, literally and metaphorically, a container. Despite the best efforts of staff or managers, HMP Weare is entirely unsuitable for its present function as a 21st century category C training prison. "Millions of pounds of capital investment would be necessary to make it more suitable - indeed, even to keep it seaworthy and safe will require significant resources. "But even then, it would be a training prison in the wrong place, with limited facilities and in a constricted environment."Phil Wheatley, director general of the prison service, agreed that the ship should not continue to operate as a prison in the long-term. He said: "A decision concerning its future will be made as soon as possible."HMP Weare was originally a troop ship in the Falklands war and then a floating jail in the US. The government bought the ship as a temporary solution to prison overcrowding and intended to close it in 2000. But it still holds 400 inmates. Geoff Dobson, the deputy director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: "This report is unequivocal that the UK's only prison ship remains unfit for purpose. "In the light of government policy to reserve prison for serious, dangerous and highly persistent offenders, it is surely time to pull the plug on an out-dated prison ship."