The lamp that shows that freedom lives - to use the late Lord Devlin's description of the jury - is shining a little brighter. First, as we report today, jurors who acquitted four Algerians in the so-called "ricin plot" trial that ended at the Old Bailey last month have maintained a public-interest watch on the cleared defendants in the case. They got in touch with the Guardian after we reported the Home Office was still planning to deport three of the men back to Algeria. They are shocked and angry at this decision. As one juror told us: "We as a jury made a decision. To see the government disregarding our verdict and preparing to send them back to almost certain torture is horrifying. We would try to do anything to stop it." They have good grounds for their concern, not least various human rights reports on the state. The Foreign Office has failed to secure assurances from the Algerian authorities that the men would be safe if deported. Amnesty International, concerned by conditions in Algerian jails, is currently conducting an investigation into alleged atrocities in the state's prison system.A second move, which should make the lamp shine brighter, came with a law lords' ruling reported yesterday, clarifying the options facing a juror concerned by a possible miscarriage of justice. It was prompted by a juror, who was convicted of contempt of court, for writing to the mother of a convicted defendant informing her of alleged improprieties that happened in the jury room. There is a strict rule protecting the confidentiality of jury deliberations. The law lords upheld the juror's conviction, but ruled that if he had raised his concern with the trial judge, the appeal court, the jury bailiff or the defendant's lawyer, or even sent a sealed letter to the court via an outside agency such as the Citizens Advice Bureau, he would have been safe from prosecution. The law lords' ruling has been described as a charter of rights for jurors, but it has done nothing for defendants facing miscarriages of justice because it firmly upheld the principle that secrecy of deliberations within the jury room should remain sacrosanct. If the deliberations remain sacrosanct, then there is little the authorities can do even when they are alerted to an abuse of process. A succession of cases has shown how this three-centuries-old principle has distorted our criminal justice system. As John Spencer, professor of law at Cambridge University, has noted, juries that depend on a random selection of 12 people from the electoral roll will inevitably sometimes be dominated by people who are racist, irresponsible or silly. When jurors themselves raise serious issues like racism, they should be investigated. In his massive report on the reform of the criminal courts in 2001, Lord Justice Auld ruled out the idea that research in the jury system should be re-opened but supported the principle that where there were serious allegations of a jury not being impartial, a trial judge or the court of appeal should be entitled to look at the process. The lord chancellor, in a consultation paper issued in January of this year, reversed these recommendations, proposing to reopen research - perhaps even allowing jury deliberations to be recorded - but holding firm to the principle that the jury process should not be subject to challenge. Both proposals were wrong. Certainly research should be restarted through interviews with jurors, questionnaires and shadow juries, but not by bugging the jury room. And while the finality of jury verdicts has some virtue, it should not be sacrosanct. More important than finality is the integrity of the jury system and the safety of its verdicts. There can be no public interest in maintaining a dubious verdict. Where there are serious allegations of bias or prejudice, public confidence requires resolute scrutiny.