We must ask ourselves not whether the five young men accused of killing Stephen Lawrence are racist, but to what degree their mothers are (The boys are innocent, February 20). While the moral responsibility for the action of killing must remain with the perpetrator, there is a wider question: who is responsible for the condition that we name racism? As a child of mixed heritage - Indian father, English mother - I grew up in an area of England where the racial hatred directed against the few non-white members of the community was accepted as the norm by the children, parents and teachers of the white majority.From the age of five I experienced regular racial abuse which was both verbal and physical. Looking back at these encounters I used to wonder where the innocent looking six-year-old had got hold of the vicious expression 'nigger', 'wog' or 'paki' that they were hurling in my direction. Now I remember the reply to my protest that I wasn't any of these things: 'My mum (or dad) says you should go back to the jungle, anyway.' Racial attitudes are formed and learnt early. Whoever killed Stephen Lawrence is a product of their environment and community, and it is time for that community to begin to take responsibility for its sons - no matter how painful that may be. Name and address supplied I can only question what the mothers hope to achieve? They will not win public sympathy. Maybe instead they will be pitied, for the fact that the mother of one feels that her son brandishing a knife while demonstrating how to kill a black person is normal or just 'play-acting', as did the other mother when questioned of her son's use of racist language caught on surveillance film. What is seen as normal and 'play-acting' in the homes of the five suspects is far from normal in most minds of the British public.  Deciding to speak out has simply shown the families in their true dysfunctional light. Maybe Alison Moore, the Catford schoolteacher beaten by racist youths, can give them some tips on how to deal with persecution, and the stresses of having to move homes due to death threats and the like. I do not feel sorry for these families who maybe are now experiencing what many black and ethnic minority families face at the hands of families just like themselves. At least their sons are alive, unlike poor Stephen Lawrence. As a white British citizen, such behaviour makes me despair of some aspects of British society and the behaviour of some of its inhabitants.  Anne-Marie Boyce London On the only occasion that I have heard my son use racist language I immediately challenged him and upheld a positive role model. He was only four. Thank you Floella!  Wendy D Moth  Newport, Isle of Wight If the five men whose mothers say they didn't kill Stephen Lawrence would explain themselves in a court of law if only they had the money, then it might be an idea to launch an appeal fund for their legal costs? Mark Ottaway London 