A white paper on restructuring sentencing and the courts system is due later this month. Yesterday, right on cue, Downing Street's social exclusion unit (SEU) produced a report documenting the devastating waste of the present system. Two out of three convicted offenders are reconvicted of another crime within two years. For young males aged 18 to 20, the rate is seven out of 10. But the SEU team point to far greater problem than just the headline reconviction rate. For each reconviction, a further three convictions on average will have been logged against the offender plus five recorded offences. The cost to the criminal justice system alone - let alone to the victims - is £65,000. The court and legal costs come to £30,500 and prison, if it lasts a year, some £37,500.The fundamental causes of this waste are laid bare in the report. While in prison, one third lose their home, two thirds lose their job, over a fifth face increased financial problems and two fifths lose contact with their families. Is it any wonder that they turn to further crimes? David Waddington, a former hardline Conservative home secretary, concluded in office that prison was an expensive way of making bad people worse. In fact it is more complicated than that. One problem is poor basic skills. Some 50% of prisoners have a lower level of reading skills than an 11-year-old, 65% lower numeracy skills, and 80% lower writing skills. Their mental health is a further problem with 70% suffering from at least two disorders. A similar proportion suffer from drug misuse of whom 80% have never had any contact with drug treatment services. These deep-rooted problems are not just a challenge to the Home Office but to education, housing and health too. In his forward to the report, the prime minister emphasises the need to "redouble efforts to rehabilitate prisoners back into society". Part of this rehabilitation will require a change in the political climate. It means reinforcing the importance of community programmes, as earlier home secretaries sought to do. Under the proposed custody-plus sentence, offenders on short-term (under 12 months) sentences, would spend up to three months in prison and the rest under supervision in community programmes. Used properly, this would allow prisons and probation to tackle fundamental problems and even more crucially improve the rehabilitation rate.