The record prison population of almost 73,000 in England and Wales stands as stark evidence of the failure of appeals from ministers and senior judges for courts to use imprisonment only as a last resort. For the director-general of the national probation service, Eithne Wallis, part of that failure stems from ignorance among the public - and, to a lesser extent, even the courts - of the new kinds of community punishments that are available to be used. "The public do not know enough about probation," says Wallis, in a rare interview. "The evidence is that where we have the opportunity to explain to the public and the sentencers what is available, they are being used and being strictly enforced." It is clear, though, that the national probation service, now two years old, is still struggling to shed its 1970s welfare image - even among magistrates and judges. In striving to do that, it will not go so far as changing its name to a US-style "corrections service", but Wallis is clear that this is what it in fact is. "It is a correctional service," she asserts. "When I was training as a young probation officer, we were social work for offenders. What we are now is a community correctional service. Our job with offenders is to work with them in ways that will reduce their offending behaviour. That is the focus." Probation is a fast-growing business. Staff are now working with 200,000 offenders a year and staff numbers have swelled by 2,000 to just under 18,000 - though some of the unions argue that the growth in the qualified workforce has not kept pace with the increase in caseload. Wallis says a further 1,100 trainee probation officers will be recruited this year, alongside 500 less skilled probation service officers. The service's working relationship with the police has been transformed. Now local probation officers share intelligence with the police, help identify persistent offenders and work together on drug action and public protection schemes. Anecdotal evidence suggests that probation officers have even recently been involved in setting up "sting" operations - something that would have been unknown even a decade ago. Technology is helping also to change the focus of the service: the 100,000th person was electronically tagged in March. Negotiations for new tagging contracts with private security companies are about to start and will come under the direct control of probation for the first time. "It means [offenders] can be tagged from the moment they walk out of court," says Wallis. "It also means we can look at using voice recognition and tracking systems to help with the supervision of sexual and violent offenders." But the brightest hope of the probation service is the adoption nationally this autumn of a new programme - the snappily named "enhanced community punishment order", designed to enable offenders to acquire certified skills while serving their punishment. About 25,000 offenders are expected to go through the programme during the next 12 months, rising to 30,000 the following year. "It is still clearly a punishment," says Wallis. "Whatever hours the courts impose, it is up to probation to see they do the hours. It is still about making reparation by doing unpaid work, but we want to add a rehabilitation element." The idea is to turn offenders into qualified painters and decorators, for instance, and the probation service is confident that this will make a big contribution to reducing crime. The approach means that somebody ordered to do 200 hours community punishment will not only have to turn up to do the unpaid work, but if in the process they acquire a work skill to a demonstrable level, they should get a qualification to enable them to get a job. Separately, the basic skills programme for offenders is set also to double from 6,000 places this year to 12,000 next year. In a recent assessment, community punishment proved the most powerful component of the current range of non-custodial penalties, which together have cut reconviction rates by almost 5%. The National Association of Probation Officers (Napo) complains, however, that too many people are being jailed for minor breaches of community punishments orders. Wallis says that 30% of offenders who fail to complete orders are taken back to court. Administering the new community programmes has required major internal changes for the probation service, as well as new ways of working with local providers similar to those forged with local NHS agencies for the expansion of drug treatment work. Napo and prison reformers remain sceptical that sufficient resources exist across the country at local level to provide the capacity that is needed. And however much these programmes might impress the courts, they are unlikely to have as much impact on the prison population as will the long-awaited plans of the home secretary, David Blunkett, for a "custody-minus" alternative to prison sentences of 12 months or less. Custody-minus is in effect a suspended sentence, but with a strong probation content. An alternative "custody-plus" idea - shorter prison sentence plus supervision in the community - has been shelved for at least three years. Wallis confirms that no agreement has yet been reached with the chancellor, Gordon Brown, over funding for Blunkett's plans. "The discussions with the Treasury are taking place at the moment," she says. "We are in partnership with the prisons and other crucial providers, looking at the design of these new sentences. We are negotiating now so that if the criminal justice bill reaches royal assent, we will be well placed to receive the money and to start to implement it." Meanwhile, Wallis is keen to pick up one idea promoted by Rod Morgan, chief inspector of probation, and to try to persuade the courts to go back to using fines much more widely. The use of fines went out of fashion in the 1990s, when audit reports showed that two-thirds of those fined were on benefits and simply were not paying. New powers will soon allow courts to deduct unpaid fines directly from benefit payments, Wallis points out. "We want to talk to sentencers about how they deal with the 20%-25% who are either first time offenders or have committed less serious offences," she says. "That would create more headroom for probation. We could invest more in electronic monitoring and the control and supervision orders that provide an alternative to short prison sentences. The fine is one possibility and can be effective. The problem of enforcement is now being tackled. There is also the conditional discharge." It seems that non-custodial punishment will be a continual battle, however. As Morgan has pointed out, one senior judge in Norfolk announced recently that he was not prepared to impose any community alternatives in his court - until the probation service proved able to deliver pre-sentence reports to defendants on time.