The attorney general last night wrote to the Manchester Evening News demanding to know how it came to breach an injunction protecting the identities of James Bulger's killers. Lord Goldsmith decided last night that an article which appeared in the paper last Friday broke the terms of the injunction granted last year barring the publication of details of the whereabouts of Robert Thompson and Jon Venables. The demand for an explanation is the first step towards taking high-court proceedings for contempt of court, which could mean a large fine for the paper. Once he receives the explanation and takes legal advice, the attorney general will decide, probably within the next two weeks, whether to go ahead with contempt proceedings, a spokesman said. He added: "We have decided to go ahead and ask them for representations as to why they have breached the injunction." The newspaper was contacted by the attorney general's office late on Friday night and asked to remove the offending material from its website. On Saturday it issued a statement saying it "would never knowingly breach an injunction". It said in a statement yesterday: "We have been advised by the attorney general not to comment on Friday's story. "As such, we regret we are unable to go beyond the statement we made on Saturday." The first lifetime media injunction ever granted was imposed by the high court in January to protect Thompson and Venables from revenge attacks. On Friday, the parole board cleared the way for their release after eight years and four months in custody. When freed, they will have new names and their identities will be known only to a very small circle of officials. They have already been the subject of numerous death threats on internet sites. James's mother, Denise Fergus, warned after the parole board's decision: "Thompson and Venables may think they have got off lightly and can hide. But I know different. I know, no matter where they go, someone out there is waiting." The home secretary, David Blunkett, has admitted the killers could face real dangers after their release, and Robin Makin, solicitor for James's father, Ralph Bulger, yesterday called on his client's behalf for public "restraint". Thompson and Venables, both 19 in August, abducted two-year-old James from the Strand shopping precinct in Bootle, Merseyside, in February 1993 when they were 10-years old. They tortured him and battered him to death on a railway line. The high court ruled in January that their new identities should remain secret for the rest of their lives because they were "uniquely notorious".