Key prosecution witnesses at the road rage trial of Kenneth Noye are now "so discredited" that his murder conviction should be quashed, the court of appeal has heard.Clare Montgomery QC, representing 63-year-old Noye, who watched the proceedings on a video link from prison, argued at a hearing before the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, and two other judges in London that his conviction was unsafe.Montgomery submitted that the court must regard the pathologist Michael Heath and eyewitness Alan Decabral as being "so discredited or potentially discredited that the court would have to ignore their evidence". Fresh evidence demonstrated their unreliability, making this "an unsafe conviction", she said.Noye was jailed for life at the Old Bailey in 2000 for the fatal stabbing of 21-year-old Stephen Cameron on an M25 slip road at Swanley, Kent, in 1996. He denied murder, claiming self-defence. In 2001, he had a conviction challenge dismissed by appeal judges.His case is being looked at again after a decision to refer the case to the court of appeal by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the independent body that investigates possible miscarriages of justice.Noye fled to Spain after the stabbing but was extradited to the UK in 1998. The hearing is expected to last all day. The judges have indicated that they will reserve their judgment.Montgomery told the court that "this was clearly a case in which the issues raised by the evidence of Dr Heath were at the heart of the case". His evidence, "given in this case as it always was – forcibly and with charm – may well have made a difference to the way in which the jury approached Mr Noye's evidence to them".The QC told the judges: "As you know, Dr Heath is now discredited as a witness." She said he had "failed to carry out proper postmortem examinations" and to document his findings in a way that rendered them susceptible to expert examination.Montgomery criticised various "failings" in the evidence given by Heath at Noye's trial. One area of complaint was that the evidence he gave "about the necessary force needed to inflict the two wounds was unsustainable scientifically and forensically".It is also being argued that the evidence of Decabral has now been discredited. The witness had given an account that "undermined the claim by Mr Noye that he had acted in self-defence".At the trial, Decabral, a Rolls-Royce driver, said he saw Noye hide a knife behind his back before lunging and stabbing Cameron in the chest. He told the jury: "As he walked past my car he nodded to me as if to say, 'That sorted him out, you've got yours, mate,' – that sort of thing." Decabral was shot dead in October 2000.In 2001, when Noye appealed against his conviction, one of his grounds was that Decabral had a criminal background and had lied in the witness box.