 What will this act do?  The act reforms the law on sex offences and overhauls the Sex Offenders Act (1997). The government published a review of the law on sex offences in 2000, Setting the Boundaries, and a white paper, Protecting the Public, updating its recommendations was published last year. This proposed tougher sentences for child sex offenders, reform of rape law and significantly relaxing laws on gay sex. The act complements the new Criminal Justice Act, under which serious sex attackers will receive mandatory life sentences - even if they are first-time offenders.  Why did the government want to reform the sex laws?  The home secretary, David Blunkett, said the proposed reforms reflect changes in social attitudes. The government believed that much of the existing legislation, particularly the laws on gay sex and child sex abuse, was out of date. The Sexual Offences Act is 46 years old and mostly consolidated laws drawn up in the 19th century, an era when paedophilia was not recognised. The public outcry over the case of Roy Whiting, a convicted paedophile found guilty of kidnapping and murdering eight-year-old Sarah Payne, put the government under pressure to increase sentences for child sex offenders and tighten up the management and supervision of those living in the community. Ministers also want to bring forward measures to tackle emerging threats, such as sex trafficking and paedophiles who ensnare children via the internet.  How do the measures tackle child sex abuse?  The act closes a loophole that has allowed those accused of child rape to escape punishment by arguing the act was consensual. At present, the law requires prosecutors to show there was a lack of consent between an adult and a child under 13. In future any sexual intercourse with a child aged 12 or younger will be treated as rape. A new offence of adult sexual activity with a child covers any sex act that takes place between an adult and a child under 16. This will cover a range of behaviour, including inducing children to take off their clothes for sexual pleasure. But where the child is under 13 and the behaviour involves physical contact or inducing the child to perform a sexual act, the adult will be charged with one of the non-consensual offences.These are rape and the two new offences of sexual assault by penetration or sexual assault and causing a person to perform an indecent act without consent. Although the government has not introduced a new offence of persistent child abuse, as recommended by children's charities, it believes the range of new offences will allow the courts to impose harsher sentences on repeat offenders. What about protecting children from abusive parents or carers?  The government has replaced the crime of incest with a new offence of familial sexual abuse to cover not just assaults by blood relatives but also foster and adoptive parents and live-in partners. The offence of abuse of a position of trust has also been re-enacted, prohibiting sexual contact between adults and children under 18 in schools and colleges and residential care, in a bid to protect vulnerable 16 and 17 year olds. How will it combat internet paedophiles?  The Home Office acknowledges that sexual approaches to children online are increasing, with more than a dozen men who made contact with their child victims on the internet imprisoned in the past three years for sexual abuse and rape. The act includes a new offence of sexual grooming, which makes it a crime to befriend a child on the internet or by any other means with the intention of abusing them. A new civil order also prohibits adults from engaging in inappropriate behaviour such as sexual conversations with children online.  What about convicted sex offenders?  Convicted sex offenders will have to register with their local police every year instead of every five years. The police will also be able to photograph offenders every time they register and not just the first time as at present. This affects more than 18,500 convicted sex offenders, including child abusers. They will have to report each year regardless of whether their circumstances have changed. Failure to report is already a criminal offence that can carry a prison term of up to five years. Currently, offenders have to report every five years and when they move home. Registrants will have to inform the police if they change their name or address within three days instead of 14 at present, and disclose if they spend seven days or more away from their home. The government is also considering making offenders provide their national insurance details to prevent them from evading registration.The reforms will also extend the register to cover violent offenders. This will allow sex offender orders and sex offenders restraining orders to be imposed on anyone convicted of serious violent offence if there is evidence that they pose a risk of committing a serious sexual assault.The Home Office says that 97% of convicted sex offenders are on the register, which has been in operation since 1997. Most are registered for 10 years but the more serious offenders are on it for life. The government believes that more regular registration will prevent even more offenders disappearing "underground".  What about those convicted overseas?  The act will force "sex tourists" convicted of sex crimes abroad to comply with the sex offenders register, even if they have committed no crime in the UK. This will be difficult to enforce because it enters new legal territory and will require closer cooperation between the national criminal intelligence service and police forces abroad.  How do the reforms change rape laws?  Rape has been redefined to include penetration of the mouth or anus by the penis, and covers surgically reconstructed male and female genitalia. A new offence of sexual assault by penetration deals with assaults involving the insertion of objects, such as bottles, or body parts other than the penis into the vagina or anus. Another new crime covers non-penetrative sexual assaults.On the issue of consent, people will be considered most unlikely to have willingly agreed to sex if they were unconscious, drugged, abducted, subject to threats or fear of serious harm, or incapable of giving consent because of learning disability or mental disorder.There has also been a tightening of the approach to "date rape", although there is no specific law to deal with it. Defendants would have to prove they made "reasonable" efforts to ensure their sexual partner consented. The Home Office said what was considered reasonable will have to be judged "on a case by case basis". Rape law will not be extended to cover a woman who forces a man to penetrate her with without his consent but this crime will be covered by a new offence of causing another person to perform an indecent act without consent.What about underage sex?The act criminalises all consenting sexual activity among under 16s. This means it will be a criminal offence for two 15-year-olds to kiss in public. But the Home Office says those below the age of consent are unlikely to be prosecuted if both are enjoying the embrace. What sexual acts will be decriminalised?  The act sweeps away the offences of gross indecency, buggery and soliciting by men, which is sometimes called "cottaging" or "cruising". While group gay sex in private will become legal, because it is a victimless crime, it will remain an offence to engage in gay sex in a public toilet - "cottaging". Until now, the offence of gross indecency made it illegal for homosexual acts to take place where there were more than two people taking part or present, and in a public lavatory. Ministers initially proposed the decriminalisation of cottaging unless a person was "reckless" by having sex in circumstances in which they were likely to be seen. But the "sex in public toilets" law was replaced by a tough new anti-cottaging measure. The measure of "sexual activity in a public toilet" will outlaw not only sex but also sexual touching of other parts of the body. What other reforms are set out?  New laws on sex slave trafficking will protect children and adults brought into and taken out of the UK for "sex work". New offences covering commercial sexual exploitation target pimps and others who force children and adults into prostitution. The act takes a much tougher line on "flashers" and "peeping toms". A new offence of voyeurism will criminalise those who install cameras in public changing areas, and protect anyone spied on inside a building who had an expectation of privacy. But a general public order offence of sexual behaviour in a public place will allow people to legally have sex in an isolated place, where they have an expectation of privacy.The offence of indecent exposure has been reformed to one where a man or woman expose themselves knowing they might cause alarm or distress, and the penalties doubled to six months for a first offence. Necrophilia and bestiality also become crimes for the first time.