It was trumpeted by the government as a "one-stop crimebusting centre" but yesterday's launch of the country's first American-style community justice centre descended into farce as the defendants themselves blew a raspberry at the new system by either turning up late or not bothering to turn up at all.At 9.45am judge David Fletcher - approachable and youthful, having eschewed his wig and gown and adorning himself instead in dark grey suit, pale grey tie, white shirt and cufflinks - was told by his sombre clerk: "None of the defendants on your list have attended court." In spite of stifled sniggers from the press at the egg that had been thrown on his judicious face, Mr Fletcher remained composed. Previously a district judge, he is accustomed to recalcitrant attendance on the part of the accused. "Do you want to fix a trial date?" asked the clerk, with reference to a case that had nothing to do with the community justice centre. The judge looked at him and laughed. "Well, I need to do something." So far, so fiasco. Launched with a fanfare of publicity, Mr Fletcher said "the centre represents the most radical change to occur in the justice system for decades". The constitutional affairs secretary, Lord Falconer, said it would mean that local people "will see their concerns being tackled with real and visible payback for the crimes that affect their way of life in their neighbourhood". Using a successful community court started in the Red Hook area of New York's Brooklyn as its model, the community justice centre aims to take a more "holistic" approach to those appearing before it, bringing various agencies to the courtroom including fines supervisions officers, drug and debt counsellors, probation officers, mental health workers and others to deal with cases on the spot. It is designed to work in partnership with local people to deal with low-level crime and antisocial behaviour. Victims will often be consulted by the court which is being piloted in north Liverpool - an area where crime, drugs and youth gangs are all a problem - and if successful will be rolled out across the country. Yesterday, it sat in court seven at Liverpool magistrates, as the building set to house the community justice centre will not be ready until next May. One hour after the session was due to begin, Leslie Bannister, 38, turned up, appearing on a charge of obtaining property by deception. He shifted in the dock, aware that he was the first person in the country to appear at this unconventional court. "It's just my luck for this to happen to me," he said later. A year ago, he had gone into a post office with a fake insurance cover note in an attempt to get a tax disc but had been caught out by a counter assistant. Mr Bannister ran away. He was hunted by police but never caught and handed himself in a year later. His defence lawyer said his client - who suffers from a depressive illness after being involved in a traumatic car accident - had been taken in by a man in a pub who claimed to work in insurance. He pleaded guilty. The judge said: "Let me make this perfectly clear to you, people who come to court and cooperate early are going to be dealt with in a more lenient way than those who don't. You are going to be given credit for that." He was fined £60 and ordered to pay £40 costs. In a friendly voice, marking the departure from regular court procedure, Mr Fletcher told Bannister to leave the court to get advice from a fines supervision officer on how to balance his money and outgoings. Back before the judge, he said he would pay in £8 instalments out of his incapacity benefit. Mr Fletcher, who sits alone on the bench, said he would personally monitor the payments every four weeks. Bannister looked grateful. Next was Christopher Wells, a 40-year-old who is being treated for a drug problem. He is accused of resisting or obstructing a constable, breaking his girlfriend's window, and theft of a pedal cycle and of wheel trims. After he denied all this, the judge asked if he would like to stand trial before a jury or have the matter heard at the new court. He opted for the latter and was told by the judge that he had better start paying instalments on the £1,245 in fines he had outstanding. The fines supervision officer would help him. His case was also adjourned. Then the court usher popped in to say that the woman who the judge had just issued an arrest warrant for had "turned up under her own steam". Tracy Cavanagh, a woman of 28 whose rough sleeping and addiction to drugs has added furrows to her forehead, listened intently as her lawyer said she had been late because she had to pick up her methadone prescription. She seemed stunned by the judge's gentle tone and pleaded guilty to being drunk and disorderly and assaulting a police officer. These and further charges of twice failing to attend were adjourned. By the afternoon session, two more of the cases had still to turn up but three boys, two aged 13, one aged 15, all wearing hooded jackets, came in. Between them they faced various offences including taking a motor vehicle without the owner's consent, driving without a licence and insurance, criminal damage and assaulting a person by beating. These three are exactly the type of first offenders that the court hopes to prevent from descending into a spiral of crime. The pint-sized, red-haired boy who admitted to taking the car and driving it and his chum had their cases adjourned, since they each pleaded not guilty to one of their charges. The tall skinny boy who pleaded guilty was given a one-year supervision order. He said he understood the conditions which mean him apologising to one of his victims, attending personal development sessions and meetings to address his offending behaviour. On top of that, he will wear an electronic tag for six months between 8pm and 7am and will be forced to clean up "grot spots" in the city. Mr Fletcher warned him: "If you imagine a ladder, you are getting close to the top rung and you know what that top rung is [jail]." The community justice centre was finished for the day. Those involved with it joke that it is in the business of "handrails not handcuffs". Yesterday, it seemed, the problem was getting the people to turn up, never mind take the guidance of handrails.