  Gordon Park, known as the 'Lady in the Lake' killer was found dead in his prison cell Photograph: Phil Noble/PAA man dubbed the "Lady in the Lake" killer after murdering his wife and dumping her body in Coniston Water in the Lake District was found dead in his prison cell today, a Prison Service spokesman said.Gordon Park, who was convicted in 2005 of the murder of his wife, Carol, nearly 30 years after her death, is thought to have taken his own life.He was found hanging in his cell at HMP Garth in Leyland, Lancashire, this morning, on his 66th birthday. He was eligible to be considered for release this month.A Prison Service spokesman said he had been found unconscious in his cell at 8am. "Staff and paramedics attended but Mr Park was pronounced dead at 9.40am," he said. "As with all deaths in custody, the prisons and probation ombudsman will conduct an investigation."Park bludgeoned his wife to death in July 1976 and dumped her in the lake near the family home in Leece, near Barrow-in-Furness. But her trussed up body came to rest on an underwater ledge and was found by amateur divers 21 years later.Carol Park was still dressed in her blue babydoll nightdress, arms bound tightly and with tape over her eyes. There was evidence of the wounds inflicted as she tried in vain to defend herself.Gordon Park, a retired schoolmaster, was on holiday in France with his third wife when he was told the body had been found. "Oh dear," he said in a phone call after hearing the news.Park was arrested and charged but escaped conviction until fresh evidence emerged more than seven years later.The guilty verdict brought to an end one of Britain's most notorious unsolved murders.The pair had a turbulent relationship involving partner swapping with other couples. Carol Park, described at the trial as "vivacious and pretty", had gone to live with a man she met through an Open University course but returned after losing custody of her children.In the decades after the murder Gordon Park always maintained his innocence. But while in prison on remand in October 1997 he admitted the killing, telling fellow inmates "she deserved it" after he discovered her in bed with another man.Park was jailed for a minimum of 15 years and was not eligible to be considered for release until this month. His son, Jeremy, who has campaigned to prove his father's innocence, said he was "devastated" by his father's death. He said: "We are all completely devastated and still believe his innocence 100%."