Three men in their 50s have been arrested on suspicion of the murder of missing chef Claudia Lawrence, North Yorkshire police have said.The men are from the York area and searches are being carried out, which are expected to last several days. The BBC reported on three houses being searched with materials being taken away. The apparent breakthrough six years after Lawrence’s disappearance, follows the arrest of a local man aged in his 50s on 23 March. He remains on police bail while inquiries continue.Martin Dales, speaking on behalf of Peter Lawrence, Claudia’s father, cautioned that the family had been disappointed before after what seemed to be breaks in the case.“Let’s hope it’s something tangible,” he told the BBC, adding that the twists and turns in the investigation have been “stomach churning” for the family. “You think you’re getting somewhere but no,” he added.“It’s been a long time coming,” he said of the latest arrests.Dales praised the public for coming forward with information even if they thought it might seem insignificant. North Yorkshire’s investigation team stressed that Lawrence had still not been found. Her family are being supported by trained officers, police said. The arrests follow a comprehensive review of the original investigation by DSI Dai Malyn, head of the force’s enhanced major crime unit. Malyn asked that members of the public and the media do not identify the men who have been arrested.“This is to ensure the investigation and legal process are not compromised or potentially damaged in any way,” he said. The review has been backed by national experts from other forces and agencies, including forensic specialists who recently completed a re-examination of Lawrence’s home in York. Following the work, Malyn and his team identified new lines of inquiry.Lawrence, 35, was reported missing by her father after concerns were raised when she failed to turn up for her 6am shift at work on 18 March 2009.North Yorkshire police began reviewing the case in 2013 and have since carried out a number of searches, including a detailed re-examination of her home and a fingertip search of an alleyway that leads to the rear of the house.A 60-year-old man was arrested last year in connection with her disappearance and suspected murder but was later released without charge.DCS Simon Mason, head of crime for North Yorkshire police, said recently: “The decision to focus and prioritise the efforts of the enhanced major crime unit on this case, and undertake a comprehensive review of the original investigation, is producing progressive results which we expect to continue over time.” 