The eminently worthy report on knife crime published by the House of Commons is exemplary – it tells us what experts think, it tells us statistics and it tells us what we know.But it doesn't tell us what we need to know.Grief, rage, mourning, melancholia, justice and revenge – all are absent from the report, the House of Commons homes affairs committee, knife crime, seventh report of session 2008-09, yet they drive the catastrophic logic of wielding a knife.This, as the scholar Marian FitzGerald reminds the MPs in her evidence, isn't the same as carrying a knife. (I've got several elegant little pen-knives that I carried everywhere until the ubiquitous security systems made them prohibited items.)What does it feel like to have a knife in a sock, or rustling around the groin, or a hand round a shaft as the blade enters someone's spleen, ribs or skull? What does it mean to be getting on a bus or standing outside a shop thinking someone, including yourself, could die?The notion of knife-carrying as a tactic to manage an apparently endemic arms race doesn't touch knife crime's deadly allure.The report repeats the terms that conceal as much as they reveal. So often are they repeated in contemporary debates that these cliches have become strategies of evasion. We already know that knife crime is about gangs, youth, territory, spaces of social deprivation.But what the report doesn't help us think about is the magnetic field within this matrix – why men and gangs and poverty? Why not poverty and old age; why not poverty and mothers? After all, the most deprived are children and old people – and the most deprived among them are girls and women. But they don't carry knives.The report tells us that young men feel the need to defend themselves as they move around social spaces patrolled by other young men. But it is reputation – rather than the self – that is being preserved.The people for whom neighbourhood is the decisive habitat – the young and the old, and above all mothers – are not those whose identity is territorial. Yet the report cites the correlation between territoriality and masculinity as if it were self-evident. It is not.The active ingredient is gender. Not even that will do, however: we need to know why all young men don't wield knives, otherwise superstition and biological determinism locate the problem in men's bodies, testosterone and genes.Prisons are full of young men who can help us. My own work as a writer in residence in young offenders institutions has been revelatory: scarcely literate young men are able to be eloquent about what they call soldiering, the thrilling omnipotence of plunging a weapon into another person, the eerie, enchanting calm they experience when their own bodies go into shock after they've been stabbed, their own blood spilt or their bones broken.It comes not from their hormones but from rage and melancholy and vanity and pain. And it comes from our culture. The radical idea erased from the report is that their violence is a kind of collective self-harm – causing harm and inviting harm is what animates these young men's "soldiering".