The future pattern of police performance monitoring was unveiled yesterday in a document full of complex diagrams designed to ensure that forces are compared on a like with like basis, rather than drawn together in a national league table.The Home Office minister John Denham said that the approach provided a powerful medium for measuring how forces were fighting crime, and rejected a suggestion that the pentagonal diagrams used for the illustrations were baffling and incomprehensible. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, was dismissive, describing them as confusing. "This will not aid the fight against crime, it will merely multiply bureaucracy," he said. The Association of Chief Police Officers has long fought against the establishment of a national league table for the 43 forces in England and Wales.Its second vice-president, Denis O'Connor, who is the chief constable of Surrey, said he supported the comparative method, arguing it would be unfair for forces to be treated in the same way as schools and hospitals, because of the huge disparities between regions. The 64-page document focuses on how forces cope in five broad areas: investigating certain crimes, reducing crime, promoting public safety, using resources, and public satisfaction. In time more indicators will be introduced to cover performance in other areas. The scheme groups the Metropolitan police with three other conurbation forces: Greater Manchester, Merseyside, and the West Midlands. Rural forces are set against others with similar problems: Devon and Cornwall, for instance, will be compared with Avon and Somerset, Derbyshire, Gloucestershire, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, West Mercia, and Wiltshire. The information on each force is in diagrammatic form, "for easy viewing", the Home Office said. A black line across a shaded pentagon shows how each force is performing. If the line lies inside the darkened area on any of the five points of the pentagon, the force is under-performing. If it lies outside the zone, the force is doing better than others in the same group. The eight forces that appeared to be performing the worst according to the report are Avon and Somerset, Cambridgeshire, Derbyshire, Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Nottinghamshire, Staffordshire, and West Yorkshire. The four that show up best are Dyfed-Powys, Gwent, Northumbria, and Suffolk. But the Home Office said the information used was old and therefore might be no longer representative. Kevin Bond, who is the director of the police standards unit, said the diagrammatic concept, though unfamiliar, was far from difficult. And Mr Denham denied that a simple national table would identify which forces were performing well and which were doing badly. "A league table that tries to compare Dyfed-Powys with Greater Manchester would not make sense to most people. It is simply not comparing like with like," he said. "This will make information in table form more accessible because it is in visible form. The monitors cannot be used to make national comparisons between police forces or to construct league tables." Mr Letwin said that the compilation of material meant "more monitoring, more performance targets, more confusing statistics, and more bureaucratic reporting requirements for the police". Jan Berry, who chairs the Police Federation of England and Wales, said monitoring alone would "never capture the whole picture of policing, since much of the work that is carried out never gets measured". She added: "The recent heightened state of security and redeployment of officers to prevent terrorism is one area that will not feature in the data. But it has impacted on how local communities have been policed and the level of service they have received."