A fraudulent bond trader, who stole millions of pounds from a former chairman of Manchester United, became a major donor to the Liberal Democrats in order to create the illusion of being wealthy and important, a court was told yesterday.Glaswegian businessman Michael Brown, 42, is charged with nine offences committed in 2005, when he gave a total of £2.3m to the Lib Dems and built up an extravagant lifestyle. He had a Mayfair flat and office, the use of private jets and a £35,000 personalised number plate for his Range Rover. He is alleged to have stolen more than $10m (£6.4m) from Charles Martin Edwards, the former chairman and chief executive of Manchester United.The charges include five under the Theft Act, two of money laundering, one of furnishing false information and one of perverting the course of justice. The last charge, said Martin Edmunds QC prosecuting, involved an attempt to prevent any complaints being made against him. Brown is accused of pretending to be an international bond trader and taking big deposits from investors to fund his lifestyle. Some of the money was handed back to investors in Hong Kong and the US to maintain the fiction of doing profitable business. The jury at Southwark crown court was told that Brown, who was not in the dock yesterday, had pleaded not guilty to the charges at a hearing two months ago when the date for a full trial was set. He was granted bail.Judge James Wadsworth QC said: "A defendant may decide not to be present and participate. No defendant has to prove anything. But you absolutely must not take his decision not to attend as an admission of guilt." The judge explained that Brown's counsel, Julian Bevan QC, would conduct his defence based on earlier instructions.Edmunds said that when police raided Brown's home in Mallorca, Spain, they found a number of CVs which showed a pattern of untruths.In one he claimed he was a business consultant to the hotel industry; in another he said he managed private investment and real estate. Nowhere, Edmunds said, did Brown say he was an international bond trader - the persona he presented to Edwards. When interviewed by police Brown maintained the lies, claiming he also traded in the FTSE market. Edmunds said: "We say Mr Brown claimed to be a bond trader, someone who had the experience and expertise that would allow him to trade in high value bonds on the international market so that he could make huge profits for people who would invest through him. But Brown did not do as he claimed he would and it is the prosecution's case that he simply never intended the funds be used for the purposes of trading bonds ... he therefore deceived Mr Edwards to get the money." The two men met in February 2005 at Brown's lavish apartment in Mayfair, London, rented for £49,000 a year.A company called Univest had already put in the first $10m of investments and this financed the first tranche of £100,000 which Brown gave to the Lib Dems.At the time Edwards had sold his shares in Manchester United and was looking for potential investments. They were introduced by an intermediary named as Boris Lopatin, an associate of Brown whose company was to share the profits from the fictitious trading. Edmunds told the jury: "The money comes in from Mr Edwards and other investors, profits never come in because there is never any dealing."Money goes out to pay pretend profits on pretend bond deals and then to pay for Brown's extravagant lifestyle and business expenses and donations, in particular multimillion pound donations to the Liberal Democrat party which enabled him to give the impression that he was an important and well-connected man."Edwards was persuaded to part with his money and it was put in an account at HSBC in London. After three months $7.2m was transferred to a euro account in the name of Brown's company 5th Avenue Partners Ltd which provided the car plate: 5AVE. Edmunds said: 'Of that money, €1.6m, something like a third, was used by Brown to make payments to other people who had invested with him. We say this was on the pretence that these were trading profits even though that trading had never taken place." Just under €1m was used by Brown on his lifestyle and to present a convincing front.The trial, expected to last up to four weeks, continues.