I generally live a very comfortable life - I work in a mostly gay company (well, I edit a gay magazine, don't I?). I move in accepting (and, yes, pretty middle class) circles, my mother welcomed my boyfriend and his mother to her home at Christmas with open arms. If it were not for the tales that cross my desk, I might think the world we live in was pretty sorted for gay men.People often contact our magazine with "evidence" of homophobia and I generally approach it with caution. The word is bandied about too fast and loose, and careless overuse cheapens it. But what I saw on YouTube the other day, after a reader drew my attention to it, not only sickened me but also cheapened us all.It was a video clip titled "John the raveing [sic] gay" which showed a man - apparently a homeless man - cornered by a bunch of boys who repeatedly and aggressively asked him if he was gay. He was rocking from side to side, clearly distressed, looking for an escape, and finally conceded that yes, he was gay.The boys cried out "Errrrr ... dirty bastard" and went on to grill him further about what exactly he got up to. Did someone cum in his mouth or him in someone else's? It went on. The guy was mumbling, close to tears: "Yes, but please can I go now", and the clip rumbled on in this sordid fashion for a couple more minutes.As the clip ended I was shaking. My boyfriend had been in the other room, and he came through. "What's that you've been watching?" he asked, but I couldn't bring myself to show him. I felt sullied.What struck me hardest was that when people feel they have no power, they pick on the most vulnerable members of society - and here he was: gay, presumably homeless, possibly a street drinker, probably with mental health problems, impoverished and, very probably, a frequent victim of abuse. Here was someone who needed to have our collective arms put around him and be looked after, and what happened? He gets spat on and everyone is poorer for it. And this is what we get for the dehumanising influence of allowing "gay" to remain a term of abuse in schools. This is what we get for centuries of trying to keep people down. This is what we get when we try and deny a part of our human-ness - a stripping back of our humanity. Everybody loses.I hope that one day the boys who made this video will realise what a damnably dark thing they have been involved in. I hope that they realise that they have done something that will be with them for their whole lives. I hope they will realise that when we attack people in this way we are somehow attacking ourselves. And then there is a part of me which would like to see them get a bloody good hiding, have it filmed and put online for everyone to see - though that desire also makes me feel cheap.From the comments on YouTube (more than 130) it looked as if the clip had been up for several months. It looked like it had been flagged as inappropriate content, but it took someone alerting several members of the gay press for it to actually be removed. I have reported the clip to the police, and I only hope that whoever posted it is caught up with and made to face the consequences. I only hope that YouTube never lets another clip like this stay live for long.