It seems to me that, when it comes to the general election, Labour voters are in a similar dilemma to that of the screaming teen hordes of Robert Pattinson fans. But this is not due to any striking physical resemblance between Gordon Brown and the Twilight star (surely not even Sarah Brown would claim that of her "hero"). It is because at the time of writing, R-Patz's latest movie, Remember Me, scores a lowly 28% on the Rotten Tomatoes film review website. His army of female admirers will have to decide whether to queue up in multiplexes to see it anyway, even if deep down they know they'll end up regretting it.Traditional Labour supporters may also be considering whether to fall into line on 6 May, whatever their doubts about the leadership or party policy. There are many reasons why this might be a mistake. But Gordon Brown's statement on Friday 9 April that Tory proposals to remove all innocent people from the national DNA database – apart from those accused of the most violent crimes – represents "a big dividing line in this election" warrants particular reflection.The Conservatives' policy follows government legislation passed last week allowing the police to hold the DNA of adults who are arrested, but not charged, for six years on the national database. The Tories did not vote against this measure in what is now the Crime and Security Act 2010. However, they have announced that if they win the election they will legislate to ensure that innocent people arrested of minor offences will not be kept on the database, which is already the largest of its kind (per capita) in the world.At this point I should confess that I am one of those innocent people whose details are held on the DNA database. One evening in the summer of 2001, when I was 21 and on summer vacation from my undergraduate degree at Cambridge University, I was arrested for possession of a small amount of cannabis in my pocket. I had been walking back from a party to stay at a friend's flat in central London. As it was past midnight and the street was deserted – apart from, as it turned out, a lurking undercover police officer – we decided it would be pleasant to stop and share a joint. We did not vomit in the street or smash up a phone box, as can happen when people get drunk; as I remember, we laughed a lot at a joke that was not in fact very funny. Then I was arrested, put in handcuffs and spent the next few hours being booked, having my DNA swabbed, put in a police cell and formally cautioned. All this for committing the "crime", as a police officer at the station confirmed, of smoking a substance outside which they would have found unobjectionable if I had done it in the privacy of my own home.There is a separate article to be written on the unintended consequences of Gordon Brown's highly political commitment to keeping the classification of cannabis as a class B drug. (In my case, having this caution did not prevent me from getting a job at a top law firm but it did throw up practical obstacles stopping me from volunteering on death row appeals in the United States and from participating in a mentoring programme for disadvantaged inner-London school students.) Nevertheless, the fact is that I broke the law, and I regret doing it in such a silly fashion. But the particular "dividing line" of keeping the DNA of people such as me on the national database seems to be motivated by one of two reasons.The first is that Gordon Brown really believes that withholding human rights (in this case, the right of a person who has been arrested but not convicted for a minor offence not to share his or her DNA with the state) is a price worth paying to help the police solve crime. Fair enough, one might say. It is certainly true that curtailing individual freedoms does make it easier to keep the peace, as anyone who has visited a police state knows. But the English legal system has traditionally appreciated the importance of restraining authoritarian impulses in a society founded on liberal values. Is it proportionate for the state to authorise itself to retain the DNA profile of someone who has never even been charged for a trivial offence, let alone had the chance to defend himself in a court of law?It is only thanks to the European court of human rights that such retention is now time-limited rather than forever. The six-year limitation period introduced in the Crime and Security Act 2010 represented the government's grudging response to an ECHR ruling in 2008 that to keep innocent people's records indefinitely – the previous position under the Criminal Justice Act 2001 – was incompatible with the right to privacy under the European convention on human rights. In that judgment, the court found that "the blanket and indiscriminate nature of the [UK government's] powers of retention of … DNA profiles of persons suspected but not convicted of offences … fails to strike a fair balance between the competing public and private interests and … the [United Kingdom government] has overstepped any acceptable margin of appreciation in this regard".The second, alternative reason for making this a campaign theme is that Gordon Brown is prepared to trade freedoms for votes, in which case the moral "dividing line" is between integrity and cynicism. Either way, Labour voters will have to decide whether Gordon Brown deserves their backing or whether, like Robert Pattinson's most famous film character, he should be consigned to the (political) undead.• This article was commissioned after the author contacted us via a You tell us thread. He writes under a pseudonym