Donald Neilson, convicted yesterday of the three Post Office murders and said to be suffering from a severe psycho-pathological condition, turned and almost marched to cells beneath Oxford Crown Court, knowing that he will probably never be released from prison. He was told by the trial judge, Mr Justice Mars-Jones, that the enormity of his crimes put him in a class apart from almost all convicted murderers in recent years and that in his case life imprisonment should mean life. No minimum period was set for his release.Mr Neilson (39), showed barely any emotion as sentence was passed on him. He merely swallowed hard and lowered his head.Mr Justice Mars-Jones, after hearing a consultant psychologist's report on Mr Neilson, said that the evidence against him had been overwhelming. He has struck terror into the hearts of postmasters, sub-postmasters, and their families throughout the county. He told him: "You were never without a loaded shotgun or other loaded weapons when you went on your criminal expeditions and never hesitated to shoot to kill when you were in danger of arrest or detection. You showed no mercy whatsoever." The judge referred to the kidnapping of Lesley Whittle as the ultimate in villainy: another "enterprise that ended in murder." Mr Neilson raised his head to look directly at the judge as he said that in his judgement such was the gravity and enormity of offences committed by him that life in his case would mean life. "Put him down," said the judge and Mr Neilson turned and was led away. Before sentence was passed Dr Lionel Haward, a consultant psychologist at the University of Surrey, said he found Mr Neilson to be a man of high intelligence, about 20 per cent above average. He then said that Mr Neilson was suffering from a psycho-pathological condition of some severity but one that was not sufficient to diminish responsibility on his part. Mr Neilson had, he said, a complex personality, showed signs of extreme rigidity and inflexibility, and was obsessive to an extremely high degree.He was not a man who desired violence, but because of his inability to cope with defeat in situations where his plans failed, his intelligence broke down. Mr Gilbert Gray QC made one final attempt to persuade the judge not to "snuff out" the only light left in Mr Neilson's life - the hope of eventual release. He said he knew he had to face very long, dark days of imprisonment. But he needed some little hope to assure his sanity. Mr Gray said he thought there was a desire from the public to see the words once spoken by Mr Neilson come true - "that if the police thought he was the Black Panther they would throw away the key ". The judge interrupted him to say: "I am not surprised he said that. He shot down three sub-postmasters who had a duty to protect public money, large amounts of money. They were doing just that when he shot them." After the case Mr Barrington Black, Mr Neilson's solicitor, said that an appeal had been lodged against the verdict in the Lesley Whittle case and that a second appeal involving the post office murders was being considered. Mr Neilson would probably still be at large but for two policemen who were commended by the judge. On December 12 last year PCs Tony White, aged 26, and Stuart MacKenzie, aged 29, both probationary officers, were on traffic patrol in Mansfield. They parked their car in a side street to watch passers-by and 15 minutes later they had their first glimpse of the man soon to be identified as the Black Panther. There was nothing particularly alarming about the figure scurrying past them but they had their suspicions. They stopped Mr Neilson and questioned him. After giving them a false name and saying that he was a lorry driver on his way home from work Mr Neilson pulled out a sawn-off shotgun and made the policemen drive at gunpoint towards the village of Blidworth.PC White, sitting in the back of the car, grabbed the gun, which exploded in his colleague's face. There was a violent struggle and two members of the public, one a karate expert and the other a miner, rushed to the car to help the policemen. Soon Mr Neilson was overpowered and chained to some railings. A youth, thinking the police had captured an IRA gunman, punched Mr Neilson in the face. Mr Neilson's days as one of Britain's worst criminals had ended. Neilson remained behind bars until his death, aged 75, in December 2011.  This is an edited extract