Child sexual exploitation is one of the most sickening crimes of our age, yet the scale is unknown because, by its very nature, boys and girls frequently go missing in an underworld of systematic abuse. Barnardo's has 22 projects across the country dedicated to finding and helping these young people, and has been campaigning for years to bring the issue to the forefront of the government's agenda.The past weeks have seen a welcome shift in recognition of this problem, but the focus has been on the ethnicity of abusers, based on two high-profile cases in particular parts of England. It's crucial to recognise that just as the ethnicity of the perpetrators differs across the UK, so does that of the children. We need to pull away from the growing stereotypes: it is not just Asian men who commit this crime, nor are the victims only white – black and Asian girls are targeted too.They are used like puppets by these abhorrent men and women – groomed and manipulated to a point where they are brainwashed, raped and scarred for life. I have met some very brave girls and boys who we are helping to overcome the tragic childhood that they will never get back.One of them is Aaliyah. Her story isn't unusual. As 14 she began to become estranged from her parents and started to go out a lot. She was introduced to men older than her, who would impress her with their flash cars and gifts. Desperate for love and attention the affection they showed her seemed very real, until it turned nasty. The unthinkable cruelty she suffered will never be forgotten – Aaliyah was physically and mentally abused, with one so-called boyfriend pulling her out of his car by her hair and threatening to cut her legs off with an axe before driving her to a hotel room, "to have his friends come over and do what they wanted to me".We worked with more than a thousand children and young people like Aaliyah last year, and we believe that is likely to be the tip of the iceberg. Wherever we have looked for exploitation, we have found it. We need to use the momentum of current debate to highlight what really matters: protecting these vulnerable children.It is 16 years since Barnardo's opened its first service dedicated to sexually exploited children in Bradford. Today we release a report, Puppet on a String, that highlights three new issues: trafficking around the UK is becoming more common; sexual exploitation is more organised and grooming more sophisticated, with technology being used to find, isolate and control victims; and increasingly younger children are being abused.Emma's sexual exploitation began in a similar way to Aaliyah's. When, aged 14, she met a man in his early 30s who showered her with gifts and attention, she fell in love, but soon her "boyfriend" began abusing her and forcing her to sleep with different men. Her words are heartbreaking: "I just hoped that one day one of the men would be a real boyfriend, that he'd like me for the real me and that he'd want to save me. But it never happened."If we are to truly learn from the lessons of the cases in Derby and Rochdale, the government must recognise this as a child protection issue and appoint a dedicated children's minister to formulate a national action plan to fully address the scale and horror of child sexual exploitation in the UK.This issue must not be a flash in the pan – we need to use the leverage that the current media debate has given us to ensure that this hidden issue is now very much out in the open and tackled at all levels.Our "Cut them free" campaign hopes to turn around the lives of these young victims. We want better training for professionals who work with children in order to improve early identification of child sexual exploitation, including police, schools and social services. Statutory responses and the provision of services for exploited children must also be improved. We need greater clarity about the numbers of children abused in this way, so methods of gathering evidence and data kept on the numbers of children being sexually exploited should be strengthened. And we absolutely must see improvements in prosecution procedures in order to increase the number of cases that lead to a conviction.We need to send a loud and clear message to perpetrators – we will find them and they will be punished for the intolerable abuse they have inflicted upon so many young lives.