A teenager who murdered a young woman in a park because she was dressed as a goth has had his sentence reduced on appeal today.Ryan Herbert, of Bacup, Lancashire, was jailed for life for the murder of Sophie Lancaster in August last year. In April, a judge at Preston crown court ordered that the 16-year-old must serve a minimum of 16 years and three months.Today, the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, sitting with two other judges at the court of appeal, cut his minimum term to 15 years and six months.Herbert's accomplice, 15-year-old Brendan Harris, also of Bacup, was given a life sentence with a minimum of 18 years. Judges rejected his bid for a sentence reduction.Three other youths involved in the attack lost their appeals. Brothers Danny and Joseph Hulme, brothers aged 16 and 18, are each serving a minimum of five years and 10 months. Daniel Mallett, 18, is serving four years and four months.Judge today described the murder as an "appalling crime" and said Herbert's appeal was being allowed to a "very limited extent".The judges ruled there was no basis for the argument that the sentencing judge failed to make a proper allowance for age when setting the minimum terms.The court reduced Herbert's minimum term, ruling the judge should have given a higher allowance for his guilty plea.In August last year, Lancaster, a gap year student, was walking through Stubbylee park in Bacup with her boyfriend, Robert Maltby, when they crossed the youths' path.Brief words were exchanged before Harris attacked Maltby. Lancaster was stamped and kicked to death after she begged the teenagers to stop hitting her boyfriend.Neither of the killers knew the couple, who dressed and identified as goths. Their only motive was that Lancaster and Maltby looked different from them, the trial jury heard.Maltby suffered long-term physical and emotional damage in the attack.A recent statement by his mother said he had failed to make the physical and mental recovery hoped for at an earlier stage."Physically, he suffers from poor short-term memory and becomes very uncoordinated when tired," she wrote. "His balance is also poor when he is tired. Robert's main problem is psychological. He has virtually become a recluse and will not leave our home unless absolutely necessary."Passing sentence in April, the judge called the murder a "hate crime" against completely harmless people because of their appearance. Anthony Russell QC said both victims had been subjected to cruel and sadistic behaviour.He said the defendants had a "swaggering" manner and their behaviour in court was unacceptable.