Ministers and senior police chiefs yesterday expressed their determination to root out racist behaviour in Britain's police forces as five officers resigned after being exposed by an undercover television documentary. A group of recruits had been captured on film while expressing shocking racist views, and one had donned a Ku Klux Klan-style hood. One senior officer said the film had made him feel "physically sick". David Blunkett, the home secretary, said: "What's been revealed is horrendous." A new training programme, designed to root out racists before they finish training, should be spread to all forces as a priority, he said. In a hard-hitting letter to the Guardian, chief constables from every police force in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, made clear there was no room in the police service for anyone with racist attitudes. They ordered further steps to actively test the attitudes of recruits in the initial phases of training. Those found to have "questionable attitudes" could be sacked - or forced to under-take remedial development. The senior police officers said they would not allow the core professional values of integrity, respect for diversity, compassion for others and commitment to public services to be tarnished by any individual seeking to join the service while not sharing those values. PC Rob Pulling of North Wales police, who was seen in the film wearing a Ku Klux Klan-style hood, was the first to resign. He was described as a disgrace by a senior officer. Later, three constables from Greater Manchester police - Adrian Harrison, a former social worker; Carl Jones who made offensive comments, and Tony Lewin, who admitted being a racist -resigned. Steve Salkeld of Cheshire police, resigned after he was seen admitting he would stop a Jaguar if it contained people from an ethnic minority. Three officers suspended after the programme are likely to be sacked if they do not resign. One is Keith Cheshire from North Wales; the others are Andy Turley and Andy Hall from Greater Manchester. Greater Manchester police promised a criminal investigation as well as a disciplinary hearing. Its chief constable, Michael Todd, said: "Officers who believe that they can survive in my force while behaving in an overtly racist manner are deluding themselves. They cannot and will not." "Such behaviour from police officers is totally unacceptable and disgusts me as a fellow officer. They let down not only their colleagues, but also the communities they are supposed to serve." Sir John Stevens, commissioner of the Metropolitan police, said he was "absolutely appalled" by the programme. "I have been a policeman for 41 years at the sharp end and I was absolutely astonished at that behaviour," he said. "I have never heard that type of conduct or behaviour and that type of racism - if I had, I would have arrested them for it." Doreen Lawrence, the mother of the murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence, told Channel 4 News that she was "numb for ages" after watching the documentary. "I found it quite frightening ... We have come nowhere and I think the police have to take responsibility for that. "It's reinforcing [the idea] that people can kill black people just for the sake of it and get away with it. It just doesn't bear thinking about." Sir John said the filmed behaviour was "not far away" from that displayed in videos of the suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry. "We have got to be absolutely on our guard." The police officers were exposed by an undercover BBC reporter, Mark Daly, who joined Greater Manchester police as a trainee. He secretly filmed at the Bruche national training centre in Warrington, Cheshire.Mr Daly, 28, joined the force in January and spent five-and-a-half months posing as a probationary constable. He was arrested in August while working for the Stockport division after an anonymous tip-off. He is due to answer bail next month on allegations that he gained his salary by deception and damaged a bullet-proof vest by hiding a pinhole camera in it.