The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday January 16 2008 In the article below, we said, in error, that Colette Lynch expressed fears to the police about Percy Wright's violence towards her repeatedly in the weeks before he killed her. She expressed these fears days, rather than weeks, before she died. This has been corrected.Born in 1980 into a close-knit family in Rugby, Warwickshire, Colette Lynch is described by her family and friends as having been an "optimistic", "gentle" and "lovely" woman. In her late teens she had had two children with a violent partner; in 2000, after that relationship ended, she met Percy Wright. Three years later they had a little girl. In February 2005, when Wright knifed Lynch to death, he was holding the toddler in his arms.Lynch had expressed her fears about Wright's violence to the police repeatedly in the days preceding her death, as had her family, friends and neighbours. In fact, when the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) looked into her case following her death, it found the inadequacies of the police response so shocking that it used its powers to hold a misconduct hearing in public for the first time ever. The hearing, which concluded last Friday, highlighted the fact that - despite almost four decades of feminist campaigning - the police response to domestic violence can still be appallingly inadequate.Wright had started to grow unstable, violent and delusional after the death of one of his sisters. On January 19 2005, for instance, Wright visited the benefits office and became irrational and angry with members of staff. When his sister, who worked in the same building, came to calm him down, Wright showed her the 14in kitchen knife he was carrying. She decided not to report it. A week later, Wright caused a similar scene at the Inland Revenue office.Lynch and Wright had been living separately since they started having difficulties in September 2004, but they were still in contact; although increasingly fearful of her partner, Lynch was desperate to get him help. On the morning of February 1 2005, Lynch was walking home after visiting the GP with Wright when he accused her of trying to poison their daughter. He followed up his accusations that evening by trying to break into her house while shouting, "Open the door, or I'll slit your throat."Wright smashed through a window, cutting his hand. Shortly afterwards, Lynch was seen running down the street, her arm bleeding, calling for help. The disturbance was such that two separate neighbours called 999. Within minutes, paramedics arrived, shortly followed by three police cars. So keen was Lynch to get away from Wright that she had climbed through the narrow broken window in her bare feet.Two police officers, Charlotte Hall and Theresa Cottingham, arrived at the scene and spoke to neighbours as well as Lynch. After arranging for the window to be boarded up, they checked that Wright had left the scene, made brief notes and returned to the station.Neither officer recorded the incident as domestic violence, or filled out a domestic violence form. In fact, the incident was not recorded as any kind of crime at all, although both police officers wrote "criminal damage" in their pocket books. At the hearing they argued that this omission was because Lynch had not wanted to press charges. However, Lynch had told the officers she wanted Wright sectioned and telephoned the police control room less than an hour later making it clear that she was willing to press charges "if that's what it takes". Still, no crime was logged.During one of her calls that evening, Lynch arranged to give a statement to officers at her home the following day. No one turned up. That day, February 2, Lynch and members of her family called police and mental health services, desperately attempting to persuade them that Wright should be sectioned. Lynch's brother Joseph called the mental health services nine times. Wright was visited by police, mental health and child protection officials, but was not arrested or taken in for assessment, despite several reports that he had been carrying knives, and had threatened to cut Lynch's throat the day before.On February 3, Wright turned up at Lynch's house again. She was inside with her three children and her mother, Helen. Wright hacked at Helen four times with the knife he was carrying, but she managed to run away. Wright then caught up with Lynch and stabbed her in the back. She was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital where she had been treated for her wounds only two days earlier.The allegations against Hall and Cottingham, experienced community beat officers based at Rugby police station, were extensive. Namely that, on attending a domestic violence incident, they had: failed to record it as a crime; failed to fill out the appropriate forms; failed to manage and investigate the incident; and failed to take reasonable steps to protect Colette Lynch. Hall admitted the charges against her, while Cottingham denied them. Both claimed they were not the officer in charge.During her evidence, PC Cottingham was unrepentant, saying she would "do the same again" if faced with a similar situation. "At the time, it just seemed like another domestic," she said. "Unfortunately, the lady didn't want to make a complaint. She had to go to hospital. There was no point delving into it."Indeed, Cottingham admitted that she thought Lynch was lying about the circumstances surrounding the incident. "At the time, I didn't believe her when she said she had jumped out of the window to escape," she said.Despite the fact that the hearing heard evidence of both officers' inadequate response, and despite the fact that all the charges against both were upheld, their punishment was simply to be docked five days' pay. "It is pathetic," says Lynch's mother, Helen, "It is like saying Colette's life was worth nothing."There was, however, acknowledgment that the Warwickshire domestic violence policy was merely "gathering dust", and that officers were not given training on either its content or implementation. In the face of such systemic failings, the Lynch family is determined not to give up its quest for justice. While Wright was convicted of manslaughter in August 2005, and is indefinitely detained in a secure hospital, they want guarantees that no other victim of domestic violence will be treated with such contempt.The lawyer for the Lynch family, Sarah Ricca, believes that this case warrants a full public inquiry to examine and challenge institutionalised discrimination against women by the police, in the same way that the Stephen Lawrence inquiry exposed institutionalised racism. "We need to get to the bottom of why it is that the police can't or won't use their powers to protect women. At this moment, somewhere in the country, a woman will be in danger of her life as a result of domestic violence. Whether or not she will be protected by police attending the scene is anyone's guess."