The boyfriend of Jodi Jones was told yesterday that he would spend at least 20 years behind bars for the murder of the 14-year-old schoolgirl.Sentencing Luke Mitchell, 16, at Edinburgh high court, Lord Nimmo Smith linked the attack to the killer's heavy cannabis use and fascination with the occult and the goth rocker Marilyn Manson. Mitchell was convicted last month of murdering the girl in June 2003. She had been stripped, tied and repeatedly stabbed after meeting Mitchell on a wooded path near her home in Dalkeith, Midlothian. The court heard that her death bore similarities to the gruesome "Black Dahlia" murder of the 1940s Hollywood actress Elizabeth Short. Marilyn Manson was fascinated by the killing and Mitchell owned artwork by the singer depicting Short's mutilated body. "I do not think that your interest in satanism can be ignored as mere adolescent rebellion," the judge told Mitchell. "I think that is a sign that you found evil attractive and that you thought that there might be a kind of perverted glamour in doing something wicked. "I do not feel able to ignore the fact that there was a degree of resemblance between the injuries inflicted on Jodi and those shown in the Marilyn Manson paintings of Elizabeth Short that we saw. I think that you carried an image of the paintings in your memory when you killed Jodi." Mitchell, his hair long and loose, stared straight ahead, showing no emotion. Lord Nimmo Smith said he could not recall an occasion when he detected any sign of emotion in the teenage killer. "It may be that a lack of emotional response made you more readily able to inflict harm on others," he said. The judge also linked Mitchell's use of cannabis to the killing. "I do not subscribe to the notion that this is a harmless recreational drug," he said. "In your case, I think that it may well have contributed to your being unable to make the distinction between fantasy and reality which is essential for normal moral judgments." Mitchell's mother, Corinne, who had tried to provide him with a false alibi, sat shaking on the public benches. Jodi Jones's mother, Judy, was also in court to hear the sentence. Donald Findlay, QC, defending, had earlier repeated his client's claims of innocence. "He was adamant that he had no part to play in the death of Jodi and that remains his position here today," he said. During the trial, the court had heard how the attack on Jodi was savage and sustained. Her neck had been slashed up to 20 times. Hours after the killing, Mitchell joined some of Jodi's relatives as they searched for the missing girl, and he found her body. He claimed that his dog had led him to her corpse, but relatives insisted Mitchell had gone straight to the spot. The judge said no one had been able to come up with an explanation for the murder. "Jodi regarded you with affection and trust. She went out joyfully to meet you and she did you no harm. Yet you inflicted a horrible death on her and mutilated her body," he said. "Looking back over the evidence, I still cannot fathom what led you to do what you did. Perhaps you do not even know yourself."