Last week I was threatened outside my local shop. Apparently, my insufficiently heterosexual gait was offensive to the group of loitering youths. "Fix your walk or you're gonna get fucked," one of them charmingly informed me. It was delivered in a manner that suggested that a) he was very close to causing me physical harm, and b) he didn't mean this to sound like a sexual proposition.I didn't react – to them, at least. I went home and considered my options. Do I avoid inflaming the situation by doing nothing and thereby letting him get away with it? Or do I phone the police, sending him a message that such behaviour is unacceptable, but in the process risk further recriminations? It's a stark choice – one that is faced by gay men and women every day in this country.Last week it was revealed that reported homophobic crimes in London alone have risen by 18.3% in the last year. The Metropolitan police see this not as a sign that homophobic attacks are on the increase but as a compliment to their sterling work with sexual minorities.I'm not convinced. Anecdotal evidence suggests that homophobic incidents – from minor verbal abuse to physical attacks – indeed are on the increase.I've lived in the capital city for 11 years, and only this year have I encountered anti-gay hostility on the streets. Last year, an acquaintance was "queer-bashed" on Soho's Old Compton Street – the one road in which gay people could traditionally feel safe. The abusers also seem to be getting younger. Two schoolgirls – probably no older than 14 – called my ex-boyfriend and me "batty boys" a few weeks ago. Most of my friends have had similarly galling experiences. And most of them don't bother reporting them.Some are embarrassed, others lack the self-esteem required to kick up a fuss, many don't realise what constitutes a hate crime, most fear reprisals and nearly all expect the police not to take them seriously.I ask my lodger, a 25-year-old graduate, what would he do if he were the victim of a homophobic crime. "If I was just beaten up I probably wouldn't even go to the police," he replies, "because they would most likely make me feel like I was wasting their time." Just beaten up? Horribly, this sums up the beaten-down gay psyche perfectly.And what did I do last week? I phoned 999. Half an hour later two police officers arrived. My assailants were long gone. I had to explain why being threatened over the way you walk constitutes homophobic abuse. The PC said: "Well, there are a lot of nutters around here, if it hadn't been about the way you walk it would have been about anything."The next day, a detective phoned me to get a more detailed description of the events. He asked, "Well, do you walk in a particularly flamboyant way?" I won't repeat my response. But despite the clumsy, offensive comments, the police have now taken the matter much more seriously than I expected. Which is more than can be said for the man who was attacked on Old Compton Street. "The police weren't bothered," he told me. His wrist had been broken in three places.The police now have certain procedures in place but they're a zillion diversity training courses away from being able to crow about gaining gay people's trust. We may walk a certain walk, but they need to talk a whole new talk.