When Lewis Sproston gave evidence at the trial of the man who murdered his on-off girlfriend Sally Anne Bowman, he did so as a defence witness.As the 22-year-old told the Old Bailey jury about how he left Bowman outside her house following a bitter row, only for her to be knifed to death minutes later, he must have known how close he came to being charged with her murder.If it wasn't for DNA evidence, it could have been him flanked by police in the dock, facing a lifetime in jail, and not Mark Dixie."It was a sad state of affairs for poor Lewis," said Detective Chief Inspector Stuart Cundy, the detective in charge of the case. It did not, initially, look great for Sproston, then a 20-year-old plasterer who had been seeing Bowman for two years. When he was arrested the day after the murder in September 2005 while on his way to McDonald's with some friends, he said to the police: "Is this about the row with my girlfriend last night?" As the last person to see Bowman alive, and with mobile phone records showing he had threatened to spit in her face if she had been with another man on the night of her killing, he was firmly in the frame. The couple was always bickering, and the police had been involved in several of their jealous fights: he seemed to have a motive.Sproston was held and questioned for four days, along with two of his friends and his brother before being released and cleared when DNA analysis showed semen found in the dead girl's body belonged to someone else.In theory, he could have killed her and then someone else had sex with the body, but what were the chances of that?Despite such implausibility, it was the exact defence used by Mark Dixie in the trial. "It was the only defence left to him," said Derrick Pounder, professor of forensic medicine at Dundee University. When he was arrested for Bowman's murder nine months after the killing, police were armed with the ultimate weapon: DNA. They knew Dixie was involved in the girl's murder because he had left a lot of his DNA at the scene, despite his best efforts to cover it up.If Dixie had stayed under the police radar after the killing, they might never have caught him. Though police launched the largest voluntary DNA screening after Bowman's murder, Dixie was not approached for a sample. In court, one of his friends recalled he reacted angrily when a friend suggested police should screen him, saying: "Are you calling me a murderer?"But on June 15 2006, he got into a bar brawl after an England football match and was arrested for a minor assault. Since 2004, the police have been given powers to take DNA swabs from anyone arrested and taken to a police station, so Dixie, like everyone else in his position, was made to give a saliva sample. At the time, officers interviewing him thought it slightly odd that he cried under questioning - he wasn't, after all, facing a serious charge at that point. The reason became clear 12 days later, when Sussex police got a call from the forensics lab: Dixie's DNA was a near perfect match for the semen found on Bowman's body. "There was a one-in-a-billion chance it could have belonged to someone else," said Julie-Ann Cornelius, the senior forensic scientist who gave evidence in the case.Since her daughter's murder, Linda Bowman has taken a petition to Downing St calling for the introduction of a National DNA Register, recording the DNA of everyone in the country. "I'm all for it," said DCI Cundy. "If such a thing had been in existence the day Sally Anne was murdered, we would have known almost immediately who had done it."