3.49pm: Substantive developments in this story are becoming fewer and further between now, so we are bringing this live page to an end. We'll have further updates when they happen on the Guardian website.3.13pm:A public meeting is to held in Rothbury at 6.30pm tonight, according to Sky News.1.34pm: Here are the main points from the press conference.• Moat has made unspecified "threats towards the wider public". Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson said: "There is information that has come to our attention that has led us to conclude there is a wider threat to the public."• Two more men were arrested in the Rothbury area last night on suspicion of assisting an offender. They remain in custody. Two other men appeared in court today charged with being part of Moat's conspiracy to murder. "I have no doubt that Mr Moat has received help from other people," Adamson said.• The military is advising the police on how to track down Moat, as is the National Search Centre and the Serious Organised Crime Agency. Temporary Chief Constable Sue Sim said Northumbria was "extremely difficult to search" because of its varied landscape, including caves, ravines, dense woodland and deep water.• For the first time police have expressed disappointment and frustration at their failure to find Moat. They played down reports that various leads in the Rothbury are could be a decoy operation, but they refused to rule out the possibility. "Based on all intelligence, information and advice we have at this time, we still believe Mr Moat is in the Rothbury vicinity. However, and as I said yesterday, our efforts to locate Mr Moat extend across the entire force," Adamson said.• Detectives want to talk again to "an individual" who rang police last night with information about a motor vehicle linked to the inquiry. "I would like to hear from that person again, and I would ask them to re-contact either the police or Crimestoppers direct," Adamson said.(This is Matthew Weaver back after a lunch break)1.10pm: Adamson ends the press conference. He seemed to be becoming a little frustrated by some members of the media, becoming rather short with his answers and telling reporters "I have already answered that question" on more than one occassion.1.07pm: "Without wanting to cause any widespread panic..." ventures a reporter."And it is important you don't," cuts in Adamson.The question related to the threat now being to the public as opposed to just police, as originally thought.Adamson repeats that police now believe there is a threat to the wider public. Doesn't look as if he is going to elaborate on why police now believe this.1.05pm: Who does the "wider threat" apply to, Adamson is asked?It is the wider public.Adamson seems to be becoming a little exasperated by some of the questioning at the conference.1.04pm: Adamson cannot elaborate on the information that led police to believe that there is now a threat to public.Adamson says he believes police received a hoax call yesterday. He seems to imply the call was from someone claiming to be Moat.1.02pm: Adamson repeats Sim's statement that there is believed now to be a threat to the public.He can't comment on a journalist's question as to whether Moat has spoken to police recently.A journalist says he has been told by Moat's associates that Moat was never in Rothbury. Is this true, he asks Adamson?Adamson says he cannot say that is the case. Police are following up several lines of inquiry.1.00pm: Adamson says "numerous new lines of inquiry" have come to light in the last 24 hours.He stresses that anyone aiding or harbouring Moat will be prosecuted.12.59pm: Adamson says police still belive Moat is in the Rothbury area, but the search extends wider than this.He reiterates that a £10,000 reward is available for information leading to Moat's capture.Adamson makes a particular appeal to an individual who rang at 10.30pm yesterday regarding a motor vehicle potentially used over the past few days.He is not releasing details of the vehicle.12.56pm: Adamson is talking about Ness and Awan, who were charged last night and appeared at Newcastle magistrates court this morning.He confirms that these men were the same men who were originally trhought to be hostages.A further two men have been arrested "on suspicion of assisting an offender", and are in custody, he adds.12.55pm: Sim says she would like to appeal to everyone - public and media - for continued patience. She is handing over to Detective chief superintendent Neil Adamson.12.55pm: Sim says Northumbria police are being assisted by other forces (yesterday we reported that nine other forces had leant officers and equipment).She says "it is extremely difficult" to search this area of Northumberland.The search "will take time". The police's intention remains to apprehend Moat safely.12.52pm: Scrap that, it's just started. Some confusion there.Temporary chief constable Sue Sim is speaking. She says although police had said the only threat from Moat was directed at police, information has emerged which suggests Moat is actually a threat to the public.12.50pm: The police press conference has now been cancelled. Instead, officers will be doing an off-camera briefing. My colleague Helen Carter is there and we'll hear from her when it's finished.12.35pm: Hello. We're still waiting for the press conference to start. It was originally scheduled for 11am this morning, but was delayed by an hour and a half by Northumbria police.12.17pm: While we wait for the police press conference here's a summary of the main points so far today from my colleague Adam Gabbatt. (Adam will be taking over to cover the press conference).• Two men arrested by police hunting Moat have appeared at Newcastle magistrates' court accused of being "part and parcel" of Moat's conspiracy to hunt down and kill policemen. Karl Ness and Qhuram Awan have been charged with conspiracy to murder and possessing a firearm with intent. They have been remanded in custody to appear before Newcastle crown court on 22 July.• The brother of the police officer allegedly shot by Moat has said he should "be an inspiration" to everyone involved in the hunt for the gunman. Darren Rathband said David, 42, who was shot on Sunday, is on a "long road" to recovery, and has been assured by the chief constable of Northumbria police has "assured him that he's got a career within the service that he's served for 11 years".• Police have released CCTV images of Raoul Moat before his alleged shooting spree on Friday. Moat appears to have lost some weight and has a different hairstyle – a distinctive mohican style – to the one in images previously released. Officer said they were hoping the up-to-date images will help the public identify the wanted man.• Police conducted a search on a remote farmhouse west of Rothbury, scene of the two-mile exclusion zone on Tuesday. Around 12 officers with armoured shields approached North Riding farm, between Elsdon and Hepple close to Billsmoor Park in Northumberland national park this morning.11.40am: Major Martin Comerford, range officer at Defence Training Estates, Otterburn, has just confirmed to me that training on the range had to be suspended for an hour this morning while police searched a farm building just south east of the range.He said: "I had to suspend all live firing activities, air craft, for approximately one hour, during pre-deployment training for Afghanistan. The police helicopter required our air space above the range. The aircraft has since moved on, so how successful that search was I'm unsure."11.17am: More on the farm raid. PA reports that armed officers were seen getting back in their cars "indicating they did not find anything of significance". It added: "Other officers - not believed to be armed - walked away from the farm and went out out of sight over the brow of a hill."A military exercise on Otterburn military range had to be suspended for 30 minutes while police searched the area, according to ITV's Dan Ashby on Twitter.11.08am: Sky News is broadcasting helicopter images of the farm near Elsdon where police have been searching for Moat.10.57am: Darren Rathband, twin brother of the injured policeman David Rathband, appeared outside Newcastle magistrates' court to pay tribute to his brother's bravery.He said: "He has a long road ahead of him. His family will support him. The Chief Constable of Northumbria Police has assured him that he has a career in the force he has served for 11 years and even now he still wants to serve the community of Northumbria."My brother is an inspiration not only to me, but should be to everyone."10.51am: Twelve armed police with armoured shields have moved in on a farmhouse near Billsmoor, west of Rothbury.Around 12 officers with armoured shields approached the farm buildings close to Billsmoor Park in Northumberland National Park. The building is on the B6341 between Elsdon and Hepple in the Otterburn military range area, PA reports.Here's a satellite map of the area in relation to Rothbury.View Raoul Moat 8 July 2010 in a larger map10.45am:That police press conference has been pushed backed to 12.30pm. No explanation given for the shift.10.38am: Karl Ness and Qhuram Awan were accused in court of being "part and parcel" of Raoul Moat's conspiracy to hunt down and kill policemen, PA reports.Ness, from Dudley in North Tyneside, and Awan, from Blyth in Northumberland, were remanded in custody when they appeared at Newcastle Magistrates' Court this morning.10.36am: Northumbria police just tweeted: "We remain convinced the main danger from Raoul Moat is towards the police. Our officers' main priority is to protect & reassure the public."10.27am: Karl Ness and Qhuram Awan have just appeared at Newcastle magistrates' court charged with conspiracy to murder and possessing a firearm with intent, according to PA. They were remanded in custody to appear before Newcastle crown court on 22 July.10.22am: There is going to be a news conference at 11am, Northumbria police have just announced. Repeating the pattern of the last three days once again it will be led by temporary Chief Constable Sue Sim and Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson.9.58am: One of the new CCTV images clearly shows Moat's mohican-style haircut.The police have repeated their appeal for information:"Moat is 37 years old, has blue eyes, is 6ft 3ins tall and a heavy build. He has a northern accent and light-coloured cropped hair. He is right handed and wears size 12 shoes. It is believed he could be wearing a grey or light blue hooded top, red/orange T-shirt, dark-coloured jeans and white trainers. It's possible he looks unkempt. Anyone with information about Moat's whereabouts is asked to contact Northumbria Police on 03456 043 043 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111."9.49am: Police have released new CCTV images of Moat. The images of Moat in a Newcastle shop last Friday, show him wearing an orange T-shirt, dark coloured jeans and white trainers. Temporary deputy chief constable Jim Campbell said: "These CCTV images show Moat in a Newcastle shop on Friday and are the most recent pictures we have of him. He looks different in these images compared to previous photographs, and in particular show his hairstyle, what he was wearing, and the fact he seems to have lost weight. "We're hoping these up to date images will help the public identify him."9.39am: Karl Ness, 26, from Dudley, North Tyneside, and Qhuram Awan, 23, from Blyth, Northumberland, are due to appear in Newcastle magistrates court within the next hour.They were originally thought to be hostages of Moat, but were later arrested charged with conspiracy to murder.9.15am: "Living rough for a narcissist must be tricky?" Sky News presenter Kay Burley just asked criminologist Michael Rowe. Media Monkey has more on Sky's coverage here.9.01am: My colleague Helen Carter, who is following the story in the north-east, sends this update:  Helen Carter byline. Photograph: Christopher Thomond/The GuardianPolice activity intensified overnight in Rothbury as the search for Raoul Moat continued.Armed officers and police dogs joined the search. A survival expert said that Moat could survive without food for up to three weeks as long as he had access to supplies of water.Helen will be covering the court appearance of Karl Ness and Qhuram Awan later this morning.8.48am: ITN has footage of a man, believed to be an associate of Moat's, showing police possible hideouts in the area around Rothbury yesterday. The Telegraph reports: "The man, who was handcuffed and wearing a flak jacket, had not previously been involved in the case."   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close   Raoul Moat, aged six. Photograph: JK PRESS8.38am: Family photos have been released of Moat as a boy. The Sun newspaper notes the change from "a cherubic ginger haired boy" to "psycho commando". It also dummies up an image of how Moat might look now based on the police description of his size and what he is believed to be wearing.8.18am: Nothumbria police are refusing to confirm or deny the Mail's report that the SAS has joined the hunt. Sky News claimed they had denied it, but when I called a couple of minutes ago a spokesman said: "We are not confirming or denying it. We are not commenting on it." He added there were, as yet, no plans for a press conference this morning.8.07am: "Raoul son, please this has to stop, it's gone on far too long," says Samantha Stobbart's father, Paul, in a video message posted by Northumbria Police last night.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close 7.58am: The search continues around the Rothbury area. This clickable map shows the area and the key discoveries so far.View Rothbury in a larger map7.49am: Here are the main developments overnight.• Raoul Moat, who is believed to have shot his girlfriend, fatally shot her new partner and seriously wounded a policeman, continues to evade capture. Northumbria police still think he is hiding out in the countryside in the Rothbury area.Temporary deputy chief constable Jim Campbell said today: The searches in this area have proved a particular challenge due to the open farmland and dense woodland and officers are continuing in their efforts today. I'd like to reassure the public that we are doing everything possible to locate Moat and bring this investigation to a conclusion. Although much of the inquiry centres on Rothbury the events in this area are just one part of a complex investigation and activity continues across the force.• The SAS have joined in the manhunt, according to the Daily Mail. Citing sources, the paper said the "special forces excel at working in the dark, with heat-seeking equipment which can work over huge ranges".• Moat's bewildered mother, Josephine Healey, 63, who is in poor health and on medication, , said he would be "better off dead". Speaking to the Daily Telegraph she said: "I feel like he hasn't been my son since he was 19 years old. He now has a totally different character, attitude and manner. Now when I see him I don't recognise him at all ... If I was to make an appeal I would say he would be better dead."• Two men arrested during the manhunt have been charged with conspiracy to commit murder. Karl Ness and Qhuram Awan are due to appear at Newcastle magistrates court at 10am today.