Downing Street is attempting to take control of the fight against organised crime amid growing concerns that thousands of major villains are not being brought to justice, the Guardian has learned. The prime minister's strategy unit is investigating the failure by the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) - which was billed as Britain's FBI - and the police to stop the rise of criminal gangs that run a multibillion-pound series of enterprises controlling the flow of drugs, human trafficking and illegal gun importation. The intervention is a measure of Gordon Brown's concern and raises questions about the Home Office's failure to get to grips with the problem at a time when agencies admit it has spread from the inner cities to the shires, eroding the fabric of almost all of Britain's communities.The strategy unit review comes after a HM inspectorate of constabulary report, written six months ago but published only this month, identified 2,800 organised criminal gangs active in the UK, many more than previously acknowledged. Circulated to ministers and senior police officers, it warned the threat would increase and said an effective response must be made. Senior police officers, customs officials and Soca officials have been interrogated on the failings in the last few weeks as part of the Downing Street review in an attempt to pull together a policy that will begin to stem the rise of criminals who range from teenage street gangs dealing small amounts of drugs to major heroin dealers, gun runners and south-east Asian people traffickers based in the UK.Some police sources told the Guardian there was a gaping hole in the country's ability to tackle organised criminals because Soca was focused on gathering intelligence and, at the other end of the scale, most police forces have neither the resources nor the experience to tackle serious organised crime effectively.One source said: "What we really need is an investigations and enforcement group with the experience and resources to effectively target organised crime. That is not necessarily saying bring back the National Crime Squad, just that something has to fill this gap."The source added that the most cost-efficient way to beef up the response would be to tack organised crime squads on to regional terrorism hubs already based in the north-west, Midlands, London and, soon, the Thames Valley.Organised crime is responsible for laundering £15bn of criminal profits through the economy, putting 30 tonnes of heroin on the streets each year, organising the trafficking of women and children for sexual purposes, carrying out fraud to the tune of £20bn a year and importing illegal firearms. But the budget for Soca is about £400m, compared with the £2.5bn a year designated for counter-terrorism, leading to criticism that the government has never taken organised crime seriously.There have been rumblings of discontent within Soca for some time, and several officers have returned to their forces or retired. Many were disillusioned by the lack of enforcement action taken by the agency, the concentration on building a neverending intelligence picture, the lack of operational focus, a heavy management structure and lack of resources. Downing Street's review within three years of Soca's launch is an admission by the government that closing down the National Crime Squad and replacing it with the new agency has failed. Soca's chair, Sir Stephen Lander, was a former head of MI5. He retires this June - the month the strategy unit will report its findings.David Raynes, a former customs investigation officer and a member of the International Task Force on Strategic Drug Policy, welcomed the strategy unit review. "Soca was always going to be a tall order and it isn't delivering yet," he said. "Outside of the large forces like the Metropolitan police, Greater Manchester, Merseyside and the West Midlands, a sustained level of effort to deal with organised crime isn't really there. It requires intercepts, long-term surveillance, bugging [and] informant handling, and the resources in the smaller forces aren't there."While Soca focused on intelligence, he said, operationally it was not active and successful enough and it had failed to stem the flow of drugs into the country.In last year's annual report, Soca said it was making progress in the fight against high-impact crime. It highlighted increased seizures of Class A drugs and the confiscation of criminals' wealth.The agency denied accusations that it had made mistakes in targeting a list of 130 criminals. It said 36 key figures on the list were now in prison in the UK or abroad. A spokesman for Soca said: "Soca, as one of a number of organisations with a close interest in this review, welcomes it and is assisting in every way it can." The Association of Chief Police Officers said it would not comment until the review was complete.