The issue of police morale refuses to go away. Always eager to seize an opportunity to demand more police numbers, the Police Federation, representing the rank and file, continues to talk of plummeting confidence.A desperate Tory party ignores its anti-union traditions and clings to the outpourings of this relic of the industrial scene. Forget the leaders of the Met, who have embraced the Macpherson report's call to improve their approach to ethnic minorities. Forget thoughtful superintendents, such as Ali Dizaei, who wrote a perceptive column on these pages this week, reminding readers that history shows that "when minorities begin to challenge the rituals and practices which have served a homogenised society for the benefit of the dominant group, that challenge is seen as a threat". William Hague remains unequivocal: the return of a Labour government would result in more tragedies like the murder of Damilola Taylor - the 10-year-old killed on a south London estate - because of falling police numbers. Time for some facts. As the audit commission has shown, for every police officer on the beat, there are 18,000 people, 77 miles of road, 7,500 homes, 23 pubs and nine schools. Just supposing the tax-cutting Tories were ready to double police numbers, this would still mean each officer covering 9,000 people, 38.5 miles of road, 3,750 homes, 12.5 pubs and 4.5 schools. There is no correlation between police numbers and crime. As police chiefs admit, it is communities which control crime, not police officers. And as this week's Met journal shows, the service's response to Macpherson is paying dividends: ethnic trust in the police is growing. The proportion of black people registering trust has risen from 39% in 1998 to 60% this year. The federation remains unimpressed. Three serving Met officers - out of a force of 24,000 - expressed reluctance yesterday on BBC Radio's Today programme to using stop and search for fear of being accused of racism. The stats do not bear this out. True there was a drop from 18,000 to 15,000 stops in the 19 months up to October, but arrests of black people declined by a mere 17: from 711 to 694. Police minister Charles Clarke handled the police critics, all of whom said morale was falling, adroitly. He might also have polled BBC staff on his way to the studio. It would not have been difficult to have found three disgruntled members of staff.