Dozens of people arrested in Manchester in the past month may walk free after it emerged that the police officer responsible was an undercover reporter working for the BBC.The 28-year-old journalist had undergone nine months of training and was working as a probationary constable for Greater Manchester Police as part of an investigation into claims of institutional racism within the Greater Manchester force. He was arrested on Friday night after detectives from the Internal Affairs Department raided his home in Didsbury. He was released on bail after being questioned about an allegation of obtaining money by deception. The man, who has not been named, had been working as a probationary constable for around four weeks after finishing his training. He would have been able to access classified information on the Police National Computer and gain prejudicial insights into forthcoming trials. During the past month he is believed to have been responsible for arresting and charging several suspects, as well as being present during other arrests. All the cases may now collapse as the suspects will be able to claim they were arrested unlawfully. In a statement released by Greater Manchester Police, Chief Constable Michael Todd said: 'If true, we deplore this tactic, which would appear to be an outrageous waste of public funds used to train, equip and pay this individual. It has also deprived a genuine recruit of the opportunity to join the service.' A spokeswoman added: 'This behaviour only serves to undermine the work of the police service. The journalist is also in breach of an oath of attestation that he made in becoming a police constable as he has failed to act with integrity. He may well have breached people's human rights.' His former colleagues are said to be distraught and to feel betrayed. Among the items recovered from the man's home were a number of covert recordings and pages of notes detailing the actions of his fellow officers. A BBC spokeswoman said: 'We've spent several months investigating allegations of institutional racism within the Greater Manchester Police. We believe this to be a matter of significant public interest. "We believed the only way to test the allegations was by a BBC journalist going undercover to be a part of the recruitment process, to see what happens when a recruit joins, is instructed at the training school and is then placed on the force.' The BBC said that the pay he had received - around £14,000 - had been kept in a separate account and was to be returned to the force at the end of the investigation. Media stings that backfired June 2003 The trial of five men accused of plotting to kidnap Victoria Beckham, first exposed during an undercover sting by the News of the World, right, collapses when it emerges that the key witness had been paid £10,000 by the newspaper.  Jan 2003 Work begins on the Channel 5 show Swag, in which unlocked cars and bicycles are left to tempt opportunist crooks who are secretly filmed in the act. One victim objects and stabs a cameraman in the leg with a screwdriver.  March 2002 Channel 4 has to scrap a documentary about the lives of sixth formers after it emerges that the disaffected 17-year-old star was in fact a 30-year-old TV researcher, Sheridan Simove. The school had been unaware of the deception.  August 1997 An attempt by The Cook Report to show how easily the pop charts can be rigged by using Edwina Currie's daughter, Debbie as a bogus singer fails when the record does not enter the top 40.