You would have thought Ruth Wyner had seen enough of prisons. Jailed with John Brock for allowing drug peddling at the homeless day centre they ran, Wyner emerged to find her case a cause célèbre - and her career as a charity director in tatters. She had resigned as director of the Cambridge charity, Wintercomfort, after being convicted. On her release, she felt the stigma of an ex-prisoner: although she sent a batch of letters applying for work, she heard nothing in reply. Undaunted, Wyner is now determined to make use of her experience and is setting up a charity to help other ex-prisoners as they readjust to society. The work involves going back into jails to run social therapy groups, and Wyner is happy to be able to put to good use her own insights into life inside. "Developing work in prisons is a way for me to give meaning to what happened," she says. "I could not go back to work in the homeless sector - no one would employ me. I had lots of public support, but I still feel ostracised. "Going to prison was such an eye-opener. I was in prison with lots of people I had seen at Wintercomfort and it gave me an insight into their lives. I came out with a burning desire to do something about the terrible conditions I saw." Being imprisoned, in December 1999, affected every aspect of Wyner's life. She was cut off from her family and, during her incarceration, her husband, Gordon, almost lost the family home as his salary alone did not cover the mortgage. Her son, Joel, and daughter, Rachel, who was taking her GCSEs, were devastated. After a few bleak months following her release in July 2000, Wyner, 52, found freelance work with the Prison Reform Trust. She also did some research for rehabilitation charity Nacro, and finished writing a book about her experiences in prison. This led to her inspired career change. Before her arrest, she had been fascinated when she heard former probation officer Dave Parsons speak about the dialogue groups he ran at Whitemoor prison, Cambridgeshire, and she had invited him to set up a group at Wintercomfort. The group brought together a range of people from Cambridge, including a millionaire businessman and homeless people. The idea was, Wyner says, "to give people a chance to walk a mile in another's boots and to help our homeless clients, who had become very alienated, to understand the rest of society". After leaving jail, she got back in contact with Parsons and they have put together a plan for a new charity, the Dialogue Trust, to run groups with prisoners inside jail and offer support once they are released. They have a group of trustees, including academics from the Cambridge Institute of Criminology, and are applying for charitable status. Parsons has been running his dialogue group at Whitemoor prison for 10 years, and another two prisons in East Anglia are now interested in developing similar projects. Eventually, he and Wyner hope to establish them in prisons across the country. For the second phase, Wyner would like to set up dialogue groups in the community to receive prisoners as they come out, perhaps in partnership with the prison service. "It's innovative stuff, filling a gap for long-term prisoners who emerge with nothing," she says. "The groups will be almost like a microcosm of society that the prisoners or former prisoners can attach to. When you come out of prison, you don't feel you have a place in the world; you are a non-citizen. We want to help change that; we believe that if people feel part of society, they are less likely to attack it." Wyner has a wealth of experience of dealing with disaffected people, after 20 years working with the homeless, which started when a friend asked her to help at a short-staffed night shelter in Norwich. She has applied to join Parsons at work in Whitemoor. She says a lot of the people she met inside, at Holloway prison in London and Highpoint prison in Suffolk, had very fragmented lives. "They didn't feel committed to society. I didn't meet anyone who was happy to be a criminal or drug addict; people wanted to change, but didn't know how. They wanted jobs and a family, but to many people it seems like an impossibility, particularly if they have a drug problem." Drugs are a passionate issue for Wyner and she welcomes the home affairs select committee's fundamental review of drug law, reasoning that decriminalising, or downgrading, drugs would reduce the prison population and help addicts avoid the "immensely damaging" experience of imprisonment. The proposed legal reforms would not have helped Wyner and Brock, however; they were charged because, in line with Wintercomfort's policy, they refused to name known dealers. Brock was jailed for four years, and Wyner for five; they each served seven months before the sentence was reduced on appeal. Brock has suffered depression and has left charity work. Having lost an appeal to clear their names, plans to take the case to the European court of human rights have now been abandoned. "I didn't want to spend my whole life trying to correct a wrong which might never be corrected," Wyner says. "In prison, I was cut off from my husband, my two children, everything that gave life meaning. And when I came out, I felt cut off from society. It's been a long haul, but I'm finally getting my life back on track."