"A staggering 250 forms are in regular use by frontline staff. These forms can be repetitive, too long and even redundant. In one case officers spent 41,250 officer hours a year filling in a stolen vehicle form which is no longer needed."This keeps officers in the station rather than out on the streets. The record numbers of police officers I am announcing today will only be effective if we breakdown the unnecessary bureaucracy they face."I always said I would cut police bureaucracy. Last year we commissioned diary of a police officer and set up the taskforce spearheaded by Sir David O'Dowd to look at the problem."I am calling on every element of the police service to swiftly examine and implement the key recommendations. The action plan sets out what each of the partners needs to do to reduce bureaucracy in the police stations, on the streets and in our courts."Actions such as slimming down and reducing the number of forms in use, making use of new technology such as hand-held computers and introducing a standby scheme for officers attending court to reduce time wasted waiting to give evidence. "Together with the police service we have achieved the greatest reform programme ever, including a Police Reform Act and a new modernised pay and conditions deal. The record police numbers of 129,603 officers shows we are well on target to reach our pledge of 130,000 officers by spring next year."But reform will only be judged to have worked if it makes a real difference to the lives of officers on the ground and in the communities they serve. The challenge of the coming year for us all will be to put in place on the frontline the major changes we have achieved.""There is no point in reducing bureaucracy in one area only to have it increased in another. Some people have feared that in accepting recommendation 61 of the Lawrence Inquiry report we would do this. I intend to build on our commitment by bringing in phased implementation to achieve a means of recording stops in a way that is the least bureaucratic for the police and individuals concerned. I believe recommendation 61 can bring about increased trust and confidence in the police through increased transparency and accountability."