An adulterous husband issued a hired hitman with his house keys and a kitchen knife before sending him to kill his wife, a court heard today.Fadi Nasri, 34, gave the large John Lewis knife to Jason Jones who used it to kill Nisha Patel-Nasri outside the couple's home in Wembley, north-west London, the Old Bailey was told.The murder weapon had been taken from a block in the kitchen and there were no signs of a struggle, Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, told the court. He alleged that Nasri also gave Jones a set of house keys."If the killer had the keys and the knife provided to him, who had the opportunity to do that? Why, Nasri," he said. "It is difficult to say how anybody else could have provided the means of entry to the house to the person who killed her."Worsley said Patel-Nasri, a special constable with the Metropolitan police, was upstairs preparing for bed when she heard someone letting himself into the property. She grabbed a torch and went to confront the intruder, he said.The knife attack left a 13cm-deep wound which have not required much force to inflict, the court heard.Patel-Nasri screamed "help, he's following me" as she lay in her nightclothes on her driveway bleeding to death, Worsley said. A neighbour could still hear her screaming as they dialled 999 after the attack just before midnight on May 11 2006."Neighbours in Sudbury Avenue were alerted by very loud screaming coming from outside in the street," the prosecutor said. "Some immediately looked outside. She was screaming 'help, help' and she was heard also to scream 'he is following me'."Worsley said a hooded man was seen by various witnesses jogging towards Nasri-Patel's home on the night of the attack. One described him as about 5ft 10in and wearing a "very large hood"."He appeared to be walking with purpose with his hands in his pockets and he turned right into Sudbury Avenue," Worsley said. "A short time after that they [neighbours] heard a scream," he said.Nasri is alleged to have hired a gang of men to kill his wife so he could access a £350,000 life insurance policy and pay off his spiralling debts.He had been having a "passionate affair" with a Lithuanian prostitute, Laura Mockiene, and his wife was considering divorcing him, jurors have been told.It is claimed Nasri used drug dealer Rodger Leslie as a go-between to organise the killing by Jones, a nightclub doorman, who allegedly was driven to the scene by a fourth man, Tony Emmanuel.Nasri, of Barnet, north London, Leslie, 38, of Bells Hill, Barnet; Emmanuel, 42, of East Ham, east London; and Jones, 36, of Manor Park, east London, all deny murder.Worsley said mobile phone records placed Emmanuel near the scene and then moving away three minutes after the first 999 call. Jones allegedly confessed the killing to a barman he had once worked with while he was on bail awaiting trial, the court heard. He was said to have admitted that he, Emmanuel and another man were sent to the house to "intimidate" the victim."Jones told him that they knocked on the door and got into her house, that the police woman pulled a knife on them in the kitchen so he stabbed her in the leg," Worsley said. Jones's estrange wife, Nicola Jones, told police how one night in May 2006 she received a phone call from him asking her to pick him up and whether he could stay with her because he was "in trouble". She refused.The trial continues.