Maxine Carr has been put in danger by the 'scurrilous and inaccurate' media coverage of the Soham murder case, her solicitor said yesterday.Roy James told the BBC Today programme that there was little chance that Carr's safety could be guaranteed if she returned to her home town of Grimsby. Carr, 26, was found guilty on Wednesday of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Her former lover Ian Huntley was found guilty of murdering 10-year-olds Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells in the Cambridgeshire village of Soham in August 2002. James said of the coverage: 'The reporting was of such a nature that it did cause us concern and we looked very carefully at whether she would get a fair trial. The main problem was the scurrilous nature of the reporting, the inaccurate nature of the reporting. 'As a result of the nature of the publicity, it was very difficult for us to consider the issue of bail, whereas perhaps somebody else in a similar position without the publicity may well have expected reasonably to have received bail.' But he added that he did not believe the reporting had influenced the outcome of the trial The solicitor denied reports that his client was planning to have plastic surgery on release from prison. He said Carr had felt safe during the 16 months she has spent in jail, despite reports of attacks and verbal abuse by other inmates. Trial judge Mr Justice Moses said that some media reports of the case had been 'calculated to blacken Huntley and Carr's character'. Attorney General Lord Goldsmith is considering launching prosecutions against two newspapers and a commercial radio station. The row flared as shadow attorney general Dominic Grieve criticised the decision of Cambridgeshire police to hand over videos of interviews with Carr and Huntley, which fed the media frenzy. Grieve said Maxine Carr had been subjected to a 'considerable degree of vilification' in the press. But he reserved his strongest criticism for the police. 'The other thing that has been puzzling was that at the very end of the trial on Wednesday, Cambridgeshire Police saw fit to release on an exclusive basis video footage of the interviews of both Huntley and Carr to the BBC. 'That struck me as very curious, firstly because of the exclusive nature of the deal and secondly because of whether this is a new principle - that material obtained during investigations of serious offences should in future be made available to the public. The media are in a frenzy, but one also has to look at whether that frenzy has been fed by others.' Bob Satchwell, director of the Society of Editors, said that newspapers were always ready to discuss issues surrounding the law of contempt with the Attorney General. 'No editor of a paper or TV programme or radio programme wants to put a fair trial at risk or risk a case being dropped or someone escaping justice as a result.' Large-scale publicity surrounding a case like the Soham murders was inevitable, he said.James confirmed that the cost of providing Carr with a new name, a new National Insurance number and a new address would be paid for from public funds. He said she could theoretically return home, but believed she would be at risk of harm if she did so. Carr will be transferred from Holloway prison in the new year to serve the remainder of her sentence in a jail in the north of England, nearer to her home. Reports yesterday said her family felt she was satisfied with her sentence and ready to serve her time. The Daily Mail quoted her estranged father Alfred Capp as saying she believed she 'got off lightly'. 'She's pleased with what they've done to her and will settle for what she's got,' he told the paper. 'She's quite happy with it. She admits lying and says she's not bothered about serving the time.' According to the Sun, the former classroom assistant offered to marry Huntley while the pair were in jail awaiting trial. It was only as she began to realise that Huntley could be responsible for the killings that the tone of the letters changed, said the Sun. In December 2002 she told his parents she felt she had been 'living a lie' and by January she was urging him to seek medical help. Carr is likely to be released in the early part of 2004 but her life after then is uncertain. Her sister has denied rumours that she will be given plastic surgery in order to enable her to live without the fear of constant vigilante attacks but as one of the most recognisable women in Britain, achieving any kind of anonymity will be difficult. Media speculation that she will receive 24-hour police protection is also misleading. In reality the presence of personal bodyguards would simply draw too much attention. Round the clock protection amounts to little more than fitting a home with panic buttons and issuing the protected witness with a special device to alert the authorities in the event of an emergency. Britain's witness protection scheme will normally rely on the fact that people's faces are virtually unknown by the time they come to be placed on the scheme. In the cases of John Venables and Robert Thompson, the killers of James Bulger, and child-killer Mary Bell the period of time that passed between imprisonment and release was such that the issue of identity was no longer an issue. One possibility is that Carr could be sent abroad, but in practice this rarely happens. Foreign governments have to be informed about a person's criminal record before allowing them into the country and few places would be willing to accept someone of Carr's notoriety, particularly as the burden of providing protection in the event of an attack would then fall to the local police force. With Carr unable to speak any language other than English, she would have little option but to live among expat communities where the danger of recognition would be at its highest.