Late one evening last July, 23-year-old Daniel Wright was spotted pushing a trolley inside the red-brick Safeway supermarket at Freemen's Common, just south of Leicester city centre. A Securicor guard began making his way from the shop with a case containing £24,000 in cheques and £2,035 in cash which he had just picked up from a bank machine. Wright approached him, pushed an imitation pistol to his head and grabbed the case. He dashed across the car park to a secluded industrial side street about 100m away.There, 22-year-old Sheena Kotecha was waiting in her silver Fiat Punto. They drove away from the precinct, crossing Aylestone Road, one of Leicester's main arteries until, a few hundred metres on, near the Walkers football stadium, Wright got out of the car with the case. Two weeks later, on July 30, the police charged Kotecha with armed robbery. A passer-by had noted the registration number of her car. Wright was charged shortly afterwards. Neither Kotecha nor Wright had any previous convictions. At their trial both pleaded not guilty - each blaming the other. But on April 2 they were both given nine years for armed robbery. "In many ways," said Recorder Phillip Matthews, passing sentence, "your story is extraordinary. You were two young people working together at the call centre of British Gas in Leicester. You formed a romantic attachment and were constantly in contact over several months and met outside work, but kept your relationship secret from colleagues and others. There is some evidence in the form of text messages that you had dreams of running away together, and it may be that which gave substance to that dream, to make it a reality - by planning this robbery." It was, he added, premeditated and "very much in the style reminiscent of Bonnie and Clyde".Under the headline Bonnie and Clyde Lovers are Jailed, the local paper splashed the next day with the tale of the outlaw lovers attempting to flee their supposedly unremarkable lives. Sheena Kotecha never saw it. At 9.40 that morning - less than 24 hours into her sentence - she was found hanging in her cell at Brockhill Prison, Redditch. Evidence of her vulnerability had been overwhelming. After being convicted and while awaiting her sentence, Kotecha had been placed on suicide watch. In a pre-sentence psychiatric report she was described as "depressed", "at risk of self-harm"and "vulnerable". Her barrister reiterated this in court. While there, she was considered so mentally fragile that she was kept under special supervision. Yet according to a prison service press statement on April 4, on the first night of her sentence she was not regarded as a vulnerable prisoner, and was not being monitored as such. She was the sixth woman to commit suicide at Brockhill in six years. How did a young woman like Sheena Kotecha - popular, with a job, aspirations and a loving family - veer so catastrophically off the path of her seemingly ordinary life? Nalini and Suresh Kotecha recently ended the 13-day traditional Hindu mourning period. "Something like this happens and you don't feel like living," says Suresh, Sheena's father. He takes out a photograph of his daughter. She is petite, pretty, smiling broadly. "They say she killed herself. Why did they let her? She was in their hands. She had all her life ahead of her." His wife Nalini agrees: "She had a good job, good character. She was managing her own life with the money that she was earning." The couple are now retired: Suresh has had heart and lung transplants, Nalini has angina. They arrived in Leicester as students from Uganda more than 30 years ago, just before Idi Amin expelled the country's Asian population en masse. Sheena was their first child. She had studied business at college, worked in Debenhams and as a trainee manager with the burger chain McDonald's before beginning at the British Gas call centre two years ago. Her ambition was to start her own catering firm. A former colleague at the call centre says, "If you asked someone, 'Do you know Sheena Kotecha?' they would say: 'That little girl with the smile on her face?' No one ever had anything bad to say about her." It was at the call centre that she met Daniel Wright. The court later concluded that although both had other partners, they became romantically involved, and shared culpability for the robbery. But Yakesh Tanna, Kotecha's solictor, says his client "never wavered from maintaining her innocence". According to the prosecution, Kotecha had gone to the supermarket beforehand to "case the joint", and see what time the Securicor van arrived and departed. But, giving evidence in great distress, Kotecha insisted that Wright had asked her to drive him to the shopping centre to buy a drink, and that she had no idea about his plans. She said she had later ordered him out of her car. Wright, on the other hand, said that she had accused him of being the robber to protect the true perpetrator. But gun pellets, and a hooded top fitting the description of one worn by the robber, were found in his bedroom. Despite the text messages, both Kotecha and Wright also maintained that they were not lovers. Wright, now in jail, has not commented since, but Kotecha's family are adamant that Sheena was innocent, and unhappy about how she was depicted. "Bonnie and Clyde were murderers, weren't they?" says her father. After her arrest, Kotecha was detained for a week, then released on bail. For the next six months she continued to work at the call centre. Then, at the beginning of February, the trial began. "Her managers drove her to the court every day," recalls Suresh. "They said her job would be open for her afterwards." But on February 12, Wright and Kotecha were both found guilty. She was sent to Brockhill to await sentencing. Every Saturday, her parents visited her in prison. "Each time she would say the same: 'Get me out. I haven't done anything,'" her mother remembers. Behind bars, Kotecha lost weight dramatically. By the time she died, she weighed around five stone, some two stone below her normal weight. "She was a vegetarian and told us she wasn't getting any Indian food, only chips and pasties," says Nalini. Jamnadas Vadhia, a Hindu minister, went to see Kotecha seven times at Brockhill. They always followed the same ritual: he would collect her in her cell, then they would proceed to the multi-faith chapel where they would light candles and incense, pray to Shiva and Krishna, read and talk. "The first time I saw her, she said, 'I've never been in prison. I haven't done anything wrong,'" he recalls. "I told her that Nehru had been in prison, that Mahatma Gandhi had been in prison, and tried to reassure her." She told him she wanted to kill herself. Vadhia immediately relayed the threat to the prison authorities. "I was told: 'Don't worry, we'll look after her.' " On April 2, Kotecha returned to Leicester crown court to be sentenced. "The judge just went: 'Nine years'," says Nalini Kotecha. "It was like the sky fell on our heads." Kotecha was crying, and was taken away before her parents could speak to her. While some close to the case have argued that there may have been a racist element to the arguably excessive sentences (Wright is black), guidelines recommend six years in prison for armed robbery, and an additional third can be added if the defendant pleads not guilty - though discretion can be exercised. At 7.30 that night, Kotecha phoned from Brockhill. "It's like a life sentence," she told her father. She wanted to appeal, but was worried about getting legal aid. "Don't worry," he said, "we can sell the property." She sent her love to her brothers and the rest of the family, and said goodnight. At one o'clock the following day the family were given the news. Despite its initial statement, the prison service would not comment until the completion of an investigation by the prisons ombudsman, Stephen Shaw. Kotecha's is the first death in custody to be investigated under his new powers, which came into force on April 1. Previously, the prison service carried out its own internal inquiries into prisoners' deaths. The ombudsman will be aware of Brockhill's history. In October 2002, a report by Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, found that both suicide and bullying were "critical issues" at the prison. Just three months later, on January 14 2003, 18-year-old Leanne Gidney killed herself in Brockhill, 12 days into a sentence for robbery. Deborah Coles, co-director of the pressure group Inquest, points to wider failures, pointing out that the women's prison population has doubled in the past decade. "Last year there were 14 deaths of women in custody, an alarming figure and the highest ever,"she says. In Kotecha's case, Coles suggests, "There appears to have been a blatant attempt by the prison service to deflect attention from the fact that she was extremely vulnerable and had been identified as a suicide risk. It's well known that anyone who has just received a long sentence is particularly at risk in the first few days." Yakesh Tanna, Kotecha's solicitor, says there are many questions to be answered: "The family are in turmoil and the Asian community in Leicester is in turmoil. There has to be some accountability." Her parents insist they want to clear their daughter's name. But regardless of her exact role in the robbery, her journey afterwards is emblematic of the crisis in our jails. "If they can't look after these women,"says Nalini, "let them free. Improve the prisons or let them out."