Harold Shipman, the serial killer family doctor, is still being paid by his local health authority despite his conviction for murdering 15 patients.Since his arrest in September 1998, members of Shipman's family have received about £100,000 from West Pennine health authority on his behalf, a spokesman said yesterday. Shipman will continue to be paid his annual salary of £65,000 to £75,000 until he is struck off the medical register by the General Medical Council in the next few weeks. West Pennine health authority said it was obliged to pay Shipman his contracted fee until he was struck off. But Alan Milburn, the health secretary, has promised to intervene to ensure that the doctor does not receive a pension. The GMC said it would be several weeks before a hearing could take place to decide if Shipman should be removed from the register. "We can't do this overnight," a spokesman said, "although we will do it as soon as possible. It will be considered with urgency, but since he is in custody he is not able to practise." It emerged yesterday that the daughter of Winifred Mellor, one of Shipman's victims, was considering suing Greater Manchester police because the original investigation into the GP's high death rate was abandoned. Shipman murdered Mrs Mellor in May 1998, two months after the inquiry was abandoned. He killed two more patients with lethal doses of diamorphine before he was arrested. On Monday, after a 57-day trial at Preston crown court, the GP was convicted of murdering 15 female patients, and given 15 life sentences. Mrs Mellor's daughter, Kathleen Adamski, said: "I am sick of this whole notion that doctors are untouchables. Who else has this tremendous protection of reputation? "Police officers can't have a criminal conviction and teachers are vigorously checked. There are bad apples in every profession - including medi cine. Now I am very, very angry. "From what I have been told the police didn't really want to upset anybody because it was such a sensitive issue. I think the police should have rigorously investigated it." She said she wanted to know why the police had not interviewed Shipman and why they had asked West Pennine health authority to check patients' medical records instead of doing it themselves. Mrs Adamski said she hated Shipman with a vengeance. "I had a close relationship with Dr Shipman as a patient. Now I think of him examining me at an evening appointment and wonder what he had been doing in the afternoon. That's what I struggle with now." After the first investigation was abandoned, Shipman went on to murder Mrs Adamski's mother and Joan Melia, 73, and Kathleen Grundy, 82.