Forget the yobs and young tearaways on rundown estates. Cabinet ministers too are capable of anti-social behaviour. Witness this week's spat between the lord chancellor and the home secretary over the introduction of residential parenting orders in the anti-social behaviour bill currently before the Commons. It has got as personal as you can get in the coded language of written cabinet exchanges. In a leaked letter that was copied to other cabinet members, Lord Irvine signalled his support for parenting orders in principle, but drew a line on residential orders because of the human rights implications of requiring parents who have not been convicted of an offence having to conform to a residential requirement. He suggested it could be seen to be "draconian or an extreme example of the nanny state".In a robust public reply, David Blunkett made it clear people like Lord Irvine "with no experience of the misery which anti-social behaviour can bring", should not try to stop him doing something to tackle the problem. Many people, remembering Lord Irvine's pompous role at the Lord Chancellor's Department, may instinctively support the home secretary. They would be wrong. The two ministers have form. Lord Irvine is an arrogant and unattractive minister, but he was right to upbraid Mr Blunkett for undermining the rule of law by his condemnation of judges who have declared home office changes to asylum procedures unlawful - "maturity requires that when you get a decision that favours you, you do not clap. And when you get one that goes against against you, you don't boo". And the lord chancellor is right to suggest residential parenting orders need wider consultation. Recent research has shown that initial civil rights concerns over parenting orders were misplaced. Far from being seen as punitive, most parents come to the end of an order with positive feelings. Indeed, only one-sixth of the parents on the support schemes are on court orders. The rest have been guided there by schools, social workers or probation officers. They are an important initiative, which has helped stem the ever-increasing numbers of young people that courts are sending to custody by improving parental control. It is also true that the current schemes are too short (nine two-hour sessions), involve too few fathers (19%) and are too oriented to white parents (90%). But before widening the schemes through a residential order, it is time ministers ensured there are sufficient places for parents to take up voluntarily. There are only about 3,000 when at least 12,000 could be filled. Parents with troublesome teenagers are queuing up for places. Why involve the courts, when parents already recognise they need help? It is not so much nanny state as authoritarian state.