Amelie Delagrange, 22, had arrived in the UK only three months before she was murdered. She had come here to improve her English. In her home of Amiens in northern France, she had passed her baccalaureate exams with flying colours. Her mother, Dominique Delagrange, said the family had been worried about Amelie moving to a foreign country, but she settled in quickly. She got a job at a patisserie in Richmond, south-west London, and established a circle of English and French friends. Her English improved and she decided to delay her return to France by a fortnight. She spent her last few hours enjoying a drink with friends at Cristalz wine bar in Twickenham. At the end of the evening, Amelie got a bus home but got off at the wrong stop. It was as she took a shortcut across Twickenham Green she was murdered. Her father, Jean-François, who had a heart attack during the trial, and her mother said their loss was "an open wound" that would "never heal".During the trial, they said, Bellfield had shown an "unbelievable level of arrogance", making gestures, "showing an indifferent attitude by winking at us and others or mouthing obscenities at others in court, including family members".Kate Sheedy, now 21, was head girl at her convent school in Isleworth, west London, at the time she was attacked. She had been out with friends to celebrate the end of term at Gumley House Convent school and had organised leavers' day for the departing sixth-formers.But as she made her way home she was run over twice by Bellfield's van, causing horrific injuries. Following the attack Sheedy missed her A-levels but was granted her predicted grades, AAB, by the exam board. She is now reading history and politics at York University.Yesterday she said: "On the day I was attacked I was celebrating about moving on to a new and exciting time in my life. All that hope and excitement was taken from me and I thought my life had changed for ever."The road to recovery has been long and hard, both mentally and physically, and there have been times when I thought I would never get better. "With this verdict I can finally move on with my life and attempt to put this behind me. The court process has been a long and arduous one and stirred up many unwelcome memories and a lot of evidence has been hard to listen to."But it is finally over and the fact that Bellfield has been found guilty means more to me than I can possibly say. "Meeting Amelie's parents and Marsha's family has been a painful reminder of what could have been - and brings a deep sadness for those who were not as lucky as I was."Marsha McDonnell, 19, was killed just 100 yards from her home in south-west London. The student, who was working in a candle shop to save money for a trip to Australia, had spent the evening with friends in nearby Kingston.The second of four children, and known as "Marsh", she played netball and was a keen violinist. Her father, Philip, was a former tour manager with several artists, including Fleetwood Mac and Van Morrison. She had finished her A-levels at Richmond college and had planned to go to university when she returned from Australia.Yesterday outside the Old Bailey, Marsha's uncle, Shane McDonnell, said the murder had left the family devastated: "Five years have passed since the night our beloved Marsha was so cruelly taken from this world, the girl who only had love in her heart cruelly slain by a man who only had hate in his. Life will never be the same again. The pain and hurt we carry will always be there, always something which we remember. "In a civilised world, it is shocking that a man such as Bellfield could remain at liberty for so long to commit such heinous crimes."McDonnell added: "The man responsible for these barbaric crimes has finally been proved to be guilty. For five years we have had to endure the cowardly charade of innocence put forward by the defence. Now we at last get to see Levi Bellfield for what he truly is."