The "devastated" husband of a young bride shot dead in her home has appealed for information.Lee Taylor said he was in a "complete state of shock" at the murder of hairdresser Chanel, 23, who was found shot in the head in Nottinghamshire. The father of the newlywed, Terence Rodgers, who gave her away seven weeks ago, is being hunted by police who have warned the public not to approach him. Mr Rodgers, 55, had been living with the couple in Huthwaite, Sutton in Ashfield, for several weeks but has not been seen since his daughter's body was discovered. Detectives later found Mr Rodgers' red Peugeot 106 abandoned in Hucknall, Nottingham. Mr Taylor, 24, said: "We were a newly married couple and I am devastated with regard to the death of my wife, Chanel. "We were very happy and looking forward to a long life together. Tragically this will no longer happen. At this time I am in a complete state of shock and I request that my family and I be left alone to grieve."I would ask anyone with any information to contact police." The couple married at Mansfield register office on June 12 and went on a honeymoon to Cancun, Mexico, before returning to their terraced home to live with Chanel's father. Police discovered the body of Chanel at the house at around 1pm on Friday after a telephone tip-off. Reports said neighbours heard a row at the house on Thursday night followed by a couple of loud bangs. Inspector Barry Harper, of Nottinghamshire police, said: "Although we have recovered Mr Rodgers' car, there have been no sightings of him in person and, as time goes on, we are becoming increasingly concerned for his welfare. "Although he is a local man with knowledge of the area, we are keeping an open mind as to where he may be. "As Mr Rodgers was living at the address prior to the incident we believe he must have vital information and we need to speak him as an urgent priority. "Police are making a direct plea to Mr Rodgers to come forward and help us with our inquiries." Mr Rodgers is described as white, 5ft 10ins and stocky, with a shaved head. He has tattoos of a flower on his right forearm and a dagger and the name Christine on his left forearm. A Nottinghamshire police spokeswoman said that no murder weapon had been found. Anyone with information should contact the incident room on 0115 9670999 ext 2742/2743, or alternatively ring Crimestoppers in confidence on 0800 555111.