The Conservatives are to announce next week that they are planning to split up the existing 43 police forces in England and Wales into 139 separate units, each run by a US-style directly elected sheriff.The complicated plan envisages that a referendum will be held first in every police force area to see if the public want to break up their local force into smaller units. Further referendums will be held on whether those who run the force are elected or not. The plans, drawn up by the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, for the party's general election manifesto, also involve the creation of a new state security organisation, the National Police Bureau. Its operations will include anti-terrorism, covert operations, diplomatic and royal protection roles, but will be outside the direct control of the home secretary.The controversial scheme is to be launched as one of the "big ideas" at next week's Conservative party conference in Blackpool as the first stage of its new policy of "localisation throughout the public services". Mr Letwin's consultation paper, The Localisation of the Police Service, to be published next week but leaked to the Guardian, also repeats the party's promise to provide an extra 40,000 police officers over eight years but contains no details of how it is to be financed. The scheme, which has already been dubbed as "bringing Wyatt Earp to Woking", is designed "to encourage people to believe that policing is done with them rather than to them", says Mr Letwin. The public are to be presented with a "cascade of options" including the running of the local force by a single sheriff. "The sheriff would be responsible for allocation of resources and would be the person to whom the chief constable was answerable," according to Mr Letwin The "cascade of options" involves a complicated list of exceptions including where directly elected mayors already exist or there is a single tier local authority. It envisages that as many as 139 separate forces could be created covering populations ranging from 34,000 to 1.3 million. Labour and the Liberal Democrats have already made clear that they are also interested in extending local elections across the public services. Voters could soon face a similar task as that facing California voters who can be asked to make up to 190 choices when they vote. While the Tories want to extend local control over the police to an unprecedented extent, they also want to see much greater centralisation of the national security functions of the police. Mr Letwin now says it is time to transfer a range of policing functions from the Metropolitan police to a new National Police Bureau. This would take over many of the Met's specialist operational units including anti-terrorism, covert operations, royalty and diplomatic protection, serious and organised crime, and the firearms unit. It also raises the option that CID and special branch officers, now part of forces, would be integrated into the new state security organisation. The home secretary would lose his direct control over this new national state security force. Instead, in a structure similar to MI5, control of these security functions would be handed over to the high command of the police but the home secretary would remain answerable for their operations in parliament. Mr Letwin says this needs to be done "to preserve the all-important independence of the police from political control of any sort in relation to the conduct of particular operations." The scheme is in marked contrast to the plan put forward by Kenneth Clarke and Michael Howard for the home secretary to centrally appoint all the chairman of local police authorities when they held the job. The leaked paper says that consultation on the plans will start after next week's Conservative party conference, with responses by next January. "The Conservative party is developing the theme of localisation throughout the public services. This consultation represents part of that development. It is not a blueprint but a framework for detailed policy development. "These proposals represent the first stages of the localisation process, further evolutionary change must be based on the experience of their implementation."