There were two Anneli Aldertons, her mother, Maire, told Ipswich crown court: one with reddish brown hair, the other a peroxide blonde. The first had been a happy schoolgirl and excellent student who adored her father and spent five happy years in Cyprus in her teens. The second emerged after he died when she was 17; an increasingly desperate and unhappy young woman who had been in and out of prison, fallen into prostitution and had such a catastrophic addiction to drugs that even her fellow sex workers called her "Crackhead Annie". One by one, the families and friends of Steve Wright's five victims took to the stand at his trial to describe the desperate double lives of the young women they had loved but whom, in every case, they had lost to drugs some years before. Most tragic was the admission from several of the families that they had had no idea of their daughters' circumstances when they were killed. Gemma Adams  Gemma Adams It was, said Gail Adams, Gemma's mother, as if her daughter lived "life a world apart".Adams, 25, was the first of the women to be found, fished out of a stream near Hintlesham by a water bailiff on December 2 2006. She had last been seen in the early hours of November 15 by an unnamed customer who picked her up for sex at 12.45am on his way to start a 1am shift. She had quoted him £20 for oral sex, but agreed to full sex when he added an extra £10.The cherished daughter of a well-off family, she had grown up in a large house on the outskirts of Ipswich, a member of the Brownies who played the piano and was obsessed with ponies. But by the time she left Keswick high school, where she completed a GNVQ in health and social studies, she had fallen in with what her family called the "wrong crowd" and had started using marijuana, crack and later heroin. Repeated parental efforts to help her off drugs failed; she was fired from her job at an insurance firm, friends said, after repeatedly leaving work to score drugs. Soon she was working in Ipswich massage parlours and later on the street, where the other women thought of her as "one of the good ones".She had been living with her boyfriend, also an addict, when she died, communicating only very erratically with her family via text and phonecalls. Gail Adams said she had no idea her daughter was a prostitute until there was a knock on her door at 4am on November 15 to say she was missing. Tania Nicol  Tania Nicol Although the body of Tania Nicol, 19, was not found until six days after Adams, she was the first of Wright's victims, picked up and killed on the evening of October 30. Nicol, her father, Jim Duell, said after she died, was "a lovely daughter - a caring loving, sensitive girl who would never hurt anyone". But drugs, he said, "took her away into her own secret world". She first left home at 16 (her parents had separated some years before) at which point, said her mother, Kerry, her "conduct changed". She had a job at one point as a room attendant at a hotel, but was soon working alongside Adams at Cleopatra's massage parlour, where customers knew her as Chantelle.Nicol had, by this stage, returned to live with her mother and younger brother, from whom she tried to conceal her addiction, insisting that syringes found in her room belonged to a friend, and shrugging off her mother's suspicions about her spotty complexion and weight loss. Kerry Nicol said she thought her daughter was working as a hairdresser or in a pub. In fact, say friends, a month before she died she had been fired from Cleopatra's because of her drug use and forced to start work on the streets. She was also dumped in Belstead brook, her body lying in the water for as long as five weeks before it was discovered.Anneli Alderton  Anneli Alderton Alderton's body was spotted two days after Nicol's, on December 10, by a motorist driving past woods at Nacton who initially thought it was a mannequin. She was the first of two victims whom Wright arranged in a cruciform position with her arms outstretched, a chilling detail for which the prosecution offered no explanation in court.She was 23 and had a young child, who did not live with her. An addict from her late teens, she had been through rehab programmes several times and had served two jail terms, her most recent release less than three months before her death. Soon afterwards she began a relationship with a man, Sam Jefford, who also gave evidence, and who is serving a sentence for drugs possession with intent to supply and robbery.She was very clean and well presented, said her mother, but also a "feisty" woman who "believed she could tackle anybody". She last saw her daughter on Sunday December 3 as Anneli ran out of her mother's front door with a casual "I love you mum". Alderton was found to have been three months pregnant.Paula Clennell  Paula Clennell On December 5, Paula Clennell gave an interview to a local ITV news reporter in which she said Gemma Adams' murder and Tania Nicol's disappearance had made her "wary" of going out to work, but that she "needed the money". Exactly a week later, her naked corpse was found by the Old Felixstowe Road south-east of Ipswich. Clennell had also spoken to police after Nicol vanished, and her statement, chillingly, was read to the court, in which she described last seeing her friend driven away by a customer.Clennell, who was 24, was the daughter of a civil engineer and a dental nurse from Berwick-upon-Tweed. Her parents separated when she was 14 and she moved with her mother to Norwich, losing contact with her father. By 16 she was living with a man with whom she would have three children - all of whom would later be taken into care - and was soon using drugs and shoplifting. Friends said she stayed devoted to her children and always carried a key ring with their pictures on it.The children's grandmother said Clennell had become depressed after the birth of her first child, which contributed to a worsening habit. "All she ever wanted was to be looking after her children, but heroin destroyed her life," she said. "When they took her children away she gave up completely. I begged her to get help but she'd lost all hope. She got involved with the wrong people and was so desperate for heroin she went on the streets."In the years before her death, Clennell had been sleeping at several addresses around Ipswich, at one point living in a shabby terraced house, only a few doors from Wright's home, with a 51-year-old man. He said she would spend £500 a day on heroin and had believed she would be dead before she was 25.Annette Nicholls  Annette Nicholls At 29, Annette Nicholls was the oldest victim. Her body was found shortly after Clennell's, just a few hundred metres away.According to her friends, Nicholls had been using heroin for only a few years, after an ex-boyfriend introduced her to the drug. They remembered a lively, generous woman who was close to her extended family and devoted to her child. She had trained as a beauty therapist and at one point hoped to start her own business.By the time she died, however, she had gained a reputation as one of the most desperate of the women on the streets, willing to go to any length to get money for heroin, including stealing from punters, at great risk to herself. One sex worker said that just days before she died she had stolen a phone from one of her customers and sold it for £20, and she had recently fallen out with one of the other women after trying to sleep with her boyfriend in exchange for drugs. Her best friend, also a sex worker, said some of the other women would bully her and steal her money because she was so pretty.Two months before she died, she told police she had been dragged into an alleyway and raped. A man was arrested on November 23 but after her death the case was marked down as "undetected".In a statement read to the court, her sister Stacey said Annette had been extremely proud of her appearance, and said she had known for some years her sister was an addict and working as a prostitute. Shortly after her death, her cousin Tanya Nicholls described her transformation due to drugs as "like flicking a switch". "She used to be such a together person. She was a brilliant mother, her house was immaculate and she would always make sure her car was insured and taxed. The next thing she was driving around with no insurance and I heard she was using drugs. We basically just lost her."