You might have thought it was only in the realms of Doctor Who that people got accosted by wheelie bins and the like. But coming to a road near you, an arresting new piece of street furniture - a camera that takes your picture and bellows at you to behave yourself.The Flashcam, developed by a company which goes by the suitably space-aged moniker of Q Star, was developed in the United States and is being marketed to UK councils.The cameras, perched high on lampposts and other vantage points in neighbourhoods where vandalism, theft, drug dealing and prostitution are rife, sense human movement and shout catchy warnings such as: "Stop! If you are engaging in an illegal activity, your photograph will be taken and used to prosecute you. Please leave the area."How the camera distinguishes between potential criminals and ordinary folk about their everyday business is not clear. But Steve Galinsky, Q Star's managing director, says it is the wrongdoers who get the biggest fright, and usually flee the scene. "The cameras are generally in areas where people have no reason to loiter unless they're engaged in something dubious, like drug dealing or prostitution," said Mr Galinsky, a former police officer with City of London and the Metropolitan police."There are about 52 throughout the UK so far, in crime hotspots in cities like London, Glasgow and Birmingham. They go off with a very intense flash and a loud shout."They have already caught lots of people - some quite literally with their pants down, engaged with prostitutes. The look of utter amazement on their faces when the camera starts to shout is priceless."Mr Galinsky admits it all sounds a bit sci-fi. But he says Q Star, which is being given advice by the Defence Diversification Agency, a Ministry of Defence body, has received great feedback on the Flashcam."For instance, there are two Flashcams in Camden, they have had a really positive effect. If they reduce crime and get rid of anti-social behaviour, the authorities are really keen to give them a go."