"Redneck America" has come in for a lot of flak since Cho Seung-hui gunned down 32 students and teachers at Virginia Tech last week. The National Rifle Association in particular, with its outdated Marlboro man swagger and Colt-packing bad attitude, has been accused of nurturing a "gun culture" that warps the minds of impressionable, unstable youth like Cho. Numerous liberal commentators on both sides of the Atlantic have pinned the blame for the massacre on rightwing America (and, to a lesser extent, on Hollywood).The bizarre obsession with finding a neat and convenient explanation for Cho's actions ends up absolving the killer of responsibility for what he did. He is solely responsible for the 32 deaths, not the NRA, or any Hollywood director, or Cho's own alleged bullies. Indeed, if you pore over Cho's bizarre manifestos and video statements, then it is possible to come up with numerous theories about what made him act. For example, one might just as easily argue that this cold-blooded killer was influenced by the ideas and arguments of liberal America rather than by the Charlton Heston set.For example, like many liberal commentators and environmental activists, Cho seems to have loathed McDonald's. In his (very bad) play Richard McBeef, he tells the story of a man (McBeef) who tries to sexually abuse his 13-year-old stepson. Note the paedophile's name - McBeef. His stepson rails against him for being fat and greedy, for "packing on McDonald's fat, chowing down on three Big Macs in three minutes."Some liberals slate Ronald McDonald for being an evil influence on children; in his film Super Size Me, Morgan Spurlock described McDonald's advertising aimed at kids as a form of "child abuse". In his play, Cho seems to have taken such thinking to its logical conclusion by creating a fat evil McDonald's-style cartoonish paedophile called McBeef, who scoffs himself sick with Big Macs and desires to rape a child. Might Cho have been inspired by Super Size Me rather than Oldboy?Symbolically, the stepson tries to kill McBeef by choking him with a healthy cereal bar. Perhaps this bizarre scene represents the victory of east coast health sensibilities over evil, obese, paedophilic middle America. Could it be that, in Richard McBeef, Cho was expressing the disdain for fat, hamburger-chomping Americans that is widespread in liberal circles today? That is no crazier a claim than the idea that a violent Korean film is responsible for Cho's behaviour.Cho also seems to have harboured anti-consumerist tendencies. In the grotesque rambling murder manifesto he sent to NBC he seethes with anger over his fellow students' obsession with stuff. "You have never felt a single ounce of pain your whole life," he wails. "You had everything you wanted. Your Mercedes wasn't enough, you brats. Your golden necklaces weren't enough, you snobs. Your trust fund wasn't enough. Your vodka and cognac wasn't enough ... You had everything." He berates his fellow students for their "hedonistic" lifestyles.Sound familiar? Attacks on consumer culture and youthful hedonism are common today - from those trendy anti-shopping Buy Nothing campaigns organised by green-leaning groups to the disgust many commentators express for drunken overseas stag and hen nights. In radical political circles, consumerism - people's desire for more, more, more - is derided as the great evil of our age. In academia, many argue that too much consumer choice is making us ill. Oliver James calls it "affluenza"; Oprah has described it as "stuff-itis". In claiming that he attacked students because of their lust for material wealth and hedonism, was Cho declaring war on "stuff-itis"? Well, others have tried to explain, even excuse, his actions by saying he was fighting back against bullying; why not go the whole hog and describe Cho as a warrior against today's overbearing consumer-craziness?Finally, Cho seems to have been rather perversely obsessed with child abuse and its apparent long-term impact on sufferers' personalities. His two plays - Richard McBeef and Mr Brownstone, which tells of a high-school teacher who "ass-rapes" his young students - are about children hounded and warped by their abusers. It is still unclear whether Cho himself was abused, but he certainly seems to have adopted the identity of an abuse victim. "Do you know what it feels like to be spit in your face and have trash shoved down your throat?" he asked in one of his video statements.The killer cites his suffering at the hands of some unnamed, unspecified abuser as the explanation for his bloody action. Indeed, it was "you" - his alleged tormentors - that forced him, automaton-style, to carry out his barbaric act. "[You] decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner and gave me only one option. The decision was yours. Now you have blood on your hands that will never wash off," he said.Here, one might say that Cho had subscribed to theories about vicious cycles of abuse - the notion that victims are defined by their hardship and often driven to repeat abuse patterns in the future. He seems to have bought the idea that abuse can have an all-controlling impact on an individual's life choices, even causing them to act out horrific violence. Such an idea comes not from the NRA, most of whose members are, if anything, probably sceptical of today's therapy culture; rather it comes from intellectual circles in east and west coast America where theories of abuse and "abuse patterns" abound and where it is positively trendy to have been damaged by something or other. So, was Cho perhaps the armed wing of the Woody Allen brigade?The truth is, we will never really know why he did it. Copycat theories remain as unconvincing as ever, and many of those pointing the finger of blame at bullying or violent video games seem simply to be exploiting this tragedy for their own political ends. Reading Cho's own words, you could argue that he was moved by certain mainstream and even liberal outlooks - after all, misanthropy is widespread these days, and Cho would not to have to look far to confirm his belief that people are wicked and deserving of punishment. But it was not any culture, or film, or lifestyle that made him do it; Cho alone is responsible for his massacre.