British airport chiefs were facing renewed questions over security yesterday after an intruder carrying a rucksack managed to get on to the runway at Heathrow in the second serious breach at the UK's biggest airport in three weeks.The man ran on to the northern runway after clambering over a chain link security fence and had to be forced to the ground at gunpoint by armed police. He had been able to walk under a parked Emirates passenger jet before being challenged, a senior police source said.The breach, which delayed several flights, came on the eve of the opening the new Terminal 5 by the Queen. A controlled explosion was carried out on the bag, which was found to contain only personal effects. Last month five Greenpeace activists also breached security to climb on top of a plane at Heathrow in protest over the airport's expansion. Airport security is supposed to have been tightened after the July 7 2005 attacks on London. Last summer's attempted car bombing of Glasgow airport also led to a tightening of security, but yesterday's incident called into question the measures taken by BAA, which runs Heathrow.The intruder threw his bag over the perimeter at 2.05pm and then clambered over the 2.7 metre (9ft) fence. He was spotted by airport staff who alerted the police. Armed police halted him on the northern runway, and Scotland Yard said he had been subdued within two minutes of breaching security.The intruder immediately complied after officers drew their weapons and ordered him to the ground. Anti-terrorist police were initially called in but were soon stood down. The man was being questioned at a London police station where a doctor was assessing his mental health.The litmus test of airport security is stopping intruders getting "airside", which refers to the areas past security checks and with access to planes.Behind the scenes there was concern amid Whitehall counter terrorism officials, one of whom told the Guardian that the latest incident, coming just weeks after the last lapse at Heathrow, would trigger "big, big worries about air side security".A senior police source said: " We're pleased it was successfully resolved. BAA have questions to answer."Gordon Brown, the prime minister, said he was satisfied everything was being done to ensure security at Heathrow. Speaking after arriving at an EU summit in Brussels, he said: "I think the important thing about the Heathrow incident is that the person was detained, that all the security precautions went quickly into action ... and that all possible steps were taken so that when this incident happened the arrest took place. And I'm satisfied everything is now being done to ensure security at Heathrow is intact. We are determined to protect all passengers and all staff who go through Heathrow and every other airport in the country."The former head of security at BAA, Norman Shanks, said a higher fence would not prevent further incursions and a serious clampdown on intruders would require sophisticated motion-sensor technology. A number of systems are available or under development, including CCTV technology that detects irregular movement. However, such a move would increase the cost of a Heathrow security bill that has risen by tens of millions of pounds since the liquid bombs scare in 2006.The perimeter at Heathrow is jointly patrolled by BAA security staff and the Metropolitan police. One aviation expert said it had not changed since the September 11 2001 attacks on the United States which showed al-Qaida's continued fascination with attacking aviation.A BAA spokesman said: "If there are lessons to be learned, they will be learned."