A privately-run young offenders institution has been condemned by the social services inspectorate for education "disruption and turbulence" in its first 20 months of its existence.The report highlighted the rapid turnover of staff, including the director and two assistant directors, at Hassockfield Secure Training Centre, near Consett, county Durham. The centre was purpose built to hold up to 40 offenders aged between 12 and 17.The report found that teaching was unsatisfactory and some staff had difficulty keeping the children under control - with spitting, swearing and other misbehaviour common in classrooms. "This centre has experienced disruption and turbulence throughout its life and events since the last inspection have been no different," said the inspectors. "The approach by staff was inconsistent, with some staff challenging behaviour too firmly, when a softer approach would have been more successful, and other staff avoiding challenging behaviour that was clearly totally unacceptable." Teaching in half of the lessons observed by inspectors at Hassockfield - which is run by Premier Prisons - was unsatisfactory. "Swearing went unchecked, missiles were thrown around the room and there was general restlessness and movement," added the report. "In these lessons, teaching was unsatisfactory and poor behaviour was a direct consequence. Unpleasant comments to adults and other peers needed firmer and more consistent responses from adults; spitting was evident and appeared to be a significant problem." Staff were praised for their dedication and effort, but inspectors added: "We were concerned that without an injection of experienced child care staff, progress will be less than is required." The report follows similar criticisms of Medway Secure Training Centre, near Rochester in Kent, which suffered a riot in its early months and had to be partially closed down for repairs. The document reveals that Hassockfield's director left without notice in February, 17 months after the centre opened, and two assistant directors also resigned. "Not surprisingly the magnitude of such change had its effect upon staff who were, to varying degrees, bewildered and destabilised by the event," said inspectors. Lord Warner, chairman of the board responsible for providing and funding places for child offenders, said: "Hassockfield has had significant change in its senior management.""The centre is now beginning to see the positive effect of the new management with a more involved staff group. We are encouraged with their new way of working and will be proactive in monitoring progress."