Police hunting the killer of a 22-year-old French woman who was bludgeoned to death in south-west London on Thursday night believe the attack may be connected with the murder last year of the student Marsha McDonnell.Identified yesterday as Amelia Delagrange, the woman was found on Twickenham Green, three miles from where Ms McDonnell, 19, was killed in February last year. A motorist who saw Ms Delagrange lying near a cricket pitch just before 10.30pm flagged down a passing police car. She was taken to West Middlesex hospital, where she died just after midnight. A postmortem examination revealed that she died from head injuries from a blunt weapon. The police said that Ms Delagrange had been drinking with a friend in Crystalz Wine Bar on London Road in Twickenham on Thursday night. At about 9.30pm she caught a 281 bus towards Hampton and got off at Twickenham Green. Ms Delagrange was described as white, with shoulder-length blond hair. She was wearing a smart red blouse, white trousers and white trainers with pink flashes when she was found. Eighteen months ago Ms McDonnell, who was saving up to go to Australia on her gap year, was attacked yards from her home in Hampton, walking from a bus after returning from the cinema.She was found by a neighbour lying in a pool of blood. None of her belongings - including her mobile phone - had been taken, and she had not been sexually assaulted. She died later in hospital of multiple skull fractures and extensive internal bleeding. It later emerged that a 17-year-old girl had been attacked four weeks earlier, on January 8, a mile away in Strawberry Hill, and left with horrific injuries. The police are also investigating a serious assault on a 34-year-old woman who was found in Twickenham on April 18 after a night out at Harringtons restaurant, opposite the green. In both these attacks a blunt instrument was used. Both victims survived but have little memory of what happened to them. In March last year a 16-year-old boy was arrested in connection with Miss McDonnell's murder. He was not charged, but he remains detained under the Mental Health Act. But the police are now investigating the possibility that the killer is still on the loose. Scotland Yard said yesterday that detectives assigned to Ms Delagrange's murder intended to consult detectives from the McDonnell inquiry. "There's nothing specific to link the incidents at this stage," a police spokesman said. "We cannot rule anything out - we're keeping an open mind." Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy said yesterday: "Though we are looking at possible links with the Marsha McDonnell murder, what will solve this investigation will be to discover what happened last night. "We appeal to anyone who thinks they may have seen the woman or heard anything to call the police."There is a large amount of CCTV of the area and officers will be working through that. "A number of people have come forward, but in terms of a specific suspect, nobody has given us enough information yet." He said Ms Delagrange's companion was still being interviewed by the police, and was in a state of shock. Asked if the killer might have followed the victim from the wine bar and off the bus, he said: "We have nothing to suggest that at present." He said that plain clothes and uniformed officers would begin a 24-hour anniversary appeal in the area last night, and would be available for people to talk to.