A bungling would-be spy who stole sensitive documents from a leading defence contractor hoping to sell them to the Russians was jailed for 10 years yesterday.Ian Parr, 46, an electronics engineer at BAE Systems Avionics in Essex, stole CDs and computer disks detailing seven sensitive defence projects after being told he might be made redundant. One project was the top secret Storm Shadow system to develop stealth cruise missiles currently being used by British forces in the Iraq war. Defence experts say the project was the "biggest single improvement in the RAF's capacity". Parr had pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to two charges under the Official Secrets Act and seven under the Theft Act. He was caught after he wrote a letter to the Russian embassy which was intercepted by the security services. Using the codename "Piglet", Parr met an MI5 agent, codenamed Aleksei, who was posing as a potential Russian buyer for the defence secrets. In a Southend pub he gave the undercover agent a bag full of documents and 56 floppy disks in return for £25,000. The police arrested him as he supped a celebratory pint. A raid on his home in Rochford, Essex, uncovered documents about defence projects, including a system to pinpoint enemy artillery, thermal imaging aids, a low altitude navigational aid and technology to jam aircraft radio. The police believe that he hoped to sell them for £100,000. Parr, a father of two and a keen rambler, was jailed for eight years under the Official Secrets Act and an additional two years for stealing the documents. The recorder of London, Judge Michael Hyam, said the sentence had to reflect "public abhorrence" of acts betraying the safety and interests of the state, adding: "I cannot accept that you were so naive that you did not know what you were doing was a risk to the nation's security." Parr had acted for money, but he accepted that it might have been triggered by frustration at his treatment at work. Aftab Jafferjee, prosecuting, told the court that the current climate "graphically illustrated" the need to prevent such security breaches. Parr had told police: "It was a moment of madness to strike out at my employers."