Today marks the second anniversary of the suicide of Harold Shipman, the most prolific serial killer in British history, in his cell at Wakefield prison. Since then, despite the best efforts of a public inquiry, there has been little effort to understand the Shipman phenomenon or to question why he did what he did - beyond the usual musings that he liked the power of life and death, was arrogant, or that there were issues in his youth related to his mother which were played out in his murder of 215 people, mostly elderly women.Neither the idea that the Shipman phenomenon was a freak event, nor the individualistic discourse which has tried to uncover his motivation, can get us far in understanding what he did. So, too, the desire to uncover why he did what he did seems shallow and superficial. If he had lived would we have got any further in understanding why he killed? Serial killers' reasoning is self-serving, and the search for the causes of the phenomenon is best done outside of the individual's own pathology.So how should we make sense of Shipman? It would be helpful to remind ourselves that in Britain since 1960 there have been 16 trials involving 18 serial killers. They have concentrated their efforts on a narrow group of victims: babies and infants; children; women (especially prostitutes); the elderly; and gay men. The first British serial killer of the sixties was Michael Copeland, a former soldier, who committed his first murder, of a 16-year-old male, while on active service in Germany and who later murdered two other men. Copeland always denied the charges, but there was some suggestion that he murdered his last two victims because they were gay, in an age immediately prior to the legalisation of homosexuality. However, long after Britain had supposedly become "gay friendly", the last serial killer to hit the headlines before Shipman was Peter Moore, who murdered four men of whom at least three were gay.What this begins to suggest is that groups which are stigmatised, and who as a consequence do not have access to power, are most likely to become the victims of serial killers. After all, who takes seriously the claims of a sex worker that she has been assaulted? But powerlessness is not simply the consequence of stigmatisation; and so, for example, infants and children lack power in a male, adult-orientated society which would prefer children to be "seen and not heard". Serial killing reveals wider patterns of social relations.Applying some of these ideas to Shipman allows us to embrace a more structural approach that brings us closer to understanding the meaning of serial killing at a societal level. The Shipman case reveals the marginalisation of the elderly. To these people, isolated and often out of touch with their immediate family, Shipman was seen as a good, old- fashioned doctor because he visited them at home. Not only was this increasingly unusual in medical practice, it was also unusual in that this accorded some status to a group often viewed as a socio-economic "burden".So, sadly, here we have Shipman revealing a hitherto hidden reality about the place of the elderly, and the inadequacy of the social protections for that group. Serial killers prey on the vulnerable - those groups who cannot compete within the structural conditions of patriarchal capitalism; those people who do not feel able to answer back to those whom this structure adorns with power - often the power of life and death. Two years on, Shipman's murders should have been contributing to a debate about the place of the elderly. The fact that this has not happened means it is all the more likely that he will not be this country's last serial killer.· David Wilson is professor of criminology at UCE in Birmingham (david.wilson@uce.ac.uk)