The man alleged to be the serial rapist known as the "night stalker" told police there was no point taking his fingerprints as he always wore gloves, a court heard.Delroy Grant refused to comment on his alleged offences after his arrest in November 2009, but is said to have told a police officer who prepared to take his prints: "I don't know why you're bothering. I always wear gloves."Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting, told the jury at Woolwich crown court: "That indeed was the position. He was almost always wearing gloves and none of his fingerprints were recovered from the scenes of these burglaries."Grant, 53, from Honor Oak, south London, is alleged to have carried out a campaign of rape and sexual abuse spanning 17 years in which he targeted single, elderly people living alone in a series of break-ins.He is accused of preying on 18 victims, sexually assaulting or raping 10 of them and attempting to rape one, after forcing entry to their homes in a series of burglaries across south London, Surrey and Kent between 1992 and 2009.The jury heard that Grant would monitor his elderly victims' homes and then break in. Wearing a mask and gloves and carrying a torch, he used a screwdriver to remove entire panes of glass from rear windows and then took out lightbulbs and cut telephone and electricity cables, the court heard.His victims were mostly women in their eighties, but included two men. The jury heard that Grant's DNA had been matched to 12 of the 18 crimes.Grant denies all of the 29 charges against him, claiming that his ex-wife is involved in a plot to frame him by planting his body fluids at the scenes.The court heard that an 88-year-old male victim feared he was about to be killed and "prayed for a quick death".Laidlaw said the elderly man, referred to as Mr O, described being confronted by a "black figure climbing the stairs" on the night of 13 August 2009, after being burgled two months earlier.Thinking he was the previous burglar, O said: "Oh hello. Well, we meet again." When he was led into his bedroom and told to undress, he thought the intruder was about to produce a knife and kill him.Instead, he was indecently assaulted. Afterwards, O gave the attacker £15, saying that was all he had. The attacker became more aggressive and told him he knew he had more. He then took £45 and a Barclaycard Visa card, but O gave him a false pin number.Laidlaw said: "On his way out he touched the victim on the shoulder and said, 'We're still good friends.'"The jury also heard that a black woollen glove recovered during a search of the surrounding area after a burglary of an elderly woman's house in Bromley in September 2004 contained traces of DNA from Grant and Barbara Stocks, his girlfriend at the time.The case continues.