Yesterday's killings in Cumbria have already been compared with Hungerford and Dunblane, Britain's two previous rampage killings. Now there are three. But while such incidents are undoubtedly very rare, they are not completely unknown and if we shift focus slightly – murder/suicide incidents are rather more frequent.A lot of the media speculation has been asking why did he do it? There are certainly profile issues here; commonalities with Hungerford and Dunblane – and with a much wider range of incidents in the USA (see Mark Ames's Going Postal). Often family members with whom people are in dispute are the first victims: men – nearly always men – killing partners and rampaging on in a frenzy, seemingly unable to stop; in this case, it appears that Derrick Bird's first victim was his twin brother.On other occasions, employers and work colleagues are the targets (men made redundant, passed over for promotion). Mental illness, depression or lonely, angry men working out a grudge against the world with an "I'll show them" mentality. When the horror dawns, perhaps they can't face themselves, perhaps they turn the rage inwards. As I say, there are profiles – but we can never really know. This also points to the fallacy of having medical practitioners/psychiatrists assess people for the fitness as to who could own a firearm; GPs are not clairvoyants.So we turn to weapon availability, where there is better evidence and less speculation and where I, as a criminologist and gun-control advocate, feel on firmer ground. The question is, how could he do it?He could do it because – as it now appears – he was a licensed firearm owner; he kept his weapons and ammunition at home legally. Cumbria police were quiet about the firearms for a while – no doubt while they trawled their firearms-ownership database. Now they have acknowledged Bird was a gun owner. The issues then become fairly simple, the incident utterly preventable. If firearm owners were not permitted to store guns and ammunition at home, the incident could not have happened.After Dunblane, Lord Cullen's report recommended that guns should not be kept at home (the shooting lobby fought that recommendation tooth and nail, claiming it would destroy the sport). In the event, a massive wave of public outrage saw handguns banned entirely. My argument now is that we could go back to the Cullen recommendation – we could even allow the guns at home (although that is where they are most at risk; that is where they are most misused; that is where they are easiest to steal).Given these caveats it may not be such a good idea – but I am conscious of the arguments about preserving sports shooting and of the overwhelming majority of responsible and legal gun owners. But, and this is the point: the risks are out there – if gun owners are to keep their weapons at home, as they want to, then they should not be allowed to keep ammunition at home as well.We can't look into a crystal ball to say who may or may not be about to go off the rails/encounter depression/be consumed by murderous rage – but we ought not let them have the means to perpetrate a mass shooting outrage if and when they do. Keeping guns separate from ammunition would make such incidents preventable – and our communities safer places.