Julia Verdin shrieks, half aghast, half delighted, as her brother Johnnie holds up a photograph of his sibling striking a sultry pose, beneath a voluminous hairstyle and bat-wing top. The pair are rifling through a pile of old albums in the neat sitting room of their mother's riverside home in north Oxford, hooting over births, weddings and unflattering hats. Their aunt, the novelist Frances Kennett, is there too, indulging in a fond moan on the perils of growing up with a photogenic elder sister.The banter is warm and well-worn. But these photographs were taken to be viewed on occasions other than this. The trio are searching for images that capture a person who is no longer here: Greta Verdin - Julia and Johnnie's mother, Frances's sister - who vanished without trace from this bright house a month ago this week. The 67-year-old, who lived alone, was last seen at her home on the evening of Friday November 1. She later made a telephone call to a friend, in which she discussed her plans for the following week. Nothing further has been established about her movements. When someone goes missing, much else disappears with them. Time, certainty, and expectation changes shape for those left behind. How does a family cleave to such an absence? Although friends and family were beginning to wonder why they had not heard from her, Verdin's disappearance was only formally noted the following week, when her son, who was living with her temporarily, returned from holiday. "I got back in the morning, and it became apparent very quickly that nobody had seen her for almost a week." "Johnnie and I turned ourselves into amateur detectives," says Frances, "reconstructing her last few days almost to within the hour. She'd been doing completely normal and happy things. She'd gone shopping and bought vegetables from the covered market, she'd seen Johnnie's 18-month-old son for tea. "The following day she went swimming, visited friends for tea, called a close confidante and then nothing. After that phone call, nothing, no sighting, no messages, no notes. It is extraordinary." When someone drops out of view, hypotheses and worst case scenarios bloom in their stead. Inevitably, these are fed by the last known truths about that person. "I suddenly found as I was telling the police who she was, and how she was, that the reality of her vulnerability came through to me," says Frances. "The police took it very seriously." Verdin had a history of depressive illness. From her mid-40s she experienced periods of extreme anxiety, and at times remained in bed for weeks on end. She was eventually diagnosed as suffering from bipolar depression. Verdin had struggled with her medication over the years, but had lately reached a comfortable dosage which allowed her stability and quality of life. But the suggestion that a disturbed woman has harmed herself, though a superficially neat explanation, does not square with how Verdin's family assess her recent mental state. "We all feel that while suicide is the obvious thing to say, we don't quite believe it. She has never been suicidal, no matter how depressed, and she always turned to her family, particularly me and Johnnie, for support. She needed people - that was part of her anxiety. It would have been completely out of character." Julia, evidently the cheerleader of the family, bounds in: "Everyone who had spoken to her recently found her in good spirits, very involved with her grandchildren [Verdin's middle child Annie, who lives in France, has a baby son]. I'm a great believer in not thinking, 'What if?' When horrible news arrives, you've got to deal with it, but after the initial upset it's important to stay positive. "She may well be out there somewhere, she's had an accident or stopped taking her medicine and become confused, and someone is looking after her, thinking they're being helpful, unaware that there's this desperate family trying to find her." Julia, a film producer based in Los Angeles, left a crew of 150 on set in South Africa to return to England to help with the search. Each family member has called upon his or her own skills and contacts to widen the net and ratchet up public awareness. Julia's close friendship with the actor Liz Hurley has provided an irresistible celebrity connection. "I used to have my own identity and now I seem to just be 'Liz Hurley's best friend'. But whatever gets the message out there helps." Greta loved drama and literature, and taught both during a long and distinguished career. On the coffee table is a programme from the last play she went to see, and a new book of poetry. The sitting room shelves are filled with faded editions of the classics, stacked behind a display of the delicate tea cups she liked to collect. After studying English at Oxford University, Verdin worked as a publisher in London, before returning to the city to teach. There she married and raised her three children. "She was very much a figure of society in north Oxford," explains Frances. "She gave wonderful parties, introducing lots of people. She knew the poets and the artists - she ran an open house." But the externally perfect world bore no relation to her emotionally barren upbringing in the Midlands.Her mother was severely depressed and frequently hospitalised throughout her childhood. Her parents argued violently. "The whole family has lived in that shadow," says Frances, "working to avoid it and be successful people in their own right. We reconstructed the family narrative so that things would turn out differently. And now this." Her sister resolutely made herself forget her past, she says. "She created another life - a very successful life - and did not want to talk about any of that. I'm quite the reverse - I tried to understand it and sought the help of therapy and reading to do that. And we always supported each other in those choices." Her sister's disappearance raises some particular questions for Frances. What becomes of the past when the joint investor in your shared history has departed? Are there pieces of the past we are fated never to escape? "After such a dignified life and a valuable life I don't want those earlier uglinesses to have caught up with her." Although Verdin's first marriage ended after 20 years she enjoyed a late second union with an eminent American art collector. Her senior by almost a decade, his health eventually deteriorated to the extent that she could no longer care for him, and earlier this year he moved into a residential care home in the US. "She was upset that she couldn't look after him," says Frances. "She had a great sense of responsibility." But on re-establishing herself in Oxford this July she had seemed to return to an even keel. "We were all beginning to breathe easily. She was enjoying her grandchildren. She was coming to terms with the end of a worthwhile but obviously difficult marriage." Verdin's disappearance has pitched the whole family into an altered universe, she says, "a place you're in with close family, where nothing matters except keeping the idea of her alive, in case she comes back. If I allow myself to imagine she's gone I am assailed with guilt, because it's as if you yourself are killing her." Julia says she doesn't know when to return home to the US. "Waiting around is awful but you want to do everything you possibly can." It's about not wanting to break the spell, says Frances. "If we stop looking for her the chances of her coming back are low - it's like we're holding her." The police have dragged the river several times, and searched nearby fields, but remain open to all possibilities and are continuing to appeal for information. "My sister may have looked frail to other people," says Frances, "but when we were children she protected me. She had an immense courage and strength. I don't want her to look tragic. She did overcome her past, she did remake herself. I mind so much that the final chapter of her life might not reflect that." "The really horrible thing is not knowing anything," says Julia, "this sense of helplessness where you don't know what more you can do to help find her. It's difficult to have a strategy when there's no information. I was wrapping my Christmas presents the other day, and I had the ones I'd bought for Maj. I wrapped them anyway and left them here." She has let slip the family's pet name for Verdin, and the three trip over one another to explain its provenance. "Julia started it... " "She'd ask me to sweep the floor and I'd say 'Yes your majesty'... " " ...not being a great floor sweeper... " " ...but I'd always get out and leave it to Annie!" And for a short moment, in the midst of this complicated unhappy time, they are simply a happy family, finishing each other's sentences, dissolving into gales of laughter.· Anyone with information on Greta Verdin should call Oxford CID on 01865 266333.