The increase in ethnic minority police officers employed by forces in England and Wales has slowed significantly, a Guardian survey can reveal.The survey, marking today's second anniversary of Sir William Macpherson's report into the police's failings in the Stephen Lawrence case, suggests the pace of progress may be slowing on at least one crucial measure.One of Sir William's main recommendations was a rapid increase in the number of ethnic minority officers employed. The number of ethnic minority officers increased by 155 in the past year, according to the latest figures the 43 forces in England and Wales made available to the Guardian. The previous year the increase was 261, which itself brought into question whether the police could meet targets set by the government - an increase of around 6,000 officers by 2009. The results vary considerably from force to force. The West Midlands constabulary alone was responsible for a quarter of this year's increase. But 13 forces either failed to recruit a single Asian or Afro-Caribbean officer, or saw the numbers fall. The eight forces whose progress went into reverse were Essex, Humberside - whose chief constable chair's a high-powered police race committee, the Metropolitan police, Norfolk, Northamptonshire, Northumbria, North Wales and Staffordshire. Eight forces managed an increase of just one officer in the last year. Last year's Guardian survey saw all forces responding, but this year 16 refused or did not answer. The survey questions were based on recommendations by Sir William Macpherson and measures devised by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary. Where forces refused to make public their figures, those from their returns to the home office detailing the number of ethnic minority officers as of September 30 2000 were used. A spokesman for the City of London police, which managed to recruit one extra ethnic minority officer in the last year, said: "The figure is against a background of a decrease in police strength of 150 officers due to recent budgetary cuts." The survey also showed that the clear-up rate for racist crimes and incidents varied widely. Of those forces responding, the Met, seen by some as having the greatest expertise, was bottom clearing up just one in four race crimes. Imran Khan, solicitor for the Lawrence family, said the Guardian survey showed too little had changed within the police: "You can't expect people to join racist police forces." Sir Herman Ouseley, former chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, who reviewed the Met's diversity strategy, said: "The survey results show that the rhetoric that came in the post-Macpherson era has not been delivered upon. They have not taken the right action to deliver results in the way the home secretary expects." An ACPO spokesman said: "We wouldn't wish to comment on unofficial, incomplete figures which we have not had the opportunity to study. "The progress to date is uneven but we are confident that over the 10-year period set by the home secretary we will achieve the targets set." Ravi Chand, chairman of the National Black Police Association, said: "These figures are awfully disappointing. It's now clear not enough is being done."