Are Britain's police up to the job? It is a big question and there is not a simple answer. In some ways they are up to it, but in other ways they are not. The issue, long fudged, dominated many late-20th century debates about policing, and still penetrates every important argument about the police service today, whether that discussion is about pay and conditions in an age of austerity, about the introduction of police and crime commissioners or, as the Guardian is reporting this week, about learning the lessons of the 2011 urban riots. It is indisputably also at the heart of Monday's report from the police inspectorate about the impact of force budget cuts.The public's and the media's tests of police effectiveness have always been success in crime fighting and prevention of disorder. But these things are not more important than the less newsworthy issues of structures, strategies and value for money which preoccupy ministers and chief officers and which underpin sharp-end policing. That is why the Winsor report on police pay and conditions is so central to everything else. If the recommendations are implemented, which many in the service do not wish them to be, it would recast the career paths, pay and pensions of the whole service, a task that needs doing. That is also why ministers are so keen to make Tom Winsor the next chief inspector of constabulary, a job which has hitherto always been done by a senior officer. Only an outsider, they argue, can identify and drive much needed reforms. The truth of that remains to be seen, but good luck to him.Budget cuts can offer the chance to do things differently and better. But the new report by the current chief inspector Sir Denis O'Connor shows how much is at stake, everywhere from London, where everything about policing is at its most spotlit and potent, to rural Lincolnshire, where private security outsourcing is now most developed. The Guardian's own Reading the Riots research confirms how vulnerable so many cities now are to bad spending, bad co-ordination, bad strategies and bad morale too. These are risky times.What won't do, however, is to pretend that there isn't really a problem. Police are heavily labour intensive, well paid compared with other public services and have been given a relatively easy ride by the political scrutiny process over the years. Politicians have too often tended to pander to the police's own old view of policing, a Tory instinct now recycled by Labour, pretending that extra spending, especially on new officers, offers a mechanistic guarantee of increased public safety and decline in crime, and that cuts, equally surely, put the public at risk. If the varied and wide-ranging debates currently coursing through the police service achieve nothing else, they must at least get beyond such banal ideas.