It is the classic response of a society that doesn't know what to do. The police are urged into battle, backed by the new crime-busting mayor. More metal detectors at tube stations, amnesties, stop and search and guaranteed prosecutions. It is the very least that Londoners and others can call for, as the endless headlines on the endless free sheets hurl us into moral rage and fear.But while we hope these measures will be effective, we know that they will only scratch the surface. There may be a reduction in killings and the news hype might go away for a while - although this hardly seems a likely scenario today, with the death of yet another teenager top of the news - but dealing with the root causes of these issues will take more than a traditional response.Eleven youngsters have been killed this year alone as a result of knife crime. One of the victims was a former pupil at the school I used to teach at. Colleagues tell me most kids felt fear for their own safety on hearing the news. One sixth former said that this had made him more determined to get out of his area and go to university. For them, knife crime is a symptom, not a cause. Stabbings are about the area you come from, the gangs you belong to, or avoid, and the cycle of violence that is given space to breath by poverty and poverty of ambition.So, will the current police action stop the anger in communities which urges even "good kids" to carry knives for their own "safety"? I doubt it. This is not a criticism of the police; it is a point about the nature of the problem.So, who do we blame and what do we do? The parents; the schools; the government? The truth is there is no one answer ,and there is no one problem. The political classes are torn between a Darwinian determinism that blames individuals as "bad eggs" and a communitarian view that blames society and removes agency from offenders. Given this, perhaps the right response is to end the handwringing and accept that we need to devote more time to working out why people are driven to these acts. That would at least be an honest start.We might also do well to look at some of the facts and figures that describe modern Britain. Gordon Brown's strategy unit paper Realising Britain's Potential: Future Strategic Challenges for Britain, published in February, underlined - surprise, surprise - that poverty, crime, low educational attainment and poor health outcomes are all linked.Nearly half of young people from the bottom social group are no longer participating in education or training at age 19, more than double the rate in higher groups. Poorer households that suffer a burglary feel the pain more, as households with an income of more than £30,000 a year are three times more likely to make an insurance claim than those with an income of £5-10,000. But the line from the report which provides the context for the current wave of knife crime is this: "There remain persistent gaps in chances to succeed for people with different social, economic, ethnic and other backgrounds."In other words, we are sustaining two worlds: one where ambition is realised and nothing is out of reach, and another where carrying a knife seems like the only sensible option.