The jury hearing the inquest into the death of Harry Stanley - shot by the Metropolitan police while carrying a table leg wrapped in a plastic bag - yesterday returned an open verdict after the coroner refused them the option of recording a decision of unlawful killing.Outside St Pancras coroner's court, Mr Stanley's family said they would be seeking judicial review in the high court to challenge the result and sueing the police for wrongful death. They are also planning to lodge a formal complaint about the coroner, Stephen Chan. Mr Stanley, 46 and a father of three, was shot twice by specialist firearms officers as he walked home from a pub in Hackney, east London, in September 1999. The two officers told the inquest they thought he was carrying a sawn-off shotgun in a tightly wrapped plastic bag. It subsequently turned out to be the leg of a coffee table he had repaired. "It's disgusting," his widow, Irene Stanley, said after the five day inquest. "We have been denied justice. The jury were not allowed to bring in a verdict of unlawful killing even if they wanted to. There has been no police officer charged with the mistakes they made. The officers stood in the dock and never even said sorry." Mr Stanley, a painter and decorator, was shot in the head by Inspector Neil Sharman and in the hand by PC Kevin Fagan. One of the central issues was his position at the moment of the shooting. The police officers claimed he grasped one end of the table leg into his body and pointed the other at an officer, making it look like a shotgun. The inquest, however, heard forensic evidence indicating Mr Stanley was facing away from the officers. Nogah Offer, the family's lawyer, said evidence from a Home Office pathologist showed Mr Stanley was hit on the left side and was therefore facing away from the policemen. "He was probably just starting to turn round when he was hit. They shouldn't have shot him." Dr Chan in his summing-up told jurors: "A person who is attacked or believes that he's about to be attacked can use such force as is reasonably necessary to defend himself. If that's the situation, then his use of force is not unlawful." Dr Chan gave the jury two options: lawful killing or an open verdict. He said: "If you are so satisfied, lawful killing is the appropriate verdict," adding that the open verdict was available if there was insufficient evidence to return "the other suggested verdict". At one stage, the jury was told that Mr Stanley had spent convictions for robbery, possession of drugs in 1963, and armed robbery in 1974. No evidence was presented, however, to suggest the officers knew anything about his past or anything other than that he was "white, male, and Irish". In fact, Mr Stanley was not Irish. Deborah Coles of Inquest, the organisation which supports families attending coroners' courts, said after the case: "The Stanley family have waited two and a half years to find out the truth of how Harry died and this decision means they will have to engage in further lengthy litigation. The criminal justice system is denying them justice." The Metropolitan police said in a statement that it "regrets the death of Henry Stanley and we would wish to extend our deepest sympathies to his family. This has been a very stressful time for both officers, who, along with their colleagues, are required to confront the most difficult policing situations, often having to make split second decisions."Officers who volunteer to carry firearms must pass a rigorous selection process and intensive training to carry out this most demanding role, they are highly skilled and on occasion are called on to demonstrate levels of bravery and determination of the highest calibre."