Police released what could be the youngest efit ever - that of a boy believed to be only nine or 10 who attacked another boy while trying to steal his scooter.The attacker would be below the age of criminal responsibility if he is nine but police insisted they had to find him after he allegedly ordered Aiden Measure, 10, to hand over his toy scooter in Buckland park, Portsmouth, last monthWhen Aiden refused the boy grabbed the toy. Aiden fell as he tried to stop him and was left with a black eye after being punched and kicked in the face. He was rescued by a passerby and the attacker, believed to be a year five primary school pupil, fled empty-handed.Aiden said he was too terrified to return to the park on his own. "When I tried to grab the scooter back I tripped over his foot. He grabbed me and punched me in the head and kicked me in the eye. He called me rude names. Now, unless I know a place like the back of my hand, or my dad or mates are with me I don't go there."The efit dominated the front page of Portsmouth's daily newspaper, The News, under the headline Wanted: The Police Suspect Aged Just Nine.Police said they thought the boy was "approximately nine to 10 years old" and described his height, hair colour and style. They also gave details of his football top and jewellery he was wearing.Debra Clothier, national policy development manager for the crime reduction charity Nacro, expressed concern. "The police can't put him through the criminal justice system if he is nine. I understand they want to find him but this does not seem the best way."Clothier said it could be seen as a way of naming and shaming a youngster who had not been convicted– and may be too young to be criminally responsible. "I hope it's an oversight," she added.However, Mike Hancock the Liberal Democrat MP for Portsmouth South, welcomed the efit. "Too many youngsters are getting away with crimes like this. I'm glad the police are taking it seriously. If he turns out to be under 10 then they will have to deal with that then."A councillor Jason Fazackarley also supported the publication. "Whether he's nine or 10, he must have known what he was doing was wrong. I hope they find him even if they can't do much with him when they do," he said.Acting Superintendent Paul Barton, from Portsmouth operational command unit, said the police needed to speak to the boy.He said: "Hampshire constabulary has a duty of care to both the victims who report crime to us and the suspects we investigate. The young victim has been clearly shaken by the level of violence and his family has made a formal complaint."It is right that we do what we can to find the person responsible and resolve the issue. If the suspect is below the age of responsibility, this may involve speaking to him and his parents."Efits do not directly identify the suspect. They help the police trace a person as part of an investigation."