Peter Sutcliffe's doctors are right to think he would be in danger if he were ever released from prison. Like other notorious murderers, he would be a target for the tabloid press, which would pursue him as relentlessly as the child-killer Mary Bell and the young men convicted of killing James Bulger. But that isn't the reason why the man convicted of the Yorkshire Ripper murders in 1981 should remain incarcerated for the rest of his life. Sutcliffe posed an extraordinary danger to women – he killed 13 and attacked at least eight others – and he is one of the very rare cases where a life sentence should mean exactly that.The question of what should happen to him arises because of a newspaper report that Sutcliffe may be moved from Broadmoor secure hospital. Sutcliffe is trying to have himself declared sane by the Mental Health Review Tribunal, and hopes to be moved to a medium-security prison where inmates are prepared for eventual release. He has made an application to the high court where he will argue that he is entitled to a specific tariff, like other convicted murderers, and now his lawyers have told him that his doctors at Broadmoor have classified him as "low-risk". This seems to mean that he is at low risk of breaking prison rules or trying to escape, rather than a judgment of the risk he poses to the public, but there are also reports that doctors at Broadmoor believe he has been "cured" as long as he continues his medication. So it's important to recall the role played by psychiatrists' opinions at his trial, when Sutcliffe came close to avoiding being tried for murder at all. After examining him, four doctors came to the conclusion that he was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, and the prosecution indicated it was willing to accept Sutcliffe's plea of not guilty to murder but guilty of manslaughter on grounds of diminished responsibility. It was only the last-minute intervention of the judge, Mr Justice Boreham, that ensured that he was tried for murder. The jury rejected Sutcliffe's claim to have heard "voices" and messages from God telling him to kill women who worked as prostitutes. They heard evidence from a prison officer who overheard Sutcliffe telling his wife Sonia that he was going to try to convince people he was mad (he was familiar with the symptoms of schizophrenia because Sonia had been treated for it some years before). He managed to conceal his "voices" from close members of his family, including his adored mother who was still alive when he first "heard" them. He did his best to avoid being caught, changing his method to strangulation in the penultimate murder to throw police off the scent. At the end of his trial, Sutcliffe was found guilty of 13 counts of murder and seven of attempted murder (he later admitted another attack, which didn't appear on the charge sheet). An analysis of his crimes does not support the commonly held view that he hated women who worked as prostitutes; he turned to them only when his early attacks, on women and girls in residential areas, were disturbed. This is a man who hated women so much that he smashed their skulls with a hammer to disable them, then slashed and mutilated their bodies. I don't believe that anyone – doctor, lawyer or anyone else – can ever say with confidence that he no longer poses a threat to women.Joan Smith covered the Yorkshire Ripper murders from 1978 to 1981 and wrote about Peter Sutcliffe in her book Misogynies