Tony Martin, the Norfolk famer serving life for the murder of a burglar aged 16, may spend only eight years in prison.The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, who recommends how long convicted murderers should serve, has suggested that Martin be incarcerated for a minimum of eight years. According to a leaked document obtained by ITV's Tonight with Trevor MacDonald, the trial judge, Mr Justice Owen, who jailed Martin for life for the murder of Fred Barras when the teenager was caught raiding his farmhouse, had recommended a nine-year minimum term, or tariff. But Lord Woolf believes there are "mitigating circumstances" which mean Martin should be considered for a lesser tariff. Martin is appealing against his conviction. Jurors at Norwich crown court found him guilty of murder by a 10-2 majority after hearing how he shot Barras at Emneth Hungate, Norfolk.According to the programme, Mr Justice Owen made his nine-year recommendation in a report to the home secretary, Jack Straw, who will set the final tariff. However, the copy sent to Mr Straw contained hand-written notes on the case apparently from Lord Woolf. These said: "I note he initially considered fixing the tariff figure at eight years and, on the facts described, that is the figure I would have selected, rather than the nine years on which the judge decided." A spokesman for the lord chief justice would not confirm that the writing was Lord Woolf's, adding: "He is saying 'No comment', full stop." Any increase in the tariff beyond the judge's recommendation could well be successfully challenged by Martin under the Human Rights Act, which comes into force in October. A figure of eight or nine years indicates that the judges regard Martin's murder as less serious than most. A more usual tariff is around 12 years. A memo by Tony Blair, leaked last week, said ministers' re sponse to the case had made the government seem out of touch with the public. He suggested that a senior judge might look at whether the mandatory life sentence should be retained for all murders. Mr Blair's comment echoed Mr Justice Owen's report, which talked about public sympathy for Martin, who has had a £60,000 contract placed on his life since the killing. Martin "was a man without convictions, whose home was broken into, and had it not been for the burglars he would not have committed his crimes," the report said. "However, much of that sympathy is based on very inadequate accounts of the evidence. I believe the burglars did not know Martin was there until the very last moment. They were given no chance to escape, and Martin was not acting in reasonable self-defence. He fired intending really serious injury and certainly risked the lives of each of the burglars." Mr Justice Owen concluded: "He is never likely to reoffend, but he deserves punishment."