For almost a week they insisted that April Jones could, against the odds, still be alive. Finally on Sunday there was an acceptance among the residents of Machynlleth that the time had come to give up hope.Hundreds of friends and neighbours of five-year-old April gathered on the estate where she was last seen playing with friends and walked through the town in mid-Wales to take part in a special church service. The bishop of Bangor, Andy John, told the congregation that April was in the "strong arms of God". He said the community faced a "journey" as it tried to recover from what had happened, but that its people would walk together.John praised the efforts of those who have been looking for April and thanked people from across the world for messages of support and compassion.As the townspeople prayed and sang, police continued to hunt for any sign of April. Mountain rescue teams were being stood down but the number of specialist police searchers grew to about 100 officers who continue to focus on the area around the town and the Dyfi river. A police spokesman said: "We will see a change in resourcing but not in intensity as we move forward with the search. We are maintaining the momentum and we remain totally focused and committed to finding April."Mark Bridger, 46, who is charged with abducting and murdering April, will appear before magistrates in Aberystwyth on Monday, a week after the girl vanished while playing on the street near her home.But Sunday was all about April, her family and the town. Residents gathered on the Bryn-y-Gog estate, children in their best clothes or school uniforms. Everyone sported the pink ribbons that April's parents had asked people to wear earlier in the week as a symbol of hope.The procession turned on to the main street and passed the places April used to visit – the sweet shop, toy store, the library. By the time they reached the town clock, the throng was around 700-strong.Already the church of St Peter's, an early 19th-century stone building, was full. In bright sunshine, those who could not get inside stood in the graveyard and followed the service via loudspeakers.In all, an estimated 1,000 people listened as the Rev Kathleen Rogers said: "We cannot bring little April, our sweet and innocent little girl, home as we had hoped. But our hope has now been moved on to sure and certain hope that she is in the arms of Jesus."In tribute to April's mother, Coral, she read out a cheerful poem by Andrew Fusek Peters: "Sadness stealer/Cut-knee healer/Hug-me-tighter/Wrongness righter ... Constant chum/Second to none ... Mum!"Parents clung to their children as she recited older words by Albert Midlane: "There's a home for little children/Above the bright blue sky... " Two of April's schoolmates, Gwern, eight, and Lydia, seven, carried lit candles to the altar. The congregation sang rousing versions of hymns including All Creatures Great and Small and Guide Me O Thou Great Redeemer and listened to the parable of the Good Samaritan.The bishop of Bangor said what had been visited on April's family and the community was "beyond words". But he added: "We're here for April and her family. We're here to surround them with our love, our prayers and to let them know we are here with them shoulder to shoulder."April's parents were too upset to attend. John said: "If Coral and Paul are listening to this, know the degree of care and compassion that we send to you. After the cameras have gone we will still be here for you. Our prayers for you and April will continue."Acknowledging there was no longer any hope of finding April alive, John continued: "Jesus said, 'Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.' We take comfort that April is in the strong and loving arms of God but we want her home." He thanked the community for the compassion it had shown: "You have touched the hearts of people across the world. You have shown resolve, determination and love beyond any expectation."John praised April's school for its "extraordinary care" and the tremendous efforts of the searchers. "We have seen your exhausted faces ... We've seen your determination."He thanked the people who, from further afield, had "jumped into their cars, found out where the mountain rescue teams were, and taken them food so they could continue with their work".John said this service was not the end but a "step on the way". "It's a journey we have to do together. We have to journey together bearing the bruises, bearing the wounds, fighting the fears and the anger and despair."The many pink ribbons and balloons around the town were a reminder that "life is good, life is precious, life is indescribably wonderful", he said, adding: "Let us journey – not walk away, not fall apart – let us be together, to go on, to rest on each other. We want April home with her family and for them to be enveloped in the love that endures for all time. I know together we will not fail."