Two prisoners who bound and strangled to death a fellow inmate in a high-security prison have been told they will serve the rest of their lives behind bars. Gary Smith, 48, and Lee Newell, 44, who were already serving life for killings, were both given whole-life sentences by a judge for the "chilling" murder of Subhan Anwar.Ruling that the pair should never be considered for parole, Mr Justice Jeremy Baker said: "There is in reality no mitigating factor in either of your cases."Smith and Newell followed 24-year-old Anwar into his cell in Long Lartin prison in Worcestershire armed with weapons fashioned out of a pen and a toothbrush before binding his ankles with tape and strangling him with his own tracksuit bottoms. Smith then made Newell a cup of hot chocolate before they let prison guards into the cell and were taken away into segregation.The pair blamed each other but a jury took less than four hours to find both guilty of the fatal attack. Smith and Newell have not said why they killed Anwar, but the judge pointed out that there was a "moral code" in prison that included targeting those guilty of offences against children. Anwar was serving time for killing a child.Both defendants refused to leave the cells at Warwick crown court to hear their sentences. The judge nevertheless addressed his remarks to the pair, saying: "One of the most chilling aspects of this case was the almost complete lack of emotion shown by either of you after the killing."The judge said this was one of the "exceptional cases" that was so serious that neither man should ever be considered for parole. He said the murder of Anwar had been planned and, although the motive may never be known with certainty, he said: "In the course of the trial the jury heard evidence about the type of moral code which exists within the prison population, a code which may be enforced by the use of verbal abuse, physical violence and even, on occasion, death. It may be no coincidence that the deceased in this case had been convicted of killing a young child."Newell and Smith were initially sitting in the dock to hear sentence passed but demanded to be taken back to the cells after the judge gave permission for Anwar's parents to sit in the well of the court rather than the public gallery.The victim's family said they would continue to fight to prove Anwar was innocent of the murder of his partner's child, two-year-old Sanam Navsarka, in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire.A family spokesman said Anwar considered Smith and Newell friends, but they had acted like "animals". He said: "Subhan had been in Long Lartin prison for four years and he had built up friendships with prisoners and officers."He had proven to be a model prisoner, was a wing representative, helped prisoners to be heard, was well behaved and never caused any trouble. We are shocked and saddened by how Subhan was killed by Smith and Newell."Jurors heard that Anwar appeared to be his normal self on the day of the murder, 14 February this year. He had phoned his family and, in his role as a wing representative, discussed the provision of CDs with another inmate.Just before 6pm he entered his cell closely followed by Smith and Newell. The cell door was shut, locked from the inside and the peep hole blocked. Forty minutes later one of the killers contacted the prison control room using a cell intercom and told an officer: "I have taken the guy in this cell hostage. It's not a joke. I think he's dead." Asked why, he replied: "I'm bored, it was something to do."When prison officers arrived, they spoke to the men inside the cell, which remained locked. The pair appeared calm. Asked by one negotiator what had happened, Newell replied: "I don't know. I wish I knew myself." Asked if Anwar was still alive, Newell replied: "He is with Allah." Smith then said Newell was a "bit shaky" and made him a hot chocolate with icing sugar.The two men eventually opened the door at about 8.20pm. Anwar was found lying on the bed face down. His ankles had been tied together with 2 metres of tape and he had been strangled with his own tracksuit bottoms. He had a bruise to his forehead that could have been the result of a punch and a bruise to his right shoulder, possibly where he had been struck by "shanks" – makeshift weapons fashioned out of a pen and toothbrush – that were found below the window of Anwar's cell.Later that night another prisoner in the segregation unit asked Newell what had happened. The prisoner asked: "Did you open his guts?" Newell replied: "No, it was his neck."Both attackers were serving life for murder. Newell has been in prison since the late 1980s after tricking his way into the house of 56-year-old Mary Neal, a neighbour in Norwich, and strangling her. He hid her body in a cupboard of her home before getting away with just £60.Smith, from Leicester, was jailed in 1999 for murdering 22-year-old Ali Hassan, whose naked body was thrown into a quarry. Smith believed Hassan was a police informer.Anwar was jailed for life in 2009 for murdering his partner's child. She was found with fractures to all four limbs and died after fatty deposits from her broken thigh bones entered her bloodstream. The sentencing judge told Anwar: "Your cruelty is beyond belief." He had previously been attacked by two prisoners while being held in Doncaster.