John Reid's weekend initiative to deal with antisocial behaviour was criticised so heavily, and withdrawn so quickly, that there was barely time to register what he'd proposed. Apparently the Home Office wanted to encourage people to take action against antisocial behaviour and was considering inspiring us with the elegant slogan: "Don't moan - take action - it's your street too." There was immediate confusion over what kind of action was being proposed. Did Reid, as initial reports suggested, want to see people dealing physically with offenders themselves? That suggestion was widely ridiculed. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, accused him of a brazen attempt to shift responsibility from the police and the legal system on to the shoulders of the public, while campaigners said such actions could have devastating consequences.Within hours, embarrassed Home Office spokesmen were claiming that they had never meant to encourage public interventions. The intention had only ever been to encourage more people to complain to councils and police about crime, rather than suffering in silence. Tony Blair's official spokesman gave a rather prim soundbite, saying: "We have never encouraged people to be vigilantes, and never would do so." It seems the debate was shut down even before it had begun. We are back to the status quo, where public safety is assumed to be the responsibility of the agencies of the state, and any individual who gets involved can be described as a vigilante.The idea that complex, liberal societies like ours can actually function on this basis is simply absurd. We can't have policemen on every street corner, park, bus or train. Yet in their absence we are expected to remain passive when we are witnesses to anything from bullying to mugging, harassment to assault. As more of us follow this advice, the practical consequences are appalling. Bullies or criminals are being given the freedom to disturb or attack the people around them, confident in the assurance that they are unlikely to be stopped.When I wrote about this a year ago, I had hundreds of anguished responses; some were from victims whose faith in others had been shattered by indifference when they were attacked. The majority were from people who had concluded, bleakly, that not only did they risk attack, but that there was no social or legal support for intervention, and that the risks were too high. Many had become involved in the past, only to be completely disillusioned by the experience.Women wrote to say that when they asked teenagers not to drop litter or smoke on buses they had been sworn at, hit or threatened, while people around them averted their eyes. Most said that a sense of adult solidarity was so rare that they were too frightened to carry on.A handful of people had acted bravely in the expectation that others would assist and had suffered terribly for that misjudgment. A Kurd and a Sikh had each intervened to help men being robbed, and had been savagely beaten, each losing an eye. Their instinct was to help; coming from different cultures, they did not expect to be the sole actors.Not only did people feel that when they acted they were dangerously alone in doing so, but they also feared that they might now find themselves in trouble with the police. The perverse fact is that a man who finds himself in a struggle with a mugger will be hailed a hero if he dies in the attempt, but may be up on an assault charge if he doesn't.Everyone has read of adults being arrested when they finally threaten or hit youths who have been tormenting them for months. Several correspondents had their own bitter experiences. One woman wrote that her husband had intervened when a man was beating up his girlfriend. The man started punching her husband, so he fought back in self-defence. When the police arrived, her husband was also arrested and charged. The case had hung over the family for months before it was dismissed. He has been so scarred by this that he would never risk helping anyone again.We are constructing dangerous social norms here, in which there really is no such thing as society - just a group of disparate individuals, who may happen to share the same social space but who dare not protect one another. We are creating a situation in which there is no such thing as social pressure, because none of us are prepared to enforce it.Where Reid is right is that the answer cannot simply lie in more police. But if people are to take more responsibility, the context in which they do so has to change. There has to be a recognition of the legitimacy and desirability of individual and communal action, of what adults can do to uphold desirable social norms. When they do, they have to be supported. Current thinking disempowers anyone but officials of the state. One man told me of being in a cinema recently when four youths burst in and ran amok. A staff member approached one youth, who said: "You can't touch me. I know my rights." It is politicians and the police who have created this climate. They can't just blame the public for the consequences.At the heart of this is the fact that people's behaviour doesn't happen in a vacuum. Much human behaviour is determined by what we think we can get away with. Official attitudes, our silence and our fright are letting people get away with too much. The individual risk to us if we act will be lessened if others stand with us. The collective good demands that we take individual risks. As a society we ought to ask ourselves this question. Are we happy to go out in public in the absolute assurance that, if we are attacked, no one at all will come to our aid? If the answer is no, we have a responsibility to act.jenni.russell@blueyonder.co.uk