As Patrick Petrie lay face down in a cell in the segregation unit at HMP Parkhurst on the Isle of Wight enduring kickings and beatings from a group of prison officers in riot gear, the last thing on his mind was getting justice. Staying alive was all that mattered.But this week Petrie is celebrating: after a long legal battle he has been awarded one of the highest compensation payouts for an incident of this kind by a jury in the high court - £39,750 - after suing the home office for assault, malicious prosecution and misfeasance. The finding of misfeasance (deliberate wrongdoing of one or more public officials) is rare and the solicitors in the case are calling on the home office to learn lessons from it. Three other men who were taken into segregation at the same time - Paul O'Toole, Darren Nash and Robert Kakoo - and who were also assaulted and mistreated, brought the case with Petrie. They were awarded damages ranging from £12,750 to £13,750 each. Of the total payout, £10,000 were punitive damages to Petrie and £15,000 in punitive damages shared among all four to send a message to the home office about the behaviour of the prison officers. The beatings began on November 9 1997. Petrie, a black man serving a sentence for a firearms offence, was one of the prisoners who had been taken "down the block" - as the segregation unit is referred to - the day before, following an altercation between a group of prisoners and a group of officers. Some of the officers had been injured during this incident which was sparked off after a prison officer hit Petrie on the head with his walkie-talkie radio in an unprovoked attack. The assault took place on the landing of one of the wings during association time and was witnessed by many prisoners. Although the force of the blow caused Petrie to fall to the ground and although his head wound was bleeding profusely, he received no medical examination or treatment. A group of prisoners who became involved in a stand-off with officers following the striking of Petrie had picked up objects to defend themselves against the officers. The officers negotiated with them and said that if they laid down their weapons and went quietly into segregation, no one would be harmed. The men agreed and their first night in segregation passed peacefully but next morning the assaults started. "At about 8am, I heard loud screams coming from a prisoner at the other end of the unit," says Petrie. "About 10 minutes later, I heard noises coming towards me which stopped outside my cell door. I knew what was going to happen. The door opened, one of the officers told me to get against the wall and a group of them stormed in. One of them jammed his riot shield against me and then the punching and kicking started. They kept swearing, calling me a scumbag and a black bastard." Petrie was pinned to the ground and handcuffed. A woman appeared holding a pair of scissors and started cutting Petrie's clothes off. Once he was naked, a pair of boxer shorts was pulled on to him and he was taken out into the prison yard. "They were still kicking and beating me," says Petrie. "Hailstones were on the ground and they threw me face down into a puddle. I felt like a piece of meat being set upon by a pack of dogs. I was placed kneeling into a prison van and taken to HMP Albany nearby where the abuse continued. I was put into segregation there and they threw my food and water at me. I had to eat off the floor. All I could think of was that I was going to die from the beatings but I was determined to survive." Petrie's co-claimants in the civil action were also assaulted in segregation and were variously tormented by having their testicles squeezed and having food and water thrown at them. Paul O'Toole had no sink in his cell and when his cup of water was thrown into his cell, spilling everywhere, he had to drink water out of the toilet. "They would make me face the wall. I tried to look at them from under my armpits but they smashed my head against the wall for doing that. They grabbed my hair and genitals, held me down, pushed my arms behind my back then left my cell laughing. When you're put in a segregation unit, your life is in the officers' hands. If the legal action we've taken prevents even one person from going through what we have gone through, it will be worth it." Kakoo, who was serving a sentence for drug smuggling and was released earlier this year, said that one of the worst things was waiting for something to happen. "I knew that we were going to get beaten but didn't know when and I knew that no one would see." Kakoo, Petrie, Nash and two other defendants not involved in the civil action were variously charged with grievous bodily harm with intent, violent disorder and affray. All knew that, although they were innocent , to date no one had believed their version of events and that conviction meant automatic life sentences. "I knew that if the jury made the wrong decision I wouldn't see my daughter grow up and my parents would die while I was in prison," says Petrie. He and his co-defendants were overjoyed when the evidence of officers against them collapsed and they were acquitted at Portsmouth crown court in May 1999, clearing the way for a civil action for damages. Irène Nembhard and Marcia Willis Stewart, of Birnberg Peirce, solicitors in the civil action, welcomed the verdict and the damages awarded. They say it sends an important signal out to prison officers that they cannot get away with this kind of behaviour and an important message to prisoners that complaining is not hopeless. Cases such as this are notoriously hard to bring. Because the prisoners have at least one conviction their credibility is damaged, while prison officers have exemplary records and are more likely to be believed. Even prisoners with strong cases may be reluctant to take legal action if they are still serving sentences for fear of reprisals. Finding a specialist solicitor, securing legal aid and finding witnesses willing to testify are further hurdles. Stewart and Nembhard are calling on the director general of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, and the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, to protect prisoners, particularly prisoners in the segregation unit at Parkhurst. They want to see a review of the request and complaint procedures prisoners use, improvements in the effectiveness of the independent monitoring board (previously the board of visitors) and a review of the role of prison medical staff in assessing prisoners' injuries. They are also asking Wheatley to start disciplinary proceedings against the prison officers involved in the assaults. The home office remains tight-lipped about the calls for changes saying only: "We are considering the judgment and its implications." The high court decision comes at a bad time for Parkhurst. Only last month Owers condemned conditions at the jail in her inspection report and said that prisoners' safety could not be guaranteed there. She added that black and Asian inmates regard the prison as institutionally racist. Sadiq Khan, a human rights solicitor at Christian Khan, who specialises in this kind of action, believes that prisoners should have greater access to justice. "Very few of these cases get to trial. Prisoners can make a complaint to the governor about assaults from prison officers but I've never known one to succeed. Civil actions are a way forward. People in public office should have higher standards than the rest of us and when they fail to uphold these standards they should be brought to account." Daniel Machover, of Hickman & Rose, another solicitor who specialises in this area (he worked on the high profile prisoner civil actions against officers at Wormwood Scrubs which have been settled out of court), says that cases in closed institutions are always very difficult. "Particularly in segregation it's a case of out of sight and out of sound. There is a culture among prison doctors that violent prisoners have to be restrained and that it is their duty not to record injuries. The police are often not called in to investigate promptly and prison officers can get together to write up their notes about incidents. From the point of view of prison officers, the only deterrent is the risk of getting caught and at the moment there is no significant fear of this." He is calling for a public inquiry into events at Wormwood Scrubs but last week received a response from the home secretary saying that some cases are still under criminal investigation and that a public inquiry cannot be held while the investigation is ongoing. For Petrie, last week's high court victory is doubly sweet. His release from jail coincided almost exactly with the start of the civil action. "When they beat me, they were trying to break me and when they laid the criminal charges they thought they would be able to ensure that I was lost in the prison system forever," he says. "But I was determined. This traumatic experience has made me 100% stronger and now I've got the freedom to start living again."