A former boyfriend of the socialite Tamara Ecclestone has been jailed for four years for plotting to blackmail her for £200,000. Derek Rose, 33, who dated the daughter of Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone in 2002 when she was 17, was implicated in a plot which saw an email sent to Ecclestone's manager after the model starred in Billion Dollar Girl, a reality TV programme exploring her life as a rich young person.The email, sent on 16 November 2011, said Rose had been offered £200,000 to sell his story to the tabloid press – despite no newspaper having made such an offer – and had been asked by television shows, radio programmes and a major tabloid to talk about their relationship. Rose was included in the email which mentioned the possibility of discussing "a non-release fee" and signing a confidentiality contract.The court heard that the email had "pernicious" implications and was sent to elicit money from Ecclestone, now aged 28. Judge Andrew Goymer at Southwark crown court told him: "This was an audacious attempt to obtain a large sum of money."Rose, of Camden, north London dated Ecclestone when she was 17, before changing his name by deed poll from Jonathan Ketterman. He was found guilty of the charge on Monday and sentenced to four years in prison Tuesday.The judge said that 10 years ago, Rose was in a relationship with Ecclestone, which ended acrimoniously but had no contact with her for 10 years. "She came to your attention again in November 2011 when she was the subject of a television series. The email that you sent on 16 November in which you threatened to reveal personal details was not the product of a broken heart. All that was long in the past [...] It was nothing more than a cynical and greedy attempt to extract a large sum of money."He added: "No doubt you thought that £200,000, which is a large sum to most people, would be small change to somebody with the amount of money that she and her family are reputed to have. You also thought that for this reason they would readily part with it to buy your silence. She did not do this."Charlotte Harris of the firm Mishcon de Reya said Ecclestone welcomed the sentence. "Tamara Ecclestone is relieved that Judge Goymer has acknowledged, in his sentencing of Derek Rose, the serious nature of blackmail and the need to deter others from attempting to commit similar offences," she said in a statement. The jury failed to reach a verdict on Rose's co-accused, Jakir Uddin, 20, of Birmingham, and the prosecution is considering whether to seek a retrial