The government seems certain it has found the answer to help prevent offenders committing further crimes after leaving prison: find them jobs. It has been at the forefront of attempts to introduce "real work" projects into prisons. At the heart of such initiatives are the Reducing Reoffending Employer Alliance; the Business in Prisons Initiative, which aims to help offenders and ex-offenders to develop the skills required to start up their own businesses on release; the Custody to Work scheme; and local projects such as HMP Wandsworth's Learn2Earn project.Some 1,500 prisoners are released on temporary licence every day to undertake paid work in the community, and about 500 companies already provide paid work for prisoners. Among them is National Grid; part of the Offender Training and Employment Programme, it has trained and employed more than 200 prisoners to date and aims to train and employ up to 1,000 offenders by the end of 2007.OpportunitiesThe government formalised much of its thinking in a green paper last December, called Reducing Reoffending Through Skills and Employment. This states that government strategy in relation to reducing reoffending is to "focus strongly on jobs", and that "sustained employment is a key to leading a crime-free life".Overall, when "looking forward", the green paper wanted to see "Enhanced opportunities for education and training [which] need to lead to skills and qualifications that are meaningful for employers and to stronger prospects of effective re-integration into society through work. Activity to improve individuals' employability while serving a sentence can be better connected to real job opportunities, with employers more involved in design and delivery of training."A simple analysis of those entering and leaving our penal system suggests why the government has chosen to focus on work skills. Almost 70% of prisoners were not in work or training in the four weeks prior to going to prison, and 76% of prisoners did not have jobs to go to on release. The government calculates that as much as 18% of all crime can be attributed to former prisoners, at an estimated cost of £11bn a year. Thus, a strategy based on improving the employability of prisoners in tackling recidivism makes sense.But what are "real job" opportunities in prison like? Can they deliver the results the government hopes for? And, what do prisoners and prison staff think?For the past 12 months, I have been researching "real" work in prisons. While no one can doubt the government's sincerity in trying to make work inside more like work in the community, or deny the importance of its focus on helping prisoners to develop skills, the reality is that prison work - where it exists - is often mundane, repetitive and boring, and that employers who might want to go into partnership with prisons find the culture of jails and some prison staff so inward-looking that unless they are persistent, they simply give up.The Howard League for Penal Reform, for example, in the past year has developed a design workshop, Barbed, in Coldingley prison in Surrey where the six prisoners employed on the scheme are paid a real wage, and have the same rights as other Howard League staff. Previously it had spent two years trying to get the scheme set up at The Mount prison in Hemel Hempstead. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League, says that "in the end, it was just impossible to make any progress [at The Mount]".After a poor report by the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, in 2004, the then governor at The Mount was moved and Crook "got the impression that they felt besieged and battened down the hatches. It made them risk averse. We could have helped them but they didn't want it."We got into detailed negotiations about prison regulations and the time that the prisoners could spend in the workshops - especially if they could work over lunch. It started to look as though they would only be allowed to work part-time, and we just couldn't create a commercial business with people working part-time. It was all done in the name of security. Prisons are very inflexible because of security, but often that's an excuse."These "excuses" were not just given by the prison internally but also supported externally by the security culture at an administrative level within the the prison service. Indeed, Crook described how "once everything goes to Croydon - the administrative headquarters of the prison industries - it takes two years to come out again". Another employer we spoke to described the prison industries as having a "can't do culture", adding: "They want to prove that things can't be done."What was true for the prison industries was also all too apparent to some prison staff, who clearly resented the opportunities that prisoners on real work schemes were being offered. The head of learning and skills at one prison described how she wouldn't consider introducing a real work scheme at the jail because she didn't want to see prisoners "taunted" by prison staff.Prisoners told us the various forms that this "taunting" could take. For some, it was just "sarky comments. One [officer] said to me, 'This technology is wasted on you lot - you're scum.'" Other prisoners spoke of being deliberately locked up, or always being unlocked last so that they would be late for work. One prisoner described how staff "were always trying to dig at us".Mind expandingThere was no doubt that prisoners employed on real work schemes gained enormously - and not simply from the real wage that they could earn, which allowed them to send money to support their families. One prisoner described how his work was "mind expanding - my brain has become active again". Another said: "I've learned skills in here that I'll be able to use on the outside - all prison work should be like this."An inmate of Springhill prison near Aylesbury who works at the Oxford Citizen's Advice Bureau (CAB) told us: "The way the system treats you from beginning to end is what causes reoffending. By the time you get out of prison, you've lost your confidence. You don't see yourself any more. You look in the mirror and you say, 'Well - what am I now?' But if you have these work opportunities before you come out of prison then you have your confidence. You have a chance."What is true for this prisoner could equally be true for others. If the government really wants to see progress on work in prisons, it seems that the prison service - and many of its staff - needs to recognise the value work can have for prisoners and, by helping them stay crime free on release, for us all. · The report, Real Work in Prisons: Absences, Obstacles and Opportunities, by David Wilson and Azrini Wahidin of the Centre for Criminal Justice Policy and Research at UCE in Birmingham is available at www.lhds.uce.ac.uk/criminaljustice or by calling Runjit Banger on 0121 331 6616.