A 38-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder last night after a seven-hour armed siege at a three-bedroom house in Merseyside ended with the death of a woman hostage.The man, whom police declined to name, had been holding at knifepoint a woman and a five-year-old boy, thought to be his son, at a house in Redbourne Avenue in the Halewood area near Liverpool. The siege began yesterday afternoon when police were alerted to the hostage situation by a member of the public. After a tip-off that the man had a knife, armed police with dogs took up positions in a cordon outside the terraced house. Trained police negotiators were drafted in to communicate with the man and attempt to coax him out. He refused to give himself up until the seige finally ended at 11pm. The hostage-taker told police that there was a woman and a child with him, although police were unable to confirm this or the identity of his hostages until the end of the seige. "He came out with the boy at 11 o'clock," a police spokeswoman said. "He was negotiated out after a number of hours, but unfortunately the woman was killed. We have arrested him on suspicion of murder. He gave himself up." The suspect was last night taken to a police station for questioning. After the boy was released by his captor outside the house, police entered the property and found the woman lying dead on the floor. The five-year-old was said to be "safe and well, but deeply shaken by the ordeal". "The boy is being looked after by police and I imagine social services have been called," a police spokeswoman said. Police said the hostage-taker was armed with a large kitchen knife. Officers said they think they know the relationship between the man and the two hostages, but are unwilling to reveal their identities until the family of the dead woman has been contacted. A postmortem is due to be carried out today to determine how the woman, aged between 30 and 40, died. The man is thought to be the estranged husband of the woman and is not thought to own the house where the hostage drama took place. "We were called there at 4.10pm by a member of the public and we have been talking to him ever since," a police spokeswoman said while the seige was continuing. "He is not making much sense as to why he is doing it or what he wants." Police reassured local residents that this was an "isolated incident".