If you stand outside the perimeter of HMP Grendon on an icy grey winter's morning, it's not that different from any other modern prison. It's not Pentonville or Wormwood Scrubs - it's 60s brutalist, rather than Victorian monolith - but there are the same blank walls, not as high, not as austere, but faceless, windowless, topped with the same loops of razor wire that keep the community inside apart from us outside. There are the same Porridge-style prison gates with a spyhole; the same prison staff in the same uniforms, carrying the same jangling keys, with which they methodically unlock and lock, unlock and lock, day in, day out, all day, every day. It's not until you are inside that you start to notice the difference. At first it is subtle, it creeps up on you: an unexpected camaraderie between inmates and prison staff. They chat about forthcoming events in the prison; they call each other by their first names; there is a mutual respect. The prisoners seem relaxed, the atmosphere is calm. There is none of the edgy us-and-them atmosphere that pervades other prisons - there is no sense of imminent danger. It is more like a student hall of residence than a category B prison. On the governor's walls hang Christmas cards from inmates, former and current. "Thank you for giving me this chance to change," reads one. "I don't have that long to go now until I'm released. I'm very confident about me and my future." Also posted on the wall are these words: "If you want to know what someone is really like, give him some authority." For the old lag who has spent his entire life in and out of prison, Grendon must come as a dramatic culture shock. Inmates move around with comparative freedom: their cells are unlocked at 8am, they remain open all day, prisoners eat together and talk together, with lock-up at 9pm. Most crucially they attend daily group therapy sessions. There they confront their crimes, take responsibility for their actions and explore their lives, their pasts, their childhoods, to try to uncover why they have done what they have done and how to avoid doing it again. For Grendon is a therapeutic prison - the only one of its kind in the country. It opened in 1962 as an experiment in the psychological treatment of prisoners, and today it is proof that prison can be humane, constructive and life-changing. It is proof that prison can be more than sheer containment, benign or otherwise. It is proof that prison can work. Mark Leech served almost 20 years in 62 prisons, but since Grendon he has become an award-winning journalist, author and leading campaigner for penal reform. "It certainly worked for me. Once you get locked into being a criminal, you just accept it. Grendon made me realise there were other options I could choose." Not everyone will leave Grendon a model citizen, but many prisoners undergo radical change. When they walk out of the gates, the hope is that they will be at least a little less aggressive, a little less hostile, a little less dangerous and a little less likely to reoffend. The reconviction rates are encouraging. For those prisoners serving life sentences elsewhere, there is a 24% reoffending rate; at Grendon it is 8%. For non-lifers the reoffending rate is 10% lower at Grendon than elsewhere, and if prisoners complete the therapy, which ideally runs for at least 18 months, reoffending is slashed by 20-25%. Set in the rolling Buckinghamshire countryside near Aylesbury, Grendon houses some of the most dangerous criminals in Britain, many of whom have severe personality disorders - 95% of inmates have committed offences of violence against the person, 27% have committed sex offences. Out of the 200 current inmates, 94 are lifers, and many have come to Grendon because traditional prisons, or "the system", as it is called, cannot deal with them. The prison is divided into therapeutic wings. Each wing is a democratised community that selects its own officials and sets its own rules. There are three key policies that everyone is expected to observe - no drugs, no sex, no violence. If you breach any of the three, your peers can decide whether you should be allowed a second chance or be kicked out. Sean, 37, is 10 years into a life sentence for rape. He has done time in prisons all over the country; now at Grendon, he is determined to turn his back on crime. "I led a very active criminal lifestyle. That's been one of the things I've struggled with. It's trying to switch that off and not see things in a criminal way. "I committed the rape. That was the point in my life when I thought, I've got to do something. I can't go on like that. The first six months I was put on remand I thought, I can't go on - no more hurting people and totally destroying another human's life. I needed to stop." He, like all of Grendon's inmates, had to volunteer to go there - motivation is crucial. Prisoners have to want to change. "Grendon has taught me how to deal with people, how to communicate. Four years ago I would not have known how to communicate properly. I would have been quite intimidated, but now I feel quite confident about who I see I am as a person. "I can't do with having the victims on my conscience any more. Before I could not see the victims. Now I can. I feel when I'm in other prisons that it's just reinforcing my old behaviour - me against the system. In other prisons I feel like I'm an inmate. Here I feel I'm part of a team who are working towards my progress." If Grendon works, Sean benefits, the taxpayer benefits, society benefits - arguably even his victims benefit, by knowing he is not hurting anyone else in the way they have been hurt by him. Daryl, 35, is serving 10 years for conspiracy to commit an armed robbery. "I'd been a thief all my life. When I got nicked for this I thought to myself, I've got to try and sort my life out. I was sick of my own behaviour but I didn't know how to break away from it." Grendon gave him the chance. To some it looks like a cushy number - more freedom, a softer regime, an easy way to do your time. Others in the prison system can be scornful (prison officers at Grendon are called the Care Bears by colleagues elsewhere). But staff and inmates at Grendon insist it's the toughest way "to do your bird". The therapy is intensive, gruelling, demanding work. "This has been one of the hardest things I've done," says Daryl. "If you are really determined to change all aspects of your life, you have to do things you never thought you would do here. It's hard. You've got all sorts of peer pressures going on. People thinking you are a grass. It's hard to live with all that. Here you've got a chance to change your life. You just couldn't do this in a normal establishment. I believe in myself this time. I want it. That's the most important thing. You've got to want it." But what of Gary Watkins, who spent time in Grendon after being convicted of a vicious sex attack? He volunteered for Grendon; perhaps he too was determined to change. Within a month of his release on parole he kidnapped a 17-year-old girl at knifepoint, dragged her into his car, bound her with ropes and sexually assaulted her. He told Oxford crown court that he had maintained fantasies of assaulting and killing a young girl throughout his treatment. John Shine, Grendon's director of research and development, is realistic about the prison's achievements. "Some people here make enormous changes. Other people we have to be extremely cautious about when assessing the real impact of therapy. We don't know what goes on in their head." Mark Morris, the prison's director of therapy, adds that the Grendon way is not necessarily the right way for every prison or every prisoner. "One of the problems we have is the issue of people who are here to genuinely work on themselves and people who are here because they see it as an easy route. There are people trying to manipulate the structure, trying to get on top of the therapeutic community process to work in their own nefarious ways. Where that manipulative, destructive impulse is at its height, we need settings which are more control-focused." A second therapeutic prison is finally opening later this year, almost 40 years after Grendon began taking in prisoners. HMP Dovegate, at Marchington, east Staffordshire, will offer a further 200 places for prisoners who want to undergo therapy (there are currently 200 prisoners on a waiting list at Grendon), but unlike its role model it will be attached to a 600-bed traditional prison and run by a private company. Maybe that is progress, but it is abysmally slow, and it is against a backdrop of a spiralling prison population and a persistently punitive atmosphere. The prison officer who shows me round Grendon tells me at the end of my visit that he is in favour of bringing back hanging. Perhaps he is kidding. "How can you think that when you work in a place like this?" I ask. "I'm a professional," he says. He does his job according to the rules of Grendon and he does it very well. "But I read the reports; I see what these people have done." Grendon is humane; it is positive; it treats prisoners as human beings, no matter how heinous their crime, and it offers them an alternative. "If you have to have prisons then this is the best way to run them," says Grendon's governor, Tim Newell. But there are those who fear that Grendon is used as a fig leaf to cover up the overwhelming failure of our prison system. While Grendon is a success story, it should not distract us from the bigger question: why do we keep on expanding our prison population when we know it is costly and inefficient, and creates more problems than it solves?