Fire-breathing dragons and deadly scorpions may seem strange subjects for prison art. Perhaps less so given their role in an innovative project involving tattoos.A £6,000 grant from the Koestler Award Trust, which provides art and craft courses in prisons, young offender institutions and psychiatric hospitals, has enabled artists Moira McCarthy and Gino Ballantyne to produce tattoo-inspired art in partnership with prisoners at Wormwood Scrubs."Tattoos are cool, and they appeal to both sexes," explains McCarthy. "They're also part of the culture of being an outsider." Using a mixture of textile dyes, acrylic paint and felt-tip pens, the prisoners created the images on large canvasses, which are displayed along the prison wings. They make the Scrubs seem more like a fashionable warehouse gallery than a secure facility.The aim of the five-week project was to brighten up the environment, using a subject that both officers and prisoners could relate to. It was targeted particularly at inmates felt to be excluded or marginalised, often with little access to education or with a learning disability. Of the 14 who enrolled, 10 completed the project.Angela Herbert, head of learning and skills at the prison, was convinced of the project's potential benefits. "Art is a catalyst, and it has enabled the prisoners to develop self-esteem and take pride in their achievements, in what is essentially a 'negative' environment," she says. "It has also been good for the prison officers to get involved. It has been an integrating experience all round."Trevor Russell, who produced a dragon banner, says: "It's the best thing I've ever done." Other prisoners were similarly enthused. McDowell Morris says: "I've never done anything like this. Moira really inspired me, and helped me to continue. I love it. It has increased my confidence and concentration." Chris Schautsen adds: "I've enjoyed the interaction with people who know about art and could teach us about new materials. I could focus on the picture and lose myself. It's very liberating."However, the prisoners' attitude at the start of the project was very different, recalls McCarthy. "They started out angry and cynical," she says. "But as we progressed, they could see we were professionals who took what they were doing seriously, and communication skills and mutual respect developed."The artists hope to roll out the project to other prisons across the country. But in common with most worthy causes, funding is a problem.·  The banners will be on public display at Wormwood Scrubs on October 19.·  Email salmon@koestler.freeserve.co.uk