A reclusive 84-year-old writer was tortured with hot wax and had his head bludgeoned by a sadistic murderer "trying to bash some secret out of him", the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Allan Chappelow, a distinguished English scholar, was targeted at his ramshackle home in north London by a foreign gang, rather than Wang Yam, a 46-year-old bankrupt accused of stealing Chappelow's identity and raiding his bank accounts, the court heard.Chappelow was found buried beneath a 4ft high pile of his own page proofs from Yale University Press. His face and head had been smashed with a heavy implement. Blood was spattered 4ft to 5ft up the walls and his clothed torso was covered in wax and burns. The killer or killers smoked cigarettes afterwards, the court heard, leaving DNA that was not Yam's.Yam, a 46-year-old British citizen born in China, is accused of the murder of Chappelow and stealing his identity to defraud him of £20,000.Yesterday Geoffrey Robertson QC, defending Yam, admitted his client had used Chappelow's identity, but said he was innocent of his murder in May 2006. He said Chappelow was killed by an unknown male, possibly from a gang led by an Albanian and two "henchmen" from China and probably Malaysia.Yam has told the police that these were the men who passed on Chappelow's cheques and bank cards to allow him to commit the identity theft, the court heard. Much of the trial today will be heard in closed court, Robertson said."This is not a normal case, far from it," he said. "Every other case in this building, almost every trial in this country is held in open court. In this case the crucial evidence will be heard in private ... it is a case where the truth about Yam must never be known to the press or the public.From mid-May to mid-June 2006 Yam attempted to defraud Chappelow of £56,000 that lay in a series of bank accounts, the court heard. By logging on from internet cafes in London and using Chappelow's mobile phone, he tried to take over accounts with HSBC, the Royal Bank of Scotland and ING, said Mark Ellison, prosecuting. He used a Visa card from Sainsbury's in Chappelow's name and applied for accounts with American Express and Morgan Stanley. He obtained a money transfer of £20,000, but his attempts to persuade the banks that he was Chappelow often failed; passwords were wrong and operators thought he sounded oriental and too young.The court saw CCTV footage of him trying to commit fraud in several locations.Robertson said explanations of such "insouciance" from Chappelow "will have to wait until our secret session".Yam had tried to cover the tracks and called the London borough of Camden and EDF to set up direct debits for council tax and electricity, Ellison said. "There was some concern to create the impression that Chappelow was going about his normal business."Eventually, the police were alerted to the raids on Chappelow's various accounts and, after failing to contact him, launched a missing persons inquiry. The court saw video footage of his dilapidated house after police broke down his front door on June 14 2006. There was said to be a strong stench, and flies swarmed around. Sniffer dogs detected something in a downstairs room, the door of which was blocked with a 4ft high pile of paper. After several inspections, officers noticed "a shod foot" poking out. It was Chappelow's corpse, which had been there for at least three weeks. His body was so badly decomposed and beaten by five heavy blows that he had to be identified by his dental records, said Roberston.He said Chappelow was "a kind, genteel man" with a reputation as a local eccentric and recluse. He rode around Hampstead on his motorbike wearing a dressing gown and told neighbours he never cleaned his house because he believed the spirit he shared it with would be disturbed. He did not answer the door to strangers, so may have known his killers."It looks very much from the evidence that he was tortured because hot wax was on his jumper," said Robertson. There was "more blood than Sweeney Todd". "He was thrown down on the floor and stood upon as if trying to bash some secret out of him. Whoever did this, the sadists, then sat there and had a cigarette as there were butts there on the floor." The butts showed traces of DNA of "an unknown male" but not Yam.The jury heard that when police activity became obvious Yam stopped using Chappelow's Sim card to make outgoing calls. He took a Eurostar train to Brussels. He was later extradited from Switzerland.Documents such as Chappelow's passport and address book, containing passwords and Pins, were left in the house - evidence, said Robertson, that the killer was not the identity thief.Both the prosecution and defence said there was no forensic evidence linking Yam to the murder. The trial continues.