British police have been secretly ordered to treat all Irish-born citizens on their patch as potential terrorist suspects, according to a memo leaked to The Observer .The investigation, codenamed Operation Pre-Empt, instructs officers to report all dealings with anyone of Irish descent or background - including the most routine checks on drivers and even reports from suspicious landlords - to Special Branch, as a precaution against a feared terrorist bombing offensive. The crackdown was condemned as racist and offensive by politicians in Northern Ireland and on the mainland last night. Lawyers warned it could be challenged under human-rights legislation, while Sinn Fein called for the matter to be raised in Parliament.'This is a prime example of racism and it has no place whatsoever in any so-called police service,' said a spokesman for Sinn Fein. 'We would call on all Irish organisations in Britain to voice their opinion to this very, very strongly and very, very openly. This sort of activity certainly does not contribute to the search for a reconciliation between our two nations.' The leaked memo comes from Humberside Police, whose patch includes two major ports and a cluster of chemical factories regarded locally as a bombing target. As the storm grew last night, the force's chief constable, David Westwood, rushed out a statement promising a review to ensure that nationality was not used as the basis for suspicion without considering 'all the circumstances'. 'The use of Humberside as a route into the UK mainland to import terrorist devices cannot and will not be ignored,' he said. 'We must take steps to prevent the horror of terrorist action. I am not suggesting all Irish people are terrorists. Our intelligence suggests that the threat relates to Irish terror groups.' The Home Office said last night that it did not believe the practice had spread nationwide. Gareth Peirce, the lawyer who helped the Guildford Four to overturn their convictions, demanded urgent clarification of how many other forces could be secretly operating similar rules. 'This provides an open-ended licence for arbitrary arrest and makes everyone an informer,' she said. 'The police are making an entire community suspect on the basis of national origin. It violates every possible guarantee under the new Human Rights Act.' The memo on forthcoming initiatives, dated 20 October, describes Operation Pre-Empt as a drive to 'identify, prioritise and monitor likely targets for terrorist attack'. It asks divisions and branches to notify Special Branch as soon as possible of 'anyone of Irish origin, descent or background' who is brought into custody, subject to a routine street or driver check, subject to police inquiry 'for any reason', or brought to their attention by members of the public 'in particular when seeking accommodation'. The tactics risk throwing up mountains of low-grade information on innocent Irish people, rather than identifying serious suspects. 'We have all got to be vigi lant against threats from dissident terrorists, but this goes much wider than that. It seems like a racially inspired fishing exercise,' said Robin Corbett, chair of the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee. Humberside has a relatively small Irish community but is strate gically important because of its ports. Any pre-Christmas bombing offensive is thought likely to focus on 'softer targets' outside London. Kevin McNamara, MP for Hull North, and himself of Irish origin, said last night he would table questions to Ministers urgently. 'This is offensive and it is racist,' he said. 'I thought the days of snooping on the Irish were over. This is taking us back to the Seventies.' Jane Winter of British-Irish Rights Watch warned the measures could lead to miscarriages of justice. 'We had hoped the days of "any Irishman will do" were over,' she added. John Wadham of the civil rights organisation Liberty described the techniques as crude racism. 'We need a real shake-up if those protecting us from terrorism have such an unprofessional approach to investigation,' he added. The recent discovery of a 500lb bomb in a horsebox on the outskirts of Belfast, thought to have been des tined for the mainland, underlined the risk of a bombing offensive from the Real IRA republican splinter movement. The row comes at an awkward time, with President Clinton due to fly in on Tuesday for a valedictory tour of the province designed to galvanise the peace process.