A businessman who ran a neighbourhood watch scheme for 18 years has won an £81,000 payout from police after claiming officers kicked, punched, and stamped on him during his arrest, the Guardian has learned.John Moore, 56, was subsequently cleared of all charges, and police have apologised to him for the injuries he suffered at the hands of officers. A medical report showed he received 40 injuries from 30 impacts. Mr Moore alleges he was repeatedly kicked in the head, and had his hands, back, and ankles stamped on. One officer in his arrest has since been promoted. Mr Moore claims that the police disciplinary system failed him when an initial investigation decided that no officer should face charges. It is rare for the police to apologise in cases of alleged brutality where they settle without admitting liability. Mr Moore and his son, Peter, say the "assault" by officers of the British Transport police was on February 21, 1998, at Euston station, London. They were returning from an England rugby international match at Twickenham, and trying to get to their Manchester home, but were thwarted by delayed trains. Police say they were investigating an allegation that a window on a ticket counter had been broken. Mr Moore was approached by a constable. He says the officer never showed his warrant card to prove his identity. Mr Moore said: "I thought it was a scam. The guy who tapped me was six feet two, had a skinhead haircut and was not well dressed. "I was pulled forward and kneed in the thigh from behind. I landed with my hands out on the floor, which were immediately stamped on. I pulled them underneath me, but my leather jacket was pulled over my head so I could not see. I was kicked and punched in the mid back and side of the head several times, and then it just went hazy. I thought I was being mugged." Mr Moore says he passed out and came round face down and handcuffed on the floor of a police station, where he alleges officers verbally taunted him. He and his son were cleared of charges of criminal damage and assaulting the police, charges that he alleges were trumped up. British Transport police settled before a court heard Mr Moore's claims of false imprisonment, assault and battery and malicious prosecution. It has also agreed to pay his costs. In a letter, the transport police admitted the attempt to detain Mr Moore led to his injuries, and that he was left "badly bruised as a result of the force used against him by several police officers". The apology continues: "The police apologise unreservedly to John and Peter Moore for the fact that injuries were caused to them, particularly to John Moore. It is always a matter of serious regret if members of the public are injured at the hands of police officers." The credibility of an investigation by the police complaints authority was undermined when it emerged it had failed to interview a witness to the incident. It is now reinvestigating. Mr Moore attacked the way his complaint of brutality was dealt with: "I'm disgusted. They seem to look after the bad apples, instead of getting rid of them. "The police complaints system appears to be run by the police for the police." A police spokesman said in all but exceptional circumstances it was unacceptable for its officers to stamp on people: "We accept [the Moores] are innocent of any charges. We would say the arrest was lawful. Both of them had been drinking. The force used by the officers was proportionate. We would stand by their actions." The spokesman said the magistrate at Mr Moore's original trial for criminal damage had found police had not "attacked" him and that he was responsible for all that happened. The magistrate found Mr Moore guilty only of criminal damage, but this was overturned on appeal. Mr Moore's solicitor Daniel Machover said: "You have to ask why the police settled this case and abjectly apologised, if they really think that proportionate force was used. They do everything with bad grace and without proper accountability."