Tony Blair's knee-jerk response to the recent murders of youths in British cities (Blair blames spate of murders on black culture, April 12) is once again the rhetoric of populist authoritarianism. There is little or no attempt to grasp the wider social and economic conditions that have led to such "gang culture", which is common in all British cities and not peculiar to black communities. Blair's speech was a paean to the wonders of New Labour's regeneration of British cities. But the very processes that have seen the transformation of the cities have also intensified the inequalities in British life, in particular among the already disadvantaged. As the social structure of Britain becomes more and more like that of the US, so its social problems resemble those of American cities. Just as in the US there has been the wholesale criminalisation and incarceration of young black males, so too this is happening in Britain, as Patricia Scotland has indicated to the home affairs select committee. The failure to deal with the systematic exclusion of too many young black males in British society lies firmly at the door of this government. Dr Richard SmithLecturer in sociology, Royal Holloway College, University of LondonThe next generation of knife killers are currently at primary school - black, white or otherwise. Addressing the problems with adult weapons - whether it be mandatory sentencing or more police initiatives - is not going to get to the root of the problem. Nor is blaming it on a generalised and misrepresented view of black culture. What the government needs to do is increase the resources available for primary schools to work with vulnerable children who are the victims of both social and emotional deprivation, or worse, and support them as they find ways of dealing with their destructive and violent feelings. If they are left to fend for themselves we will continue to have generations of children looking for identity and family in the form of gangs, where all their anger and desolation can be projected on to others through violence and killings. Sure, we need to tackle the physical manifestations of social deprivation, but ignoring the emotional impacts will have a heavy price. R MacleodSchool counsellor, LondonTony Blair's comments, blaming "black culture" for the spate of murders of young people, do not help those trying to tackle this problem. Significant research links the prominence of crime with deprivation; culture is not the cause. In fact, many in the black community work to eliminate this violence. The government should not try to absolve itself from its responsibilities in tackling this issue. Blaming black culture just encourages inaccurate racial stereotypes which help fuel racism and can only aid the political campaign of the BNP. Milena BuyumNational Assembly Against Racism