The former wife of Siôn Jenkins, the deputy head convicted of murdering his foster-daughter Billie-Jo, lied to prevent vital evidence which might have cleared him from being heard at his trial, the appeal court was told yesterday.Lois Jenkins was so convinced of her husband's guilt, and so terrified by the prospect of him returning home, that she misled police about the accounts their two eldest daughters gave of the day Billie-Jo died, it was claimed. The daughters, Annie and Lottie, 12 and 10 at the time, could have proved that their father did not have time to kill Billie-Jo, three appeal court judges were told. But at his trial in 1998 Jenkins' legal team refused to call the girls because Ms Jenkins claimed they had changed their stories and had turned against him. Lottie will today give evidence in court for the first time about the day Billie-Jo died, after flying from Tasmania where the family now lives. The court will also watch a video statement made by Annie. Mrs Jenkins is due to appear on Monday. Next week the appeal court in London will also hear details of new evidence which Jenkins's side claims will show that 150 microscopic spots of Billie-Jo's blood found on his clothes got there as he tended the girl, not as he killed her. Jenkins, 46, was convicted of battering Billie-Jo to death with a tent peg as she painted on the family's patio in Hastings, East Sussex, in February 1997. The prosecution argued successfully that he murdered the 13-year-old in a three-minute period after returning home with Annie and Lottie and before he set off on a shopping trip to a DIY store with them. But in one police interview, Annie said she recalled saying "goodbye" to Billie-Jo as they left for the store while Lottie told officers her father came out of the house almost immediately after they did, leaving him only seconds to have killed Billie-Jo. Lottie also said she was certain the side gate was shut when they left, but open when they returned. The appeal court heard that 10 days after the murder, the police told Lois about the blood spots found on her husband's clothing and she became convinced he was guilty. She also believed he had "coached" his children to give police a story which backed his version of events. Clare Montgomery QC, for Jenkins, said Mrs Jenkins was in an "impossible position". She added: "There was here a mother who believed her husband had killed her child." Miss Montgomery said Ms Jenkins realised that Lottie and Annie's evidence could lead to "her dangerous and murderous husband" being released. Miss Montgomery quoted Ms Jenkins' recollection of the day she was told about the scientific evidence. Ms Jenkins recalled: "Steve [a detective] sat 3ft from me for 25 minutes looking me in the eyes convincing me that Siôn had committed this crime without a shadow of doubt ... I was faced with a situation where I had to protect myself and my children." The court was told that Ms Jenkins began telling the police the daughters were making comments which conflicted with their initial accounts. Most damningly, it was claimed that Lottie "knew" her father had killed Billie-Jo, albeit by accident. Miss Montgomery claimed that after the murder Mrs Jenkins' suspicions began to be given voice via the daughters. For example, Miss Montgomery said, Annie had discussed the idea that her father had liked Billie-Jo better and used to "flirt" with her. Jenkins' legal team decided not to call the girls to give evidence at Lewes crown court. This decision had "disastrous consequences". In February 2002 officials from the Criminal Cases Review Commission, together with officers from Kent police, reinterviewed Annie and Lottie. According to Miss Montgomery the girls denied making the damaging comments. Lottie, for instance, said she did not remember saying she thought her father had killed Billie-Jo. Turning to the evidence, Miss Montgomery claimed experts would argue that a fine "mist" of Billie-Jo's blood could have been "hovering" in the air as Jenkins leant over the girl to help her. The appeal continues.