"What happened?" a Japanese lady resident unaware of the news asked me at the cordoned off crime scene cum media circus of Ealing Green on Tuesday morning. As deputy mayoress of the borough 2010-11, I tried to explain the inexplicable. "But it's always so quiet round here", she insisted. "I thought they were filming something". Yes London's Ealing, home of comedy film has become a scene of post-riot carnage and a murder inquiry. The fire at the badly burned building on the corner had been extinguished but emergency services were still omnipresent. A zombie-like state of disbelief prevailed; people photographed smashed-up shops on mobiles as the last burnt-out cars were cleared away. Locals had brought brooms in a "big society" style clean-up. Nobody ever thought it would happen here.If Ealing's proximity to Sky and the BBC made camera crews piling in predictable, the circumstances were so unforeseeable that local police had been deployed to other potential riot locations on Monday. The prefix of "Ealing" with the obligatory word "leafy" in media reports has historical precedent. Victorian villa building plus rail connections saw it dubbed "queen of the suburbs" in the late 1800s. Indeed suburbia equates with safety, middle England and middle age: an antidote to the evils of the city. Hence Ealing (and Croydon) as site of hordes of swarming youths terrorising police was so counter-intuitive.But then maybe this was more of a shopping spree than a riot. Most looting targets were for high-value goods where possible. The Tesco Local was largely liberated of fags and booze. Ealing Broadway and neighbouring west Ealing had declined in the face of recession and developments like the nearby Westfield mega-mall (being guarded by Ealing police while Ealing blazed) anyway. Now things are in a more sorry state. As a friend remarked of post-looting Salford, "how can they tell?"Ealing's residential roads where homes were looted are not cheap streets – a semi for £3m anyone? Where sought-after kit proved elusive (the video of looters trying and failing at Bang Olufsen Ealing went viral) anything in their path sufficed, like a florist or designer baby boutique. Along with an electrical store run by an Indian couple for 40 years, these already struggling independent, family-run small businesses that were cleared out were not symbols of capitalist multinationalism and had nothing to do with government cuts or withdrawing youth services.In 1987 Thatcher declared that something must be done about "those inner cities". The thrust of New Labour regeneration too was focused mostly on city centres – pedestrianisation here, a spaceship-like arts centre there. The suburbs seen as "out of the way" places "where nothing ever happens" have long been ignored, making them more and more "dormitory towns"; easy targets for looters from in and inside their boundaries. There has long been a complete disavowal or denial of suburbia from all sides, the current marketing from boroughs like ours stresses "vibrancy" in a quest to be attractive. Now rioting and looting have sealed the status of the suburb as the new inner city.I have argued in the past that we're witnessing socio-spatial convergence, as suburbia becomes more urban and the inner city gets more suburban with gentrification converting multi-occupancy inner-city houses back into family homes. I never imagined my point would be proved in such a dramatic way as the events of Monday night. Nonetheless as the mess gets cleared up, the burbs now need to be taken seriously by policymakers, beyond Boris platitudes at election time, as everyone tries make sense of how and why our once-presumed sense of suburban calm has been so shattered.