Security and the fight against crime were the main themes of today's Queen's speech, which was attacked by government critics as adding to a climate of fear.Measures to create a British elite police squad similar to the FBI, introduce ID cards to combat terrorism, and extend the drug testing of minor criminals were among the 32 bills announced.A draft counter-terrorism bill - expected to include no-jury terrorism trials and the court use of evidence obtained by phone tapping - was included in the list of bills. The new terrorism laws will not be introduced until after the next election, which is expected to be held next spring. The Queen said the theme of the next parliamentary session would be "security and opportunity for all". Other measures were designed to make people feel more secure in their own homes and on the streets by tackling antisocial behaviour and juvenile crime. Proposed powers to combat animal rights extremists were also revealed. FBI-style crime agencyThe new Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) will attempt to crack down on drug gangs, people traffickers, major fraudsters and internet paedophiles.The elite new squad will consist of around 5,000 investigators, taken from a number of existing law enforcement agencies, and will be set up under the serious organised crime and police bill. It will replace the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and investigation teams at HM Customs and Excise and the Immigration Service. Sir Stephen Lander, a former head of MI5, has been appointed as Soca chairman, and has said he favours allowing evidence from phone taps to be used in British courts for the first time. He said there would have to be "robust arrangements" to protect sources and techniques. The security services have voiced fears that electronic surveillance techniques would be exposed to scrutiny. The bill will include a "radical overhaul" of police officers' powers under the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act, and extend the powers of community support officers and police civilian staff. It will also create a new offence of incitement to religious hatred in order to protect people, particularly Muslims, from hate attacks. The police will gain new powers to take the DNA samples and fingerprints of minor criminals. Civil liberties campaigners have described the new powers were "disproportionate" to their threat. Today's speech referred to a consultation paper, published in August, which suggested making every offence arrestable. The paper asked whether police should be able to fingerprint and photograph suspects at any time, rather than just when they were in a police station. Plans to reform search warrants so that they apply to any premises occupied or accessed by a named person have also been revealed. Drugs The drugs bill will introduce powers to test offenders on arrest, rather than only after they have been charged.It will give the police new powers to tackle dealers who hide evidence or claim drugs are for their personal use, and double the maximum amount of time for which officers can keep suspected drug dealers in custody, so drugs have time to pass through their bodies. Judges will be able to direct a jury to draw an inference from the fact that a suspect has refused permission for a body cavity search. ID cardsThe widely-anticipated bill to create a compulsory national identity card was announced today. David Blunkett, the home secretary, believes the database will help tackle illegal immigration, identity theft and terrorism. Opponents claim ID cards represent an invasion of personal privacy by the state. The biometric cards will be phased in from 2007-8, when everyone applying for a passport will have to pay £85 for an ID card as well. Animal rights extremistsA crackdown on animal rights extremists will be incorporated in the serious organised crime and police bill, which will encopmass provisions strengthening police powers to combat harassment of those engaged in animal research. The bill will strengthen existing police powers to direct protesters away from people's homes by making it an offence for a person who is subject to a direction to return to the vicinity within a specified period of up to three months. A new offence of protesting outside homes in a way that causes "harassment, alarm or distress" to residents will also be introduced. Security at home and at workThe clean neighbourhoods and environment bill will give local councils more powers to tackle fly-tipping, abandoned cars, noise nuisance and light pollution, with measures such as spot fines introduced. A road safety bill is set to give police new powers to tackle drink-driving and uninsured drivers, and also ensure that foreign drivers cannot escape punishment in Britain. It will also introduce tougher fines for drivers who use mobile phones while driving, along with a new graduated points system for speeding. The prime minister, Tony Blair, also fulfilled his promise to trades unions for action on corporate manslaughter with the inclusion of a draft bill in the programme.