Detectives hunting one of Britain's worst serial sex attackers today revealed that he may have claimed three new victims.The rapist, who preys on elderly women in their homes, has been linked to more than 100 offences in and around London over the last 12 years. Police said he gets in through the windows of his targets' homes, cuts electricity and phone cables, and often engages in conversation with his victims. In previous years, he is believed to have carried out increased numbers of offences over the Christmas period, and police have said this could be when he has time off work. They today urged people to remain extra vigilant of elderly relatives living alone.A police spokeswoman said the sex attacker - whose offences include rape, indecent assault and burglary - had struck at least 34 times, and had been linked to a further 80 crimes. A Scotland Yard hunt - codenamed Minstead - has been set up to catch him. Detectives have been investigating three recent break-ins in south-east England, Scotland Yard confirmed. The most recent happened at an address in West Wickham, near Croydon, on November 20, when an 80-year-old man was burgled. The other incidents took place on October 8 near Shooters Hill, between Woolwich and Welling, and on September 8 at Grove Park, Bromley. The victims were women aged 81 and 84. Psychologists have said the rapist is a gerontophile - someone who is sexually obsessed with elderly people. His victims have been aged between 68 and 93. DNA ancestral testing has established that his origins are in the Caribbean, and indicates that he is descended from native Americans, Europeans and sub-Saharan Africans who, at various times, have colonised the Caribbean. Detectives initially identified more than 20,000 possible suspects who fitted his geographical and racial profile.The attacker is believed to be aged between 25 and 35 and black, possibly with pale skin. He is between 5ft8in and 6ft1in tall, speaks in a soft voice and strikes at night, wearing a balaclava and black nylon catsuit, which police believe could be a motorcycle outfit. A £40,000 reward is on offer for key information leading to his capture. Detective Superintendent Simon Morgan, who is leading the police hunt, said: "I have strong evidence which will be used to identify this individual. I urge the public to think very carefully about anyone they suspect could be the offender." The stalker has struck across south London, Surrey and Kent, in places including Shirley, Orpington, Warlingham, Forest Hill, East Dulwich and Sidcup. During the most violent attack, the man raped an 88-year-old twice in August 1999, leaving her with a perforated bowel.