On Wednesday, online criminals decided to attack the UK broadband provider TalkTalk. This wasn’t an attack aimed at interrupting its ability to do business or provide its services, this was an attack the goal of which seemed to be accessing the personal data of its millions of customers. Unfortunately, it was successful.TalkTalk have so far revealed little about the precise nature of the attack. In all likelihood this is a product of the fact that the forensic investigation is ongoing, and by its very nature complex to conclude.The facts as we understand them today are these.TalkTalk cyber-attack: company has received 'ransom demand' TalkTalk was attacked on 21 October, although they have described the attack as “significant and sustained”, perhaps indicating that the initial criminal access may have begun considerably earlier.TalkTalk’s website was taken offline “as soon as they noticed unusual activity”. The site went offline at 3:30pm on 21 October.Customer data so far identified as at risk includes names, addresses, dates of birth, email addresses, telephone numbers and, perhaps most significantly, “TalkTalk account information, credit card details and bank details”. “Not all of the data was encrypted”. What is unclear is which data, if any, was protected by encryption.Although TalkTalk states unequivocally in its FAQs that it has not breached the Data Protection Act, as “this was a criminal attack”, that conclusion may be both premature and presumptuous. The seventh principle of the act states: “Appropriate technical and organisational measures shall be taken against unauthorised or unlawful processing of personal data and against accidental loss or destruction of, or damage to, personal data.”There is a very strong case to be made that such a large volume of extremely sensitive data should have been more effectively protected. Even in the event that the attackers used a previously unknown vulnerability to access the data in question, it should have all been encrypted and thus useless to the attacker in the event of a data breach. This is not a verdict for TalkTalk to reach independently; this is for the Information Commissioner to decide.Why is this data attractive to criminals?Online crime is a firmly established underground business: criminal groups and individuals exist in all countries of the world who trade in and benefit from stolen personal and financial data. The bigger the database, the more attractive it is to an attacker.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘What is unclear is which data, if any, was protected by encryption.’ Photograph: Christian Sinibaldi for the GuardianThe information accessed or stolen in the TalkTalk breach contains enough detail for it to be valuable for resale in online underground marketplaces and also for it to be useful in perpetrating secondary attacks, either against the individuals impacted or against financial institutions for the purposes of fraud.If you are, or have been, a customer of TalkTalk now is a time for increased vigilance against email or telephone-based attacks or attempts to glean further information from those already victimised.Change your TalkTalk password. If you used that password for any other service, then you should be changing those passwords too. Criminals will attempt to use exposed passwords to access any other account that can be associated with the victim.Be wary of any communication that appears to come from TalkTalk, whether by telephone or email. TalkTalk have been contacting their customers to apologise and inform but their communication should not request any details from you or contain any links for you to click. If you do need to access TalkTalk’s online services use your own bookmarks or simply type the address into your web browser.Similarly, this data may be used to further compromise TalkTalk customers by telephone. If you receive an unsolicited call purporting to come from a TalkTalk representative do not give away any information, simply hang up and call the TalkTalk customer service line yourself. Unfortunately, you can’t trust that the incoming number displayed on your telephone is real, this kind of data is very easy to spoof.Keep a close eye on your accounts for unauthorised transactions, even for very small amounts – these are often used as “test transactions” before a larger fraud is made and make sure you use the free credit monitoring being offered by TalkTalk in this instance. The less you broadcast, the more you can begin the long process of reclaiming ownership over your own identity The truth is that we now live in a world where information is currency, and all data has value. We are encouraged to believe that many online services are free, when in reality we are paying with our information. While data such as names, addresses and dates of birth are difficult to change in the event of a breach, there are a few things that we should all be doing to keep ourselves safer from compromise.It is never a good idea to use the same password across multiple websites, so try to have a unique one for every site you use or, better yet, use a password manager, which offers you the convenience of only having to remember a single “master password” with the security of unique passwords for every service.As for your “security questions” for password resets, consider whether the answers are really secure. Secure means that you are the only person who can answer the question. If the possibility exists to create your own questions, use it. If you are obliged to answer more standard questions such as “first school” or “first pet”, remember the answer doesn’t have to be the truth, it only has to be something you can remember.We live in an age where everything is increasingly connected to everything else: accounts, applications, APIs, credentials, devices, personal details and more. The less you broadcast, the more you can begin the long process of reclaiming ownership over your own identity. A process which, for most of us, is long overdue.