Sir John Stevens, London's police chief, yesterday called for evangelical Christians to enlist for the fight against crime in the capital.The Metropolitan police commissioner, himself a practising member of the Church of England, insisted that "evangelical fire" was needed particularly to target disaffected youngsters who account for nearly three-quarters of all offenders. He called on evangelicals - often seen as the Bible-bashing, socially conservative, sometimes reactionary, wing of the Anglican and nonconformist movements - to take a greater role in weaning teenagers from crime, and suggested more practising Christians should join up as officers. The call is likely to be met with reservations from other Christian groups - who point out that they already contribute to society's moral values - and from non-believers concerned by the commissioner's messianic zeal. Senior members of the Evangelical Alliance are to meet Sir John in coming weeks to discuss ways of collaborating. The alliance, which is launching a values advertising campaign on the theme of forgiveness, also issued a 10 point plan, including praying for the police and even adopting individual officers and police stations to offer them support. Sir John told a council meeting of the alliance in London: "There has to be some way the churches and police can work together in a meaningful way to deliver something to those people who need our help. I see evangelical fire driving us onwards, being radical, being brave." Statistics released by the commissioner indicate that in London 70% of offenders are aged under 18. They are responsible for 72% of robberies, 55% of street crime, 57% of car thefts, 32% of criminal damage and 22% of domestic burglaries. Many victims are under 18 too - a quarter of a million crimes in the capital last year. Sir John said research following the murder of Damilola Taylor showed that in each borough about 60 to 80 youngsters were responsible for a predominance of crimes. "They have no family support, every single one has been in care from the age of five or six. While they were in care they were physically and mentally abused, in some cases sexually abused. In nearly every case they reported (these assaults) to the authorities and they did nothing about it. Every single one has no person to look up to, to respect and love, other than someone who runs a gang," he said. Sir John, who acknowledged there are now more churches running youth workers and clubs than local authorities, called for more resources for social workers. Afterwards, he said his call for evangelical help was about giving youngsters hope: "If people have got hope they don't get involved in crime." Joel Edwards, general director of the alliance, said: "If people of faith get involved they can impregnate their values into the community. Sir John is saying things which are central to us."