The "Crossbow Cannibal" serial killer could continue his criminology doctorate while in prison, it emerged today.Stephen Griffiths, 40, was sentenced to a whole life tariff yesterday at Leeds crown court after admitting the murders of Susan Rushworth, 43, a mother of three and grandmother; Shelley Armitage, 31, a mother of two; and Suzanne Blamires, 36. All three women worked in Bradford's red light district, where Griffiths lived.Mr Justice Openshaw told Griffiths he would die in prison after admitting the "wicked and monstrous" murders of the women, whose bodies he dismembered and claimed to have eaten.Griffiths, who had a long history of mental illness, was said to be obsessed with serial killers. He is a part-time PhD student at Bradford University and is writing a thesis titled Homicide in an Industrial City – Violence in Bradford 1847-1899.A spokeswoman for Bradford University said it was an unusual case and Griffiths would have to apply to the university to continue with his studies."He has not done so," she said. "If he did, we would have to look at the university's regulations and make an assessment. So far, there has been no request."The university's vice-chancellor, Professor Mark Cleary, said: "Our thoughts go out to the friends and families of the three women so tragically killed. We hope the convictions yesterday will bring them some comfort at this difficult time."The judge said when sentencing Griffiths that he had shown no remorse and never said he was sorry, even in the most perfunctory way.Griffiths, who has a psychology degree from Leeds University, lived in a housing association flat on the edge of Bradford's red light district stuffed with books and documents relating to homicide.He once told a probation officer he would become a murderer in his 30s. Examined 19 years ago by a psychiatrist, he was described as a "sadistic, schizoid psychopath".Griffiths made a number of disturbing videos and recordings, including one of Armitage lying dead in a bath and an unidentified victim bound with green twine on his living room floor.Within an hour of murdering Blamires, the last of this three victims, Griffiths had approached another street worker and offered her £80 for an hour to go the flat where Blamires's body lay. Had she agreed, she could have been his fourth victim.A West Yorkshire police spokeswoman said it was likely the victims' families would be upset if Griffiths was allowed to continue with his studies. The families have said they do not want to make further statements to the media.Susan Rushworth's daughter Kirsty Rushworth, 21, who stormed out of court yesterday, swearing at Griffiths, said: "All my family want is for him to tell us where my mother is. We don't know what he's done with her and we want to put her to rest."The other families have been able to do that, but we don't have a body and with no body there's no death certificate. He's ruined our lives."Shelley Armitage's mother, Gill ,said she would be haunted by what Griffiths had done for the rest of her life.