There is no doubt that crime will prove to be a crucial campaign issue in the general election and, assuming the farming crisis does not knock the election schedule into late summer, we will be hearing much more from our politicians on this subject over the next few months.The government's 10-year crime plan Criminal Justice: The Way Ahead, launched this week, is its latest attempt to seize the initiative on what is considered to be a key election battleground. The plan is primarily aimed at the core of 100,000 persistent offenders estimated to be responsible for half of all serious crime in England and Wales.It makes sense to target those offenders who commit a large slice of crime. After all, who wants a criminal justice system that treats everyone the same regardless of patterns of criminality? An offender who has committed a number of increasingly unpleasant assaults represents a different risk to one who uncharacteristically gets into a fight after downing too many pints on a Friday night.But the real challenge is in implementing this principle. On some measures, the government's plan looks good. There are plans to increase funding for prison-based offender behaviour programmes and to improve prisoner education and training opportunities. No one is likely to oppose better supervision on release for prisoners serving short sentences while plans for more flexible community sentences should increase sentencers' confidence that they will work. But on other measures, there must be some question marks over the government's strategy. Take their plans for an extra 2,660 prison places and the commitment to longer prison sentences for persistent offenders.The courts have always had powers to hand out longer sentences to persistent offenders than to first timers, but the sentence must be proportionate to the seriousness of the offence. Otherwise there is a risk of sentencing the repeat burglar more harshly than the first time rapist. They may both be unpleasant offences but society rightly considers sexual offences to be more serious than crimes against property and sentencing should reflect this.It is increasingly recognised that the "prison works" mantra is nonsense. Most crime is committed by young men, typically under the age of 21, yet more than two-thirds reoffend on release from prison. Even if improved supervision and resettlement support help to reduce offending, the continued reliance on prison to achieve this is doomed to failure. Many of the 100,000 hardcore offenders suffer from homelessness, drug abuse, poor education and unemployment. It is difficult to see how a spell in prison will solve these problems. In fact, prison often compounds these problems by wrenching them out of the communities to which they will have to return on release. Intensive community supervision based on evidence of what works would be a better bet for many offenders.This all comes down to basic questions about how crime can best be tackled and the role of the criminal justice system in that process. Out of all the crime reported by the police, convicted offenders make up only 9%. One Sunday newspaper reported that the government hopes to end another 100,000 crimes in convictions, cautions or taking incidents "into consideration" by 2004. Though an admirable aim, this would still not dramatically improve clear up rates.The criminal justice system alone will never tackle crime because so much of it is tied up in unemployment, poor housing, education and drug abuse. Though this is tacitly acknowledged by the government's plan, it is a long way from rising to prominence in political rhetoric on crime reduction.