Screeching headlines about the rise in crime among young girls says more about society's attitude towards women than it does about "girl crime". Experts have already pointed out that the 25% increase in female offences discovered in a new report (pdf) over the last three years is unlikely to reflect real changes. Instead, the figures have been explained by an increase in the total number of girls in that age group, and a change in recording. Women aren't committing more crimes; police have simply become more willing to take action against the smaller offences that this group is likely to commit such as fights in the playground, shoplifting and criminal damage.Yet, this doesn't seem to have stopped media outlets ringing their hands over an alleged increase in dangerous damsels. Editors seem anxious to confirm the public's suspicion that society has "gone to the dogs". The behaviour of our young people - and of young girls, in particular - is often held up as a test of how our society is functioning. In this case, despite the explanations behind the statistics, we seem to have failed.So, why the big fuss? As women, we are not supposed to get our hands dirty with crime and "that sort of thing" - we are supposed to behave properly. But what reason do we have for believing that there aren't just as many bad girls out there as bad boys? Ultimately, these figures are more shocking to us because of our gender stereotypes.When guys get rat-arsed and violent, it's a natural Friday night out. When a girl does it, she's unhinged and out of control. This attitude is reflected in our treatment of celebrities - Pete Doherty and Johnny Rotten are cool and anarchic; Amy Winehouse and Britney Spears are off their rockers.Don't get me wrong: I'm not advocating that girls should go out and commit just as many crimes as boys in the name of equality. I'm simply saying that society should react to the same crime with the same level of outrage, and not put more emphasis on offences committed by girls in light of their gender. A crime is wrong because it has some detrimental affect on another person's welfare, not because it is committed by someone of a particular sex.The headline from this report should be that overall youth crime (the vast majority of which is still committed by men) has gone down; the fact that "girl crime" has gone up is a secondary concern.In any case, reporting the way we are can do more harm than good. I don't know about the other young women out there, but when I have been told off for not being a "good little girl", I don't feel like acting like one - I feel like sticking my tongue out and saying, "damn right".