A new breed of civilian patrol officers will be given the power to use "reasonable force" to detain suspects, under a new police white paper unveiled by the home secretary today.Mr Blunkett made the announcement as part of one of the most radical shake-ups of the police force for several decades.Other measures announced, which are expected to be in the final police bill next year, include more rigorous assessments of officer's health, to end so-called "Spanish practices" of long sick leave and early retirement, and rudimentary league tables.While those were welcomed by most MPs in the chamber, from all three parties, Mr Blunkett's plan to give increased powers to the new "community support officers", including security guards and private security firms, will arouse opposition from civil liberties groups and some rank-and-file police officers. The CSOs would be used to carry out police duties such as house-to-house and missing person inquiries, victim support, analysing CCTV footage and dealing with street-corner yobs. Thousands of CSOs, unveiled in Mr Blunkett's white paper on police reform, would be uniformed and under the direction of local police commanders. Asked how they would defend themselves from attack, home office minister John Denham did not rule out that they could be armed with defensive weapons such as CS spray and batons. "We aren't envisaging them carrying extensive weaponry, that's something chief officers will have to determine on both their legal responsibilities and training," he said. The government denied charges of "policing on the cheap". It said the CSOs would be in addition to its target of having 130,000 police officers by the end of March 2003. Asked if the public would see CSOs simply as failed police officers, Mr Denham said: "I don't think that's true, people accept traffic wardens, for example, although in certain instances they may be critical of them. He added: "There will be a set of responsible, able people who want to take on this role who do not, for their own reasons, want to go on and become a fully fledged police officer." The CSOs' duties would also include: · Checking on truants and people with curfews  · Dealing with abandoned vehicles  · Crowd stewarding  · Graffiti removal  · Cordoning off crime scenes  · Issuing fixed penalty notices for dog fouling or dropping litter.They would act as the "eyes and ears" of the police, particularly at times of terrorist threat. They would have the power to require someone's name and address and detain, although not arrest, them while they await the arrival of a police officer. The white paper also proposes a scheme in which organisations, including private security firms, could be given powers by the police, although these would not include the power to detain.Employees of the so-called accredited community safety organisations would only have powers in a particular area, for instance security guards in the shopping centre where they work. Their powers would be subject to annual review by the police.They would also act as eyes and ears for the police, keeping in contact with the local beat officer and passing on information. Anyone accredited by the scheme would wear a badge o kitemark. The government said it believes the existence of more accredited "authority figures" with direct links to the police would "make a real difference to the local quality of life".Employers would have to seek accreditation for their staff and chief constables would have to agree to it. Mr Blunkett also proposed giving himself new powers to sack a chief police officer who fails to bring crime rates down. Currently the home secretary can only intervene and force a top policeman to step down over misconduct or other disciplinary matters. The white paper says: "The likelihood of circumstances arising which require the removal of a chief officer must be very rare. "Nonetheless, it is prudent to ensure that proper arrangements are in place should they ever need to be used." The home secretary would also get powers to direct a chief constable to bring in measures to improve their force's performance. Other proposals in the white paper include: · Creation of a national centre for policing excellence to train officers in the best techniques and theories of investigation.  · A new breed of specialist detectives who will be trained to a high standard and "play a lead role in the development and execution of strategies for difficult and complex investigations". · Granting certain police powers to civilian investigators working in specialist areas such as financial and computer crime.  · A pilot scheme of a non-emergency contact number called police direct, to begin in spring 2003, which would take pressure off 999 operators over less urgent incidents. It is thought the number would be 888. · Setting up the long-awaited independent police complaints commission, in which civilians will play a greater role in investigating complaints against officers.  · Bringing police forces which are not under Home Office control, such as Ministry of Defence Police and British Transport Police, under the scope of the new police complaints commission. The document also confirms that civilian staff in police stations will get new powers and responsibilities. For example, civilian jailers would be able to carry out searches, use reasonable force to take fingerprints and escort suspects inside and outside the station. Civilian caseworkers will also do more of the paperwork involved with bringing a court case to free up officers' time, enabling them to spend more hours on the beat. The reforms will mean foreign nationals are able to serve in the police for the first time. The oath of allegiance taken by officers will be amended - but will still include a reference to the Queen. The new oath will also make clear that officers have a duty to protect all those living in the UK, not just British subjects.