The conviction of Nigel Farmer and Daniel Sonnex for the horrific murders in June 2008 of two French students, Gabriel Ferez and Laurent Bonomo, is the probation equivalent of Baby P. It will inevitably prompt much publicity and recrimination. Indeed, the process has been going on behind the scenes for months. It has already led to the fall of one of the finest managers in the Probation Service. David Scott, formerly Chief Officer for the London Probation Area, and Chairman of the Probation Chief Officers Association, resigned in February after being told by Jack Straw that he faced suspension and a "performance capability review" over the affair. More heads may be called for – which is why it's important to get a few things straight.Ferez and Bonomo were French students in London undertaking research at Imperial College. On 29 June 2008, they were the victims of a burglary which led to their being bound, tortured and killed by Farmer and Sonnex, who stabbed their victims scores of times both before and after death, and then tried to conceal the crime by setting fire to the ground floor flat in New Cross, south east London, where the attack took place.It is Sonnex who gives rise to most concern because, at the material time, he was subject to probation supervision. He was released from prison in February 2008, having served two thirds of an eight-year sentence for four counts of robbery, wounding, assault while attempting to resist arrest and possession of an imitation firearm. At the two-thirds point in his sentence, having not been earlier granted parole, he had to be released.Then, at the time of the murders, he was the subject of further criminal proceedings. On 1 May 2008, he appeared before Greenwich magistrates' court for handling stolen goods and was remanded in custody. But two weeks later, Greenwich magistrates, sitting at Belmarsh prison, granted him unconditional bail.Meanwhile, Sonnex's supervising probation officer initiated proceedings to revoke his licence and, on 13 June, the notice to recall him to prison was faxed to the relevant unit in the Home Office. But Sonnex was nonetheless released from custody following the magistrates' decision and, at the time of the murders, 13 days later, he remained at large.This is the crux of the matter. Had the system worked as it should, Sonnex would have been in custody on 29 June. And had he been, it seems likely that Ferez and Bonomo would be alive today.A serious further offence (SFO) inquiry has already taken place within the Probation Service, as well as an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). Enough may already be established for Jack Straw not to need to ask the chief inspector of probation to report on the case as he did following the conviction of Anthony Rice for the murder of Naomi Bryant in August 2005, and Damien Hanson and Elliot White for the murder of John Monkton in December 2005. In both cases, the chief inspector identified serious deficiencies in decision-making, in the communication of information between criminal justice agencies and in supervision.Serious issues remain to be answered, however, in the case of Sonnex, and one hopes that attention will now be given to the context within which this tragedy took place. The SFO has already revealed questions about whether Sonnex was subject to an appropriate risk-rating, whether information regarding his behaviour was appropriately acted upon and whether sufficient priority was given to the case by the different agencies. This is where the comparisons to social work and the Baby P case will be made.There is a major question to be asked about overall Probation Service resources and caseloads, particularly in London. Sonnex's supervisor in the Lewisham probation team was simultaneously handling 127 cases, and yet she had qualified less than a year earlier. The Lewisham team was desperately shortstaffed, overloaded and ill-served by communication systems. The Lewisham team also topped the prison recall league for London, while the number of recalls nationally to prison increased six-fold in the period 2000-07. Recalls are now a major factor in our record prison population, many of them are technical rather than necessary, so there are pressures within the system to reduce their number.The fact is that the government has been sending out mixed messages to penal decision-makers. Were we to reserve for the attention of our prison and probation services those offenders who really merit them, we might avoid the pain of cases such as Ferez and Bonomo. And we might still enjoy the much-needed leadership of honourable probation managers like David Scott. It is not necessarily in Lewisham that heads need to roll.