Seven people, including a former Sinn Féin councillor, have been arrested in the Irish republic and more than £2m in sterling seized in an operation against IRA money laundering, with possible links to the £26.5m Northern Bank raid.In a series of raids across County Cork and Dublin, large sums of cash were seized including a stash of £60,000 in Northern Bank notes. The notes were last night awaiting forensic investigation by Gardaí before police could establish whether serial numbers matched notes stolen in the Northern Bank robbery on December 20. If the notes are from that raid, it would be the first police breakthrough on the biggest bank robbery in UK or Irish history, which police have blamed on the IRA. The Irish state broadcaster RTÉ reported that among the seven people aged from their 30s to their 60s, arrested between Wednesday night and yesterday morning, one was a former Sinn Féin councillor.In a house in the Douglas area of Cork City, police seized the Northern Bank notes and arrested one man. In two separate raids in Cork, including one in the village of Farren, 10 miles from Cork City, police seized £2.3m in sterling and arrested a man in his 40s and a woman believed to be his partner. One of the men arrested is believed to be a Cork-based financier. In Passage West, Cork City, another man was arrested. Three men in their 30s and 40s, including two men from Derry, were arrested at Connolly station in Dublin on Wednesday night and €94,000 (£63,000) was seized from them at the station after a surveillance operation. The station serves trains on the route to Northern Ireland.Several houses and at least one business premises had been sealed off by police last night. Inspector Ray McHugh of the Garda said the investigation into "money laundering and subversive activity" was ongoing. All exhibits would be moved to Dublin overnight for forensic examination. More than 100 Irish detectives with the backing of the Irish criminal assets bureau and the Gardaí's fraud team were involved in the raids which were part of a major investigation into IRA funding. It is thought the raids had been planned over weeks. The seven arrested were in custody at various Garda stations last night and can be held for 72 hours. Police on both sides of the border, as well as Tony Blair and the Irish prime minister, Bertie Ahern, have blamed the IRA for the Northern Bank robbery. The IRA and Sinn Féin have denied republican involvement. This week, Gerry Adams told a Spanish radio station that he believed the IRA's denial that it had any involvement in the robbery, adding: "But maybe I am wrong." When his remarks were seized on as an admission that the IRA might have been to blame, he said he had been misinterpreted. A spokeswoman for the Police Service of Northern Ireland insisted it was too early to link the seizure with the robbery of the Northern Bank in Belfast but said the two police forces were "in contact".Northern Ireland police have yet to charge anyone with or recover the white van which was used and was seen crossing the border at Newry on the day of the robbery. Sinn Féin would not comment last night on reports that a former councillor had been arrested.