Detectives are hunting two men who stabbed a leading City financier to death and seriously injured his wife after bursting into their multi-million-pound home in one of London's most exclusive neighbourhoods.Nine-year-old Isobel Monckton dialled 999 after finding her parents John and Homeyra, but their attackers had already fled what appears to have been a bungled burglary at the three-storey Chelsea town house early on Monday evening. Mr Monckton, managing director (bonds) at Legal & General, died in hospital within an hour of the stabbing. His wife, 45, underwent emergency surgery but had recovered sufficiently to break the news of her husband's death to their elder daughter, Sabrina, yesterday. The 12-year-old was at boarding school when her parents were attacked. Police said they had not yet interviewed Mrs Monckton, who remained in intensive care yesterday. Detective Superintendent Mark Jackson, who is heading the investigation, said detectives had not established a motive, but burglary was a "key line of inquiry". A police source said Mr Monckton and his wife were found in the hallway of the house. Detectives think the intruders came to the front door and tried to push past whoever opened it. Canon Michael Brockie, parish priest of the church attended by the Moncktons, was in the church, across the road from their home, at the time of the attack. "I heard a burglar alarm, followed by the banging of a door," he said. "When we came out ambulances were already there." Yesterday, as Mr Monckton's family mourned the loss of the "gentle and thoughtful" 49-year-old, neighbours on Upper Cheyne Row were struggling to absorb the news of the brutal murder. "It's incredibly shocking. This is Chelsea, for God's sake," said one resident. Jamie, Marquis of Blandford, who lives around the corner from the Moncktons, agreed: "It's very out of character. SW3, and especially this area, is a very good address. It's quiet, which I suppose is its worst offence." Despite the presence of rock stars and other celebrities - Bill Wyman once lived down the road, while his Rolling Stones bandmates Mick Jagger and Charlie Watts resided on nearby Cheyne Walk - this is essentially a neighbourhood of discreet, settled wealth into which the Moncktons fitted easily. The financier was one of the most influential investors of his generation within his specialist field. His team of 25 people had won an award for bond fund group of the year for the second time running and managed £34bn of assets between them. Yet he had none of the usual City trappings of fast cars and fast living. He was of the old school, speaking quietly and keeping his private life private. Tim Breedon, a board director and head of investments at L&G, the City's biggest pension fund manager, said: "John had a great intellect and was a man of the utmost integrity and kindness. "I will miss his support, his contribution and his dry wit. Our thoughts are with his wife and children." He added: "He had a deep insight into financial markets. He built up a strong team who admired him greatly and will carry on his work." The financier came from a long-established family of Catholic aristocrats. Yesterday Cardinal Cormac Murphy O'Connor, the Archbishop of Westminster and head of the Catholic Church in England and Wales, expressed his personal sorrow at the murder of an "exceptional and faithful" man. Mr Monckton's great-uncle Sir Walter was the confidant and legal adviser of Edward VIII, even drafting his abdication statement. His cousin Rosa was a close friend of Princess Diana and is married to Dominic Lawson, the editor of the Sunday Telegraph which is running a "Right To Fight Back" campaign, urging the government to give people more rights to protect themselves from violent intruders. In a statement, the Monckton family said it was profoundly shocked by the murder and its thoughts were with Homeyra and her children, adding: "Apart from his outstanding career in the City, [John] also devoted a great deal of time to his charitable works. We are all praying for him." Most of the properties in the area have alarms and security systems. The assailants came through the front door, suggesting they may have surprised one or both of their victims on the doorstep. The murder weapon has not been recovered. Officers, who were yesterday combing the scene for clues, want to speak to anyone who might have seen two men near the Moncktons' house at 7.30pm or fleeing along Glebe Place toward Kings Road shortly afterwards. While most neighbours stressed the peacefulness of the area, others pointed out that a handful of violent incidents had prompted residents on the street to invest jointly in a CCTV system this year. In January 2003, Robin McCarthy, a sacristan at the Our Most Holy Redeemer of St Thomas More, the Catholic church which the Moncktons attended and which is opposite their home, was bludgeoned almost to death and left brain-damaged. In April the same year, two men drove a car into the path of a Mercedes carrying around £70,000 of mobile phones, but were caught after a police chase. In 1999 broadcaster Robert Robinson and his wife Josephine were mugged at knifepoint on the doorstep of their home, just doors away from that of the Moncktons. "There isn't a house in this street which hasn't been burgled," said Adriana Cronin-Lukas, who lives on Upper Cheyne Row. The Moncktons moved in around 10 years ago, and invested heavily in the renovation of their home. The financier was a knight of the order of Malta and trustee of the Orders of St John Care Trust, which runs care homes around the country. Nigel Stourton, chairman of the Orders of St John Care Trust, described Mr Monckton's religion as his driving force and praised his "wise counsel and generosity". "He was wholly good. I know he was so proud of his family," Mr Stourton said. Mr Monckton grew up in Kent and was educated at Downside and Oxford, where he read classics and modern languages. Although he was called to the bar, like his father, he chose to go into corporate finance and then investment management. Through work he met Humeyra, who had spent much of her life in France. The couple wed in 1988. Yesterday their priest Michael Brockie was attempting to comfort the surviving members of an "extraordinarily devoted" and close-knit family. "John was a wonderful father and husband. His death is a great personal loss both to me and the parish," he said.