Foreigners could be on the police beat as the Home Office considers plans to recruit abroad as part of a government drive to fill 9,000 extra places.Only citizens of the UK, the Republic of Ireland and the Commonwealth are currently allowed to join the police and the move would need new legislation, which is being mulled over by the home secretary, Jack Straw.The proposal to enlist officers from outside the UK comes as the government launches Britain's first ever national police recruitment campaign devised with the help of M&C Saatchi. The "Could You? Police" campaign will run over three years and is being backed by a number of celebrities, including Simon Weston, John Barnes and Patsy Palmer. Advertisements will run on national TV, newspapers, radio and in cinemas to provide forces in England and Wales with high-quality recruits to help them fill the 9,000 extra police places being offered over the next three years.Since the 1997 general election, the number of police officers has dropped from 127,158 to 124,418. Throughout the 43 forces, 5,391 officers joined in 1998-99, but 6,104 left, a net loss of 713. The Metropolitan police have been the worst hit, and in a bid to stem the exodus Met officers are now paid around £6,000 a year more than elsewhere, a fact that rankles home counties forces. Essex police have resorted to TV advertising during breaks in programmes like The Bill and Prime Suspect 5 to attract viewers interested in law and order. Mr Straw said the two main purposes of the advertising campaign were to improve the numbers and calibre of those seeking to join the police and to emphasise the importance of what was involved in being an officer. "We need a modern, extremely capable and highly regarded police service," Mr Straw said. "That is why we are attaching so much importance to the new police recruitment campaign. It is vital that our forces attract the highest quality recruits to continue the fight against crime in the years ahead."A total of £667m has been earmarked for the recruitment drive, but police forces have been told by the Home Office they will only get cash for new recruits if they meet crime targets and the requirement for more Asian and black officers. Police forces have been told to employ an extra 8,000 officers from the ethnic communities by 2009. The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, was sceptical about the latest effort to boost police numbers, claiming that the government had failed to fulfil past promises to raise police numbers. "I have heard it all before. Jack Straw exactly a year ago said he was going to recruit another 5,000 officers," she said. "Since then what has happened is that the police force had declined even further."Ms Widdecombe suggested that one of the reasons why people left the police force early was because the job often did not live up to their expectations, with officers being required to undertake inappropriate chores, such as escorting wide loads on the roads.But the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, welcomed the recruitment drive:"Extra money from Labour for more police officers is better three and a half years late than never. We need to recruit many more full-time, part-time and special police officers. And we should now consider also giving financial incentives to encourage people to make policing their career."