The parents of Alice Gross said on Wednesday night they were “completely devastated” after police confirmed the body found in a shallow river in west London late on Tuesday night was that of the missing teenager.Scotland Yard announced that the investigation was now a hunt for the 14-year-old’s killer as detectives intensified their search for their prime suspect, Arnis Zalkalns, 41, after Alice’s body was discovered in the river Brent near where she was last seen.Residents said the section of river where the body was found had already been searched in the days following Alice’s disappearance. However, police believe that whoever dumped the body in the river made “significant efforts” to conceal it. On Wednesday night it emerged that logs and other material had been used to conceal Alice’s remains in an area of water approximately 3ft (90cm) deep. London Fire Brigade used specialist equipment to lift the material out.In a statement, Alice’s parents, Rosalind Hodgkiss and Jose Gross, said: “We have been left completely devastated by the recent developments and it is difficult to comprehend that our sweet and beautiful daughter was the victim of a terrible crime. Why anyone would want to hurt her is something that we are struggling to come to terms with.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alice Gross: police say effort made to conceal river body - video“Alice was a loving and much loved daughter and sister, a quirky, live spark of a girl, beautiful inside and out. She was a funny companion, a loyal friend, both passionate and compassionate, and so talented with a bright future ahead of her. She brought so much joy to our family and those who knew her.“We still don’t know who is responsible for this crime and we ask that people continue to help the police by giving them information that could help bring the perpetrator to justice. We would like to thank all those that have supported us in our efforts to find Alice, especially the local community; it is comforting to know that so many people care.“This is a personal and private tragedy and one that we want to be allowed to deal with in that manner, rather than fearing any individual or group will use it to further any political agenda. This is a time for grieving and not a time for anger or recriminations.“We trust that the press will behave responsibly and not publish any material that might jeopardise any future criminal proceedings. We now ask for our privacy to be respected to allow us time to grieve as a family.”Police in Zalkalns’s native country, Latvia, are assisting their British colleagues. In 1998 he was convicted of murdering his wife and dumping her in a shallow grave. He served seven years in jail before coming to Britain, where he worked as a labourer.Alice went missing on 28 August after leaving her west London home to go for a walk. Police for weeks believed that she had intended to return home on the day she disappeared; her father had planned to cook her dinner that night.Zalkalns went missing a week later from his west London home.Detectives believe that the Latvian labourer, who was riding a bike, encountered Alice as she walked beside a canal on the day she disappeared. Forensic tests will be carried out on the body to see if they provide a link to Zalkalns. Investigators are understood to have taken DNA and other samples from his home.Zalkalns is believed to have come to Britain in 2007 after his release from jail. In 2009, he was arrested over an alleged indecent assault on a teenage girl in Ealing, west London, but the case was dropped because the alleged victim declined to make a statement.Zalkalns is white, 1.77 metres (5ft 10in) tall and stocky, with dark brown hair that he normally wears in a ponytail. Police say he should not be approached.Staff at the Fox Inn pub, in Hanwell, about 200 yards from the spot where the body was found, said police activity had intensified and that a cordon had been set up at about 7pm on Tuesday. Barman Jack Marlander, said: “In recent weeks much of the undergrowth around the river had been cut back.”Phil Howley, who lives part time on the canal, said he believed he had seen a stretcher being carried over a bridge where the river Brent meets the canal at about 10pm on Tuesday. “We don’t know all the details, of course, but the river is not very deep here, so it does seem strange that it took so long to find her,” he said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Forensic tents beside the Grand Union Canal on Wednesday. Photograph: Dan Kitwood/Getty ImagesCommander Graham McNulty of Scotland Yard said: “Our work at this scene is crucial to ensure we capture all the available evidence allowing us to identify who is responsible for this dreadful crime. This may take some time, and I ask people to remain patient. I can confirm that significant efforts were made to conceal the body.”The place where the body was recovered is close to where Alice was captured, at 4.26pm, on CCTV.Scotland Yard would not say if they would now apply for a Europe-wide arrest warrant for Zalkalns. Police have been unable to do so before as they lacked evidence. That may change now that a body has been found.Last week British police arrived in Latvia, where local officers have been making inquiries in case Zalkalns had returned there. On Wednesday morning, Toms Sadovskis, spokesman for the Latvian state police, said there was no evidence Zalkalns was in Latvia. He said: “We have been fully cooperating with the Metropolitan police and are going to continue that work. The focus of our work is to do whatever the Met police ask us to do.”Latvian police have said that without a warrant they could not detain Zalkalns. Asked if Latvian police could now arrest the suspect if officers came across him in Latvia, Sadovskis said: “If there is [a warrant], yes we can. If not, no we can’t.”The inquiry into Alice’s disappearance has been the Met’s biggest search operation since the investigation into the 7 July 2005 terrorist attacks on London.In Hanwell, the roads and paths surrounding the river have been decorated in yellow ribbons to raise awareness of the missing 14-year-old. McNulty said: “You only need to walk around the surrounding streets to see the effect that Alice’s disappearance has had on the community.”Local people spoke of their devastation at the news that a body had been found and that police had opened a murder investigation.Joanne Golden said her daughter had gone to gym classes with Alice. The child she remembered was “bubbly and happy-go-lucky,” she said, adding that the last time she had seen Alice, she was holding her mother’s hand in the local park.The past four weeks had been very hard for everyone in the search parties, she said. “It has been so awful, like a thick black cloud hanging over Hanwell.“Today is a very difficult day. I have been having nightmares and all I can think of is poor Alice and her family. My heart goes out to them.”Timeline28 August: 14-year-old Alice leaves her home in Hanwell, west London, at 1pm. She is captured on CCTV walking along the Grand Union Canal towpath and at 3.45pm is seen on cameras at Brentford Lock. The last sighting of her walking along the canal under a bridge, apparently heading towards Hanwell, is at 4.26pm.1 September: Alice’s family appeal for the teenager to get in touch saying they “desperately miss her”. The Metropolitan police carry out house-to-house inquiries and search parks and open spaces.4 September: Police release CCTV footage of Alice and reveal they have discovered a rucksack she was carrying, with her shoes inside. Her family make a new appeal, with her mother Rosalind Hodgkiss saying: “We’d like to say to Alice first of all that we miss her, that we love her and that she’s not in any trouble, and we want to know that she’s safe. We just want her to come home.”6 September: Police arrest a 25-year-old man in the Ealing area on suspicion of murder.7 September: A second man, aged 51, is arrested on suspicion of murder. Police say the two arrests are independent of each other and stress it remains a missing persons inquiry.8 September: Police are given more time to question their first suspect and later release their second suspect with no further action.9 September: The first man arrested is released on bail until mid-September.16 September: Detectives investigating Alice’s disappearance say they are searching for the 41-year-old Latvian builder Arnis Zalkalns, who was last seen at his home in Ealing, west London, on 3 September. Zalkalns is known to travel to work along a similar route to the one Alice took on the day she disappeared, police say. The 25-year-old arrested on suspicion of murder is told he will face no further action.18 September: Police confirm Zalkalns is a suspect in Alice’s disappearance and it is later revealed he was convicted of murdering his wife in his home country in 1998, for which he served seven years, and was also arrested on suspicion of indecent assault in the Ealing area in 2009, though no further action was taken.20 September: Police reveal the hunt for Alice is the biggest search operation since the 7/7 bombings.25 September: Four weeks after her disappearance Alice’s family make another emotional plea for her to return home as police stage a reconstruction of her final movements.30 September: The body of Alice Gross is found hidden in the river Brent in west London. Officers say “significant efforts” were made to hide the body.1 October: Detectives say their investigation is now a murder inquiry.