Police officers could be given laptops, palmtops and pagers to help them on to the beat as part of the home secretary David Blunkett's package of police reforms, it emerged yesterday.The home secretary suggested the new technology could enable officers to do much of the paperwork involved in reporting crime and drawing up prosecution files without going back to the police station. He proposed the time saving measures in the face of a study based on 378 "diaries" of the daily workload of constables which shows that officers only spend 17% of their working day out on the beat. Police officers spend almost as much time in the station and when they are on patrol it is mostly done sitting in the front seat of a police car. Pounding the beat is a rarity. The study by PA consulting for the Home Office says for five hours a day over half the officers on a shift are in the station, and they are spending 41% of their time there doing paperwork such as preparing prosecution files. If they have to take a prisoner into custody it takes on average three and a half hours to complete all the procedures. One station had 105 different official forms in use. Mr Blunkett said he would change the law to allow civilians to act as police station jailers and to prepare cases for custody. He is also to replace the traditional identity parade by a video line-up, give computer laptops to officers on car patrol and "palmtops" to those on foot patrol so they can carry out their paperwork. Officers who currently have to spend hours at court waiting to be called may in future be given pagers so that they can be summoned only when they are needed. "I am committed to removing bottlenecks in the system and the measures I am announcing today to free up officers' time are just the start," said Mr Blunkett. "Police officers are highly trained professionals with wide ranging powers and skills. It is right we should use them to concentrate on their core functions: reducing crime, catching criminals and providing reassurance." The home secretary commissioned the study, Diary of a Police Officer, to find out just how much time the police spend on red tape. The study says that mobile technology is one solution: "It is readily feasible to put laptops in patrol cars and offer police officers on patrol hand-held devices that will allow them to work productively outside of the station while also providing reassurance by their visibility." But the Police Federation claimed it has been falling police numbers in recent years and a lack of priority given to beat patrol by chief constables which had led to fewer constables on the beat. "Police officers want to be out and about, engaging with their communities, providing a visible presence and deterring street crime but in the past five years or so numbers have fallen," said Jan Berry, the federation vice-chairperson.