The family of a retired solicitor stabbed to death by a man with known mental health problems following a minor car accident has criticised the NHS for failings that left him free to kill.Matthew Daley, 35, knifed 79-year-old Donald Lock 39 times after a car shunt on the A24 at Findon, near Worthing, West Sussex, in July.Before the killing Daley’s family, who feared his mental health had deteriorated and he might be involved in a fatality, had pleaded with clinicians to section him.The NHS trust admitted: “We got things wrong,” and apologised, saying the treatment it provided Daley would be subject to an independent inquiry.Sussex Partnership NHS foundation trust said it had also commissioned a review of 10 killings between 2011 and 2016 involving patients it had come into contact with.Outside court, Lock’s son, Andrew, said: “As a consequence of the failings of the NHS and this verdict is it clear that dad would still be here today if they had done their job properly.”Paranoid schizophrenic Daley, who was cleared of murder, stabbed Lock after his Toyota crashed into the back of Daley’s Ford Fusion at about 16mph causing minor damage to both cars.Witnesses told jurors at Lewes crown court a “calm” Lock got out to ask Daley why he had braked so suddenly. Daley, who was described as remaining calm “like Jesus Christ” began stabbing him. One said Daley looked “expressionless” during the attack, like he was “having a passport photo taken”. Another witness, who tried to intervene, retreated when he saw the four-and-half-inch knife in Daley’s fist.Lock, who had been given the all-clear from prostate cancer shortly before his death, died from a stab wound to the aorta. The great-grandfather, who had celebrated 55 years of marriage to his wife, Maureen, was returning from a social gathering of Worthing Excelsior cycling club.Daley was described in court as an “ideal” child before the breakdown of his parents’ marriage while he was studying architecture at Portsmouth University coincided with his mental health decline.His mother, Lynda Daley, told jurors he was never given a proper diagnosis.His father, John, broke down as he told how the killing need not have happened if his son’s mental health had been treated properly . “All our nightmares had come to pass and just unnecessarily, he said, saying he thought the condition have could be treated. Lives had been ruined, he said.He had written to his son’s doctor in 2013 warning he could “end up hurting someone or worse unless he resumes taking his medication”. In 2014, he wrote again he was “worried that it will end up with a fatality unless Matthew gets help with his obsessional behaviour and the voices”. He knew instantly his son was involved after reading news reports while on holiday in France. “My heart sunk in my boots and I thought: ‘My God it’s come to pass,’” he said. One forensic psychiatrist said he believed Daley had been wrongly diagnosed with Asperger’s and had an underlying paranoid schizophrenic illness that had been undiagnosed for years. Another said Daley was not psychotic at the time of the killing.Daley, who would “often hear voices” and hold his head “as if he was about to explode” would run a couple of marathons a week and spend hours with his pet goats in an attempt to help his illness.After the killing, he rang his mother and said he had “done something really bad or something really wrong”. He went on: “I killed someone.”In his videoed police interview Daley said he felt “threatened and afraid” at seeing Lock “very close and very angry” in his rear view mirror and “wanted that scenario to stop because it was intrusive” .One expert said when Daley first came to the attention of the mental heath teams, it was thought he had schizophrenia but his diagnosis was later revised to autism.Lock was described as “not your typical great-grandfather” and he and his wife had travelled the world since his retirement from Miller Parris solicitors in Worthing, with their adventures including walking over Sydney harbour bridge and riding ostriches. Lock’s son described his father as “full of wisdom, full of wit, always calm, always supportive, the perfect role model, and full of charm”.After the conviction, Colm Donaghy, chief executive of Sussex Partnership NHS foundation trust, apologised to both families, “because the care we provided to Matthew Daley should have been better”.Daley, first referred in 2008, received treatment from the early intervention service and later transferred to the care of the community mental health teams, where he received treatment for a combination of Asperger’s syndrome and psychosis.“Having reviewed his care, it’s clear that we should have reviewed Mr Daley’s diagnosis, looked at other ways of providing treatment, done more to help him manage his symptoms of psychosis and listened to his family more closely,” said Donaghy. “We got things wrong. But I do not believe that any of our staff acted in a way which was deliberately negligent or designed to cause harm. They knew Mr Daley well and believed they were doing the right things to help him. We will do things differently as a result of this tragic incident.” 