There's precious little good news these days, so I could have leapt for joy to hear that finally four men have been arrested in connection with the tragic murder of 20-year-old Halton McCollin in Old Trafford, just over one year ago.What is even more gratifying is the news is that McCollin, an innocent bystander in the wrong place at the wrong time, remains the last person to die in a firearms homicide in Greater Manchester. For the first time in more than a decade, the city has gone a full year without a single gunshot death. Perhaps even more astonishing is that reported firearms discharges dropped by 92% between 2007 and 2008. Gunchester, we are told, is no more.The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, was quick to attribute the success to Operation Cougar, the most high-profile tactic of Greater Manchester police's anti-gang Xcalibre taskforce. I see no reason to doubt the effectiveness of the strategy, which involves identifying where gangs were gathering and operating, and then swooping with astonishing numbers of uniformed police, including tactical aid group, dog-handlers and other specialist teams. It's the kind of intelligence-led, targeted approach to community policing that no sane person could argue against, far removed from the routine stop and search harassment that often alienates sections of society and damages community relations. Cougar has effectively disrupted and undermined gang activities, and police forces elsewhere would do well to take note. However I am far from convinced that this is the whole story. Often the simplest explanations are the most correct, and it cannot be coincidence that over the last couple of years, a significant number of prominent gang members have been convicted and imprisoned for long stretches, while the availability of guns has been significantly reduced by another important conviction. Despite the breadth of influence of gangs within our city, the numbers of people involved in a serious way are surprisingly small. Many of the most dangerous gangsters are no longer on the streets. Underneath the whizz-bang visibility of Operation Cougar, employees of Xcalibre and the multi-agency gun and gang strategy team have been engaged in a range of low-key but effective efforts to resolve these problems, including mediation between gangs to prevent turf wars, involvement of social services in targeting very young people at risk and liaising with residents' groups to build collective strategies. I've met many of these workers, including police intelligence officers, and I am always struck by their understanding of, and even empathy with the (mostly) young people they are targeting. Unlike most politicians, they realise that the solutions to gun and gang crime are not as simple as just catching the bad guys, even though that is an essential component. If the streets on which they grow continue to fertilise criminality and violence, then we are merely cutting off the nettles, not pulling up the roots. And that is why, above all, we should not underestimate the efforts of communities themselves to address these problems. Across the city, young people with direct experience of both the attractions and consequences of gang membership are working tirelessly to create a culture change – using music, drama and film to spread positive messages, visiting schools and youth centres to give strength and encouragement to those who want to eschew violent crime for a constructive life. In the most crime-ravaged areas of the city, groups like Mothers Against Violence and Carisma, under the inspirational guidance of Erinma Bell, have made monumental efforts to empower communities to stand up to the gangs. Preparations for Peace Week 2009 are well underway, involving torchlit parades through Longsight and Moss Side and, for the first time, here in Old Trafford. It is heartening to think that these events, which so often in the past have felt like a cry in the wilderness or a trudge through a vale of tears, may this year take on an air of celebration. There must be no room for complacency. We have been here before, and must all be aware that the sudden fall in gun-related crime may be followed by an equally sharp and sudden escalation. But for now, at least we have hope. The whole city, from the authorities to the service providers to the people on the streets, has come together to fight the scourge of gang violence. Just for the moment, we are winning.