Robbers used a tractor and a lorry to ambush and ram a Securitas vehicle on Wednesday night, escaping with hundreds of thousands of pounds. The robbery came as detectives investigating the £53m heist at a Securitas depot in Tonbridge two weeks ago announced that they had found another £8m of the stolen money.Yesterday's robbery is part of a growing trend of attacks on security vans. Two men were waiting in a stolen flat-bed lorry for the armoured vehicle to make its delivery at the company's depot on an industrial estate in Woolston, near Warrington, Cheshire. They pulled out in front of the van, forcing it to stop, then a tractor rammed the vehicle from behind and robbers wearing balaclavas leapt out of the lorry, smashing at the van's windows and back doors with crowbars.The two Securitas guards, who were not injured, remained inside their vehicle during the raid.Once the robbers had seized several sackfuls of cash they abandoned the lorry and the tractor and used another vehicle to make their getaway. Detectives found an abandoned Volvo V40 less than a mile away. They believe the robbers may have tried to set it alight to destroy evidence.Cheshire Constabulary said it was looking for at least six suspects. Speaking at the scene of the incident, Detective Chief Inspector Judi Heaton said: "The robbers made a series of mistakes by leaving the vehicles behind. These were recovered and taken away for forensic purposes."She added: "Not all of the money in the van was stolen. Securitas will not be able to check how much money has gone until we have finished looking at the van. The robbers were unsuccessful in some respects, but were able to steal several vehicles that allowed them to carry out this raid. It was well thought out. But only time will tell how organised they are."She said that there was nothing to suggest that the robbers had inside information, but every line of inquiry would be pursued. "We do not think it is connected to the £53m raid in Tonbridge, Kent," she added. Five people have been charged in connection with the Tonbridge robbery on February 22.Carl Courtney, a spokesman for Securitas, said the sum stolen in Wednesday night's raid was less than £1m, although an exact figure would not be available until tomorrow.More than a third of the £53m stolen at Tonbridge has now been found, Kent police said last night. The latest find, of £8.6m, was in a garage in Southborough, near Tunbridge Wells on Sunday. A total of nearly £20m has now been recovered.There has been a significant rise in the number of robberies of vans carrying money during the past three years, not least because banks no longer hold as much cash as they once did.There were 836 attacks on security and post office vans in 2005, up from 763 in 2004, itself an increase on the 697 attacks in 2003.