A sex worker who allowed clients to rape one of her young daughters and indecently assault her two other daughters and who kept the children in a manner described as “almost Victorian in its bleakness” has been jailed for five years.The woman would beat her children with bamboo sticks and belts and keep them locked in a bedroom for days at a time. They were sometimes so hungry and thirsty that they ate cat food and drank their own urine, Plymouth crown court heard. One of the victims, now an adult, said she tried to kill herself when she was seven.The mother – who cannot be named for legal reasons – was convicted of eight counts of child cruelty between 1976 and 1988.She worked from the family home in Plymouth and allowed a string of clients and boyfriends access to her three daughters when they were of primary school age.Details of the crimes came to light in 2014 when one of the daughters walked into a police station and began to tell her story.The middle daughter told the court she was locked in a bedroom in the house on an estate for lengthy periods and would not know what day it was. She said she and her sisters were given a bucket to use as a toilet but had no water to drink and would sometimes drink their own urine.“She [her mother] would disappear for three to four days at a time and we did not know where she was,” the daughter said. “She would use bamboo, belts and brushes – whatever she could lay her hands on” to beat them.On one occasion, the girls were found eating cat food because there was no food in the house.Jurors heard that the woman’s clients and boyfriends touched the girls indecently and a man once raped one of the sisters on the bathroom floor.The mother, now in her 70s, appeared in the dock alongside a 60-year-old man, Raymond Williams, who was jailed for three years for abusing two of the daughters.A second man, aged 57, had been due to stand trial for the bathroom rape but died two weeks before the case started.Sean Brunton, prosecuting, said: “This is a very sorry tale of child cruelty and sexual abuse which in some ways is almost Victorian in its bleakness.”Brunton said that as well as the 57-year-old, three other men identified by police after interviewing the complainants had also died.The oldest daughter told the court: “Quite a few times when punters were in the house we were locked in the bedroom. We had to pee in a bucket. We were in there so long that sometimes we had to drink our own pee.”The recorder Stephen Parish told the mother: “You enjoyed sexual relations with a number of men, some of whom paid for your services. Even if you did not encourage what was happening to your daughters, at the very least you turned a blind eye to it.”Parish said that most of the abusers had “escaped justice”. During the sentencing hearing, Nigel Wraith, prosecuting, said the daughter who tried to take her life as a child had made further attempts as an adult and resorted to solvent abuse to block out the memories. Kerry Dowse, for the mother, said she still denied the offences. Dowse said: “She had an upbringing and early childhood none of us could imagine.” The lawyer said the woman was an “inadequate person” and had health difficulties, including chronic pulmonary disease, asthma and diabetes. 