Finally, more than 10 months after he killed Joanna Yeates, Vincent Tabak gave an account – in his own words and actions – of the night he attacked his next door neighbour.During almost five hours in the witness box, Tabak claimed he had tried to kiss Yeates when she made a "flirty" remark to him as they chatted inside her Bristol flat. She had screamed and he had put his right hand around her neck and squeezed.Tabak, a 33-year-old Dutch engineer, insisted he had not meant to kill the 25-year-old landscape architect or seriously harm her. Tabak testified that he had not been planning to try to have sex with her. He denied that he had raised Yeates' top or touched her breasts. He also denied the suggestion he had been spying on her before the attack on 17 December last year.Tabak did not raise his voice as he gave evidence at Bristol crown court. He spoke without help from an interpreter and rarely stumbled over a word.Twice he demonstrated how he had put his hand around Yeates' neck. At one point he was asked to close his eyes and visualise what had happened to try to help him remember how long he had held her neck for. He was told to wave as he said Yeates had waved at him as he passed her kitchen window before inviting him in.But Tabak repeatedly said he could not recall elements of what happened.Asked where exactly he was when he killed Yeates, Tabak replied: "I can't remember." He gave the same answer when Nigel Lickley QC, for the prosecution, asked him if Yeates had been frightened or if he could see her eyes as he attacked her.During a harrowing passage, Tabak was shown images of Yeates' bruised face, arms, neck and breast. He was asked how she came to suffer the injuries but repeatedly replied: "I don't know."The public gallery at Bristol crown court was packed for Tabak's evidence – people had started queuing at 6.30am. On the front row were Yeates' parents, David and Teresa, her brother Chris, and her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, who was away on the weekend the young woman was killed.Tabak walked past the family eight times en route between the witness box and the dock, within touching distance of Mrs Yeates, but each time they all averted their gazes as he passed. The parents did not appear to look at Tabak once as he told his story. When images of their daughter's injuries were shown, Mrs Yeates looked down.Yeates' boyfriend continued to stare ahead when Tabak apologised for hiding her body on the country lane where it was found on Christmas morning, eight days after the killing. Tabak said he had put the family "through hell", could not understand why he had acted as he did and said it would always "haunt" him.Tabak, who admits manslaughter but denies murder, began by answering questions from his barrister, William Clegg QC. He spoke of his childhood and education in his native Netherlands.Wearing a dark suit, blue shirt and tie he said he grew up in a small town, went to university and became an expert in the flow of people through buildings and public areas.Tabak gripped both sides of the witness box as he said he studied until he was 29, when he came to England and got his first job at a design and engineering company in Bath. He had no girlfriends in the Netherlands, but met Tanja Morson online via Guardian Soulmates. They began living together in Clifton, Bristol.Yeates and Reardon moved in next door in October 2010 but Tabak was soon sent to California for work. He said he may only have seen his neighbours once.On the night of the killing Morson was out at a works party. Tabak said he had a pizza and a beer and decided to go out to an Asda store. "I felt a bit lonely," he said, "I didn't want to stay home alone."As he walked down his path, Tabak says Yeates waved and indicated that he should come into her flat.Tabak said he told her he was "a bit lonely and a bit bored" because his girlfriend was away. Yeates said she was also bored.The defendant said they talked about Yeates and Reardon's cat, which used to find its way into Tabak and Morson's flat.Tabak said Yeates "made some flirty comment that the cat 'went into places he shouldn't go. A bit like me.'" Tabak told his barrister: "I got the impression that she wanted to kiss me."He continued: "I leaned forward and I think I put one of my hands on her back and tried to kiss her. She started to scream quite loudly."Tabak's voice broke as he described how he "panicked". He said he put his hand over her mouth, said he was sorry and asked her to stop screaming. He said he took his hand away and she began to scream again."I put my hand over her mouth and the other hand on her neck," Tabak said."I was panicking. I wanted to stop her screams. I wanted to calm her down.""Did you intend to kill her?" Clegg asked. "No definitely not," Tabak said."Did you intend to cause her serious harm?" "No, definitely not."Clegg asked how long Tabak kept his hand around her neck. "For a short, short time, I think less than a minute," he said.The barrister asked Clegg to relive the moment in court, to close his eyes and estimate how long he held her for. Tabak held his eyes shut for 15 seconds.Tabak said Yeates went limp. "She fell to the floor. I was in a state of panic, shock," he said.He claimed the attack took place in the kitchen. He carried her body into the bedroom, where he placed it on the bed. He then carried it into his own flat.Tabak said he went back to Yeates' flat, switched off the oven and television and picked up a pizza that she had bought on the way home that night and one of her socks that had fallen off. He took them to his flat.He then put Yeates' body into a bicycle cover and took it out and put it into the boot of his car.Tabak then went to Asda with the body in the boot. Asked why, he said: "I can't believe I did that. I wasn't thinking straight."For the first time during his evidence he said he was sorry for what he did. Asked about a text he sent to his girlfriend in which he claimed he was bored, he said he wanted to "reach out" to her.Tabak drove towards Bristol airport, stopped at Longwood Lane and said: "I did something horrendous. I decided to leave her body there." He said he tried to heave the body over a wall but could not do so and covered it with leaves.Clegg asked him about Yeates' clothing being "rucked up", exposing part of one breast. Tabak said it must have happened when he moved the body. He said traces of his DNA found on the outside of Yeates' jeans and on her breast area must also be the result of him moving the body.Tabak removed his spectacles and seemed to wipe away a tear when he apologised for dumping the body: "I'm so sorry for doing that. I know I put Joanna's parents and Greg though hell for a week. I still can't believe I'm capable of such an act. It will haunt me for the rest of my life no matter what sentence I get. That's what I will have to face up to."The defendant said he returned to his flat. He gathered the bicycle cover and the pizza and sock from his flat and dumped them at a recycling centre. Later he went and picked up his girlfriend and tried to carry on with life as normal.Tabak said he expected the police to come for him at any moment. He began to drink and take sleeping pills.Again he apologised for putting Yeates' family and boyfriend through hell. He said that before he was arrested on 20 January, he considered jumping off Clifton suspension bridge.Lickley began by asking Tabak if he was "calculating, dishonest and manipulative". Tabak accepted that after killing Yeates he had been.The prosecutor suggested there was a sexual element to the case. Tabak had said he wanted to kiss Yeates. "Were you thinking of having sex with Joanna?" asked Lickley. "No," replied Tabak.Lickley asked Tabak to demonstrate how he had put his hand around Yeates' neck. He did so using his right hand.The prosecutor then asked Tabak if he had pulled her top up? "No," replied Tabak. Had he touched her breasts? Was that what made her scream? "No, definitely not."He suggested to Tabak that the attack began in the hallway and continued in the bedroom. Tabak replied: "No it didn't." Lickley pointed out that the earrings Joanna may have been wearing that day had been found in the bedroom. Tabak repeated that no struggle had taken place there.The prosecutor suggested Tabak was "completely in control of everything."After the killing, Lickley said, Tabak went to Asda and made sure he was caught on CCTV cameras to place himself away from the scene. He said he bought rock salt at Asda to put on the path near Yeates' flat where he had dropped the body and so conceal the fact the body had been there. Tabak insisted he was in a panic and had not been covering his tracks.Lickley asked Tabak about a remark he had made as police hunted Yeates' killer that the perpetrator must be a "totally detached, crazy person". The prosecutor suggested he was detached. "I don't know," Tabak replied.The trial continues.Cross-examination: How did the injuries occurIn cross-examination, Vincent Tabak was questioned in detail about many of the 43 injuries Joanna Yeates suffered and her reaction to his attack.He repeatedly said he could not remember how the injuries happened or how she had responded.Nigel Lickley QC, for the prosecution, asked Tabak about injuries Yeates had on her nose, chin and neck."These are injuries suffered during life. They were caused by you," said Lickley. "I don't know," replied Tabak.Lickley mentioned a mark on Yeates' chest, suggesting it was caused by Tabak. "I don't know," he replied."There was a struggle, Vincent Tabak, was there not?" Lickley said. "No, I can't remember," Tabak replied.Lickley: "Can't remember or won't remember?" Tabak: "Can't remember."Lickley said the injuries suggested Yeates had struggled to fend Tabak off. "As far as I remember there was no struggle," Tabak replied. "Account for the injuries please," Lickley said. "I don't know," he replied.Lickley said Tabak was a foot taller, stronger than Yeates and had a longer reach. "Correct?" Lickley asked him. "I'm taller, yes." "Stronger?" "I don't know." "Your arms are longer?" "Maybe."The prosecutor asked Tabak if Yeates had been frightened. "I can't remember." "Could you see her eyes?" "I can't remember." "That young woman was resisting you, Vincent Tabak," Lickley said. "Not that I can remember," he replied.