So-called "happy slappers" who attack vulnerable victims and film the assaults should get stiffer sentences than they would for an unrecorded attack, the body which advises judges on sentencing decisions said yesterday. Their sentences should be even tougher if they humiliate the victim further by posting the images on the internet, the Sentencing Guidelines Council (SGC) said in its guidance on sentencing for assaults.Acting in gangs, carrying a weapon, being under the influence of drink or drugs, targeting vulnerable victims such as elderly or disabled people, and attacking in an isolated place are all aggravating factors which should increase the sentence.The council, chaired by the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, said injuries inflicted in connection with an attempted honour killing or forced marriage should also carry heavier penalties, because they involve an abuse of a position of trust. Attacks on firefighters, nurses or others in the public sector or providing a service to the public will also merit stiff sentences. The sentencing range depends on the seriousness of the offence, with the most serious assaults - causing grievous bodily harm with intent and wounding with intent - carrying the heaviest penalties.Sentencing judges have a starting point and then apply aggravating and mitigating factors to reach the final sentence. The most serious cases - violent offenders who carry weapons for deliberate use and inflict grave injuries - merit between 10 and 16 years' jail, the council said.Judge Michael Mettyear, an SGC member, said: "Assaults on public sector workers and those providing a service to the public, including members of the emergency services and transport workers, cause harm to the individual and to wider society. Where an offence is committed against someone providing a service to the public and that worker is also particularly vulnerable ... this will constitute further aggravation."The Fire Brigades Union said last month that there were 1,500 violent attacks on fire crews in 2007. The union said such attacks had become a "recreational activity" for young thugs, with crews facing threats of being ambushed, stoned, pelted with bricks and even shot at.An offender who assaults a police officer while resisting arrest, leading to a minor injury, could escape with a low-level community order, according to the guidelines.The shadow justice secretary Nick Herbert said: "A tough community punishment for a minor assault would be one thing, but last year more than 22,000 unpaid work requirements were not completed, and a third were found to be too easy. A voluntary punishment is unacceptable for any crime, but especially so when a member of the public has been injured or a police officer assaulted." A second guideline, on assaults and cruelty to children, said custody would be the normal penalty. But it urged judges to consider a lesser penalty where the assailant was the child's main carer and jail might mean the child would be taken into care. In cases where an immediate jail term of less than 12 months was justified, a suspended sentence could allow the carer to access rehabilitation and support, it said.Parents are allowed by law to administer "reasonable chastisement", but if an injury results they can be charged with assault. Cases in which a child suffers a "relatively minor" injury and the court finds the parent intended only lawful chastisement, and did not intend or foresee that an injury would result, will not normally warrant a jail term, according to the guidance.