A people trafficker who may have smuggled Adam, the Nigerian boy whose torso was found floating in the Thames, into the UK was today jailed for four and a half years.Kingsley Ojo, 35, from Nigeria, pleaded guilty last week to two charges of smuggling adult illegal immigrants into the UK. He also admitted using a false passport and driving licence. He appeared in Southwark crown court as Mousa Kamara, 30, but police say this is an assumed identity. Police believe Ojo headed a "substantial" network thought to have brought hundreds of illegal immigrants into the country to work in the sex trade or as domestic slaves, or for benefit fraud. He was connected to the Adam case when detectives investigating the boy's murder found his address among the belongings of a suspect in Scotland. Ojo is not suspected of the boy's murder, but police believe he may be the trafficker who brought Adam into the UK. Detective Chief Inspector Will O'Reilly, head of the Operation Swailcliffe investigation into the boy's death, said: "I firmly believe he can assist us with our inquiries and we will be looking to speak to him as soon as possible." Police found the torso of a young boy, five or six years old, floating in the Thames in September 2001. They determined the boy had been the victim of a ritual sacrifice. His killers had decapitated him and hacked off his arms and legs, probably while he was conscious but paralysed after being drugged with an extract of calabar bean. A pair of orange shorts, the only clothing discovered on his body, were added after his death, forensic scientists found.Police named the boy Adam and began an international search for his killer or killers. Forensic scientists determined that Adam had come from a 100-mile stretch of coast around Benin City in Nigeria. Ojo is from Benin City, as is a Nigerian woman arrested in Glasgow in July 2002 and questioned about the murder. She has not been charged and is currently back in Nigeria. Ojo, of Devonshire Close, Stratford, east London, represents the first major prosecution and conviction linked to the murder inquiry. He showed no emotion as Judge Neil Stewart rejected defence pleas for "non-custodial leniency" and said the offences he had committed were so serious that prison was inevitable. There were, he said, a string of "aggravating" features. He said: "The illegal entry offences were repeated, they involved assisting people who were not family members but strangers and I'm satisfied there was an element of financial gain for you. You also had an organisational role." There was also an inference to be drawn that, in addition to people smuggling, he provided his clients with false documents. The judge added: "I'm satisfied your continued presence would be to the detriment of this country and I make a recommendation that you be deported upon your release from prison. The secretary of state will make that decision in due course." Outside court, Mr O'Reilly said Ojo was detained because of his "very close association with a woman we arrested in Scotland". "We believe she is closely involved in the Adam case and ... her main associate in this country was Ojo. We also believe he assisted with her entry into the country." The court heard Ojo came to Britain in 1997, posing as an asylum seeker from Sierra Leone. He was granted leave to remain, a status which severely restricts travel abroad. But when he discovered his new girlfriend Barbara Bourne had lost her son shortly after birth several years earlier, he pocketed and used the dead child's birth certificate and effectively stole his identity to get a new passport and driving licence. He then used easyJet flights to travel to Naples and bring back illegal immigrants using false documents he had supplied. Police say the evidence clearly points to Ojo and others smuggling "substantial" numbers of people into Britain in this way. Michael Logsdon, prosecuting, said although profit was clearly a motive, only £500 had been traced to emptied bank accounts linked to the defendant. Ojo was among 21 people detained in a series of raids last July. Most were illegal immigrants who had paid up to £20,000 each for a new life in Britain.