When this government came to power Britain's prison population stood at 65,000. Today it is nudging 80,000, a figure that many within government argue represents a success story. Far from it. There are now so many locked up in the prison system that it is dangerously close to exceeding its operating capacity.Increasingly inventive ways are having to be found to house prisoners, converting women's institutions into those for men, holding some in police cells, placing others into pre-fabricated cells slotted into existing prisons. These are piecemeal coping strategies, expedient attempts to contain a problem that will get worse if brave decisions are not taken urgently. History shows what happens when the prison population exceeds the capacity of the system to hold it: there is a clear link between overcrowding, riots and suicides. As Martin Narey, the former head of the prison service, explains in today's Observer, when he left the service last year he was 'sick of running prisons absolutely on the edge' and writing a 'note a month to ministers' warning of the consequences. We also report from Wandsworth prison where many of the inmates battle chronic drug and alcohol dependency but receive little help in tackling their problems. It is a depressing truism that half of all inmates are illiterate.This Thursday, Home Secretary John Reid will unveil plans for overhauling the prison system. It would be a tragedy if he did nothing more than express a commitment to increasing prison capacity. There are already too many people in prison who should not be there. Narey questions the merits of locking up 3,000 children. To that, we can add around 7,000 mentally ill inmates who should be in specialist psychiatric units.In addition, too many minor offenders are serving sentences. Ten years ago there were 129 shoplifters in prison. Today there are 1,500. The result? Those inside can't get access to the educational and rehabilitation programmes they need to break the circle of crime, while those who should be serving long sentences for serious crimes are being let out too early. Nobody wins from this scenario: not the prisoners, not the government and not the public.The last Home Secretary to reduce the prison population was Douglas Hurd. John Reid should follow his example.