A children's charity has questioned the tactics of a police chief who has taken the unprecedented move of sending an email to thousands of schoolchildren telling them how to protect themselves from a serial rapist. There have been nine sex attacks across the south east over the past three months, all thought to be carried out by the same person. The attacks, in Surrey, Kent, Berkshire and south London, include the rape of a 13-year-old girl.The chief of police in Surrey, Denis O'Connor, has emailed schools and youth groups describing the attacker and calling on young people to be vigilant. The email said attack victims could be aged between 10 and 52. "The offender takes considerable risks, attacking his victims on well-used public footpaths or common land adjacent to nearby wooded areas, mostly during daylight hours," it reads. "Police are asking everyone to be vigilant and not put themselves in unnecessary danger by walking alone in the type of locations that the rapist uses. The offender approaches his victims from behind and has targeted cyclists as well as females wearing headphones."It asks anyone with information to contact the police.Chief constable O'Connor said there was a great deal of concern among schoolchildren about the series of rapes. However, while Penny Dean, director for Children and Young People at the The Children's Society, supported police efforts to inform the public about the dangers of rape, she was concerned about the nature of sending an email. "An effective message must be easy to understand for children, not only in its tone but also in the ways it advises them of how to avoid risks. They may be surprised to have a direct message from their local police force and question its authenticity. "Moreover it could instill greater fear and suspicion because it is directed towards them without, apparently, other support messages using posters, leaflets and other publicity warning them about these dangers. This email message could, therefore, leave them questioning why they have been specifically targeted."But chief constable O'Connor defended his decision, saying: "I am aware of the potential for alarm but feel that I have a duty to give them as much specific information about the offences as possible in order that they can take steps to ensure their own personal safety. I am asking everyone to be vigilant and not put themselves in unnecessary danger by walking alone in the type of location the rapist uses." A spokesman for the children's charity the NSPCC said it supported the police chief's decision. "We believe this is a good system to use, as the police are using a medium that young people are familiar with. Giving this kind of information is very helpful for young people of this age group. But it is also very important that giving such information is backed up with ensuring that any young people with concerns and are worried about the situation have someone to turn to and talk to."