Police today launched a large-scale assault on what they described as probably the biggest organised crime group in the UK.Some 550 officers targeted 15 addresses around London through the night in one of the biggest series of coordinated raids in Scotland Yard's history.Officers raided homes, businesses and gambling dens linked to a group of people, some of whom are related and are suspected of having links with illegal drug activity, with interests in the UK, Turkey, Holland and the rest of Europe. The group, which contains some individuals reputedly worth many thousands of pounds, is said to have been involved in an escalating turf war with Turkish and Kurdish gangs in north London. There have been 10 gang murders in the last three years. The violence reached new heights last November when one man was killed and four were left on life support machines following a running gun battle involving 40 people in Green Lanes in Haringey. Two suspects described as important to the inquiry were arrested at their home in north London. By 2.15pm today, police had confirmed they had arrested a total of 23 people for guns, drugs and immigration offences and had seized more than £20,000 in cash. Police also said they had recovered five million cigarettes. Commander John Yates said that two guns and two other offensive weapons had so far been recovered in the raids. "We have made significant finds in terms of guns and money," he said. "All our intelligence suggests that these are very big players in terms of criminality in London and internationally. Our intelligence suggests they are involved in major international heroin trafficking." Operation NaritaDuring today's raids, conducted under the operation codename Narita, Turkish-speaking officers were sent to every address.Commander Alan Brown, who spearheads Scotland Yard's fight against gun crime, told officers at a briefing before today's raids that the operation would go on for months: "To think we can get rid of it this evening is to kid ourselves, but we are sending messages that their behaviour will not be tolerated. "We are going to places where in the past people may have said it was too risky, we are going to go there and show residents that these people are not beyond law and order."