It is eight years since Stanley, now 30 and a former drug addict, began a life sentence for murdering one of his prostitute girlfriend's clients in a cocaine-induced frenzy. Last month, not long after being moved in with other lifers at the high security Belmarsh prison in south London, he opened the main artery in his arm and was clinically dead before being resuscitated. Since the suicide attempt, Stanley has been an inpatient in the prison's mental health facility, which includes a day care unit. Run jointly by the prison service and the NHS, it has won the government's "beacon" status for its work on mental health - the only project of its kind to do so. Stanley, who says he was sexually abused as a child, is a difficult, disruptive prisoner. But now he visits the day care unit frequently and is feeling better than he has in years. As well as self-harm and suicide attempts, Belmarsh has to be constantly alert to the risks of escape, rioting and violence. Half of all its inmates have been under the care of a psychiatrist, and up to 10% are severely disturbed. Belmarsh's mental health unit was set up after four inmates took their lives over a period of seven months in 1997. In January 1999, the Oxleas NHS trust went into partnership with Belmarsh, and the mental health unit - named "Cass" after a deceased member of staff - was born. It services 1,000 inmates per year, half of them inpatients and half off the wing. The year of Cass's birth saw just one suicide in Belmarsh, and only one more last year. The prison has been given £15,000 to spread the secret of its success to other prisons. Fiona Lydon, head of clinical services, says: "We are there to help inmates who aren't coping, who may be self-harming or severely depressed. A lot of them should be in hospital, but they have personality disorders rather than mental illness, so we're stuck with them." Belmarsh's mental health service transfers just 70 inmates a year to secure hospitals. Lydon continues: "After severe criticism from the chief inspector of prisons for the high number of deaths in custody, the governor did away with the old medical model and advertised for a head of healthcare, looking at service delivery in the community as a model. Being NHS led means inmates are more trusting of us, more likely to use the service." Ian Cummings, an NHS psychiatrist and one of the unit's 11 staff, spends three-and-a-half days a week at the prison. He says: "We have lots of high-profile inmates here, on murder and sexual offences. Many are acutely mentally ill, with no structure to what they do in prison. We offer simple things to start with - table tennis, a relaxing atmosphere, comfy chairs - to encourage inmates to know the unit. If they're interested we can offer more, such as occupational therapy, art, music, yoga, counselling, mood management groups. We have a duty of care to the individuals beyond what they have done. "Outside, there are lots of ways of dealing with depression. Maybe you'll talk to a friend, have a drink, or go to the gym to relax. Here, they don't have those means," Cummings says. "A lot of these inmates have been victims themselves, and we are dealing with one of society's most disadvantaged groups. We have a chance to make a real impact." Senior prison officer Jan Czajkowski is a former Yorkshire miner who, with occupational therapist Tania Nicholls, runs the Cass unit. His job is to persuade inmates to come to the unit. Czajkowski, who moved from the landing because he "didn't want to be a 'hard-nosed screw' for 20 years", says: "It was hard at first because the rest of the prison think if you're in the 'fluffy bunny' club you can't be secure. The cynics say we're a coffee shop for psychopaths. But what we are is an oasis in the prison desert. The work we do in our unit is like an oil tanker - tip it a bit and it could go out of control. We try to divert our inmates away from disaster." Paul Branks, clinical manager of the unit, adds: "We are dealing with everyone from clever, astute men to the behaviourally sub-normal. Some need crisis intervention, others just need to be observed and assessed. We have to be good communicators." Self-harm gets much worse than lacerated arms in Belmarsh. Billy, a young inmate with a string of minor offences who is described as a "poor coper", developed a habit of opening up a wound in his stomach and filling it with cutlery, food and excrement, which gave him septicemia. Prison officer Maggie Shiret says he has "not cut up for ages" after the unit turned him around. "Billy just needed someone to offload to, but he won't have that when he goes home. He's got nothing to go home to." Billy uses the "snooze room", a therapeutic chill-out area for inmates, designed by a nurse and funded by a charitable donation. It has pan-pipe background music and moving light patterns on the walls from a "bubble machine". There are yoga mats and aromatherapy sprays. Among a group of men working with clay in the art room, while listening to classical music, is Anthony, who was given a seven-year sentence for manslaughter as the balance of his mind was deemed to have been disturbed at the time he beat somebody to death with a blunt instrument. He says: "I came to prison just after attempting suicide, and it's a culture shock. I come to the unit every day to release tension, by learning relaxation and doing creative writing. "The activities can help us to address our problems and move on." More and more prisons recognise that learning basic skills and how to do a CV just isn't enough to prepare troubled inmates for release. By 2004, every prisoner released with serious mental health problems will have a care plan and a care coordinator. Also, as part of an NHS plan to bring prison mental health in line with what is available in the community, there will be 300 more staff with specialist mental health training to augment the existing 2,000. Derek, a muscular man who has just started a life sentence for murder, uses yoga. "It makes me calm, mentally at ease, with an inner peace I've never known before," he says. "It helps you shut out all the shouting and bickering all around you. It helps me to cope with prison, with an existence that is totally devoid of compassion." Names of inmates have been changed.Danger watch: the priority for prisonsSince 1996, 394 prisoners in England and Wales have committed suicide. Last year, suicides fell by 10%, from 91 to 82. This was the first fall since 1995, when 59 prisoners killed themselves. But in just the first month of 2001, seven prisoners took their lives. In addition, since 1998, there have been 3,542 reported incidents of prisoners hanging or strangling themselves that have not resulted in death. Between 1998 and 2000, reported incidents rose by 54% - and incidents are generally under-reported. Some 14% of male prisoners and 20% of female prisoners have borderline personality disorders, compared to 1.8% in the outside population. In April the government will introduce a three-year strategy to reduce prisoner suicide and self-harm. In the first year, £8m will be invested to create more first-night centres for new prisoners, safe cells, crisis suites and gated cells. Inmates in 10 pilot prisons will be screened to identify mental health problems and care packages will be provided for high-risk cases. Staff in these prisons will be supported by specialist mental health teams and dedicated drug detoxification units. Suicide prevention coordinators will be employed in high-risk local prisons, which will have more trained listeners. Frontline staff will also get more training in mental health and suicide prevention. Martin Narey, director general of the prison service, has instructed all prison governors to make the prevention of suicide their highest priority in 2001.Alison Benjamin