A bankrupt businessman who shot a solicitor dead in an attack motivated by revenge will most likely die in prison.Michael Chudley, 63, was handed a life sentence with a minimum term of 28 years for murdering James Ward, 58. The failed property developer blamed Ward for the breakup of his relationship and the repossession of his home.Chudley walked into MGW Law in Devizes, Wiltshire, in July last year and shot Ward once in the head at close range with a sawn-off shotgun as he spoke to a client on the telephone. The force of the blast blew out a window of the first-floor town centre office.Ward, a father of three who was known as Jim, suffered catastrophic head injuries and died almost three weeks later in hospital.Chudley, of no fixed address, was convicted on Monday by a jury at Salisbury crown court of the murder of Ward.On Tuesday, trial judge Mr Justice Bean told Chudley that he had wallowed in self-pity. "Four years ago you began a court case against Christopher Sear," he said. "His solicitor was Jim Ward. Mr Ward was a decent, conscientious, highly respected solicitor in Devizes."He did his proper professional duty for Mr Sear, as he had done for many clients over many years. You lost the case and lost a great deal of money in the process. So you decided to take your revenge on Mr Ward."You armed yourself with a sawn-off shotgun, drove to the Market Square in Devizes and walked into the offices of Mr Ward's firm. You threatened to shoot the receptionist, Daphne Courtney, and forced her to lead you upstairs."I am quite satisfied that you intended to kill Mr Ward. You fired a single shot to his head, then walked out as calmly as you had arrived, got into your car and drove off."It was a chilling, calculated execution."Bean referred to the evidence in court of Ward's wife, Nicola Morris, and victim impact statements written by her daughter Louise, and by Courtney."Mr Ward's widow gave her evidence with admirable dignity and composure but the effect of the murder on her family has been appalling. All three children of Mr Ward have lost a loving father. His mother has outlived her son."I also note that Daphne Courtney has suffered severe post-traumatic stress disorder with panic attacks and flashbacks which can stop her in her tracks. She writes in her victim impact statement that she was frightened beyond description by your attack and by the threat to her life. She feels a sense of guilt although in my view there was nothing she could have done to save Mr Ward."Because you wallow in self-pity and think only of yourself I doubt whether any of this bothers you at all. Indeed, when you were asked in the witness box whether you felt any remorse for the death of Mr Ward you replied: 'I don't know what the word means. I have no feelings about Ward.'"In this respect at least, you were telling the truth."