Lucy was raped by a man who boasted about what he was going to do as he left the pub at the end of the street, though none of his fellow drinkers would testify against him in court. Then he broke into Lucy's home and attacked her as she slept.But Lucy's ordeal was far from over: in court, she then had to face the rapist, who had been her neighbour until three months before the attack. "It was awful. The barrister ripped into me, trying to make out things that hadn't happened to see if I'd crack. It was very traumatic. I felt I was more on trial than the attacker," she says.Part of the defence was that Lucy had been out drinking with friends that night - the suggestion being she was too drunk to know what had happened, or even that she had brought it on herself.Lucy's experience is typical of many women who, having suffered the trauma of rape, feel violated for a second time when they are interrogated in court. Although direct questions on a woman's character and sexual history are no longer allowed, defence barristers often find ways round the restriction and are only too adept at exploiting jurors' prejudices about the way a rape victim should look, act and dress.But under a new scheme being considered in Scotland, a woman who survives rape could be given a new ally: a publicly funded lawyer to represent her in court. He or she would act solely in the victim's interests - unlike the prosecutor, who is there to represent the public interest. The lawyer would be able to familiarise themselves with the case before the trial and, if necessary, shut down invasive lines of interrogation.Campaigners say the scheme, which is already operating in Denmark and Sweden, could tackle Scotland's abysmal rape conviction rate, which recently fell to an all-time low of 3.9%, compared with 5.6% in England."No one can say that more than 96% of women who report rape are lying, so it's a real problem in terms of access to justice," says Sandy Brindley, network coordinator of Rape Crisis Scotland, which has commissioned a feasibility study on the proposal.Fewer than one in 10 rape cases gets to court. And if there is a trial, women are often subjected to degrading treatment. "At the moment, no one is representing the victim's interests, so she can feel that she is under attack," says Brindley.Lucy, who met the prosecutor in her case just minutes before the trial began, supports the idea. "Having someone on my side who knew me as a person, and the ins and outs of my case, would have made me feel less vulnerable," she says.However, she believes that, even if a lawyer is present, the victim must be able to tell her story in her own words to avoid suspicion on the part of the jury that she has something to hide.Andrew McIntyre, one of the senior lawyers who worked on a review of the prosecution of sexual offences for the Scottish Crown Office last year, says the scheme represents a fundamental change for the Scottish system, but there is no reason why it could not be introduced if parliament chose to back it.His concern is that involving three lawyers in the process could create duplication and confusion. "The role of the prosecutor is to represent the public interest, but the public interest necessarily includes the interests of the victim to a very large extent," he says.The Scottish Law Commission is examining the law on rape and other sexual offences and is expected to make recommendations later this year. Ministers are awaiting the results of that review, but say they are "committed to ensuring that when giving evidence, rape victims are protected from unnecessary lines of questioning".In England, there are moves to give the victim a greater voice in the judicial process, although these fall well short of the scheme being examined in Scotland. Pilots of the victim advocate programme, in which the families of murder or manslaughter victims are given the opportunity to make a statement before sentencing, have recently been extended.The findings of the feasibility study, which is being carried out at the University of Dundee, are expected by the end of the year.*Lucy's name has been changed.