Did Victor Keegan come to praise the music industry or bury it? In yesterday's Guardian, he claims the industry does not understand the digital revolution yet goes on to point out digital sales of music are increasing rapidly.Sure, music labels didn't invent iTunes or Comes With Music, but these great services can only get off the ground with the active support of labels.Music sales held up well last year despite the recession. This is not only because the industry is in excellent health creatively and released some great music, but also because more and more people are buying music online. But make no mistake – illegal filesharing harms creators, labels and investors in innovative new music services.Keegan questions the evidence of economic harm being done to the music business by illegal downloading. Independent research conducted for the BPI by Jupiter Research shows that the record business will lose £200m in revenue due to illegal downloading in 2009. Between 2007 and 2012 the cumulative effect will be £1.2bn. He says the losses are not as great as this, but unlike Jupiter's detailed work, he does not offer any evidence to back this up. Furthermore his claim that the industry is doing "remarkably well" is true, but he over-eggs the case. Overall, industry revenue fell by 5.3% in 2008. Yes, the digital market is growing strongly but not at a sufficient pace to offset the damage being done by piracy.Keegan repeats some of the arguments raised by Billy Bragg in his Comment is free piece Do we want ISPs to penalise our fans – saying that record companies are trying to pass responsibility for tackling illegal filesharing on to internet service providers. Not so. Tackling this enormous problem (more than a billion illegal music downloads every year in the UK alone) is a shared responsibility. We will continue to do our bit by supporting innovative new online music services and detecting people downloading songs from services that don't pay artists. We think it fair that ISPs play their part by notifying customers that what they are doing is wrong, informing them about legal alternatives and taking follow-up action if that's ignored.Bragg and Keegan are both right to draw attention to the online legal services which are vital to help swing people away from illegal P2P. There are already some 50 legal ways to get music online, and they helped labels get 14% of their revenue from digital sales last year. Many music fans are already heading to these sites (one in 10 of the population buy music online) but to ensure others follow suit we need simple and fair disincentives to freeloading that steer consumers towards legal services.And contrary to Bragg's suggestion that labels are blocking new models, BPI members continue to have constructive discussions with various ISPs about new music subscription services.A "graduated response" policy of a staged series of information and warnings is the best way of doing this. There has to be a sanction at the end, otherwise information and warnings will simply be ignored. But our ultimate goal is not to sue, suspend or disconnect fans. Rather, the objective is to encourage them on to legal sites so that they get the music they want, and creators get the rewards they deserve. Any graduated response policy will include routes of appeal. And to knock a couple of Bragg's other misapprehensions on the head: people using P2P for legitimate services, or for non-commercially released music, won't be affected; and encryption doesn't mean that people who are filesharing illegally can't be identified.This is an exciting time for the British music sector – we continue to produce great music, with a huge home fan base and internationally renowned artists while we lead the creative sector in developing new digital business models. But all this is put in jeopardy by rampant illegal downloading, as are careers for young people who would like to work in music in the future. If we, together with ISPs and government, can crack this nut, then the future for British music is very exciting.