Two years ago, a man named Anthony Alan White pleaded guilty at Southwark crown court to two counts of fraud. He also admitted two charges under the Theft Act 1968. According to the editor of Archbold, the criminal lawyers' bible, none of the four charges held water.White had obtained four successive mortgages in order to buy his elderly parents a flat in Clerkenwell, central London. On each occasion, he gave false details of his income. In fact he had no income. Each mortgage was used to pay off the previous one.All this eventually came to light. The flat was repossessed and the lenders got all their money back. White was sentenced to 30 months' imprisonment on the basis that the amount obtained from the lenders was £660,000. But since the subsequent loans were used to pay off the earlier loans, the actual amount he obtained from the finance company was £265,000. That, said the court of appeal, meant the sentence should have been 24 months.In due course, a transcript of the judgment reached James Richardson QC, who edits Criminal Law Week as well as Archbold. Though the transcript was short on detail, he immediately spotted something wrong. He obtained a copy of the original indictment, which contains six charges. The first two accuse White of "obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception" under section 16 of the Theft Act 1968. The remaining four accuse him of offences under the Fraud Act 2006.That act came into force in January 2007. Two of the charges against White relate to false representations he is said to have made in November 2006. Those actions cannot have been offences under an act that was not in force at the time.The other two charges under the Fraud Act were also bad law, according to Richardson. That's because applying for a mortgage cannot amount to a false representation that one is "entitled to a loan", as the charge alleged. And Richardson says that White was not under a "legal duty" to disclose that he was unemployed.The two charges under the Theft Act were also defective, Richardson explains, because of the way "pecuniary advantage" is defined by section 16. It covers overdrafts but not mortgages.Someone seems to have spotted the most obvious of these six errors. Richardson's researches turned up a five-count indictment in which the two allegations dating from 2006 have been charged as a single offence under the Theft Act instead. But that charge would also have been bad. It's not clear how six or five charges had become four by the time the case reached the court of appeal."The upshot is that a court of three senior judges failed to notice that, far from being in prison, the defendant should have been set free," Richardson told me. But it was not just the court of appeal that was to blame. "The Crown Prosecution Service was responsible for an indictment that was defective in at least four distinct respects. And there were the advocates on both sides and two judges in the crown court."Writing about the case in the latest edition of Criminal Law Week, Richardson says it illustrates the depths to which the court of appeal has sunk. The appeal court should be setting the standard, he maintains. "If this is the standard to be expected, then it is no wonder that things are going wrong on a massive scale lower down in the hierarchy."One of his suggested improvements is appointing a few academic lawyers to the court of appeal. The other is more fundamental. Nowadays, he argues, the court of appeal is more interested in outcomes than procedure."Procedural lapses are indulged by the courts," Richardson writes. "The more they are indulged, the more they occur; the more they occur, the more they need to be indulged."He continues: "This downward spiral has culminated in Anthony White's case passing through the hands of five judges and at least as many lawyers without any of them noticing it was devoid of legal foundation; or if they did, without seeking to have it put on a proper legal foundation."What should happen now? On one view, no injustice was done. White admitted acting fraudulently. He deliberately deceived a finance company on four occasions. True, the company got all its money back – but only because White's fraud was discovered before the housing market collapsed. He deserved to go to prison. Legal technicalities such as these should not stand in the way of justice.On another view, this is a scandal that needs to be rectified. White should be granted legal aid so that he can bring an appeal out of time. If Richardson's comments turn out to be accurate – and those approached by him have not claimed otherwise – then White's appeal should be allowed.Since 2004, a compromise has been possible. Section 3A of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 deals with cases such as this. It applies to an appellant who has been convicted of an offence after a plea of guilty and it appears to the court of appeal that he has admitted facts which prove him guilty of some other offence.In such cases, the court of appeal – instead of allowing or dismissing the appeal – may substitute a plea of guilty to the other offence for his original plea. It can then pass a sentence for the other offence of no greater severity than the original sentence.It seems to me that this is what should happen in White's case. I understand he has received advice on his rights since his release from prison. But his solicitors, Saunders Law Ltd, told me this week that they had no comment to make on the case.