A killer has been accused of mocking a court after he refused to answer questions about a teardrop he had inked on his face, which could signify he has killed someone.Kiaran Stapleton claimed the killer teardrop tattoo did not refer to the death of Indian postgraduate student Anuj Bidve on Boxing Day last year, but to his pet goldfish. He refused to elaborate about the goldfish in case he received "animal cruelty letters" in prison, he told Manchester crown court, which prompted the accusation that he was making fun of the court.Under cross-examination on Monday, Stapleton was asked by prosecutor Brian Cummings QC why he decided to get the teardrop tattoo two days after the fatal shooting.Stapleton explained he knew it had several meanings, including signifying the wearer had killed someone, and that he told staff at the tattoo shop he had killed his goldfish. Asked about the significance of his comments, he replied: "I don't wish to discuss that. I might have animal cruelty sending me letters at HMP Manchester."At which point, Cummings asked him: "Are you being serious or are you making fun of the proceedings?""No, no, I'm being serious," Stapleton replied.The court has previously heard that Stapleton, 21, of Ordsall, Salford, walked up to the 23-year-old student and his friends, asked them the time, and when one of them replied he pulled out a gun and shot the victim in the head, killing him.Stapleton admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, but denies murder. The plea was rejected by the prosecution and the case came to trial last month.He was accused of mocking the court over his answer to a question about his stay at the Campanile Hotel in Regent Road – overlooking the crime scene –the day after the shooting. The jury watched CCTV footage of Stapleton looking out of the hotel windows. Cummings asked him why he was doing this.Stapleton replied: "Seeing if there were any nice women walking past Regent Road ... seeing if there were any nice legs."The prosecutor asked: "Is that true or are you having a laugh in this trial?" "No, that's true," Stapleton replied.He denied he had brought along his "little audience" of friends to the tattoo shop in Swinton and was allegedly showing off to them as they laughed and joked."This was all about enjoying your status as a killer, was it not?" said Cummings.Stapleton said: "No."Previously, the court has heard that Stapleton was "trying to be all cool" with a friend prior to the shooting. Bidve and friends had been walking from their hotel to Manchester city centre in the early hours of Boxing Day to avoid the queues for the sales, navigating using a mobile phone's GPS, when they were approached by the gunman.The trial continues.