Police are being denied permission to search Ian Brady's room for photographs which may yield clues to where the body of one of the Moors murder victims is buried, it emerged yesterday.Keith Bennett disappeared in 1964, aged 10. Despite extensive searches of Saddleworth Moor, where the other victims were buried, his remains have not been found. Alan Bennett, the missing boy's brother, said: "They told us it's a question of Brady's rights. What about Keith's rights?" Greater Manchester police, who had sought a warrant after an investigation into letters and photographs left by Myra Hindley, Brady's accomplice, after her death in November 2002, found they had secretly hoarded images of the graves long after they were convicted. But the warrant was refused because of an obscure legal technicality: it cannot be issued because there is no longer a possibility Brady would be charged over Keith Bennett's death. "There were a lot of very unhappy people around here when we were told we couldn't search Brady's cell," said a murder squad detective. Malcolm MacCulloch, who was Brady's psychiatrist and is now the editor of the British Journal of Forensic Psychiatry, examined hundreds of documents following Hindley's death, including her unpublished autobiography. He also looked at 200 photos taken at the time of the Moors murders, and said that they showed burial sites. Professor MacCulloch found that, over a number of years, Brady made repeated and insistent demands for a handful of the photos, which were being stored by Hindley's mother, Nellie. Letters from her show that over seven years Brady made repeated demands for slide copies of five specific photos. Hindley wrote to her mother: "He's got a new hand viewer, and he's looking forward to receiving them." Prof MacCulloch said: "He asks for the pictures not only frequently, but insistently. And that is consistent with them having a special meaning to him - and the only meaning I can think of is burial sites." Nellie only supplied the copies when her daughter threatened her, stating: "He says he'll have to send someone around to get them." The psychiatrist said it was common for serial killers to keep mementoes: "People like Brady hoard objects which remind them of what they have done, so they can relive the event - it can be hair, body parts, or photos." In order to establish which photos, the police asked GCHQ to look for coded messages in the letters between the Moors murderers. These were copied and stored by the prison authorities. They also examined poetry in which Hindley admitted to hiding messages about harming children. "We got the code - the problem is that the messages are meaningless to anyone other than the Moors murderers," a murder squad officer said. "There's nothing that says 'X marks the spot'." The couple were sentenced to life for the murders of Lesley Ann Downey, 10, John Kilbride, 14, and Edward Evans, 17. It was not until the mid-1980s that they confessed they had killed two more children. The remains of Pauline Reade, 16, were recovered - but those of Keith Bennett have never been found. The families of both victims have previously called for Brady and Hindley's prosecution, but this was blocked by the director of public prosecutions, who said a new trial would be a waste of money as there was no prospect of either ever being released. Greater Manchester police have now hired an expert image analyst to look at all of Brady's pictures for images marking the grave of Keith Bennett. They have also ordered the analysis of water samples from Saddleworth Moor for traces of a decomposing body. Keith's elderly mother, Winnie Johnson, says she wants nothing more than to find her son and give him a proper burial. The police say there is little they can do without new evidence to show them where to dig. Earlier this year, as the 40th anniversary of her son's murder approached, she wrote to the home secretary, David Blunkett, asking him to order a fresh search. Keith set out to walk a short distance to his grandmother's home in Manchester on June 16 1964. He never arrived. Hindley's photos show Ian Brady in his suit and slippers, and her dressed in leather. The archive gives mundane reminders of an extraordinary life: Hindley's confirmation prayer book, an insurance document for the car she and Brady used to abduct children, and the gold-plated watch he gave her for her 21st birthday. Much of her autobiography is a self-serving account of a northern working-class upbringing: gas lamps, outside toilets, picking coal from railway tracks, and playing marbles. It seeks to explain what turned a Catholic girl into a woman capable of the Moors murders. Hindley's relationship with her violent father is central: he beat both her mother and her, and taught Myra to street fight at an early age. Prof MacCulloch believes this shaped her character. "People who have been brutalised - either emotionally or physically, or sexually, or a combination of all three - develop abnormal personalities with elements of cruelty or sadism later on," he noted. Hindley claims Brady corrupted her faith, and introduced her to the writings of the Marquis de Sade and Nazism. After their conviction in 1966, the Moors murderers took legal action forcing the return of negatives of photos not connected to the known murders. Two years later, 200 images were handed to Hindley's mother for safe-keeping. Prof MacCulloch says that having control of Keith Bennett allows Brady to view himself as the winner. "Final control is the possession of the body," he added. "I know you don't know, and I'm not going to tell you." · The Moors Murder Code, BBC2 Wednesday 9pm