A man yesterday denied leading a plot to cause mass murder by blowing planes out of the sky, saying he had meant instead to explode small devices inside the Houses of Parliament as part of a publicity stunt.Abdulla Ahmed Ali, 27, said that suicide videos which the prosecution claims prove a plot to bomb seven planes flying to North America were in fact made as part of a "propaganda" documentary planned for release after the small explosions in Westminster.He told a jury at Woolwich crown court that the "documentary" would be released on YouTube and was intended to expose the effects of British foreign policy.Ali is one of eight men standing trial after their alleged plot was disrupted in August 2006. They all deny conspiracy to murder and to endanger aircraft.In April, while opening its case, the crown played videos of Ali found after he was arrested in which he warned of "body parts ... decorating the streets" if Muslims were not left alone. He is seen speaking against the backdrop of a black flag with Arabic writing on it.Yesterday Ali appeared before the jury in a dark suit and tie as he gave evidence in his own defence. He said he had worked in refugee camps and decided the root cause of the suffering he had witnessed personally and through the media was British and American foreign policy.With one of his co-accused, Assad Sarwar, he discussed how to try to change things, and came up with the idea of setting off explosions in Britain. Ali told the jury: "What we were going to do was make a small device, to be set off in a sensitive area, which would cause a lot of alarm."Asked by his barrister, Nadine Radford QC, what he meant by a small device, Ali said: "Just something enough to cause general concern and also if you're going to make threats, there's no point doing it with a firecracker."He said the aim was not to injure or kill anyone, just to create "some smoke" and "generate mass media attention".Ali and Sarwar discussed targets in early 2006 in his east London council flat; they included Canary Wharf, Liverpool Street station and the Bank of England, "anywhere iconic and sensational".He researched how to make a device from sites on the internet. He told the court he also discovered that one way to gain entry to parliament was to make an appointment with an MP. Since the building had tight airport-style security, Ali and his fellow plotters decided to disguise their explosives in drinks bottles of Lucozade and Oasis.After the Westminster explosions he intended to release a documentary video which would include threats, spliced together with footage of the alleged murderous effects of western foreign policy on Muslim people around the world.Earlier, he told the jury of working in a camp in Pakistan for refugees established after the US attacked Afghanistan following the September 11 attacks in 2001. Ali said: "There were lots of deaths in the camps daily. We had to go to a lot of funerals daily. It was mostly kids that were dying. Children, young children."He said he had been interested in politics since he was a teenager. "When I was about 15 or 16 I remember the Bosnian war going on and I remember images of concentration camps, of people looking like skeletons and things like that. I was aware they were Muslims," he said.Radford asked him about his political and religious views: "Would you describe yourself as an extremist?"Ali replied: "No, I would not."He said he had been active in the anti-Iraq war movement but had become disillusioned over whether enough could ever be achieved through aid work and marches. Asked whether he had intended to endanger a plane, Ali replied: "At no stage did we ever even think of going on an airplane or causing an explosion there."He said the taking of innocent life was forbidden by Islam. Ali's defence continues today.