Music industry executives at Sony and BMG could face up to five years in jail if the companies continue illegally to flypost after being served with anti-social behaviour orders.The record companies have been accused of saving more than £8m in advertising costs by illegally putting up posters on everything from shop hoardings to pillar boxes in the London borough of Camden. In the first move of its kind, Camden council sought the anti-social behaviour orders (Asbos) - often reserved for unruly teenagers - in a bid to stop the music industry giants from flyposting in the borough. If the Asbo procedure succeeds, the labels will be ordered by a court to end their activities or face a substantial jail term: the maximum is five years. A Camden council spokesman said the Asbos were being sought because of continual complaints from Camden residents, businesses and visitors about the illegal posters. Repeated prosecutions and council requests to both companies had failed to stop them flyposting. "The reason the companies continue to act in this way appears to be the huge financial savings that they can make by not paying for legal advertising space," the spokesman said. Camden council estimates that BMG UK and Ireland saves £5.6m per year in advertising space costs, while Sony UK saves £3m in the borough of Camden alone. The spokesman said: "Whatever the total amount, these companies' profits are founded on illegitimate and anti-social behaviour, which Camden is seeking to stop." Camden employed five council officers last year to deal with flyposting, which costs taxpayers in the borough around £250,000 per year. The council's action is supported by Encams, the charity that runs the Keep Britain Tidy campaign. Encams chief executive, Alan Woods, said: "There is a common myth that struggling artists, political campaigns and local promoters do the most fly-posting. They don't. It is large multi-national record companies that smear these ads all over city centres - and then leave us with the bill to clean them up." The Asbos were served on Friday and name a number of record company executives which Camden claims are responsible for commissioning the flyposting activity. Sony and BMG were unavailable for comment yesterday. The case will go before magistrates on June 14. Sony represents artists including Beyoncé, Big Brovaz, George Michael and Charlotte Church, while BMG's roster includes Dido and Avril Lavigne. · The NHS will today seek court approval for a ban on its "worst ever" patient attending any hospital or GP surgery in England and Wales. It is applying to York magistrates for an anti-social behaviour order on Norman Hutchins, 53, to keep him out of all NHS premises and stop him calling them by phone.