The former lead singer of the heavy metal band Iron Maiden has been jailed for nine months for benefit fraud.Paul Andrews – better known to fans as Paul Di'Anno – claimed £45,000 in benefits while he was touring around the world, sometimes playing to crowds of 10,000 people.The 52-year-old, who was a member of Iron Maiden between 1978 and 1981, had claimed he could not work after he was injured leaping off a stage.But he was caught when videos posted on YouTube of him performing were spotted by Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) investigators.James Newton-Price, prosecuting, told Salisbury crown court that Andrews claimed income support, housing benefit and council tax handouts despite touring between 2002 and 2008.He said Andrews did not notify the DWP that he was working or travelling abroad as he should have done."His touring took him to Europe, India, Brazil, Canada, Russia, and Mexico," said Newton-Price. "There is footage on YouTube of over 50 live performances between 2004 and 2007. He admitted in an interview at one of his concerts in 2005 that he was living in Brazil for a time and that he played to crowds of 10,000 people."Steven Ritter, defending, said Andrews was naive and that all he cared for was the welfare of his family – a wife and a son in the US and a daughter in Venezuela."He was obsessed with music and performing. He is very naive in terms of business matters and has no formal education," Ritter said.Andrews had credibility and a "loyal fan base across the world" but when it came to money he was "muddled," said Ritter, adding: "He has fallen into a pit of mayhem and has lost practically everything. He does not care what happens to him, only his wife and children."Sentencing Andrews, who lives in Salisbury, Jane Miller QC, told him: "Your public persona is not relevant. Your greed has cost this country a lot of money. The claims were for a long time and for a large cost. It must be a custodial sentence."In 2002 you started claiming benefits when it was quite clear you were already working. It took many years to track you down. In 2007 you performed at 69 venues, in 2006 you performed 67 times."Andrews admitted eight counts of benefit fraud. A confiscation hearing to settle payments the singer owes to the DWP will be heard in June.Andrews left Iron Maiden after three years and was replaced as lead singer by Bruce Dickinson.Andrews arrived at court wearing a grey suit, black shirt and woolly hat. He sported two ear-rings and a goatee beard and was using a walking stick.A former butcher and chef, Andrews left the group in 1981 in acrimonious circumstances. He embarked on a series of new projects and wrote an autobiography called The Beast.Iron Maiden continued to record and tour and was due to perform in Tokyo this weekend, though the band's flight was diverted because of the earthquake and tsunami.Andrews was told he would serve at least four and a half months of his jail term behind bars before being released on conditional bail.Ritter added that Andrews had carried on performing with agents continually promising him he was about to get the "drift of money he was looking for". In fact he made little money for all the touring he did, said Ritter. "He has lost a fortune several times," Ritter added.