"Ripper", a stocky black teenager is shielding his eyes from the sun and pointing 100 yards towards a T-junction. "I can go down there and turn left and that would be OK," he says. "But I can't go down there and turn right. That would be problems. It just wouldn't be safe."Such is life in his part of east London, where the dominance of territorially-based gangs impacts directly on the lives of many but particularly on the young. He is 19.He is talking to Aron Jervis, also 19, and both reflect that ordinary life is complicated. "It's expensive. If you are seen as being on one side or the other, you have to take cabs everywhere," says Aron. "People can't walk because they don't know who will drive past and mob them. You can't take the bus because there is nowhere to go if someone moves on you. And you would never know when it was coming."Few in Leyton know how the deadly feud between the Beaumont Crew and the Oliver Close Crew came about. The latest manifestation began in 2002 when a key member of the Beaumont Crew - long dominant because of their control of the drug market - was robbed by a member of the Oliver Close Crew.The repercussions were ferocious, a spate of violence. The Oliver Close gang allied itself to others opposed to the Beaumont, which draws members from other parts of the borough. The result has been mayhem.But on the ground, these are mere details. Of more significance is the way gang war affects the lives of both participants and those sucked in. One youth worker, who requested anonymity, said: "It touches on everything. They can't get jobs, they can't train. Many feel so vulnerable. They travel around together because it is safer that way. They wear hoods for the most part because they hope it will prevent them being recognised. I remember trying to get one guy on an apprenticeship - and he wanted to do it - but he wouldn't go because it meant catching a bus. Too risky. You get them alone and the stories are just sad."Ripper, who drifted towards the Beaumont as his schoolmates did the same, and away again last year, agrees. "Most don't want to do it. They run with their boys just to get by. It's protection. If someone is scared of you then in a way they respect you."No one is surprised about what happened to Jessie James, who was shot because he refused any gang allegiance. Many on both the Beaumont estate and Oliver Close fall victim to selection by postcode. Your allegiance is dictated by where you live.Aron also drifted towards the Beaumont but he and Ripper are now part of Rollin G, a collective which tries to divert teenagers away from street life and into professions. The clientele live on mundane suburban streets, in terrace houses with gardens, and on estates undergoing renovation.But Aron says they also live on a knife edge. "They have to make dangerous decisions because the wrong decision could cost you your life. If you show up in the wrong place at the wrong time that could be it."Even driving is dangerous. If you drive through the wrong area, you better drive fast. I suggested to a 14-year-old the other day that we go somewhere local and he said 'I can't. I'm from Chingford.' That's what it is like."