Friday 3 August: Tia Sharp is seen leaving her grandmother Christine Sharp's home in New Addington, south-east London, at around midday. The 12-year-old told relatives she was going to the Whitgift Centre in Croydon., but It was the last time any of them saw her.Monday 6 August: Tia's family makes an emotional plea for her to return home as police find no trace of her on CCTV footage.Tuesday 7 August: A CCTV image of Tia outside the local Co-op is released as her grandmother says she hopes it will jog someone's memory. It is believed the last person who saw Tia was Sharp's partner, Stuart Hazell. Police begin searching a local wood, Birchwood, scouring the undergrowth with long sticks. The Sun offers a £25,000 rewardWednesday 8 August: Police take a German shepherd dog into Tia's grandmother's house, where it is believed she was last seen. Volunteers and members of the local community continue to hand out posters, wear "Find Tia" T-shirts and conduct their own searches. Metropolitan police area commander Neil Basu announces that police officers have been redirected from Olympic duties to join an 80-strong team involved in the hunt for Tia. He says Scotland Yard has received more than 300 calls and 60 reported sightings of Tia. Hazell, 37, is led from Sharp's house by two men in plain clothes and voluntarily questioned by police.Thursday 9 August: Police search bins outside Tia's grandmother's home and around the estate where she lives, using sticks to scour through rubbish. Hazell says he was not the last person to see her and makes an emotional plea for her to return home in an interview with ITV News. The schoolgirl's uncle, David Sharp, says Tia's family is "in bits".Friday 10 August: Two detectives arrive at Tia's grandmother's house in the morning, leaving 30 minutes later with brown evidence bags. A police sniffer dog is brought to the property. Tia's grandmother leaves the house with police at midday. Police seal off the area around the house at 1pm for a "pre-arranged search". At 4.45pm police say they have found a body at the house. Hazell is arrested in Merton, south-west London, at 8.25pm and held on suspicion of murder.Saturday 11 August: Tia's grandmother, Christine Sharp, 46, is questioned at a south London police station on suspicion of murder and Paul Meehan, a 39-year-old neighbour, is taken into custody on suspicion of assisting an offender. The pair are released on bail.Later that evening, Hazell is charged with murder after being interviewed by detectives. Police say he will appear before magistrates on Monday.Monday 13 August: Hazell is sent for trial at the Old Bailey during his appearance at Camberwell Green magistrates court via videolink from a custody suite at Sutton police station.No formal identification of the body has yet been made but the victim is named in the murder charge as Tia. The postmortem examination, which was halted on Saturday evening, is likely to continue this week.