Detectives today confirmed they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths of a family of four whose bodies were found at their home in Hampshire.The family has been named locally as Andrew Case, a 33-year-old HGV driver, his wife, Vicki, 31, and their daughters, Phoebe, two and one-year-old Nereya.Police said postmortem examinations revealed that the man found at the address in Fordingbridge, Hampshire, yesterday had died as a result of a ligature suspension and the woman died after suffering knife wounds.The cause of death of the couple's two children has yet to be established.The bodies were discovered by the children's grandmother. The toddlers' father is believed to have slit the children's throats and their mother's before hanging himself.Acting Superintendent Gary Cooper said: "Detectives are continuing to investigate the background and the circumstances that led to this tragic incident."The families of everyone involved are understandably extremely shocked and distressed by what has happened, and have asked that they are left alone to try and come to terms with their loss."Police said they were still unable to confirm the identification of the four because some family members had still to be informed.The family was described by shocked neighbours and friends as loving and happy. They had just returned from a week's holiday in Weymouth.The children's mother ran the St Aldhelm's children's nursery in Sandleheath, neighbours said.A friend said: "She was friendly, bubbly – one of those really nice people. She ran the local nursery, all the local kids loved her, all the people loved her."A neighbour, Alayna Brooks, 53, said of the couple: "They were so loved up … in fact, if I had a marriage, I would have loved their marriage – they just loved each other." She described the girls as "gorgeous".Another neighbour, Jeremy Pentecost, 27, said he had run out of his house, which overlooks the property where the families were discovered."I didn't go into the house," he added. "Someone stopped me going in, and I'm glad they did, to be honest. I didn't want to see that. They seemed a nice couple, and I joked with him sometimes outside."The mayor of Fordingbridge, councillor Malcolm Connolly, told the local Daily Echo newspaper: "The loss of young lives is always tragic, and it leads to the question why something like this happens."It's a small town. These people will have been known to many, and it will have a major impact on the lives of residents."A cordon was set up around the house, and scene of crime officers used a recovery lorry to take away a blue Land Rover Freelander that had children's toys inside and a blue-grey Volkswagen Golf with two child seats in it.