We usually met in her squat and went to McDonald's on Spital Fields. She always ordered a Big Mac, chips, Coke or Fanta, a strawberry milkshake, and a chocolate fudge sundae. It was the only time I ever saw her eat.The last time I saw Lynne Carroll, she was pulling her coarse navy woollen gloves over her translucent, veined hands and getting ready for work. A shredded white plastic bag was flapping in the broken glass of her bedroom window. Carroll was 21, a victim of Dublin's 80s heroin rush. When she went on the run for shoplifting, she ran from Dublin to Sheffield; her boyfriend's mother had emigrated there before her. In the squat, the kitchen sink had a necklace of dust in the plughole. She only used the flat to sleep in and to tighten that black leather belt around her arm, inject and let her brain flop into heroin. It had been that way since she was 17. If she had any plans to leave Sheffield suddenly, she never mentioned them. Carroll was fussy about her hair, her long, tired hair with long split ends and the faint hint of red. She always had a faint whiff of sex about her. At night she fed her hungry heroin and cocaine master with £150 worth of prostitution: hand job, £15; blow job, £20; and full sex, £25. The clients buying sex were mostly ordinary men: lonely men, bored men, and weekly men. Angry men occasionally killed. The risks were huge. Just before we met, Carroll had spent the night working the same streets as another prostitute, Michaela Hague. It was November 5 last year. By the end of the night, Hague was bleeding to death on the gravel of a deserted car park near Corporation Street, choking as she tried to give the details of her killer to a young PC named Richard Twigg. Below, in the distance, shone the lights of Sheffield. Around them were the used condoms of previous transactions. Hague had 19 stab wounds. The ambulance arrived to take her to die in hospital, word of her murder got around the street - and Carroll went back to work. Heroin is not a patient master. For four months, a television documentary team and I filmed Carroll and dozens of other prostitutes as part of a survey that uncovered the phenomenal rate of violent attacks on, and murders of, British prostitutes. Through talking to more than 100 women and the police, and going back through newspaper cuttings and home office data, we uncovered violence against these women that has so far gone unnoticed. Even their deaths often pass unmarked, and they make up the largest single group of unsolved murders in Britain. At least 60 prostitutes have been murdered in the past 10 years - probably more. An unknown number of women are missing. The vast majority of murder cases are solved, yet in a third of all prostitute murders, the killer is never found. Their deaths make small paragraphs in the national newspapers: when they go missing, as Carroll did, often nobody bothers to report their loss - mostly their families lost them to heroin years earlier. They become a body found in a ditch, or a prostitute last seen at a motorway service station. In Europe's prostitution capital, Amsterdam, only two prostitutes have been murdered while working in the last five years. In Britain, the most recent case was just three months ago. The victim was 21 years old, a heroin addict and pregnant. Her name, Danielle Moorcroft, like those of other murdered prostitutes, was quickly forgotten. Most of these women you will never have heard about. Their deaths rarely make the national press. Is there another serial killer on the loose? The police say not. Operation Enigma was set up six years ago to investigate possible links between the murders. Now defunct, it concluded that there was no evidence of a mass killer, but that some men may have killed more than one woman. Alun Kyte was such a man, convicted of two prostitute murders. Kyte had sex then strangled his victims and dumped their bodies in ditches. In prison he reportedly told a cellmate: "You don't pay for those kind of women." In Kyte's case, it was days before the women were even reported missing. Forensic psychologist Paul Britton helped the police investigate the Kyte murders: "He is not a highly complex, careful-planning, puzzle-making serial killer. He killed because they are easy to kill." In our investigation, prostitutes all over the country, usually reluctant to go on camera or talk to journalists, were eager to talk about attacks on them. Mostly they are frightened. Of the women we spoke to, 73% said that they had been attacked in the past 12 months - most more than once. Almost half the women said that the men got violent when they asked for payment for their services, a quarter said that they had been threatened or stabbed with knives, and 8% said that they had been threatened with guns. Like Carroll, who weighed five stone when I last saw her in April, many of the women are emaciated by heroin, strung out on the drug and incapable of putting up a fight. "It's Tuesday night now - I won't go to sleep until about Thursday, Thursday or Friday," she told us once. "Could be later than that again but depends when I can keep my eyes open until. 'Cos I don't like being tired on the street 'cos that's a danger in itself. There've been occasions when I've fallen asleep in punters' cars and they've woken me and told me, 'Are you ready for business?' and I'm like, 'Silly girl, silly girl'." For years, Sheffield's prostitutes worked the brightly lit, non-residential streets near the city centre where CCTV cameras covering offices and businesses also provided them with some protection. Murderers don't like cameras. There were quiet places for cars to park nearby where Carroll could "do business" without being seen. But, following complaints from local businesses, the police threatened to prosecute the women who stayed. The crackdown intensified in October last year when new laws gave the police the right to arrest kerb-crawlers. In Sheffield, the prostitutes were moved from the city centre to an old industrial estate near Corporation Street where there are few lights and no cameras. It was from here, the same streets that Carroll was working on, that Hague was driven to her death last November. "There are no bright lights or high-quality CCTV cameras," says Sharon, a former hairdresser turned addict and prostitute who also works Carroll's beat. "There's no lighting, no security, nothing well lit. The only people round here are weirdos and punters. It's just basically scary and horrible. "They should put us in an area where we'll all be safe, which is well lit and with cameras, things like that. The police go round arresting us, making it hard for us to work. We've had to go so underground, it's unbelievable." The theory: scare off the punters and the prostitutes will go out of business and off the streets. The main flaw to the theory: men still want to buy sex and these women are heroin addicts. Supply and demand. Even if some men are scared off by police clampdowns, the women we surveyed said that that meant they had to hang around longer and go to more isolated locations to earn the same money from fewer men. As far as she can, Sharon tries to control the level of risk. "When the car pulls up, go to the window, bend yourself down. Look at the guy. Basically, I make sure the person's by himself, have a good look at the guy himself and try to judge him as best you can." But when the new law was introduced, Sharon says all that changed as a result of punters becoming more frightened that the police would catch them. "Car pulls up, you haven't got time to check it out as well as you like, it's just in and off." Just six weeks after the new law was introduced, a man in a smart car approached Sharon. He was nervy, impatient - the police might arrive at any minute. Sharon got in the car. The man drove her out of town, along a country road, where no one could hear her scream. Her ordeal lasted two-and-a-half hours. She was tied up, gagged, beaten, raped and strangled. While hitting her, the man shouted: "You fucking slag, you love it really." She lost consciousness several times. Then the man in the smart car gave her £40 and drove her back to town. Like most street prostitutes, Sharon did not report this attack. She says that the police in Sheffield are not sympathetic. "They are shite, killed by shite; who gives a shite?" one police officer reportedly told the Sunday Times after a prostitute murder in 1995. Other officers, such as Detective Chief Superintendent Max McLean, do care. He has spent more than a year investigating the murder of a 19-year-old prostitute, Becky Hall, in Bradford. He appealed for help on Crimewatch and is dismayed by public indifference. "Your general man in the street, I think, genuinely doesn't care if a prostitute gets murdered. And if you speak to any senior detectives throughout this country, the first decision they make when they find a naked prostitute who's been murdered is whether to tell the press she's a prostitute. Because you think, right, if I go to the press and say that a 19-year-old single mother has been brutally murdered in the street, then I'm going to get the shock, horror, I'm going to get people interested." Many of the prostitutes are young women who have been abused as children. Now their deaths bore the public. "If I say that a 19-year-old prostitute's been found stripped naked and murdered in a red-light area, the public think it's one of those things, isn't it, hazard of the job," says McLean. In Liverpool, Anne-Marie survived a sinister attack by a man, who picked her up in a van, already kitted out with black plastic bin liners and a noose. He forced her into the back of the van at knifepoint, stabbed her, made her strip, and then tied her up. "He put a rope from me neck down to me hands to a slip-knot, so that if I moved or struggled the rope would tighten on me neck. Then he put me into a big industrial plastic bag, got into the front of the car and started driving. And I thought then, I've got to try and get out. I wriggled like a snake on to my sides. I got my toes out of my shoes and into the handle of the van door and I pushed with every ounce of strength I had and I just booted it then and I started rocking in the back of the van and I swung myself right out." Her attacker was caught and sentenced to 21 months in prison. The sentence was light because Anne-Marie was a prostitute and hadn't been forced into the van. Forensic psychologist Professor David Canter, who specialises in male violence, says Anne-Marie's attack is not untypical: "From the reports we're getting from these women, the people who are violent are not an unusual sample of the population of customers... these people are in their 30s, and seem to be local individuals, often reasonably well dressed. In therapy sessions in clinics the violence comes from people that can include senior army officers, businessmen, doctors, pillars of the community. Frequently, our studies report a huge range of abuses in the family - beating their wives and assaults against their children. If these men find the opportunity to indulge in that violence and get away with it against strangers, where they feel less guilt, then these opportunities will be acted on." Britton, a psychologist who has provided psychological profiles for the police in many unsolved prostitute murder cases, is equally certain that the majority of men who murder prostitutes are ordinary and mundane - not serial killers such as Peter Sutcliffe on a mission from God to clean up society. "They kill not to fulfil any particular sexual fantasy," he says. "They kill because prostitutes are easy to kill." Back in Sheffield, Carroll told us that the new laws meant that the women had to take their clients to a swamp, half an hour's drive out of town along the Riverlin Valley road, the road along which another prostitute, Dawn Shields, was picked up and then driven to her death in 1994. It's quiet, dark, remote, and there's no one around. "What would happen if you were attacked here?" Carroll looked around. "God only knows what would happen. I'd be fucked." Superintendent John Brennan - the man in charge of policing in Sheffield's red-light district - wants the city cleaned up. He believes that prostitution can be wiped out in Sheffield. Dealing with heroin addiction (and every street prostitute we met was an addict) is not his top priority. His job is to enforce the law and he believes that by cracking down hard on the women and the kerb-crawlers, he can eradicate prostitution in the city. No prostitutes on the streets means no dead prostitutes. Canter says that that is naive. We found only two women who had stopped working as prostitutes because of police crackdowns. Glasgow is one city in Britain where keeping prostitutes alive seems to be a priority. It took seven murdered prostitutes to change policy there and an extraordinary police chief - Nanette Pollock (now retired). "Because of the murders we'd had, we realised it would be so much more dangerous to push women out to isolated spots," she says. "I'd love to eradicate prostitution, but we've got to be realistic and realise that prostitution does happen. We don't condone the work they do, we don't condemn it, we're not here to be judgmental, but they're part of the community, and we've got to keep them safe like everyone else." The Glasgow women are allowed to work in a zone of eight streets - provided they obey the rules. They can only work between 8pm and 4am, after the office workers have gone home, and must be discreet. It's a compromise most people find acceptable. The streets in Glasgow's red-light area are well lit and surrounded by high-quality CCTV cameras. They are a strong deterrent - any man who is violent to a prostitute he picks up here is likely to get caught. The cameras can pick up car registration numbers and even drivers' faces. The same cameras also protect the businesses in the area. The Scottish Executive has also invested £1m in Glasgow to help women leave prostitution. Last year, 15 women got off heroin and another 100 asked for help to leave the trade. Before leaving Sheffield, we went back to see Carroll. The door to her squat was boarded up. We drove round the red-light area looking for her. None of her friends had seen her for weeks. It's now been five months since she disappeared. We went to find her long-time boyfriend Alan, serving time at HMP Young Offenders Institute Deerbolt. He played with his teacup on the Formica table. He was serving six months for shoplifting. He tried to help Carroll feed her heroin habit by robbing in Debenhams and Marks & Spencer in Sheffield's Meadowhall Centre. But Alan was a bad shoplifter and Lynne was a bad addict. He kept getting caught. In the prison visitors' room, he told us that he hadn't heard from Carroll since March. He spoke in the dismissive tones expected of young men serving time in their regulation trousers and crew cuts. But they have been together since they were 16 and she told us she had miscarried his child earlier this year. In their world of prison, heroin addiction, violence and pimps, Lynne and Alan offered each other a gentle, strung-out shoulder. Since his release, Alan has been back to the squat several times to look for Lynne. No one has seen her since March. Someone else lives there now. · Sex on the Streets, a First Frame TV production in association with GuardianFilms, is on C4 tonight at 9pm.