The injunction that stopped the media publishing leaked details of the Lawrence inquiry report was varied yesterday after a swift climbdown by Jack Straw, the Home Secretary. But media law experts say it should never have been granted in the first place.Previous cases including Spycatcher and the case of Mr Straw's son William have confirmed that once details have been published outside England and Wales the cat is out of the bag. Before the ban was granted by Mr Justice Rix on Saturday night, the Sunday Telegraph's first edition, with extracts from the report, was on its way to readers in Scotland. The gagging order was based on breach of confidence and once the details have leaked out there is no confidence left to protect. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg decided nine years ago that the contents of the former MI6 spy Peter Wright's book Spycatcher were public after publication in the US.Since then the Internet has made it much harder for governments to keep the lid on information. The details of Monica Lewinsky's relationship with Bill Clinton, which newspapers had sat on, were first published on the Internet, where national frontiers are meaningless.Many newspapers have websites where stories are posted on publication, and readers in Scotland who receive early editions of a paper can broadcast the details around the world in minutes via the Internet.Scotland is a separate legal jurisdiction and injunctions obtained from the High Court in London are ineffective there. To stop publication north of the border, a court order would have to be obtained in the Scottish courts. But even if details had not reached Scotland, legal experts say there was no basis for the courts to make a gagging order based on breach of confidence. None of the explanations Mr Straw gave yesterday in defending his action would be legally relevant.The leak may have come from someone owing an obligation of confidence, but this is outweighed by the public interest in publication. The document is confidential only until its publication on Wednesday, and there seems to be no obvious harm from the early publication of details that will appear three days later in any event.Mr Straw had not seen the Telegraph report but had heard it was a "partial and selective" account, prior publication of which would be "profoundly unfair" to the Lawrence family, police and Parliament. But any news story on a long report is necessarily selective, and any unfairness in publishing a report three days early must be small. A breach of the convention that reports of public inquiries must go to Parliament first would not be a reason for gagging the press. Once the Human Rights Act becomes law next year, judges will be severely constrained in granting emergency gagging orders. Such orders will rarely be granted without warning to the newspaper, and the court will have to examine the merits of the case. An interim ban will be granted only if the judge believes the ban would be upheld on a full hearing. The act incorporates into UK law article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees "the freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart information and ideas without interference by public authority and regardless of frontiers".Judges will have to take account of Strasbourg case law, which places great importance on press freedom. Any restrictions will have to be justified as "necessary in a democratic society" and not disproportionate. Lord Lester QC, a Liberal Democrat peer and leading human rights lawyer, said the injunction should not have been granted. "It's quite clear from Spycatcher and the Human Rights Act that an emergency injunction should only be granted where necessary. That is, where the information is confidential and there is no reasonably arguable public interest defence."Given the publication in Scotland, it's difficult to understand how there can be any need for an injunction in England and Wales."He added: "The sooner the Human Rights Act 1998 comes into force the better, because that would ensure that when a judge is considering an application for a confidence injunction he won't grant the injunction unless there is a clear necessity in the public interest."Lord Lester, who represented newspapers in the Spycatcher case, said: "The European Court of Human Rights made it clear in Spycatcher that a prior restraint is the most draconian form of interference with free speech and requires the most compelling justification."John Wadham, director of the human rights group Liberty, said: "Why would a government which is committed to the Human Rights Act go to court when they know that had that act been in force they couldn't succeed?"Under the variation to the injunction, agreed yesterday between the newspapers and government lawyers, the papers are today able to repeat and comment on the details revealed in the Sunday Telegraph's first edition.Had they received leaks of their own and wanted to print further extracts, experts rated their chances of getting the injunction lifted altogether as good.