The younger sister of a teenager who was murdered more than 20 years ago has spoken out for the first time since her death in an emotional video appealing for information. Thirteen-year-old Lindsay Jo Rimer went missing in November 1994 in Hebden Bridge, West Yorkshire, where she was last seen buying cornflakes at a Spar.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Juliet Rimer Interview.Police initially suspected Lindsay may have run away from home. However, after a huge search that lasted five months, her body was found in the Rochdale canal weighed down by a 20lb stone. Nobody has ever been charged with her murder.Juliet Rimer, who was 17 months old when her sister went missing, describes in the video what it has been like growing up without her sister. “There will always be a void. I have no memories of her of my own, everything is from photographs, stories and the media,” she says.“A piece of everyone’s soul is missing and I often wonder how our lives would have been if we were not a ‘broken’ family – the advice Lindsay would have given me, the fights we might have had, the things we may have shared.”Now nearly 23, Juliet saysher young age at the time of her sister’s murder meant her parents found it hard to explain what had happened.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Lindsay Jo Rimer, who disappeared 21 years ago. Photograph: West Yorkshire policeSpeaking at a press conference on Friday, Juliet and Lindsay’s mother, Geri Rimer, said: “How do you tell a two- or three-year-old that her sister was murdered? You can’t, but she pieced it together and made her own little story about what had happened.“I think Juliet has sat back over the years. She doesn’t remember her sister, she just remembers the stories that we tell her, and I think she’s been desperate to do something to help. That’s why she’s decided to speak out this year.”Police hope Juliet’s video will encourage people to come forward with more information. Det Supt Simon Atkinson, who is leading the investigation, said: “It’s a significant anniversary. Last year we had her other sister Kate speaking and that was really useful. We even had a member of the public come forward last year. That shows you the real importance of these appeals and the assistance that the media and members of the public can give.” Atkinson urged people to speak to West Yorkshire police if they know anything that might be of help in the ongoing investigation. “Someone somewhere knows what happened to Lindsay and I am appealing again, directly, to that person to come forward and help me crack the case.” Atkinson said police were “really confident” they were making inroads in the investigation. They have been working with a forensic provider in Canada who has generated new leads, which police hope may lead to the identification of Lindsay’s killer.Geri Rimer explained why the police and her family were still pressing on with the investigation: “It doesn’t change anything, it doesn’t bring Lindsay back, it doesn’t change the pain that we feel, but it’s that need to know what happened to my daughter. “She didn’t deserve to die and I just don’t understand why she isn’t here with us. I still miss her every day, we all do.”Juliet echoes her mother’s sentiments in her video: “Not knowing what happened is the worst part. You walk down the street and wonder: ‘Was it them? Do you know something?’ Getting the answers wouldn’t change the hurt, but it would help bring closure to us all.”