It is sickening to see one of the world's most wanted war crimes suspects, Joseph Kony, being offered safe passage from the killing fields of Uganda. But I think it is right.The ceasefire now going into effect offers the leader of the Lord's Resistance Army amnesty in return for peace. This is a man accused of abducting thousands of children and putting them into battle or into sex slavery.The Reuters website carries an interview with one victim, Ida Akongo'o, who was abducted at the age of 12, and saw fellow hostages hacked to death for trying to escape and others die of starvation. She was forced into marriage and had three children with the "husband" who was, as she puts it, "assigned" to her.This is a nightmare from which we should wish all children everywhere protected by the full force of international law.It was surely to punish and deter crimes such as this that the international criminal court (ICO) was created, with strong British support. Would we not undermine the court if we were to condone President Museveni's offer of amnesty?Quite the opposite, in my view: we would undermine the international court if we were to insist that its arrest warrant for the vile Kony should be pursued at the expense of peace. It would do international justice no credit if we were to put this before the only available means of ending others' suffering.If an amnesty is the price for the release of the estimated 3,000 children still held and abused by Kony's forces, then so be it. This is not to be indifferent to their horrible plight, but to support the surest and swiftest means of ending it.There must be a risk that if the international community were to insist on Kony's immediate arrest, the peace would collapse and the suffering would continue. And Kony would not be in the dock in The Hague but at large again, doing his evil.And the international court would have no means of pursuing its arrest warrant without a police force to bring Konyin.So does this not show that the international criminal court is a waste of time, that we should abandon international justice and wait for appalling local wars to play themselves out while we enjoy our peaceful lives? No.It is hard to guess the motives of someone as crazed as Kony, who allegedly believes he can better contact Museveni through God than by telephone. But it is possible that he is rational enough to have been influenced into a ceasefire by the threat of international justice hanging over him.The deal is that he has three weeks of amnesty in which to make a peace agreement. The alternative is clear to him; it wouldn't be if there were no ICC.Not all disputes have to end with this kind of unpleasantly pragmatic bargaining. Charles Taylor of Liberia is being brought to justice through the ICC. But if there is no other way of ending slaughter and abduction, then it is better to settle for the peace on offer.Sometimes the right thing can be sickening, but necessary.