Undercover police overstep the mark if they trap someone into committing a crime which would not otherwise have been committed, five law lords ruled yesterday. Any resulting prosecution would be an abuse of the process of the court and should be stopped by the trial judge.But if undercover officers merely gave the accused the opportunity to commit a crime he would have committed anyway, the judge should allow the trial to go ahead and admit the evidence, the judges said. Lords Nicholls, Mackay, Hoffmann, Hutton and Scott delivered judgment in two drugs cases, clarifying the law on entrapment and agents provocateurs. They ruled that English law on entrapment complied with the right to a fair trial guaranteed by the European convention on human rights. The law lords overturned a court of appeal ruling that a judge at Derby crown court was wrong to stop the prosecution of a man with a history of dealing in soft drugs but not heroin, who was induced by the promise of cut-price cigarettes to supply heroin to undercover police officers. But in a second case, where an undercover officer contacted an acknowledged supplier, Grant Looseley, and was supplied with heroin in return for cash on several occasions, the law lords said the trial judge at Guildford crown court had rightly ruled the evidence admissible. They dismissed Looseley's appeal from the appeal court's refusal to quash his conviction. In the cigarettes case, the attorney general referred the case to the appeal court after the trial judge's ruling led to the unnamed man's acquittal. The appeal court ruled that the officers had only given the accused "an opportunity to break the law of which he had freely taken advantage". But Lord Hutton said it was clear that the man had supplied heroin to the undercover officers "because they repeatedly offered to supply, and did supply, cut-price cigarettes and he wished to continue to benefit from that supply. "When he was interviewed by the police after his arrest he said that he was not interested in heroin, but that he had become involved because two men had approached him offering to sell him cheap cigarettes. He said it was 'a favour for a favour'. Therefore the officers did more than give him the opportunity to commit the offence - they instigated the offence." Lord Scott said that the inducements of the cigarettes did not seem to him to be enough to cause the prosecution to be "an affront to the public or to offend ordinary notions of fairness". But it was a matter for the discretion of the trial judge "and it may be that his value judgment was one that he was entitled to reach."