Pilot schemes offering extra support to victims of domestic violence are preventing court cases from collapsing, according to figures from the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS).Measures such as fast-track domestic violence courts; extra training for prosecutors, magistrates, and police; and the use of advocates for victims have all helped to make the system more effective.A pilot scheme in Gwent has reduced the proportion of cases where prosecutors offer no evidence at trial from 56% to 6% between January and June this year, with guilty pleas increasing from 43% to 63%. The pilot is focusing on building stronger cases and ending cases as soon as it is clear they are not viable, taking into account support for victims.Over the same period, a pilot in Croydon has seen cases collapsing before trial falling from 25% to 6%, a decrease partly due to a fall in the number of victims retracting their statements from 15% to 6%. The Croydon pilot has continued prosecutions for as long as practical, through measures including specialist domestic violence courts held one day a week; training of CPS staff, magistrates and police; and use of advocates to enhance victim support and participation.The CPS stressed that these are only preliminary results for the two pilots, which run until January 2005. However, it said that increased satisfaction among victims in the criminal justice system has been recorded, with more victims offered pre-court visits and better accommodation at courts.Final evaluations of the trails will be completed around June next year.The early results from the two pilots were referred to enthusiastically by the solicitor general, Harriet Harman, in a speech to a reception at last week's Labour party conference for Victim Support London."That's why we need more of it," she said of victim support work, including domestic violence, rape and homophobic crime as areas needing particular support. "We want to see in our next manifesto that every victim of domestic violence and rape gets high levels of support."She added that the government hopes soon to make an announcement on changes to the provocation defence in murder trials, which she said sees the victim effectively put on trial. "It's not acceptable. It must change," she said. Victim Support, a charity offering trained volunteers to help victims of crime, said that successful prosecutions can help victims to come to terms with the crimes against them. "It's encouraging to hear that moves have been made at Croydon and Gwent to treat the victims of domestic violence with particular sensitivity," said spokesman Andrew Buckingham."The 'fast-track' court system is a good idea to reduce the risk of delays, providing that it doesn't give the victim and witnesses the impression that the process is being rushed through," he added. "Some victims retract their stories and evidence for a variety of reasons. For example, intimidation or reprisals by their partner, ex-partner or their supporters. Or they may indeed wish to remain in the relationship with the abusive partner. "Criminal justice professionals must be very sensitive to victims' feelings and understand that they're not just a means to an end - to get cases heard and processed," he said.The government's domestic violence, crime and victims bill, which has been backed by the prime minister's wife, Cherie Booth, is currently passing though parliament. It will offer courts the option to impose injunctions on domestic violence offenders even when the case collapses.