In July, on his daughter's wedding day, a constituent of mine offered the youngsters who had spent the summer speeding up and down his road on mopeds £50 to stop, so that his daughter could leave for her wedding in peace.Proud though he was, he felt he had no choice but to resort to bribing an intimidating group of kids, simply to get them to behave for just one day.You don't read stories like this in the national media, but the truth is that this kind of antisocial behaviour does happen, unreported, every day.I see people at my surgery every week whose lives have been traumatised by antisocial behaviour. Although crime has dropped by more than a quarter since 1997, an antisocial minority can disproportionately increase people's fear of crime. Real people, real traumas.The woman in her 80s from St Helier ward who is in tears because she has been terrorised by gangs of kids shouting and swearing outside her front door; the woman from Sadlers Close who has been threatened because she had the temerity to report her neighbours' antisocial activities to the police; the man who told me: "Me and my neighbours are sick and tired of it all, scared to go out at night and of leaving the house unoccupied."Antisocial behaviour is a countrywide phenomenon. It isn't just happening on rundown council estates. Mitcham and Morden is a nice suburban place to live, but even here people's lives are made miserable by the behaviour of a few - just as they are in every other constituency in the country.Labour MPs know this, so why is the metropolitan media so out of touch?As an MP, I am resigned to the fact that there is a clever-clever brigade of cynics who think we are lazy or uncaring, mere lobby fodder. But hardworking MPs who pay attention to what is going on at the grassroots are achieving something remarkable. Even if you may not have noticed it because it is not in the papers, we are quietly but surely taking on the yobs.Because we know what is happening in our communities, we were able to persuade the government to introduce the Antisocial Behaviour Act.Even though our opponents seemed to care more for the supposed rights of the perpetrators than the feelings of the victims (yes, especially you, Lib Dems), we have won tough parliamentary battles that have led to a real change of approach.Thanks to our efforts, antisocial behaviour orders are now a year old.We now have the trialling of fixed penalty notices for juveniles committing antisocial behaviour, and the prospect of parenting orders and residential parenting classes.We have police powers to disperse gangs of intimidating youngsters.We have a ban on the sale of spray paints to under-16s, denying access to the aerosols that so many youngsters have used to tag walls and street furniture.We have given some councils the power to remove graffiti from private property owned by the utilities so that, for example, cable boxes owned by firms like Telewest can't be left advertising the handiwork of our most prolific taggers.We have the introduction of continuous registration of cars so that people cannot simply dump old and unwanted cars, or leave them on the streets for sale.And we have powers for councils to check firms' waste removal contracts, so that unscrupulous businesses can no longer just dump their rubbish on the streets.Labour MPs who work hard in their constituencies know that people hate graffiti, litter, fly-tipping and abandoned cars. We know that they want meaningful punishment for people who commit antisocial behaviour. It is good that we have introduced these measures.But it remains frustrating that many of these powers are not yet in wide use, and that the authorities are still only learning about how they can make a difference.That is why backbench Labour MPs want the fight to continue.Ministers share our concerns. How could they not?In June, I found out that Hazel Blears, the crime minister, had a spare 30 minutes later that week, and persuaded her to meet some residents from Lavender Fields in Mitcham about antisocial behaviour.Lavender Fields may be the ward in my constituency with the lowest turnout at elections, but I phoned around, and even at a few hours notice, more than 50 people came.I also persuaded David Blunkett to meet some of the people who had contacted me about antisocial behaviour at the House of Commons. Even though the biggest meeting room in Westminster only holds about 150 people, we ended up with 400 travelling up to tell him he must do more to help beat the yobs.At meetings like these, people have been surprisingly reasonable. They know tackling antisocial behaviour is not easy, and they know we mean well. Although they may sometimes doubt that the police and local authorities will use the powers we have given them, they are pleased we are making a start.But they want more, and the message from many Labour MPs to the government is simple. The effect of antisocial behaviour on hardworking families in our communities can be devastating. According to a Populus survey in September, 76% of Labour voters told pollsters that the best way to persuade more people to vote for us would be action against crime and antisocial behaviour. As long as I am an MP, I intend to see that's what they get.I have spoken to other backbench MPs and we want David Blunkett to concentrate on ensuring new powers are actually used. But many of us also want him to introduce new measures that would take the fight against anti-social behaviour to another level. This is my shortlist.Extend "police reassurance" schemes The government and mayor of London have already made many council wards "police reassurance" areas, with teams of police officers and community support officers patrolling local streets until 10pm. But 10pm can sometimes be the start time, rather than the finish, of a lot of anti-social behaviour, and I want the hours of operation to be based on residents' needs rather than what police managers want. A national alley-gater scheme Some of the worst examples of fly-tipping and graffiti take place in alleyways behind houses. In Merton, pilot schemes to place gates across alley entrances have led to significant reductions in fly-tipping and also had an impact on burglary. They have proved popular with residents, who must all agree to them and put up some of the money themselves, with councils or voluntary groups paying the remainder. However, ancient rights of way or ownership rules can throw up obstacles, and legislation may be needed to ensure that cheap and effective initiatives like alley-gating can be made easier. Confiscation of Gopeds, Mopeds and Motorbikes being driven antisocially This summer's number one issue in my constituency has been the gangs of young people who speed around our streets, parks and playing fields, uninsured, often without helmets or registration plates. They frighten pedestrians and other motorists, and are a danger not just to themselves but to smaller kids playing in the streets. But it has been the constant noise nuisance that has caused most complaints. The police do have powers to confiscate these bikes, but only in very limited and painfully unusual circumstances. I want to make it much easier. I also want the shops that sell gopeds to ensure they are not sold to under-16s, who are not old enough to drive them anyway. Make penalties more immediate and meaningful  When I was at school, I knew that if I did something wrong, I would be put in detention and might have to do some form of "community service". However, outside of school, there are no such sanctions. I want the principle of fixed penalty notices extended so that we can have fixed community service orders, so that, for instance, someone who is caught spray painting or dumping litter can be expected to take part in organised clean-ups in their area.I don't want this to just apply to children. We need to assure law-abiding constituents that if they report something those responsible will be punished. We also need to give police community support officers the powers to hand out these small punishments.Protection for people who report antisocial behaviour  At the moment, many people are afraid to report antisocial behaviour. In close-knit communities, neighbours may intimidate anyone who goes to the authorities. I am pleased that this week David Blunkett has said that victims will be protected, but I want to make sure this protection is meaningful and that the fear of being bullied by anti-social neighbours is absolutely eradicated.· Siobhain McDonagh is Labour MP for Mitcham and Morden.