Detectives hunting a serial rapist who has attacked victims across south-east England have arrested a 48-year-old man from Ashford, Kent.The man, who is married, a father and employed, was pulled over by police as he drove home on the M20 late on Monday night. He was arrested near junction 5 by detectives from Operation Orb, the team investigating the rapes. More than 100 officers from five forces are engaged in investigating the "trophy" rapist, so called because of his habit of taking clothes and other items from victims, making it the biggest manhunt since the search for the Yorkshire Ripper. They are investigating nine rapes and one attempted rape of girls and women aged from 10 to 52 in the past year. They are convinced that a single offender carried out the attacks in London, Kent, Berkshire, Surrey and Hertfordshire. Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick of Thames Valley police, the acting head of Operation Orb, said the arrest was "a key, significant event for us", but added: "Obviously we have to treat [it] as part of an ongoing inquiry." Neighbours identified the suspect as Antoni Imiela, who lives in a semi-detached house on a quiet estate in the village of Appledore, near Ashford. Detectives refused to confirm or deny the identity. They began questioning the man at about 2pm at a police station in Kent and had until midnight to charge him or ask a police superintendent for permission to detain him for another 12 hours. Any extension of custody beyond that would require a magistrate's approval. The man's car was impounded for examination and officers searched his home. The string of rapes prompted the police to issue an unprecedented warning in the region this autumn, urging women and young girls to be vigilant and not to walk alone in woodland or parkland. The offender first struck in Ashford on November 15 last year, attacking a 10-year-old girl. Eight months later, on July 1, he raped a 12-year-old in Bracknell, Berkshire. Only 10 days after that he attacked two women in the course of a few hours: a 30-year-old in Earlswood, Surrey, and a 26-year-old on Putney Common, south London. On July 16 an 18-year-old was raped in Woking. On August 6 a 52-year-old woman was raped on Wimbledon Common, south London, and the following day a 26-year-old was raped in Epsom, Surrey. Two more attacks occurred the following month; the rape of a 13-year-old girl near Woking on September 6 and the attempted rape of a 22-year-old woman in Ripley Green, Surrey, on September 16. The latter may have escaped because her dog bit her assailant. The offender grabbed all the women and girls from behind, ordering them not to look at him. But his last victim, a 14-year-old who was attacked in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, on October 25, glimpsed her attacker, allowing detectives to release a computer-generated image of the suspect which prompted thousands of calls. Experts were also able to construct a DNA profile of the offender, but about 3,000 DNA tests failed to find a match.