"England and Wales is already the locking up capital of western Europe. Already, many more unconvicted children are being locked up the 10 areas where this new law, Section 130, is being piloted, instead of being given bail. Putting them in our already overcrowded prisons is having a damaging effect on these children, many of whom are highly vulnerable. The Government has no choice but to recognise that this law is damaging and unworkable and its planned national implementation on September 16th should be postponed".-Baroness Stern, House of Lords"Nacro strongly supports the Children Behind Bars campaign and the aim of phasing out prison service custody for children. This country locks up more young people than any of our European neighbours, but this does not make our streets safer. Custody is an expensive and ineffective response to juvenile crime, with more than 80% of young prisoners reconvicted within two years of release.Any serious strategy to reduce youth crime must place its main emphasis on preventing crime before it starts. When young peope have offended, the emphasis should be on using supervision programmes to divert them from reoffending. The most effective supervision programmes involve highly focused work on attitudes to crime, develop empathy with victims, help young people to restrain aggressive and impulsive behaviour, train them in practical skills and help them to tackle drug and alcohol abuse. Pilot intensive supervision and surveillance schemes are currently proving successful with many young people for whom other methods, including custody, have failed.A tiny number of young people are dangerous and may have to be detained in secure units to protect the public. But for most child offenders community supervision offers far more hope than detention of preventing further offending". -Paul Cavadino, Chief Executive, Nacro"Congratulations on the Children Behind Bars campaign. The Howard League's own research supports the view that imprisoning children is damaging to them and causes more crime. Howard League research revealed that more than 4,400 children have been held in segregation cells, nearly 1,000 of them for more than seven days at a time; 554 children have self-harmed or attempted suicide, and four boys aged 16 have taken their own lives. Physical force is routinely used against young teenagers in some prisons". -Frances Crook, Director, Howard League for Penal Reform, London N1 "NSPCC strongly supports Children Behind Bars, the Observer and The Children's Society campaign. We are particularly concerned that those in Young Offenders Institutions are not afforded the protection of the Children Act 1989. This means they do not have the same rights to protection from abuse, neglect and violence as all other children. HM Inspectorate of Prisons has repeatedly pointed to the 'disgraceful and appalling conditions' that children and young people have to endure in prisons. The Inspectorate described Feltham, the largest juvenile jail in Western Europe as 'rotten to the core' and unacceptable in a civilised country. Prison officers are struggling to cope in institutions unsuited to the needs of troubled young people. More than half of young prisoners on remand, and almost a third of sentenced young offenders have a diagnosable mental disorder, according to the Chief Inspector of Prisons. Despite their best efforts, staff are struggling in a system that neither trains them adequately nor support them appropriately. It is hardly surprising that child protection needs are not adequately met. If our prisons end up brutalising our most disadvantaged children even more we are not only further damaging their futures but also as a society committing a serious social injustice. An injustice we need to redress". -Philip Noyes, Director of Public Policy, NSPCC"ChildLine supports the Children Behind Bars campaign's Manifesto for Youth Justice because we believe that children who face the judicial system - whether as witnesses, victims, alleged or convicted young offenders - have the same rights as any other child or young person in the UK. It is vital that these rights are upheld in circumstances where children are already vulnerable because they are isolated from family and friends and may be feeling lonely and frightened. For these and other children living away from home ChildLine runs a special helpline - The Line on 0800 88 44 44 - providing free, confidential support and advice. Calls to ChildLine from children in prison, remand and secure units indicate that they may be being denied the rights, services and protection they are entitled to under the 1989 UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Children Act 1989. Some children tell us they have no privacy and cannot make confidential phone calls, even to ChildLine; some complain of inadequate nutrition and hygiene provisions or that they are denied a proper education; others are victims of bullying, physical violence and even sexual abuse within the institution.Immediate steps, as laid out in the Manifesto, should be taken to ensure that all UK children, regardless of their circumstances, receive the protection and rights to which they are entitled". -Dr. Carole Easton, Chief Executive, Childline"The Prison Governors Association is opposed to the use of Prison Service establishments for school age children. Under the present legislation we believe it is inevitable that prison would be used to house damaged children. This is allowing the community at large to abdicate its responsibility towards them." -David Rodden, General Secretary, Prison Governors Association"The Observer's Manifesto for Youth Justice could not come at a more needed time, with ever-increasing numbers of young people being sent to prison. Each year thousands of vulnerable and socially excluded children are further damaged by being locked up in a prison system entirely unsuitable to their needs. Prison Reform Trust fully endorses the Manifesto and calls on the Government to urgently implement its recommendations". -Joe Levenson, Policy Officer, Prison Reform Trust"Family Service Units wish to unequivocally support The Observer's Children behind Bars campaign. As a national family support charity, we are all too aware of the often devastating consequences of children being placed in custodial establishments.We strongly support the campaign to raise the age of criminal responsibility. It is amongst the lowest in Europe and brings very young children into the criminal justice system. We believe that very often such children's behaviour is a response to painful and sometimes abusive lives.Allowing the children in custody to benefit from child protection systems as enshrined in The Children Act 1989 is an essential and humane approach and we endorse this proposal. At Family Service Units around the country, we are seeking to help families address some very tough and troublesome issues. It is essential that social welfare professionals - including those involved in the criminal justice process - to see families as a whole unit with resources and strengths. We would wish to build on these strengths, and address struggles, in order to improve the quality of life for these families. We believe that The Observer's Children Behind Bars campaign is an important plank in that objective". -Philippa Gitlin, Chief Executive, Family Service Units"As a social worker in the criminal justice system for the past 10 years I have been appalled at the change in culture imposed on us over the past 4 years, specifically since the CDA heralded the setting up of YOTs. It has been a constant struggle to keep the welfare of young people at the center of our work as the Misspent Youth Audit Report has heralded a relentless undermining of social work values, replacing them with a much more punitive adult orientated approach. The 1998 Act, and those that have followed, have in so many ways shortened the road from first offence to custody for children. It does not surprise me at all that custody numbers have shot up as the Act's influence has pervaded all areas. Good luck in your campaign, it is long awaited by those of who feel our voice has been silenced".  - Name supplied"The launch of the Observer campaign (Children Behind Bars) is to be wholly commended and welcomed. It is to be hoped that it leads to wide ranging debate and encourages the Government to adopt youth justice policies that more closely reflect the contrasting principles and cross party agreement that were a feature of the passage of the recent legislation improving services for children leaving care.Two of your manifesto points relate to ending prison remands for boys. Unfortunately, recent calls to end prison remands for 15 and 16 year old boys have tended to be branded 'unrealistic' and I anticipate a similar response on this occasion. To counter that, it is of note that only ten years ago the Conservative Government introduced the Criminal Justice Act of 1991 which did provide for the abolition of prison custody for this age group, the fruition of gradual reform throughout the whole of the 20th Century. At that time, a survey by the Association of Chief Officers of Probation and NACRO found that the daily average number of 15 and 16 year old boys in prison on remand was less than 50. This is a number that could now be comfortably accommodated in secure children's centres. Regrettably, the provisions of the 1991 Act were never fully implemented and the start of the political race to be tough on young offenders quickly followed with subsequent punitive remand and sentencing legislation confirming a stark reverse both in policy and in adult attitude to children in trouble. Numbers of boys remanded in custody have increased dramatically and new provisions may herald a further increase requiring several hundred new secure placements. Of course it is true that immediately ending prison remands would currently be difficult to achieve, but 'unrealistic' it is not". -Geoffrey Monaghan, Chair of the National Association for Youth Justice"I am very concerned that we are in danger of turning young people into the human equivalent of dangerous dogs. Young people are being made the scapegoats for the faults of criminal justice policies. They are far more likely to be the victims of crime than the perpetrators of violent crime." -Professor David Wilson, University of Central England, Birmingham"I would like to support your campaign. I spent twenty-two years working as an advisor/senior social worker for the Department of Health's former Glenthorne Youth Treatment Centre and your article rang so many bells. Over that period of time the imperative changed from at least attempting to be therapeutic to being largely a penal regime. If this happened in a regime meant to be therapeutic the regime in YOI's is even worse than you describe, especially for girls and young woman.The evidence indicates that 'justice' is mediated through geographical factors and that race, class and gender play a large part in determining the sentence. The girl who steps out of stereotype, and commits a violent offence can expect to be dealt with more harshly than a male. Unlike males she, if sent to a YOI will serve her sentence in an establishment that also has adult prisoners, and may be many miles from her home. My experience of a very large number of girls in secure accommodation, is that it was the exception for them not to have a history of abuse prior to admission". -Vincent Johnson, Co Director of Field Studies, School of Social Work & RNIB Rehabilitation Studies, University of Central EnglandMore supporters of the campaign include: Sir David Ramsbottom, ex-chief inspector of prisonsHilton Dawson MP (Labour, Lancaster and Wyre) and joint chair of the All Party Children's GroupTom Brake MP (LibDem, Carshalton and Wallington)Adrian Sanders MP (LibDem, Torbay)Bob Russell MP (LibDem, Colchester)Steve Webb MP (LibDem, Northavon)Matthew Green MP (LibDem, Ludlow)Peter Bottomley MP (Conservative, Worthing West)Paul Holmes MP (LibDem, Chesterfield) Tony Colman MP (Labour, Putney)Paul Marsden MP (LibDem, Shrewsbury and Atcham)John Austin MP (Labour, Erith & Thamesmeade)Baroness Vivien SternBaroness Doreen Massey, joint chair of the All Party Children Group Baroness HoweLord EltonLord AdebowaleBishop Peter SelbyBishop Tim, bishop of LeicesterOrganisations also backing the campaign include:INQUESTBarnardosLondon Association for Youth JusticeNational Youth AgencyNCHNational Children's BureauNAYJBritish Association of Social Workers