I am an ex-con. If, during one of my spells behind bars (from 1960 to 2000), you had asked me my opinion of the Prison Officers' Association (POA), I would have said its members, the people who stood guard over us every day, were the biggest enemies of all those fighting for prisoners to be treated with humanity.The POA was seen as a reactionary, racist body that opposed every reform the Prison Service tried to introduce. Some would say it hasn't changed much. So it feels strange to interview Colin Moses, the association's newly re-elected chairman.The first thing you notice about Moses is his stature: well over 6ft and built like a barn door. And he is black. Given the perceived history of his union, it is no surprise to learn that he is the first non-white person to lead his troops.When I put it to him that he is the acceptable face of the POA, he replies that my perception of the association as racist and reactionary is "outdated"."The POA represents 35,000 people. The PRT [Prison Reform Trust, a charity] has addressed our conference, the Howard League [another charity] is coming. It's a bit harsh on us to say what you said."I remind him that, in the bad old days (up until the 1990s), the real hate factories of the penal system - the likes of Dartmoor, Wandsworth, Liverpool and Strangeways - had one thing in common: they were all flagships of the POA. It was their writ that ruled, not that of the Prison Service or individual governors. Screws would boast to incoming inmates that "they" ran these jails, "they" were the governors. Fast forward to the present, and you still won't find too many people in the penal business with a good word to say for his union."We only recruit into the POA those who have been recruited by the Prison Service after a screening process," Moses points out. "If those 'titles' are used against the POA then they should be used against the Prison Service, but I don't hear these charges laid against the service in general; only against the POA."It is a mantra that Moses repeats time and again along with his view that the Prison Service he joined was a very different beast to today's service."Most of the questions [at my first Prison Service interview ] were about how I would react to racism in the Prison Service," he admits.The labels and the issues surrounding prisoner officers clearly rankle with him. He says that the majority of prison staff are professional people, doing one of the most difficult jobs in Britain. "They have an abundance of ideas on rehabilitation and reoffending, and how to make the system work better," he insists. "But they are the last to be asked their opinions."Philosophical viewpointI push him on this, and ask why the POA does not make public its philosophy on the treatment of prisoners. Does it have a philosophy?"Our main philosophy has to be to follow the core business plan of the Prison Service; to hold prisoners in secure accommodation and to keep the public safe by preventing escapes," Moses answers. "But as far as the treatment of prisoners is concerned, the POA wants to see better resourced jails."That's a battle cry of old, I cut in. More staff, more money. But what about better treatment for prisoners?"They should be treated with decency. We try to do that, but we also insist that staff be treated with decency, and that does not always happen," he replies.His accent - pure Geordie - is in keeping with his upbringing on a "rough estate" in North Shields. It fits with his leaving school at 15 to work in the shipyards of the north-east. Spells in the merchant navy and the chemical industry - when he first got involved in union activity - followed. He joined the Prison Service in 1986, working as an officer in a jail near Newcastle. A series of moves saw his involvement in prison politics and, after a meteoric rise through the union ranks, he was elected national leader in 2002 and was re-elected, unopposed, earlier this month.In the early days of my own penal career, and for many years later, I embraced the slogan of the times that, as a staunch prisoner, I would not piss on a screw if he was burning to death. Not a particularly civilised stance to adopt, I admit, but one that absolutely epitomised the stark hatred that existed between the kept and their keepers in those times.However, during my last two sentences I met more decent prison officers than at any time during the past four decades. So times have clearly changed. But doesn't Moses agree that the reputation of people who might have been perfectly decent has been seriously undermined by revelations of staff abuse at, for example, Wormwood Scrubs (in the 90s) and, more recently, during the inquiry into the killing of Zahid Mubarek by his racist cell mate at Feltham young offender institute?Moses, who served at Feltham in 1996 (before Mubarek was there), says that like any decent-minded person he had been deeply touched by the death of Mubarek."To put a young man in the care of the state only for him to be murdered while in their charge is a tragedy. The inquiry will report of course, but the vast majority of staff will have been deeply upset by this death."Tackling allegationsHe is defensive on the Scrubs issue, in which staff were successfully prosecuted amid allegations that a regime of torture had existed at the west London jail throughout the 90s. He points out, correctly, that half of the staff who were convicted subsequently won their appeals.I remind him that the Prison Service has since paid out millions of pounds in compensation to those who were allegedly abused. He points out that the POA opposed those payments and urged the Home Office to contest the cases.Moses claims that the prison system is "working" better now than at any time in penal history. Indeed, recent Home Office figures have shown escapes to be at an all time low and that a record number of key performance targets and indicators have been met. These figures come at a time when the prison population is at an all time high and, according to Moses, at a time when there are fewer prison officers than 10 years ago.I ask him about the political stance of the POA national executive. He will not be drawn into discussing his colleagues, but he proudly states his own credentials. "I'm a socialist: old Labour, not new."Moses is certainly dedicated to improving the image of his union members. But with continuing racial discrimination and poor practice highlighted in recent internal Prison Service reports, it will take more than having him at the helm of the POA.The CVAge 54.Education St Anselm's, North Shields.Left school at 15. Qualified marine engineer.Career history 1965-70: shipyard fitter, Tyneside; 1970-78: engineer, merchant navy (became chief engineer); 1978-1986: marine engineer, chemical industry, North Sea oilfields; 1986: prison officer, Durham prison; 1986-89: prison officer, Castington young offender instution, promoted to senior officer; 1989-95: senior officer, Holme House prison, promoted to principle officer; 1995-2002: principle officer, Feltham young offender institution; 1996: National Executive Committee, Prison Officers' Associaton (POA); 2002: national chairman, POA; 2005: re-elected POA chairman.Status Married, two grown-up children.Lives Washington, Co Durham.Interests Boxing history, Newcastle United Football Club.· Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent.