When you analyse the parable, the good Samaritan's deed was not all that impressive. Its moral superiority came about because a priest and a Levite - biblical forerunners of today's walk-on-by society - had ignored the wounded man by the roadside while the Samaritan had stopped, tended to his wounds, taken care of him and paid for his accommodation. But he did not put his own life or safety at risk, and he made no great sacrifices. Had he come across the man while the robbers were still beating him up, would the Samaritan have intervened? Would the robbers have turned their violence on him? The Bible is silent.More would have been expected of him today. Our society, or rather that part of it still adhering to moral principles, would require him to rush to the aid of strangers being assaulted, robbed or molested, without thought of personal risk. If he spotted a theft or burglary he would confront the perpetrators; and he would intervene if he saw people fighting. Last Sunday, Frank McGarahan, a senior bank executive, tried bravely to stop a street brawl in Norwich and was beaten to death for his trouble. Yesterday, coincidentally, at the Conservative party conference, the shadow home secretary Dominic Grieve called for an end to the walk-on-by culture and promised that a Tory government would render have-a-go heroes immune from prosecution. He had in mind a number of cases where a well-meaning and courageous citizen doing his duty to society by attempting to stop or prevent a crime finds himself in the dock, perhaps accused of assault because he had laid a hand on the miscreant. A recent report by the thinktank Reform concluded that over-zealous application of the criminal law had made Britain a nation of passive bystanders. A survey showed that the British were less likely to intervene to stop a crime than the nationals of every other European country. Not a record to be proud of. Grieve is right to want to remove the injustice of a system which allows the laudable civic-minded citizen to be punished more severely than the criminals themselves.But removing the possibility of a prosecution might encourage more people to have a go. Is that desirable? It's all very well, in moral principle, to seek to persuade people witnessing crime to intervene, but it cannot be denied that it might mean endangering their lives or at least rendering them liable to injury. We already have a sad enough, lengthy list of those who have died or been severely harmed by being a good Samaritan Plus. They may be labelled have-a-go heroes, but that's of little consolation if they're not alive to enjoy the accolade. They would have been better off following the example of the priest and the Levite, who crossed the road rather than get involved.· I had not expected such speedy proof of my (and Sir Tim Berners-Lee's) warning last week about the untrustworthiness of information garnered on the net. The web allows people to disseminate misleading information and tell deliberate lies, with possibly harmful results. Within a short time the falsity can have spread to thousands, even millions of recipients. And often the truth, when it emerges, does not reach those who were taken in by the lies. The day my column appeared - but definitely not as a consequence of it - I received, together with many others, an email from someone I know, containing the contents of another "chain" email, the crucial sentence of which is: "This week the UK removed the Holocaust from its school curriculum because it 'offended' the Muslim population, which claims it never occurred." It goes on to describe itself as a "memorial chain letter"; "Now, more than ever, with Iran among others claiming the Holocaust to be a myth, it is imperative to make sure the world never forgets." That key sentence is a complete lie. The Holocaust is a compulsory subject in the national curriculum, and I checked to make sure that there are no plans to shelve it. Anyway, surely the media would have been full of the story had it been true. But the fact is that many who read the lying email believed it, as did the friend who forwarded it to me, (until another recipient corrected him before I had a chance to). But who knows how many went on believing it, and forwarded it on to their friends, and so on? That email, it turned out, made its first appearance in April 2007, when it was duly exposed as a lie. It apparently surfaced again a few months later, before its most recent reappearance, and each time a large, if impossible to count, number of people, oblivious of official denials of the story, must have believed it. I have no idea who created the email, nor their intent, but the result could only have been to foment discord and suspicion between Jews - objecting to the alleged Muslim pressure to scrap lessons about the Holocaust - and Muslims, understandably reacting to the false allegations against them. And all this made possible only because of the existence of the web. There has been one slightly comical episode amid this depressing tale. An American reader of the offending email thought that the letters UK stood for University of Kentucky and spread the word according to his misunderstanding. The bemused university was eventually forced to issue a public denial that it had abandoned lectures on the Holocaust.· This week Marcel saw Philippe Claudel's I've Loved You So Long: "One of the finest French films of the past few years - sensitive and moving, with Kristin Scott Thomas giving the performance of her life." He watched TV coverage of the financial chaos: "I remembered the words of my lecturer - 'in economics, no one can predict anything.'"