Gordon Brown today gave the go-ahead for evidence gained from the bugging of suspects to be used in court - provided detailed safeguards are met.In a Commons statement, the prime minister said that intercept evidence should be admissible, provided that nine detailed conditions laid out in a review by Whitehall mandarin Sir John Chilcot were adhered to. "The use of intercept evidence characterises a central dilemma that we face as a free society - that of preserving our liberties and the rule of law, while at the same time keeping our nation safe and secure," Brown said.The prime minister told MPs that the report concluded that "it should be possible to find a way to use some intercept material as evidence provided - and only provided - that certain key conditions can be met."These conditions relate to the most vital imperative of all, that of safeguarding our national security. "The government accepts this recommendation, and takes the accompanying conditions very seriously." He said that the report warned that "any disclosure of interception capabilities could have a profound impact on national security". A cross-party committee of privy councillors led by Chilcot will work alongside a government implementation team to draw up a regime designed to allow some intercept evidence to be used. Brown announced another review, by a civil service committee, to establish how such evidence could be used in practice and ensure safeguards were put in place. Britain is one of the few western countries that does not admit such evidence in court. Opponents of changes include MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, who have argued that it would reveal their sophisticated intercept techniques. But opposition parties support the move. The Tory leader, David Cameron, said that the report had come up with "good answers" to all the questions surrounding the use of intercept evidence and he called for a "commitment to government legislation as soon as possible". He warned, however, that a fresh review "will lead to delay", called on the prime minister to make a decision, and concluded: "We must not put off endlessly what needs to be done." But the parliamentary intelligence and security committee said last week that the agencies were "adamant that their intercept capabilities must not be disclosed in court". The security services are nervous because changes could allow defence lawyers to demand full disclosure, including transcripts, of the whole operation. Some Whitehall officials also fear that any change would be vulnerable to challenge in the courts on human rights grounds. Today's announcement came as Brown and the justice secretary, Jack Straw, continued to face criticism over allegations that a government whip, Sadiq Khan, was bugged when he visited Babar Ahmed, a childhood friend and terror suspect, in prison. However, the move will be welcomed by civil rights groups, the prosecution service, and the police. Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, the civil rights pressure group, said: "This report may herald a new common sense in counter-terror policy. "It opens the door for intelligence and legal experts to work together so that terror suspects may be fairly charged and brought to trial - not detained for long periods on mere suspicion. "There should be no question of allowing 42-day pre-charge detention until this and other proportionate alternatives are pursued. "If they can use phone taps in court all over the world without compromising security, why shouldn't we? "A British public concerned about excessive surveillance might be comforted if judges authorised the warrants and the material put to more effective use."The director of public prosecutions, Sir Ken Macdonald, has long argued that intercept evidence ought to be admissible in court proceedings. And the intelligence and security committee said last week: "At its simplest, it is a question of whether using intercept material in court would result in more terrorist convictions than are already achieved through its use to generate leads, and whether these would be sufficient to outweigh the possible reduction in the capability of the agencies to identify the terrorists and disrupt the attacks in the first place." Lord Carlile, the independent reviewer of terrorist legislation, said today that he was "broadly in favour" of intercept evidence being admissible in court. But he said it was important not to see it as "a silver bullet that will exclude the need for other things". Carlile told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I am firmly of the view that a very small number of cases will gain if intercept evidence becomes admissible, but it may be one or two cases in the next three or four years at most." He went on: "I believe the report will be cautious. There will be quite a long period of time for new rules to be developed." He also said he thought there would need to be a "very tough disclosure regime" to prevent thousands of hours of intercept evidence having to be transcribed and made available in court. BackstorySir John Chilcot was asked last July to lead an independent review considering whether tapped phone conversations should be allowed as evidence in court. Recordings from free-standing bugs are currently admissible in a criminal trial, as are recordings where one of the speakers is an undercover police officer. Phone-tap evidence gathered abroad is also allowed to be put before a jury, but intercepts of land lines or mobile phones can only be used for intelligence gathering, and are not admissible in court. Civil liberties groups have called for the ban to be lifted, arguing that it offers an alternative to lengthy pre-charge detention, but the intelligence services fear it could expose details of their operations. Some 800 public bodies can currently request personal communications data, including every police force, prison and 474 local authorities, as well as the security and intelligence agencies.