Hazel Blears, the home office minister responsible for today's white paper on police reform and accountability, is an unusual sort of politician. She talks, unabashedly, about promoting traditional working-class values such as decency and respect, quotes the Italian socialist Ignazio Silone, and says the future of politics is local.With her roots deep in community politics, she believes public services and local neighbourhoods can only be genuinely renewed if they reach a new relationship. Her analysis is: "The first term was about the emergency repair of public services. They were all dying on their feet, the number of police officers was down, crime was out of control, hospitals were in a dreadful state". The second phase has been "reconstruction and some quite mechanistic reform around performance, often driven from the centre. In the case of the police, that has meant the police tackle some tough issues around pay, conditions and performance". The third phase is "about reinvention; about connecting public services to local people. We need to change the nature of the encounter and the relationship between the citizen and the local service". The police, in her view, are a primary example of where this new relationship can flourish. With detection rates down by percentage point, and varying widely according to the techniques that police use, she sees the need to make police more accountable and more professional. She insists local people do want a role in setting the priorities of their local police. "All the consultation that we have done is that people massively want a say over what happens at local level of polic ing; 62% said they would be prepared to get involved in community groups if they had a say on policing. It is a big hook," she says. "You know if the streets are dirty, you know if you see a police officer or a community support officer or whether your street is being burgled." The police, she says, need to find a new way to relate to the public, largely by "embedding" identifiable neighbourhood level police groups, with officers giving a long term commitment to the community. Local people "should know their names, their mobile phone numbers, their emails, how to contact them, who they are and that there is continuity". She cites the example of a neighbourhood near Preston. "The local police now get together on a fortnightly basis and they have a 'tasking meeting' which involves the local community. The police say: 'You've told us there are two drug dealers on that street and we will see what we can do about them'." Control But she stresses this new relationship does not just require reform by the agencies, but new responsibilities for the community. "There is an 'ask back' - the police should be able to ask what the local people will do to help, so in this case they agreed to do a litter pick and they agreed to do more to control their children." She also argues: "The police need to be more professional in how they respond to the public. If the public have confidence in their local police, they are more likely to provide intelligence." She wants local communities to have - in extremis - sanction over their police or local council so "if the agencies are refusing to use the powers they have got, there should be some mechanism to require them to use them". To improve police accountability and hence their efficiency, she says "a proper thread" is needed from the neighbourhood level to the crime and reduction partnerships at district level, local government and then the police authority responsible for overseeing the police force itself. At present, she says, "police authorities are not properly connected with the local neighbourhoods, or local government". Ruling out direct elections to the authorities, she wants to see local government strengthen its presence on these authorities, perhaps with dedicated security members. "Some councils just send whoever's turn it is to go," she says. She wants police to relate to new neighbourhood groups, but does not want to be prescriptive about these groups. "I do not want to set up a whole new set of structures because I am utterly opposed to people being in the 'meetings world', as opposed as opposed to 'the doings world." Such pragmatism does not mean she will shy away from discussing values. She says it was wrong that "ideology is out of fashion", or to think "all we need is policy prescriptions". Instead, she quotes Barbara Castle in saying "socialism is about the quality of our relationships. It is about how you treat one another when you meet people in the street and communities. That's what police reform is about too".