The mystery surrounding the death of the skydiver Stephen Hilder, who plunged 13,000ft to the ground after his parachute was sabotaged, remained today after a coroner recorded an open verdict.The death of Hilder, 20, an army cadet from Herefordshire, triggered a 10-month murder inquiry after forensic tests showed both his main and reserve parachutes had been cut.But the inquest heard how detectives had to re-examine their murder theory after forensic tests identified a pair of scissors found in Hilder's car as the tool used to cut the parachute cords. The only DNA found on the scissors belonged to Hilder, who died from multiple injuries at Hibaldstow airfield, in north Lincolnshire, on July 4 2003.Hilder's family sat and listened quietly as the north Lincolnshire coroner, Stewart Atkinson, read out the open verdict. After recording his verdict, Mr Atkinson turned to the Hilder family and said: "I hope it will be some relief to the family." He added: "I hope it begins some closure to the Hilder family. I offer to them, I am sure from everyone in court, my sympathy and condolences. How you cope, I do not know. I admire your dignity in such adversity." Mr Atkinson continued: "I hope you will be able to remember the way in which Stephen lived his life rather than the manner of his death." Earlier, the coroner said Hilder's death had been referred to as "unique and mysterious". He said: "Perhaps it is still mysterious." Mr Atkinson ruled out murder as Hilder's cause of death. He said police had found no evidence that any third party had been involved in the sabotage of the parachutes. The coroner added that he was unable to record a verdict of suicide because he could not be sure the skydiver intended to take his own life. Detective Superintendent Colin Andrews, who led the investigation, had told the inquest the police were sure Hilder had not been murdered but could not definitively say that he had committed suicide. Mr Atkinson said he agreed with the police and added that forensic evidence was not sufficient to reach a verdict of suicide. The inquest in Scunthorpe was told that during months of intensive investigations detectives could find no motive for anyone to murder Hilder and they had begun to consider his death was possibly suicide. "Stephen was experiencing considerable financial difficulties, he had failed his degree again and a relationship was coming to an end, indicating that Stephen may have taken his own life," Detective Inspector Barry Longstaff told the hearing. Mr Longstaff said three men had been arrested on suspicion of murdering Hilder and a file had been submitted to the Crown Prosecution Service. However, he said there was insufficient evidence to charge anyone with the murder. The inquest later heard that Hilder had run up debts of more than £17,000, much of which had been used to fund his skydiving. Detective Sergeant Paul Lowery, who investigated Hilder's financial background, said Hilder was short of "ready cash" at the time of his death, having failed to keep up repayments on credit cards and become overdrawn on his bank accounts. Among Hilder's debts was a loan for £2,155, which he used to buy a camcorder so he could film his skydiving exploits. He also owed Bristol University £1,366, a student loans company more than £2,500 and had run up balances on a number of credit cards. In April 2003, Hilder had taken out a loan of £7,500 to pay off existing debts as his finances continued to spiral out of control. But the inquest also heard from Hilder's former girlfriend, Ruth Woodhouse, 25, of Stafford, who said there "was no way he would have killed himself"."I've looked back on the whole relationship since his death and even in hindsight I couldn't find a single thing to suggest that he would have killed himself, or why anyone would kill him," she told the hearing.The police launched a painstaking investigation following Hilder's fatal plunge and video footage was released showing him giving the thumbs up moments before making the fateful jump with his friends David Mason, of Cambridge, and Adrian Blair, of Cornwall. In September 2003, detectives contacted all 4,500 registered skydivers in the UK in the hope that the killer had confessed the "dastardly deed" to a fellow jumper. The following month Mr Mason and Mr Blair, both 19, were arrested on suspicion of murdering Hilder. They had both acted as pallbearers at his funeral. They were released on police bail two days later. In November 2003, police said they wanted to talk to members of Leeds University's skydiving club, which regularly used Hibaldstow airfield. Two weeks later, a 24-year-old man from Leeds was arrested on suspicion of the murder and later released. In January last year, detectives announced they were re-examining the possibility that Hilder took his own life. In May, they said they were no longer treating the case as murder after the forensic examination of the scissors.