The first case to appear on Crimewatch was solved today, 26 years after a teenage girl was raped and strangled as she walked the short distance to her boyfriend's house.Paul Hutchinson, 52, became the first man to be convicted as a result of a nationwide review of cold case murders, when he appeared at Nottingham crown court to admit killing Colette Aram, 16, in 1983.For the last 26 years he has lived six miles from where he abducted and killed the trainee hairdresser in Keyworth, Nottingham. As his trail went cold he led an apparently normal life, marrying twice and fathering four children while working as a newspaper delivery agent and helping out as the tenants' representative on his estate.His secret finally caught up with him today as Hutchinson pleaded guilty to the murder of Colette on 30 October 1983, after being caught by a familial match through advances in DNA. The prosecution said the rape charge would remain on the file.Colette's mother, Jacqui Kirkby, who divorced her husband and moved to Greece in the emotional fallout from her daughter's murder, wiped away tears as Hutchinson admitted to the killing. Alongside her were the police officers who had worked on the original investigation.Outside the court, the senior investigating officer, Detective Superintendent Kevin Flint, said: "Our thoughts today are with Colette's parents, Jacqui and Tony, who have endured 26 years knowing a killer has evaded justice. Hutchinson made no comment in interview ‑ he showed no emotion. He is an emotionless man."Colette was never seen alive again after leaving her home in Keyworth at 8pm to make the 20-minute walk to her boyfriend's house. At 10.30pm, when she had not arrived, police were alerted and family, friends and neighbours searched for her. Her naked body was found at 9am the next day in a field a mile and a half from where she was abducted.Last year her mother described the moment she knew her daughter was dead. "I was sitting in the armchair by the window in the lounge. There was a police officer by the front door and one at the top of the drive, and as my son and stepfather came back I just saw them shake their heads and I knew straight away," she said."All I can remember is screaming. After that, something just came over me. I phoned work and I was really quite calm. I said: 'I'm sorry I won't be in to work today because Colette's been murdered.'"In court today, Gregory Dickinson QC, prosecuting, said Hutchinson, who was carrying a bread knife, had spent hours that evening in a shed near a riding school looking for a victim. He had stolen a Ford Fiesta nearby, which he used to abduct Colette."The abduction and murder was premeditated and sexually motivated," said Dickinson. "Colette was abducted by force and her screams were heard by local residents. She would have been alive and conscious when she was sexually assaulted in the car. The defendant then strangled Colette with his hands and abandoned her naked body in a field."Five weeks later Hutchinson wrote a letter to police, in which he claimed to have been wearing a Halloween mask when he abducted Colette. He bragged: "You will never get me."The murder was the first case to feature on Crimewatch, when the show made its debut on the BBC in June 1984.In the last two years Nottinghamshire police have received funding and support in the inquiry from Operation Stealth, a nationwide review of cold case murders, and last October scientists were able to create a DNA profile of the killer from forensic evidence extracted from the letter, Colette's clothes and the Generous Britain pub in the nearby village of Costock, which the killer visited an hour after the murder.The profile, produced using low-copy DNA, provided no immediate matches on the nationwide database. It was only when a familial search from DNA taken in the past from one of Hutchinson's relatives for a minor offence flashed up as a match for Aram's killer that he was arrested and charged in April. After his apprehension a fingerprint from the letter was also matched to him.Hutchinson has been described by neighbours as an ordinary man who lives an unremarkable life. In an insight into the last 26 years he wrote recently on Friends Reunited: "Hi everyone, completed my training with British Rail as an electrician. Went through a divorce many years ago. Remarried nearly 20 years. Went back to university and now have a BSc, and MA in psychology."Mr Justice Sweeney, who adjourned sentencing until 25 January, outlined Hutchinson's future. "There's only one sentence that can be passed, namely a sentence of life imprisonment," he said.