I am waiting for Myra Hindley. The prison visiting room is small and beige. In the centre stands a Formica table on which there are two vacuum flasks, a plate of biscuits and a small white china bowl for putting used teabags into.Her laugh drifts down the corridor; low and rough from roll-ups, it is also knowing and confident. A laugh I have heard countless times on the phone over the past few months. She shuffles through the doorway on hospital walking sticks. I ought to be surprised by her appearance but, somehow, am not. She is wearing a pressed lilac trouser suit over a loose white shirt. Her auburn hair is freshly dyed and her nails are perfectly manicured. Around her neck hangs a needle-thin silver ingot on which is engraved a cross. She fixes me in her gaze. "Hello, Duncan." "Hello, Myra." Her eyes are the only physical reminder of the hard, tarty blonde in the arrest photograph. It is this image that started me down the road which has led, after two years, to a meeting in which I am going to tell her about the film I have made about her. Thirty-five years after the picture was taken in the cells of Hyde police station it remains a symbol of pure evil. Hardly a month has gone by when it has not appeared in the Sun or the Mirror or, come to that, on the BBC. It serves as an instant reminder of appalling crimes at the same time as Hindley and the relatives of the murdered children engage in a grim struggle. She is trying to win her freedom in the courts, while they continue to point out the horrific nature of her crimes in an effort to ensure that she dies behind bars. She was sentenced to life in 1966 for the murder of 12-year-old John Kilbride and 10-year-old Lesley Ann Downey, and being an accessory in the killing of 17-year-old Edward Evans. Her lover, Ian Brady, was sentenced to life for all three murders. In 1986, the pair confessed that they had also killed 10-year-old Keith Bennett and 16-year-old Pauline Reade.There is no doubt who is winning the legal argument about her continued imprisonment. In 1982, the then lord chief justice, Lord Lane, recommended that she serve 20 years. Successive home secretaries, influenced by the very raw and lasting pain of the victims' families, have overruled him; first increasing that sentence, then saying that she should never be freed. Last week the House of Lords heard Myra Hindley's legal challenge to the home office's right to do so. Even her QC, Edward Fitzgerald, who recently won a similar case on behalf of the killers of James Bulger, is not optimistic about the chances of success. Many millions of words have been published about the crimes in the years since the Moors Murders trial, but there remains one striking gap in accounts of the case: no one has come close to explaining what turned a good Catholic girl from Manchester into a woman capable of the most appalling crimes. It is as if, paralysed by the sheer horror of the killings, we have been unable to progress beyond expressing disgust for Hindley. Even the home office has never thought to have her interviewed by a psychiatrist. Our strong emotional response has never been matched by a proper understanding of the case. When Hindley herself has spoken about her crimes in the past, the picture which has emerged has been incomplete. First, her confession to the police in 1986 formed the basis of a book by Chief Superintendent Peter Topping. This work was limited by the fact that he was interested in solving murders, not answering why they took place. Then, five years ago, Hindley wrote in the Guardian about her life. This account, although fascinating, was comparatively brief and dealt largely with her life before the murders took place. Either taken together, or separately, neither account was comprehensive. It was in order to address this that I wrote to Hindley and asked her to tell me about her life and the events leading up to the Moors Murders. Perhaps in increasing our knowledge of the murders it will be possible to understand better how to respond to them and decide whether some crimes really are so terrible that the people who commit them should die behind bars. My conditions were straightforward. I would deal fairly and responsibly with the material. She would receive no payment or have any control over how it was used. I expected her to say no. Then, one Sunday morning, I was sitting reading the papers when my office phone rang. I was startled to hear her strong, low voice at the end of the line. "Hello, Duncan. I can't talk for long. I haven't got many units on my phonecard." The sound of prison corridors echoed down the line as I concentrated on telling her exactly what it was that I wanted to do. "I understand that it can't be a film for me. I know that what you do has to be balanced. I just feel it's right after all this time to explain what happened. Then people can decide what they think." Over the space of a few months, nearly 200 closely typed pages of foolscap pour through my letterbox. The material describing her childhood is more detailed than any previous account. The letters which deal with the murders are profoundly disturbing. Then there are the phonecalls, which become a part of my Sunday routine. The letters recall the events of over 30 years ago with a clarity only possible in someone who has been locked up since they took place. That sharpness does not extend to the order in which they are described, she chops and changes between different episodes. The effect is that of a bloody mosaic. After a while I find that carrying these fragmented, violent images around with me is interfering with daily life. I stop giving the letters more than a single reading before filing them to be assessed as a whole later on. When I return to examine the letters a few months later it is with the help of a forensic psychiatrist who knows more about the Moors Murders than any other. Professor Malcolm MacCulloch was responsible for Brady's transfer from prison to Ashworth secure psychiatric hospital, where he interviewed him over several years. He believes that understanding the events which lead up to crimes like the Moors Murders can help predict and prevent them. He does, however, sound a note of caution about taking them at face value. The letters are clearly only what Hindley wants to write. "One has to look at what is there and what is missing." The letters are easier to judge as a whole. The fact that they do not pursue a tidy linear narrative makes them raw and immediate. It is the occasional use of dramatic devices such as cliff hangers which brings things sharply back into focus. Is she using them to stop the letters being boring or is she trying to construct events to show her in the best possible light? The streets where Hindley describes growing up have been demolished. The main landmarks of her childhood, however, remain: her primary school, the monastery church of St Francis and the pub where her father used to drink. "I detested him because of the way he beat my mother, which was often - as soon as we heard the first raised voice and the inevitable sound of fighting, we used to rush in and my gran would hit him with a rolled-up newspaper and I'd cling on to his legs and try to get him off my mother. This always resulted in my being kicked out of the way or slapped and even punched." Professor MacCulloch believes that the description of her childhood and the way she stood up to her father demonstrate an ability to deal calmly with violent situations. "I think there are clues here in that she describes her father as being tough and abusive towards her mother. She withstood what might be construed as abuse. I think on balance the evidence is that she is a tough-minded and independentminded woman, who later came not to be revolted by some of the things she was engaged in," he says. Hindley's teenage years were quite normal; she fell in love with a childhood sweetheart, got engaged and drifted in and out of secretarial jobs. The former head of Greater Manchester CID, Detective Chief Superintendent Geoff Knupfer, has little doubt about the future that awaited her. He took her confession in 1986 and has known her for longer than any other police officer. "I think she was a perfectly normal girl prior to meeting Brady. Had she not met Ian Brady and fallen in love with him, she would have fallen in love and got married and had a family and been like any other member of the general public." But one day, the tide of chance washed her up on the doorstep of Millward's Merchandise, a chemical firm in Gorton, Manchester. She was given a dictation test by the boss, passed it and was taken round to meet her new colleagues. Among them was Brady. "I'd always been a romantic dreamer falling in love with film stars - I was crazy about James Dean and Elvis - and had read and heard the phrase 'falling head over heels in love' but never thought it would happen to me. But as soon as Ian Brady looked at me and smiled shyly, that's exactly what happened." Brady was just 21 but had already done time in borstal and Strangeways prison. A photograph taken at the time shows him looking cocky, fit and smart in tweeds. A man who knows he is attractive to women. Although she was strongly drawn to him, Hindley says that she did not understand the way he behaved towards her. "That first year of working in the same office as Ian was mental torture. Sometimes he would speak to me normally, other times he ignored me completely. I was far too proud to let him see the way I felt about him, and never showed how hurt I was when he'd been nasty to me. I wrote everything down in a diary which I kept locked in one of my desk drawers. Sometimes I would write that I hated him because he was cold and cruel; other times I would beg God to let him love me the same way as I loved him." Eventually, Brady did make a move on her. It was at the office Christmas party. "Someone put the record player on. I was too drunk to remember what was playing, but to my utter amazement Ian suddenly pulled me up off my chair and began staggering around dancing with me. I thought I would die from being held in his arms; even though he was a lousy dancer and trampled all over my feet." As she swayed into the arms of Brady, Hindley was taking the first steps on the road to murder. The question is whether she went down it willingly or was pushed. In her letters, as she has written previously in the Guardian, she says that Brady began indoctrinating her, turning her against black people and Jews. Then he began working on her religion. Before she met him she worshipped in the same congregation as the first Moors Murder victim, Pauline Reade. "He scorned me for believing all the crap in the Bible, for going to church, Mass, with its mumbo jumbo and incense and confession." Hindley says that Brady combined his indoctrination of her with sexual violence. Her description of the first time they had sex reads more like that of a rape than a loving encounter. The descriptions of sexual violence intensify over the next 18 months. Towards the end of this period Hindley claims that Brady was regularly raping, beating and sexually humiliating her. She says that was when Brady introduced her to the idea of killing. He gave her a book called Compulsion. In it a 12-year-old child is abducted and murdered. It even has a character called Myra. "I told him it was a very disturbing book, but why exactly had he wanted me to read it? One night he asked me if I wanted to see anyone I didn't like dead. I said no, don't be silly. "Then one evening - and he hadn't been drinking - he told me he wanted to do a perfect murder and I was going to help him." Professor MacCulloch says that the descriptions of sexual violence are important because they are more detailed and extreme than in the confession she made to the police. One explanation is that she did not consider these details relevant. Another is that she is exaggerating what happened in order to make it look as if Brady terrorised her into becoming his accomplice. "The letters contain some interesting points of inconsistency in that they seem to be verbatim the accounts she gave to the police, but embellished to develop the theme of Brady terrorising and demeaning her," says MacCulloch. Hindley says that Brady also drugged her and threatened to kill her and her grandmother. When she tried to get away by joining the Naafi (which provided canteen services to the military) he beat and anally raped her. It was after this failed escape attempt that she agreed to go scouting for children in her van. She didn't pick any up. "I just couldn't do what he wanted me to do." But on July 12 1963, she says she finally did give in. She left her house in the Gorton area of Manchester in her van. Brady was following on his motorbike. "I saw a young girl walking down the street on her own with nobody else in sight. He flashed his light and I slowly drew up just behind the girl, opened the passenger door and called to her to ask if she could spare a minute. She turned round and to my horror it was Pauline Reade." Pauline Reade was a friend of her sisters and they had been members of the same congregation. She was on her way to a dance, yet Hindley says she agreed to help her to look for a glove she said she'd lost on Saddleworth Moor, 20 miles away. When they arrived there, Hindley claims that Ian Brady led Pauline off, raped her and cut her throat. "He led me to her body which I tried not to look at. I didn't know at the time he was testing me and there was no need for me to be there. He told me to look at her. I'll never be able to forget what I saw. I moved as far away from her as possible... I stood and looked at the dark outline of the rocks against the horizon of the dark sky and three people died that night: Pauline, my soul and God." MacCulloch says that her reaction to this, like her reaction to childhood beatings, explains why she was able to take part in the Moors Murders. She does not have a normal reaction to violence. "She was there in the immediate aftermath and that is one of the most distressing things that can happen to anybody. People of a more nervous disposition become completely disintegrated; they deteriorate in terms of depression. They develop post traumatic stress disorder. There is no sign of any of this in these letters. "I don't think that squares with somebody who is intimidated, and the earlier accounts of the relationship with her father suggest that she is not intimidated." Detective Chief Superintendent Knupfer agrees with Hindley that, whatever underlying personality traits made this possible, her obses sion for Brady explains why she went on to commit another four killings. "Clearly, she was absolutely besotted by this man. I guess like many other women I've met in the course of my career, they do all sorts of things for the love and respect of their partner." While arguing that Brady coerced her, Hindley does concede that there must have been something in her that made her willing to be pushed down the road to murder. "I knew then and still know that there must be a callous streak in my nature, a cruel streak even; there must have been... And I still don't know what it was rooted in, or where it came from. Sometimes I've thought I'd drive myself insane trying to discover what." The most significant omission in the letters is the murder of Lesley Ann Downey. The 10 year old was picked up from a fairground and taken back to a house in Hattersley. There, Brady made a tape recording of her pleas for mercy before raping and strangling her. It is the one piece of evidence which shows Hindley abusing a child after the point of abduction. Over a year I repeatedly raise with her her failure to address this point. She never does. One day, I pick up this answerphone message. "I'm having a great deal of difficulty with the Lesley Ann Downey thing. I think I'll just have to keep it brief. I just find it hard to believe that I could have been such a cruel, cruel bastard." MacCulloch says that Hindley's personality is not unique: "There are lots of people with very tough personality types who do great and brave things or who are extremely brave. Under other circumstances they might be labelled as abhorrent psychopaths and do dreadful things. It's really a question of whom you meet and what happens in the circumstances." What happened in the office of Millwards Merchandise in 1961 is that Myra Hindley met Ian Brady. She needed his love, he needed her because she was the kind of woman who is able to live with violence. The fact that in another place and time she might have been noted for her bravery does not in any way excuse what she did. It could, however, help explain why she did it.I am sitting opposite Myra Hindley. The small china bowl contains a pile of used teabags and her foil ashtray is full. I have told her MacCulloch's conclusions. "Right," is all she says as she smiles, leans forward and stubs out her roll-up. · Modern Times: Myra Hindley is being shown on BBC2 at 9pm tomorrow night