Nottinghamshire police have obtained a DNA profile of the killer of Colette Aram, 25 years after the teenager was raped and murdered.The 16-year-old was abducted as she walked from her home in Keyworth to meet her boyfriend. Her body was left in a field. The murder investigation was the main item on the first ever BBC Crimewatch programme.The forensic investigation has confirmed police suspicions that the killer went to the Generous Briton pub in Costock, five miles away, shortly after Colette's murder and that she was carried in a red Ford Fiesta car, which had been stolen from Holme Pierrepont and was seen in the area where she was abducted.The DNA profile has been searched against the national DNA database but does not match any of the 4m samples already stored, police say. But detectives have eliminated more than 1,500 people of interest, including some who have moved abroad or died. DNA swabbing in the last 12 months has eliminated 800 people.Detective Superintendent Kevin Flint, who is leading the investigation, said: "I cannot over-emphasise the importance of these developments. This is a significant development and should be a real incentive for anyone who thinks they might know who is responsible to put that name forward."Some of the names eliminated were put forward after the murder enquiry featured again on Crimewatch in 2004. Police want callers who previously rang with only sketchy details that could not be used to get back in touch.The man who killed Colette had stalked other young girls in and around Holme Pierrepont before the murder, including two in Keyworth on the same night Colette went missing.Flint said: "Colette would have been in her early 40s now, maybe with children of her own. The person who killed Colette has continued to get on with his life – which is a travesty of justice. Colette's family think about her every day of their lives but still don't know who was responsible. They deserve to know."The force has produced 15,000 newspapers dedicated to the Colette inquiry that are being hand delivered to thousands of homes across south Nottinghamshire. The case will feature again on Crimewatch next month.Colette, a trainee hairdresser at a salon in Keyworth, left the home where she lived with her parents, Jacqui and Tony, and elder brother Mark to visit her boyfriend, who lived less than a mile away, on the evening of Sunday October 30 1983. She failed to arrive and her body was found at 9am the next day.