A teenage girl from London, who says her mother is in prison because of her daughter's involvement in the riotsSchool wasn't really my sort of thing so I ended up kind of going college and doing level 1 in different things; beauty and hair and stuff like that. I didn't really do my GCSEs 'cos it wasn't really my kind of thing. Well, I was living with my mum but she's not here at the moment, because of the whole situation, so I live with my nan.[Where is your mum?] In prison ... yeah, because of me kind of … she didn't do anything, but because she's an adult obviously she had to suffer the worst of fortunes even though she didn't do anything wrong … I just told her to pick me up 'cos I wanted to go home and then someone gave her licence plate and obviously they came to my house to search for it … and that was it.[The police found] only, like, a bag that someone had given to me on the street that night … I didn't think it would have that much of a repercussion of having a bag like that in my house, but obviously it did … I think [my mum's charge is] handling stolen goods … I haven't seen my mum since August … I couldn't because I was on electronic tag system and 'cos obviously my court case and me being arrested, so I had to stick my rules and … when you've been tagged you can't see another criminal. I've spoken to her, written her letters and stuff, she's written me letters … I have up and down days, it's a bit hard 'cos the only person I've always lived with is my mum so for her not to be there is death …I first heard it was going off up in Tottenham and then after that when it was Clapham Junction and Peckham and things like that going off, I was at home watching the news ... going: "Oh my God, what the hell? Why the hell are they burning the shops, like?"And then my friend phoned me … so then I met up with a couple of mates … and then we was like, 'OK let's just go to Clapham Junction, not to do anything, just to see what was happening ...'People running down the road with TVs on their backs: "Who wants this? Who wants that?" I was scared as well. My heart was beating. [Why?] Because of the way they were just running into the shops attacking it like animals. It was disgusting. It was scary … I thought something was going to get thrown in the back of my head, not like on purpose but you know when people are just like … "Aaahhh."I was just standing in the road. A man said: "Do you want a bag?" I was like: "No, not really." He was like: "Here, man, just have it," and put it over me. I was like: "OK." I didn't know, the man with the bag. That's what I mean, kinda, everyone just being like: "Here, who wants this?" kind of thing ... everyone was just helping each other out really.Then I walked off with the friend I was with … phoned my mum, said: "Where are you?" She was like: "Up the road" … and then I was like: "Can you just come, take me home." She said: "I told you not to go out anyway." And then she got me and then it just blew out of proportion … A week later the police are knocking on my front door.