Many tears have been shed in Bow Street magistrates court in the 271 years of its existence, but yesterday's were not those of the contrite offender. The tears that were being stoically brushed away were those of staff saying a farewell to a part of the country's criminal justice heritage as the court that entertained Oscar Wilde and Dr Crippen, the Kray twins and the suffragettes, closed its doors forever.The building on the edge of London's Covent Garden is to be converted into a boutique hotel and yesterday's hearings were the last act in a history that had seen it become the most famous magistrates court in the world. For a London criminal, an appearance at Bow Street was an essential part of the career path."The closure of the court, with its great legal heritage and its history, is of great sadness to me and to all who are associated with this court," said Timothy Workman, the 33rd and last to hold the post of chief magistrate once occupied by the novelist Henry Fielding. He noted that it was in these very precincts that the first detective force, the Bow Street Runners, had begun and, 100 years later, the first uniformed police had been formed.Mr Workman also made mention of the presence in the court over the years of "the sad, ill or unfortunate". Not, it transpired, a reference to the press who had packed the benches for this historic occasion, but to the many regulars who had found themselves in front of the beaks for begging and boozing. Yesterday's defendants offered a remarkable panorama of the kind of cases that made Bow Street legendary.There was a young woman arrested for posting advertisements for prostitutes in telephone booths. She was given a conditional discharge and ordered to surrender her BluTack. There was a businessman facing extradition to Germany on a $26m (£14m) fraud case. He was remanded in custody.Two Kosovans were accused of buying a Moldovan woman from an Albanian gang for £4,000 in a deal struck in a pod on the London Eye. Both denied having forced her to become a prostitute, but were denied bail because false documents had been found in their home. A young Londoner who had stuffed £200 worth of Marks & Spencer lingerie down his trousers and made off with it was remanded for reports.Finally, the list-caller Angela Georgiou, who has worked at the court for nearly 15 years, announced: "With sadness, I call your last case ever at Bow Street, sir." Jason Handy, a 32-year-old from Kirkaldy, Fife, who clearly had had no idea that the hand on his collar the previous night in the Covent Garden piazza was also the hand of fate, came blinking from the cells.His offence? The very 21st century one of breaching an Asbo by being in possession of a bottle of red wine and some lighter fluid. He had not helped his case by telling the arresting officer who removed his bottle that he would "nick another one".It was his fifth visit to the court and he pleaded guilty. Mr Workman remarked that Mr Handy had probably had no idea that he was to have the distinction of being the last person to stand in the dock.The final official words uttered came from the 23-year-old court administrator, Bhavesh Galoria. "Court stand, please," he announced as the tears were dabbed away with hankies and spontaneous applause broke out in the building where General Pinochet had once scowled and William "Lord Haw-Haw" Joyce had faced the postwar music.Outside court, Mr Handy was clearly surprised to be greeted by the massed ranks of the press. "I'm stunned," he said. "When they said I was to be the last case ever, I thought they were winding me up." Asked if he planned a celebration before the inevitable offer from Celebrity Big Brother arrived, he said: "I'd better not get drunk."Famous former occupants of the cells last night said their farewells, too."There's something mystic about Bow Street," reminisced "Mad" Frank Fraser, who could still recall his first appearance there in 1946."Will I visit it when it's a hotel? Definitely - on the one condition that they let me know where the safe is."