A man who murdered a “thoroughly decent, public spirited young woman” when she attempted to protect a baby caught up in an fierce argument has been jailed for life.Alison Wilson, 36, was stabbed in the neck with a broken bottle after attempting to protect a baby, whose mother was arguing with Stephen Duggan, 28, in the street in Widnes, Cheshire. Witnessing the argument on the evening of 7 March this year, Wilson, who was in a taxi with her boyfriend, thought it would be less intimidating if she acted as a peacemaker before her partner got involved. Duggan, who had been drinking, turned on the couple, using a bottle of Echo Falls red wine as a “fearsome weapon”. First he attacked Wilson’s partner, Anthony Tomlinson, 43, with the bottle and stabbed or slashed the lower left side of his face with its broken end.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Alison Wilson. Photograph: Cheshire Constabulary/PAHe moved onto attacking Wilson, which resulted in catastrophic blood loss and she died in hospital six days later. Sentencing Duggan at Liverpool crown court to a minimum of 22 years in prison, Mr Justice Holroyde told him: “In a matter of minutes or even seconds you killed a thoroughly decent, public-spirited young woman, herself the loving mother of young children.” He said Wilson’s only motivation was a wish to save the baby from harm. Duggan, who was found guilty of murder earlier on Wednesday, smiled as he was led from the dock to begin his custodial sentence. The killer, formerly of Runcorn, had been drinking wine and bottles of Desperados beer on the day of the murder to celebrate the prospect of a new job at the firm his father worked for. Later he became “argumentative and aggressive” as he stormed out “in a mood” from his father’s home in Widnes, taking the bottle of wine.At about 11.20pm he had a heated argument in a nearby street with the woman and her baby, who had left the earlier celebration. By this time Wilson and Tomlinson had stopped in a taxi to get a takeaway and saw the ensuing tug-of-war over the child’s car seat. This “crass and dangerous act” prompted Duggan’s victims to “intervene out of well-intentioned concern for the safety of the baby”, said the judge. Holroyde continued: “Alison Wilson said that it would be better if she went. That was a sensible decision, reflecting their wish to avoid any confrontation.” The judge said he had no doubt that as Tomlinson approached the defendant took the wine bottle from his inside pocket and struck him on the forehead. He continued: “Every crime of murder ends one life but also affects the lives of many others. The court has read, and heard, moving statements from Anthony Tomlinson and from members of Alison Wilson’s family, all of whom paint a very clear picture of the anguish and loss which you have brought to them, and in particular to her two young girls who have been orphaned of their mother. “They will grow up struggling to understand why their mother was taken from them when she was only trying to help. Anthony Tomlinson is left to suffer not only the loss of his partner but also his permanent facial scarring and a loss of sensation in that area of his face which still continues and may also be permanent.”Duggan had entered a guilty plea to the manslaughter of Wilson but the Crown did not accept the plea and brought the case on the basis that he intended to cause serious harm. Duggan was sentenced to 12 years in jail after the jury also convicted him of wounding Tomlinson with intent, while he was sentenced to eight months imprisonment after earlier admitting punching the mother, who cannot be named. Both terms will run concurrently with the sentence for murder.The defendant was cleared of assault occasioning actual bodily harm to the baby, who suffered minor injuries when falling out of the car seat. 