An off-duty PC who was killed in a street assault in Liverpool city centre is believed to have been identified as a police officer by those who attacked him.PC Neil Doyle, 36, and two other off-duty officers were attacked after leaving a pub in the early hours of Friday morning.Merseyside police arrested a 28-year-old man on suspicion of murder after he presented himself at a police station on Friday night.As tributes poured in for Doyle, a newlywed who was due to go on honeymoon in the new year, the Merseyside chief constable, Sir Jon Murphy, said the attackers appeared to have recognised their victims before the confrontation.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Chief constable of Merseyside police Sir Jon MurphyHe said the off-duty officers were set upon after leaving the Peacock pub in Liverpool city centre where they had been enjoying a Christmas night out with colleagues.Murphy told the Liverpool Echo: “There is no indication whatsoever they were involved in any kind of argument or altercation earlier in the evening, as far as we can establish. They left the pub earlier than the others and there has been an altercation.“The officer I have spoken to has indicated that the individuals who approached them referred to them as police officers. They then assaulted the officers, leaving two with nasty head injuries and resulting in the tragic death of Neil. We can’t confirm this, certainly at this early stage, but that is what it looks like.”The three injured officers were rushed to hospital following the assault, and Doyle died a short time later. A postmortem examination revealed that he died as a result of a fatal bleed around the brain.His colleagues were discharged from hospital after treatment, one for a fractured cheekbone and the other for less serious facial injuries, police said.The scene of the attack, near the Aloha bar in Colquitt Street, remained cordoned off on Friday while forensic examinations were carried out.Doyle had 10 years’ service with the police and was based at the Eaton Road police station, in the West Derby area of Liverpool. Merseyside Police Federation chairman Peter Singleton said he was a “good, well-liked, hard-working bobby”.“He had commendations from the force for his good work,” Singleton said. “Sometimes it seems hollow and false to say these words, but he really was a good, skilled, dependable cop who would always do his best for the public.”Five months ago Doyle married his partner of 16 years, Sarah. Singleton said: “It is horrible to lose a colleague at any time, but he had only been married five months and it is just coming up to Christmas. It is a really tough time for his family and his colleagues.”Merseyside’s police commissioner, Jane Kennedy, said she was deeply shocked and saddened by Doyle’s death. “My heart goes out to the family of Neil Doyle. I am sure I speak for people across Merseyside when I send his loved ones, friends and colleagues our thoughts and most heartfelt sympathy,” she said.Murphy, the chief constable, said at a press conference later that it was a very sad day for Merseyside police and for the dead man’s family, and he appealed for information about the killing.“I would like to appeal directly to anybody who may have witnessed the incident or indeed anyone who may know anything at all that may be connected the attack,” he said. “In particular we would like to speak to anybody who was in the Colquitt Street area in the early hours.“Anybody who does have information should call the investigation team on freephone 0800-230 0600 or the Crimestoppers anonymous number on 0800-555 111.”