A man has been found guilty of murdering a young mother-of-four before wrapping her body in a children’s duvet and dumping it in a Dorset lake.Dominic Isom attacked his partner, Samantha Henderson, 25, at their home in the village of Corfe Castle, causing “multiple blunt force” injuries to her head and neck. He then cleaned up the blood before he drove her body in the duvet to the lake at Hamworthy, Poole, where he dumped her body. Winchester crown court said that Isom stopped on the way to the lake to buy some cannabis from an acquaintance who described him as his “usual happy self”. Police launched a huge hunt after Henderson disappeared and her body was eventually found wrapped up along with her pink dressing gown and her mobile phone, as well as items of Isom’s clothing and his tartan slippers. The jury took just four hours to convict Isom. There were gasps from the public gallery as the verdict was returned and Isom wept.Ian Lawrie QC, prosecuting, said the couple, who had cancelled their wedding a month previously, had a “fractious” and “jealous” relationship, which led to arguments, mostly regarding previous relationships. He said that Henderson had taken medication for depression in the previous year and added that she had wanted to have a fifth child. She also wanted to move home to Exeter and had relinquished the tenancy on their home in Halves Cottages, Corfe Castle. Lawrie told the jury that an argument was believed to have taken place between Henderson and the 28-year-old defendant before the fatal assault. The prosecutor said that blood spots were found in a shed at the back of their home suggesting that the attack took place “away from the view of the children”. Henderson, who had children aged aged six, four, two and one, was last seen alive on the afternoon of 21 January during the school run and was reported missing to the police the following day. Her body was found by police search dogs on 30 January. Lawrie said “considerable efforts” were made to hide her body. He said: “Miss Henderson’s body was wrapped in both a plastic sheet and a child’s duvet cover. The duvet and its contents were held together with large straps and weighed down with stone slabs, besides other metal items. “The bundle also contained some of Mr Isom’s clothes including his slippers. Once the bundle was completely unwrapped it became clear that considerable efforts had gone into preparing the bundle.” Isom tried to cover his tracks after he had killed her by leaving messages on his partner’s phone and appealing for her to return via WhatsApp saying: “Sam, where are you? Please come home ... We all love you.”Janelle Henderson, the victim’s mother, told the court that the day after her daughter disappeared, Isom told her that Henderson had returned home the previous afternoon “spoiling for a fight”. She added: “He just said he stood there while she went off on one and she just said things weren’t happening quick enough. He wouldn’t look at me and when he did he looked down and with a tilted head. “For someone whose partner wasn’t there he wasn’t panicked, he just said they had a row and she had walked out, matter of fact.” She added: “For a moment a thought crossed my mind, he’s put her in the back of that car.” Describing her daughter, Henderson said: “She was very loving towards people, very generous, she helped a lot of people. She was very loving and caring towards her family, she was very family orientated.” Isom had claimed his partner hit her head on the corner of their shed during a struggle. He admitted disposing of her body but denied murder. He will be sentenced later on Thursday. Outside court, DI Neil Devoto of Dorset police said the attack on Henderson had been “cowardly, brutal and sustained”.“Anyone involved with the case can’t help but reel at the level of violence, along with the shameful attempts to cover his tracks to dispose of Sam’s body and steer suspicion away,” he said.Isom was jailed for life and told he would serve at least 17 years before being considered eligible for parole.The court heard that Isom had 20 convictions for 36 offences, including GBH, assault, theft and driving while disqualified,In 2010 he was jailed for three years for attacking a man with a golf club at Poole railway station, which left his 21-year-old victim with collapsed lung and fractured rib.Nigel Lickley QC, defending, said the attack was not premeditated, but was aggravated by the concealment of Ms Henderson’s body and his lies. He added: “There is genuine remorse for what he did because he undoubtedly did injure that lady who trusted him as his partner.”A statement read out on behalf of the murdered woman’s family said: “Though justice has been served today, nothing will bring Sam, our caring, fun and vibrant daughter, back after we were cruelly robbed of her in January this year.”We would like to thank, from the bottom of our hearts, the communities of Corfe Castle and Poole for helping search for Sam and for the support they have given us.”