Police stand to lose responsibility for investigating serious allegations against fellow officers under plans unveiled by the Home Office yesterday to shore up public confidence in the service.Skilled investigators drawn from Customs & Excise, the Inland Revenue, the Serious Fraud Office and the legal profession will be asked to carry out inquiries into police misconduct. The shake-up, ordered by home secretary Jack Straw after the Macpherson report on the bungled inquiry into Stephen Lawrence's murder, aims to address increasing public cynicism about police investigating each other. Around 18,000 complaints a year are investigated by officers under supervision from the police complaints authority. Launching a consultation process on reform yesterday, Mr Straw said that, in most cases, police investigated complaints "with great thoroughness, integrity and impartiality". But he added: "It is hard to convey that when the system is always open to the charge of 'the police investigating themselves'. Justice must be seen to be done." In a Commons statement, home office minister Charles Clarke said: "Any reform of the current system must, if it is to command public confidence, involve a greater independent element in the investigation of complaints and greater openness in respect of the result of those investigations." Tories backed the plan for a fully independent complaints authority, but home affairs spokesman Oliver Heald warned against any move to include journalists or any other non-trained investigators to conduct inquiries. Mr Clarke backed calls by Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes for a "lay element" in investigations. Two visions for a reform of the system were unveiled yesterday; one commissioned by the Home Office and drawn up by management consultants KPMG, and an independent report from the human rights watchdog Liberty. Under both schemes, out for consultation until June 30 with a decision expected by the end of the year, the majority of complaints will continue to be investigated by police officers. But both reports recommend setting up independent teams of investigators for the rest. The Liberty report goes further than the KPMG proposals, which recommend that only the most serious complaints - those involving deaths in custody, police chases which end in fatal crashes, and serious criminal offences - be investigated by outside teams. Liberty recommends that in all cases involving the death of a civilian, serious injury, corruption or racial discrimination, an outside investigation would be compulsory. The human rights group also argues that at least 25% of all other complaints should be subject to an external investigation. The KPMG scheme would investigate around 1,000 cases annually, compared with 2,000 under Liberty's proposals, making the latter more expensive. The human rights group's plan would cost more than £20m, while the management consultants estimate theirs at £14m annually. The existing police complaints authority, which would be disbanded under both schemes, costs around £3.4m a year.