A police officer caught on camera punching and kicking a drunken man he was arresting lost his appeal against conviction yesterday but had his prison sentence quashed.Keith Empsall, 43, launched the appeal after he was convicted in October 2002 of common assault after he attacked Christopher Wilson in a street in Wakefield, West Yorkshire. The appeal against his two-month jail sentence was upheld by a judge, sitting with two magistrates, at Leeds crown court. Empsall has been ordered to pay £2,500 costs and to do 200 hours' community service. At the original hearing, Empsall fought back tears as a judge dismissed pleas by his lawyer to spare him the ordeal of jail. The court heard yesterday how he had lost his job and his pension because of the conviction and had suffered ill health as a result of the events surrounding the case. Judge Norman Jones said although the attack "clearly crossed the custody line" to serve a prison sentence would be draconian. A petition of support, signed by 500 people from his local community, had been handed in to the court. Empsall launched a deliberate assault when Mr Wilson, who was drunk, tried to stop him gaining access to a house, while investigating an incident. The incident was recorded on a video camera by student Mark Goodwin, who was watching from his bedsit across the road. Empsall had a 24-year un blemished career record within West Yorkshire police. His position within the force will be considered following the outcome of the appeal. His solicitor, John Sanderson, said his client was disappointed by the result of the appeal, but delighted he was not going to prison. "He is over the moon," he said. "He is going home to his family now and that's all that matters to him. Throughout this there have been hundreds of people supporting him and he wants to thank them all." In May, another police officer was jailed for 21 months for punching a drunken man and lying about it afterwards. PC Gary Waddoups was filmed in Leeds in December 2001 punching Stephen Ryan in the stomach three times.