There were several versions of what happened to Sam: Sam, the local black guy, or "the coloured lad" as he is more usually known in these parts. Most everybody I spoke to in Penrith, historic capital of Cumbria and hub of the beautiful Eden Valley, knew something about the incident. But some thought it had taken place outside a pub, others after a football match; some thought it had occurred fairly recently, others some years back; some said he had been set upon by two men, others that it was more of a give-and-take altercation.All were agreed, though, that there had been nothing specifically racial about the incident. It wasn't until two days later that I heard the truth of the matter, from Roger Brennan, a curly-haired, softly spoken local I met in a town-centre pub. Roger, a fitter at the Sellafield nuclear plant 50 miles away, insisted that it was a racial incident. He'd witnessed the trouble, had been watching a six-a-side football tournament organised by members of the Carlisle United supporters club when two other spectators began abusing Sam as he was playing. Then one of them had suddenly run on to the pitch and "glassed" Sam with a bottle. Sam had pressed charges and his assailant had been convicted and sent down. The local newspaper later confirmed the story but it was difficult to get the date and other details from the paper or the police. No one seems to know Sam's last name. Sam, the elusive Sam. For a close- knit community in which, I'm frequently told, you can't step out of your front door without bumping into 20 people you know, hard information on Sam is strangely hard to find: where he lives, what he does, his relationships, his haunts. Eden is 500 staunchly Conservative square miles of rolling valleys and lapping streams. Population 46,000, black folk 27, five of African origin, seven Caribbean, and 15 "black other", according to the last census. The figures give this farming country and gateway to the Lake District the distinction of being one of the whitest parts of these isles. I'd come to try to take its pulse, to see how it was for them and for me. Preconceptions? Just a few. I guessed there would be stares, but wondered whether anyone would take it further, as some kids had once in Norwich, hurling stones as I and friends drove past them. Perhaps it would go the other way. Perhaps, with black people so rare, I might be embraced by local hipsters. That too can happen. After a few hours in Penrith, 27 was seeming like a gross exaggeration of the black population. There were plenty of stares of course, the most blatant from schoolkids who shared smirks as I approached, and younger teens. I wondered if they knew the roots of their fashions lay in black urban cultures, or whether they saw no further than The Gap. Some of the older Penrithians wouldn't pay me much mind until I'd strolled past. Then, when I turned round, I'd see their faces, pressed to windows. After a while I took refuge in a bar, sitting there in a corner trying to look inconspicuous, but in need of a friend. Living in London - along with nearly half of all black Britons - you get a distorted picture of the reality of this country. A journey into the heartlands is a necessary corrective. Jobs, too, are different up here. I did make some friends: Bappa Thompson, 27, a block paver and Nigel Pallister, 30, a sign maker. The Happy Mondays' Kinky Afro, which I noticed Nigel choosing on the jukebox, brought us together. I find them liberal on race matters but less so on sex, attitudes I find reflected elsewhere (the brother of the actor who plays blond Nathan on Channel 4's Queer as Folk had been beaten up in town a fortnight earlier because of his sibling's role). "Liberal" is probably the wrong word, for they responded to the Stephen Lawrence story on sheer human terms. This was an outrageous thing to happen to anyone, they were saying. As for the multicultural issues the case highlighted, "Er... it don't really bother us like. You're the third black person I've ever met," Bappa said. "There's only one here. Sam, we call him." Sam. The first mention of Sam.The better-travelled Nigel and his circle gave the impression that they would welcome more multiculturalism. They have a fierce sense of themselves as Cumbrians, country folk grappling with difficulties central government is indifferent to, but they're also keen to put some distance between themselves and a region they concede has many small-minded people and "Neanderthals". "There's so little to do here. A lot of people our age - it's just drink, drink, drink, then looking for a fight," said Helen. That's probably what happened with Sam, she thought. If people were staring at me, they said, it was simply because I wasn't a local. "It's not racial, it's territorial. If you came from Appleby [a nearby town] and walked down Penrith High Street, it would be the same." This sounds a little naive to me but the experience of "Hawk", the owner of Cagneys' restaurant and Penrith's popular Asian, would seem to back them up. Born in Bangladesh and 41 years old, he's been in town 13 years. His kids went to the local school and there were no problems. His real name is Fuzlul Haque but, he says, "they call me the Incredible Hawk!" He has worked in Indian restaurants in cities, and experienced the odd bout of hooliganism there, but not here. This was the happiest area he'd lived in. Was Sam as well integrated as Hawk? He used to play football, didn't he? That suggested so. The last ports of call in my hunt for Sam were a couple of pubs. Someone had told me he liked watching football. The Beacon social club did not have a big Sky screen but it did have a loud, genial, drunk scaffolder called Joe Simkinson who insisted on calling me "sambo" and buying me drinks. "You know why I call you sambo?"  "Tell me, Joe."  "Cos I respect you. I don't talk to cockneys normally, 'cos they're dirty bastards, but you're all right..." I left Penrith no closer to finding Sam, but perhaps a little closer to understanding his life in this lily-white corner of Britain. My Once Upon a Time by Diran Adebayo is published by Abacus.