Scotland may be shaking off its reputation as one of Europe's most murderous countries after officialfigures revealed that homicides fell by nearly a third last year.The figures from the Scottish executive also revealed that murders with knives, the country's most heavily-used murder weapon, fell by a half in 2005-06 to one of the lowest levels in recent years. Murders are now down to their lowest rate in 15 years.These sharp declines have been welcomed by executive ministers and the police, after a series of alarming studies suggested that Scotland's violence rates were amongst the worst in Europe and by far the worst in the UK.In 2004, homicides with knives were three and a half times the UK average - due chiefly to a surge in the numbers of alcohol-fuelled gang fights by young men in towns and cities across the country.Ministers launched a nationwide knives amnesty in May, which began after the knife crime rate began to fall.The new statistics show that last year, 93 people were murdered in Scotland, which has a population of 5.1 million, down from 137 the previous year. The new figures were lower than the murder rates in London, where 168 people were murdered in 2005-06 out of a population of 7.5m.Killings with knives dropped from 72 in 2004-05 down to 34 last year, while gun-related murders and injuries dropped by 40% to 197 cases.The justice minister, Cathy Jamieson, pointed to tougher prosecution policies, higher police patrol levels and public education campaigns as major factors in the "encouraging" falls. But she admitted that current figures showed this year's murder rate was higher than last year's."Just as last year's increase in homicides didn't turn Scotland into a more violent country overnight, neither do these positive figures mean that we have turned the tide on violence in Scotland," she said."That needs a clear plan and it needs commitment for the long-term. That's exactly what we are doing."The Scottish National party and Scottish Conservatives said these headline figures masked the long-term upward trend in violent crimes in Scotland since devolution in 1999. The SNP said violence with air rifles and air guns had gone up by 15% to account for 58% of violent crimes.This reinforced the need for strict licensing of air weapons, said Kenny MacAskill, the SNP's shadow justice minister. "It is clear that we still have a real problem here in Scotland with violent crime, particularly in areas of deprivation. Information from our police forces already shows an increase in the number of murders this calendar year to date than there were in the last year of these figures." Detective Chief Superintendent John Carnochan, the head of the national Violence Reduction Unit set up by the police and executive in 2004, said the new figures partly reflected a much tougher approach to prosecuting violent offences.Under the "visible, swift justice" strategy, the police were now allowed to keep anyone charged with a knife-related crime in custody until their first appearance, and prosecutors always oppose their bail. Stop and search in high crime areas was also increased, and efforts to tackle binge drinking stepped up.But he downplayed the significance of air weapons in violent crimes. "The issue for the people of Scotland isn't necessarily air weapons. Young men and inter-personal violence are the issue - we need to prioritise that. Prioritising knives and alcohol is right on the money. Organised criminal gangs will still go about their business but young men running around the streets carrying knives and drinking from off-sales, these are the ones we can make an affect on."