Britain's most senior judge last night gave the home secretary, John Reid, his backing in the face of an incipient revolt by some magistrates over Mr Reid's plea to jail fewer offenders.But Mr Reid could take no comfort from the response of some police chiefs who said they felt "let down" by the government's response to the prison crisis.The basement cells at the Old Bailey were put on standby last night as the prison population in England and Wales, which surged through the 80,000 barrier this week, was expected to rise by a further 200. More than 400 prisoners were again accommodated in police cells last night at a cost of £365 a time.Some magistrates felt they were being instructed by the home secretary not to jail less serious offenders, but the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, said Mr Reid's appeal was "consistent with existing sentencing legislation and well-established sentencing principles".Rick Naylor, president of the Police Superintendents' Association, said: "The government should have seen this coming. They really are letting down the efforts of police officers ... Ministers have been harping on about tougher sentences for violent crime for a long time. It has consequences if you ask the police to work harder and ask the judiciary to hand out stiffer sentences."Before the lord chief justice spoke, the Magistrates' Association had voiced concerns that the appeal from the home secretary had the appearance of an instruction which affected members' judicial independence. If Mr Reid's plea fails, the options are politically unpalatable, including early release, freeing immigration detainees and foreign prisoners or using open prisons for higher security prisoners.Tony Blair was unable to rule out the possibility of a new early release programme when challenged in the Commons by Conservative leader David Cameron yesterday. Mr Blair announced that a further 2,000 places are to be provided before the end of this year.Refurbishment programmes across the 140 prisons in England and Wales are being cancelled. The first effects of this were felt yesterday at Norwich prison, where the governor was given 24 hours to cancel a programme he announced last Friday. More than 150 remand prisoners from across the south of England are to be moved to Norwich's A wing, parts of which were condemned as unfit for human habitation by prison inspectors two years ago. The Prison Service said such cells would not be certified for use.