The headline figure of a 2% "real" increase in crimes recorded by the police in the year to March 2002 - once changes in recording practices are stripped out of the equation - marks only the second rise in the official crime rate in the past seven years.Home Office criminologists said yesterday that the 7% increase in the overall total of 5.5m crimes reported to the police was misleading because it included a major change in police recording practices. The Association of Chief Police Officers and the Home Office estimate that at least 5% of that rise is accounted for by these changes. Some 14 of the 43 police forces had fully or partially implemented the changes during the year to March 2002. When next year's figures come out and all police forces have imple mented the change it is expected to boost the headline total by a further 15% to 20% The overall picture of crime in England and Wales looks more stable when the 2% rise in the police figures is set alongside the 2% fall reported in the British Crime Survey, also published today. This is the first time the two sets of national crime indicators have been published together and many criminologists regard the BCS, which is based on interviews with 33,000 people about their experience of crime, to be the more reliable.The BCS paints quite a cosy picture of Britain. Its estimate that violent crime has fallen by 22% since 1997 makes it possible to claim that Britain is now a less violent country than it was before Labour came to power. Overall the BCS estimates that there were just over 13m crimes committed in 2001-02. A year ago the Home Office, after publishing figures showing that crime had fallen in England and Wales by a third over the previous five years, started to talk of a "historic departure" from the underlying trend which saw crime rise at an average rate of 5% a year throughout the 20th century. It was argued that the state of the economy had contributed particularly to the fall in the levels of property crime. Ministers hoped they could "buck the trend". But the sharp rise in street robbery - up 27% - in the 12 months to March is well known and ministers are confident that the Downing Street initiative to get it under control will deliver results when next year's crime figures are published. More worrying perhaps is the 3% "real" increase in domestic burglary recorded in the police figures. It is the first rise in domestic burglary since 1993 and is accompanied by a 5% rise in other kinds of burglary, and a 6% rise in thefts other than from cars. What is worrying for the home secretary, David Blunkett, is that it is precisely these areas - burglary and thefts - which the police have been most successful in curbing in recent years. At present the judgment of Paul Wiles, the Home Office's director of research and statistics, is that "crime appears to have been stable over the last year, following a period of consistent decline". He attributes some of the rises in property crimes for increased recording rates. But the BCS also provides evidence that burglary is back on the rise. It found that 3.5% of households in England and Wales had experienced at least one burglary in the past 12 months - a slight rise over the figure for 2000. But it is the public's perceptions of crime that remains the biggest headache for politicians. Despite the fall in crime in recent years almost one-third of those interviewed for the BCS said they believed crime had risen "a lot" and a further third thought it had risen "a little". There is one crumb of comfort - readers of the tabloid papers were much more likely to believe that crime is rising (42%), compared with the better informed broadsheet readers (26%).