A father who stabbed to death a violent career burglar who broke into his family's home was jailed yesterday for five years.Barry-Lee Hastings, 25, claimed he thought the lives of his wife and children were in danger and struck out at burglar Roger Williams, thinking he was armed with a machete. But Judge Brian Barker told Hastings he had gone too far in continuing to attack Williams after the threat was over. The Old Bailey was told that Williams, 35, who had a string of convictions including attacking a person with an axe, was on the run from the police when he targeted the flat in Tottenham, north London, where Hastings' estranged wife and their two children, both aged under four, lived. As he approached the flat, Hastings, a gas engineer from Wood Green, north London, saw Williams in an upstairs bedroom and found that the front door had been forced. He said he was about to call police when he thought he heard his daughter crying and went in. He claimed he picked up a kitchen knife, intending to frighten the intruder. Hastings said the burglar had run into the darkened hall, waving something in the air. He thought it was a machete. "He attacked me and we started fighting," Hastings said. "I was just trying to fight for my life, I was hitting him and hitting him, probably as hard as I could." But the court was told that Williams had been stabbed 12 times in the back. Three of the stab wounds were potentially fatal and one penetrated the heart. The fight continued outside and it turned out that Hastings' wife and family were not in the flat. A jury cleared Hastings of murder but after 12 hours of deliberation convicted him of manslaughter on a 10-2 majority. Judge Barker said he had sympathy for Hastings because of the frightening situation he found himself in, but told him Williams' presence "did not justify the actions you took". "Although Roger Williams was a burglar and had no right to be there a householder is not entitled to use more than reasonable force to defend himself." Outside court Hastings' mother, Patricia, said: "I am shocked. This is not justice." His solicitor, Anthony Branley, added: "Mr Hastings feels it is unjust and it does not reflect the terrifyingly impossible position in which he found himself."