When, almost 40 years ago, the first criminal justice statistics began to show gross disproportionality against black and ethnic minorities, many commentators claimed that the figures were either skewed or that young black men had more propensity to commit crimes.The reality cannot be sidestepped so easily today, when the overrepresentation of young black men in the criminal justice system (particularly with regard to cannabis prosecutions) has been revealed. It is already known that the most likely drug user in Britain is a young white male in the AB or C1 socioeconomic group, yet new stop-and-search figures show that young black men are much more likely to be stopped and to be prosecuted for drug offences.Stop and search very rarely leads to an arrest and conviction of a suspect, but despite its ineffectiveness it can sometimes be a useful tool. However, the way it has been targeted means that a far greater proportion of black drug users will be put before the courts than of their white counterparts. Home Office data also shows that white men form 95% of drug users in England and Wales, though they make up only 70% of people imprisoned for drugs. The black community, on the other hand, makes up only 2% of drug users but accounts for 16% of those incarcerated.Over the years, academics have created an analytical fog to disguise this over-representation. We were told that the nocturnal habits of black men could explain it. Then there was the baseless suggestion that the disproportionate arrests had something to do with their over-representation in the streets at a given time. Then there was the social and economic disadvantage theory. It was always heresy to suggest that the practices of criminal justice agencies may be discriminatory.Now the truth is plain to see. Law enforcement agencies target black and ethnic minorities while trawling for suspects, and are influenced by the wrongly assumed criminal histories of these communities. These assumptions are pervasive and deeply ingrained in the culture of those who deliver justice - the results are overmonitoring and preoccupation with the black community, which inevitably draws proportionately more young black men into the criminal justice net.Agencies such as the police and the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) have a unique structure; a constable and a local crown prosecutor have far more discretion to perform their work than a chief superintendent or a chief crown prosecutor. Top-level policies are diluted when being implemented at street level. This explains why discrimination against young black men in particular is prevalent with regard not just to arrest and conviction for cannabis but to remands in custody, probation and cautioning. Young black men do not get a fair deal.There are two obvious solutions. There is a national shortage of police sergeants, and the consequences are that young officers with very little experience are in the front line making difficult choices, of which the black community then feels the brunt. More sergeants are urgently needed.Second, disproportionality is more than a statistical inconvenience: it is linked closely to the creation of distrust, and challenges the legitimacy of policing. Therefore, it must be understood that addressing black overrepresentation is an operational imperative rather than mere political correctness.Today there will probably be more researchers busy devising excuses to explain the new figures. The police and CPS should not be influenced by them.· Chief Superintendent Ali Dizaei is legal adviser to the National Black Police Associationwww.nbpa.co.uk