A woman told the Barry George trial today how a man grabbed her and gave her a business card bearing the real name of the late Queen singer Freddie Mercury, near to where Jill Dando was killed.Claudia Casey, who sobbed as she recalled the experience, later failed to identify George, who allegedly spent years claiming to be Mercury's cousin. The prosecution has said he had grown a thick goatee beard by the time Casey was asked to identify her assailant.George denies shooting Dando dead on the doorstep of her home in Gowan Avenue, Fulham, west London, in April 1999. It is the second time he has stood trial for the murder of the BBC presenter.George had a fascination with female celebrities and stalked women in west London for years, the prosecution alleges. Some 4,000 undeveloped photographs of women were found at his flat, 500 yards from where Dando lived.Casey told the Old Bailey she was returning to her home in Lambrook Terrace, Fulham, in the winter of 1994/5 when she sensed someone was following her."He caught up with me and started talking," she said. "I just ignored him. He kept saying 'I would like to talk to you'."She said she initially ignored him. When he persisted, she told him "no thank you" and then to "piss off"."He handed me a business card and it said Freddy Bulsara on it and I knew it was Freddie Mercury's real name. I realised there was something very strange about this guy. I think he might have said 'I am Freddie Mercury' and then he handed me the card."This is when I knew I had to get away from him. I was walking very, very fast and I started to run and that is when he grabbed my arm. I just tried to shake him off. I pushed and shook him at the same time."She said she escaped by jumping in front of a car and forcing it to stop. The driver walked her home.Casey described the man who attacked her as looking "very fit, almost military" and as having short dark hair and possibly a moustache.She said he was wearing a red or maroon bomber jacket that could have had the name Freddie Mercury on the back.Another witness, Margaret Milortholland, described encounters in 1992 with a man she later identified as Barry George.She first noticed him staring at her on a London Underground train and realised he was following her when she got off. Despite trying to lose him, he caught up with her and asked her out to dinner. "I remember I was really scared," she said.He subsequently turned up at her flat in Fulham and told her "Now I know where you live", she told the court in a statement.Six months later, Milortholland said she was on an empty bus when George pressed his thigh against her. After leaving the bus, she said, George came up behind her and tried to start a conversation. When she told him to leave her alone, he became "seriously angry" and racially abused her, she said.A third witness, Angela Gordon, told the court that a man who claimed to be in the SAS asked to kiss her on the doorstep of her home on the same road where George lived. She said the man was wearing combat-style clothing and had short, dark hair.The case continues.