Were the three fatal shots to Mark Saunders' head, heart and liver lawfully fired in that they were in necessary and reasonable self defence or the defence of others and force was reasonable and proportionate?Before the fatal shots at 21.32 police had already fired five shots at Saunders, three at 17.04 when he fired at the bedroom of 1 Bywater Street opposite his kitchen, and two when he "shot out his window" to "blow off some steam" at 21.09. All missed.Of the shots fired by seven officers at 21.32, three were deemed fatal, fired by:Officer AZ2 – on the roof of 5 Bywater Street, who said he fired in self defence and defence of colleagues. His shot hit the heart.Officer AZ4 – in the bedroom of 1 Bywater Street, who said he fired because of "imminent threat" to lives of his colleagues. His shot hit the liver.Officers AZ8 or AZ10 – either could be responsible for the fatal shot to the head. AZ8, in the conservatory of 3 Bywater Street, said he fired in self defence. AZ10 on roof of 5 Bywater Street, said he fired in self defence and defence of colleagues.Did Saunders "deliberately and consciously" use his gun at 21.32 to provoke police into shooting him?Police negotiators knew he was frightened of being shot and they reassured him. When his landline wasn't working and mobile became unreliable, he waved "his useless phones" in the window and held up a note saying "I can't hear". He dialled 999 asking to speak to a "hostage negotiator" saying he was "guy, guy from Markham Square".His gun was "broken", meaning it was open and unable to fire, after the first police bullet hit. A firearms expert said only Saunders' thumb could have opened it. It's not known whether he was possibly surrendering, or if it opened due to a muscle spasm in death.He did not fire immediately before police shot him. To "provoke" officers into killing him, would shooting at them not have been the "obvious thing" to do, asked Westminster coroner Dr Paul Knapman.Earlier he told a taxi driver: "I'm going to die."After phone contact was re-established with police "more elements of despair and suicidal thoughts crept in", said Knapman.One note read: "Want to say goodbye, kill myself." He told negotiators he wanted to speak to his wife and friends to "say goodbye".Should police have given "more detailed consideration" to Saunders speaking to Bradley (his barrister friend) and/or his wife in the early stages?Bradley and Saunders' wife were told to turn off their phones so negotiators could "control" communication. Both wanted to talk to Saunders. Bradley thought it the "obvious" way to "make a calm connection". It would be "a de-escalation of this terrible dark scenario that had suddenly … taken over".Saunders repeatedly asked to speak to his wife. He rang Bradley at 19.00, though did not speak during the four-minute call, but sent Mrs Saunders a blank text at 19.50, which she did not get until after his death.She felt "surplus to requirements" throughout.Negotiators briefly discussed using Bradley as TPI – third party intermediary. Almost at the end of the siege they discussed using his wife "as bait". When told Saunders wanted to "say goodbye", negotiator commander Detective Inspector Steve Wagstaff, said: "Bollocks, then, … he's not speaking to any of them" fearing it could precipitate Saunders' suicide.Police feared his wife or Bradley could be taken "hostage", and did not know how either would react on the phone under pressure.A negotiating expert said Bradley could have been briefed, and an option was to keep phones on to receive texts.Was there confusion over the roles of firearms tactical adviser and the firearms bronze commander, and did that contribute to Saunders' death?Superintendent Michael Wise, silver command responsible for making tactical decisions, had no direct contact with the bronze firearms commander in charge of the snipers due to confusion over who held the role that night.It was suggested the command structure was "chaotic" causing "much confusion". Crucial information gleaned by negotiators was not passed to police marksmen, it was suggested.Firearms officers were not told Saunders had repeatedly expressed terror at being shot and said he was "no threat to anyone but himself" and had "no ill-intent". They were not warned Saunders was to "shoot out his window" shortly before he did so at 21.09.Pointing to "at least" ten key points, Knapman said Wise believed Inspector Nick Bennett was both firearms tactical adviser and bronze firearm commander, and never spoke to Sgt SE, who was bronze firearms commander. Wise did not authorise powerful lights, did not know they had been installed, or that the helicopter was used to drown out the noise of the installation. He did not know what Saunders' notes said, that he had put the shotgun in his mouth, that he had dialled 999 and that he was "waving his phones" and shouting "I can't hear". Nor did he know Mrs Saunders had been ordered to turn her phone off. He was also unaware a mother with two young children was trapped in a neighbouring house, despite her dialling 999 seven times.Senior officers said everyone knew their role on the night. A firearms operation expert, for the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), said there was "confusion" over the bronze firearms role, but it did not "impact" on the eventual "tragic" outcome.Was "insufficient weight" given the fact Saunders was drunk, therefore a member of a "special population group" — vulnerable person – "in the nature, proximity and numbers in the police containment positions after he last fired at 21.09?"A total of 59 armed officers with more than 100 weapons surrounded Saunders' flat. In the last 20 minutes a helicopter, hovering overhead throughout, was lowered to mask the sound of police installing powerful static lights which were switched on two minutes before he died. He could see the police containment positions — in rooms, on the roof and in the garden of neighbouring properties. He was drunk, had been violently sick, fallen down his stairs, was unsteady, swaying, groaning and repeatedly shouting "I cant hear" above the noise of the helicopter. Police said that "visible" and "physical" containment" was necessary as a "show of force" to show Saunders he could not escape and would have to negotiate, as well as to protect the public and cut off any escape routes.The Acpo (Association of Chief Police Officers) manual recommends several options in dealing with vulnerable people. Officers might take cover, evacuate the immediate area, be prepared to "back off" if safe, give available "space and time" for tension to diffuse or alcohol to wear off, and attempt early negotiations.Was proper account taken of his status as a vulnerable person, with a helicopter "hovering overhead", static lights being switched on flooding his front room with "Blackpool Illuminations" and "all the officers in various positions", said Knapman. Or was there a "momentum in the escalation and show of force which was ignoring the point the manual makes"?Senior officers said no more armed officers "than was necessary" were at the scene. A firearms expert for the IPCC said the containment positions could not be "pressed back" any further back.