The long standing 'double jeopardy' rule which allowed three of the five youths suspected of killing Stephen Lawrence to escape justice should be reviewed, Sir William Macpherson says in his report. Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and Neil Acourt were formally acquitted at the Old Bailey in 1996 at the judge's direction on the grounds of insufficient evidence, when the Lawrence family brought a private prosecution after the Crown Prosecution Service refused to proceed. Had the family not taken that step, the case could have been reactivated when further evidence emerged. But English law has long provided that no one can be tried twice on the same, or substantially the same, charges, even if he later confesses or is conclusively proved to be guilty, for example by DNA evidence not available at the time of the trial. The rule was reviewed by the House of Lords in 1964, which held that a man whose conviction for murder during an armed robbery was quashed could later be tried for robbery. The law lords said that no one could be tried a second time for a crime of which the jury could have found him guilty the first time round. So no one can be charged with manslaughter, for example, if he has previously been acquitted of murder over the same incident. In Scotland the High Court on appeal can order a new trial for the same crime after a conviction is quashed, and the defendant is barred from pleading double jeopardy. Deputy Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of the new police investigation into the Lawrence case, is said to have received legal advice suggesting that the three men could be prosecuted for alternative offences, such as conspiracy to murder, affray and assault. But John Mathew QC, formerly senior Treasury counsel (chief prosecutor) at the Old Bailey, said: 'If you kill in concert and you're found guilty of killing in concert it's murder. 'It's also conspiracy to murder although you haven't been found guilty of conspiracy to murder. 'There would certainly be a very good argument for saying if you've been acquitted of murder you've been acquitted of conspiracy to murder. 'Affray is a possibility but if an assault results in death which is intended, it's murder.' Mr Mathew said the double jeopardy rule, designed to protect against repeated prosecutions for the same offence, was largely effective, but he would not be averse to a debate. on the issue. Lincoln Crawford, a black barrister who chairs the Bar's race relations committee, said: 'It is a cornerstone of our justice system that a person cannot be tried twice for the same crime. Some people see it as a sacred cow which cannot be touched. I think that's wrong. 'But any new legal principle must be the subject of robust safeguards in the public interest. 'We must not allow ourselves to fall into a situation where the state can endlessly prosecute unpopular defendants until it gets the result it is after.' Anthony Scrivener QC, a leading criminal lawyer who both prosecutes and defends, said he thought it might be sensible to lift the double jeopardy rule for cases where there was in effect a mistrial - such as where a juror was found to have been nobbled - but not generally. Any changes to the law would not be retrospective and would not apply to the Lawrence suspects. The consensus among criminal lawyers is that they will never be tried because such is the prejudice against them that any case brought would be thrown out by the judge as an abuse of process. Mr Mathew said: 'Practically speaking, they're not going to be charged with anything. It would be an abuse of process because of the delay, because they couldn't get a fair trial, and it would be unjust and inequitable to try them.'