Kenny Richey, the Scot who spent 21 years on death row before being freed last week, became so depressed behind bars that he contemplated committing suicide.The Edinburgh-born man makes the admission today in the first interviews he has given since being released last week after spending half his life in custody in America.The 43-year-old is now back in his home city trying to rebuild his life after being convicted in 1987 of starting a fire which killed a three-year-old girl, a crime he always denied. On one occasion during his confinement in two prisons in Ohio, he came within an hour of being sent to the electric chair.'There were several times when I thought of taking my own life and I came close to doing it on one occasion,' he said. 'I sat on my bed with a razor blade thinking I could end it all there and then. But it was the thought of what my suicide would do to my family that always stopped me. There was also the fact that I would be letting myself down.'I was innocent and although it was tough, there were people outside who supported me and believed in me because I was innocent.'Richey's death sentence was overturned last August at the Cincinnati Court of Appeal and he was moved from the tough Mansfield Correctional Facility in Ohio to a low-security prison. Last week he pleaded guilty to charges of attempted involuntary manslaughter, child endangering and breaking and entering as part of a plea bargain.Richey moved to America when he was 18. He was discharged from the marines, drifted, drank and took prescription drugs in large quantities, and became a thief.The self-confessed 'bad boy' was convicted of starting a blaze at a block of flats which killed Cynthia Collins, the daughter of a friend, Hope Collins. Speaking to today's Mail on Sunday, Richey insists he had no involvement in the fire, and evidence emerged during his incarceration that the toddler had previously started fires on her own.'I loved that little girl and I would have done anything to save her. I would have given my life to save hers at any time,' he said. 'I am no child killer and could never intentionally harm a child. It has been a very bitter experience finding myself in a situation where I was going to lose my life because I had been held responsible for the loss of hers.'Every New Year's Eve for the past 21 years I've told myself this was the year I'd [get out]. Now I've finally done it.'He told The People newspaper: 'I'm devastated she died, but it wasn't my fault. Nothing can bring back that little girl, but I've been rotting in my own hell for 21 years.'