The horrific New Year shootings have rightly moved the issue of guns and urban violence up the UK political agenda (Where the gun rules and the innocent go in fear, News, last week).The Government has shown that it can act swiftly and decisively. By planning to introduce tough new measures for anyone convicted of carrying illegal firearms it has underlined its commitment to eradicating the misery caused by guns. Oxfam research shows that since Labour came to power in 1997, more than 1,200 tonnes of military equipment have been brokered or shipped by British arms dealers to war zones around the world. This is the equivalent of 195 AK47s per day and enough to cause devastating damage to the lives of thousands of innocent people. The Government must extend this week's tough stance against guns in the UK to address what is an international problem. Later this month a consultation period will be opened on implementing the new Arms Export Control Act. Indications are that the Government is planning to leave loopholes that mean, among other things, British gunrunners will be able to continue their activities by simply moving overseas. Unless the Government closes these loopholes, the door will be left wide open for gunrunners to continue brokering and transporting guns to some of the world's worst conflict zones.Barbara StockingOxfam directorOxfam HouseOxford OX2 Two things should happen quickly to stem the proliferation of gun use: much stiffer sentences for possession, as is currently being proposed, and a reward for anonymous tip-offs similar to the crimestoppers' drink-driving campaign. The law should presume that those who possess firearms have the intent to commit murder and the sentencing therefore should be similar to that for attempted murder. Because of the witness protection problems associated with trying to convict a person using firearms, the emphasis must be placed on possession which, after a positive raid from a tip-off, will only require members of the police to give evidence.James E O'BrienBradford BD13 The latest shootings and the inexorable rise in gun crime show that the increasingly severe legislation to control guns has been totally ineffective. How many more must die or be terrorised by pistol-waving hoodlums before governments finally admit that their whole approach to the issue is wrong. Societies with the highest rates of gun crime and drug abuse are also the ones that are the most unequal and the most ill-at-ease with themselves. Social justice is not just an issue of morality: it makes good practical sense too. Andrew VaughanRochfordEssex