In evidence ruled inadmissible by the judge at the trial of Levi Bellfield, a former girlfriend told how he admitted he hated blondes and would hang around alleyways "wanting to hurt women, stab them or rape them".She found magazine pictures in which the faces of blonde models had been slashed, she said. Bellfield's cellmate, Paul Jarvis, said the former bouncer "treated women like dogs".Born in Isleworth, west London, on May 17 1968, Bellfield never strayed far from his old home. His attacks on at least five women, carried out between 2001 and 2004, took place in an area of west London south of the M4 corridor, just east of the M25.During this time, Bellfield, of West Drayton, west London, ran a wheelclamping firm under a number of aliases. He admitted using up to 42, including Lee Johnson and David Bennett, but claimed they were for "tax reasons" and to avoid people whose cars were clamped seeking revenge.Bellfield, who has 11 children by five different mothers, was described as a "ladies' man" by friends. But while he liked to play the charmer, he had a low regard for women, seeing them as sexual objects. According to the prosecution, he would turn violent when rejected.Police believe he initially propositioned the French student Amelie Delagrange on the night of August 19 2004 and, when rebuffed, killed her in a rage. Separate CCTV images showed his white Ford Courier van and Delagrange, on foot, both slowing down as they approached Twickenham Green, appearing to fit this theory.Giving evidence during his Old Bailey trial, Bellfield cut a strange figure as he attempted to charm the jury, portraying himself as an ordinary man who could not understand why he was there.He admitted a range of previous offences, from stealing vehicles to assaulting a police officer, telling the jury in his high-pitched voice: "I'm no angel, but I'm not a killer."The first sign he was a danger to women came three years before he killed Delagrange when he allegedly tried to abduct Anna Maria Rennie from a bus stop in Twickenham on October 15 2001. When she refused his offer of a lift, the trial heard that Bellfield picked her up, placed a hand over her mouth and tried to drag her into the car. When she escaped, he shouted after her: "You're a whore, a slut."Rennie, who now lives in Spain, identified him in a video ID parade in 2005 as her case was reinvestigated following his arrest. She said he had destroyed her confidence for a long time.In court, Bellfield insisted she was mistaken and tried to claim that two witnesses had given evidence against him because they "wanted their day at the Old Bailey".Bellfield's next alleged victim was Irma Dragoshi, a 33-year-old hairdresser who worked in Slough. On December 16 2003, she was standing at a bus stop in Longfield Village, near Heathrow. She woke in hospital with no memory of what had happened. But Sunil Gharu, who worked with Bellfield, told police he had seen the attack. He said Bellfield suddenly pulled over on the opposite side of the road and told him: "Watch this." Gharu said he then ran up to Dragoshi, spun her round and smashed her to the ground. He ran back, got in the car and drove off, laughing. Bellfield admitted he had been present during the attack, but tried to claim Gharu had been responsible.Bellfield's conviction does not bring police interest in him to a close, with detectives analysing a string of unsolved attacks for evidence of his possible involvement.