A woman accused of starving her son to death and allowing his body to mummify for nearly two years yesterday told a jury that she held her dead son for hours on the night he died.Recalling the day that four-year-old Hamzah Khan died, Amanda Hutton said she had gone to Morrisons to ask a pharmacist's advice about his plummeting weight and rushed home when her oldest son, Tariq, 24, called to say Hamzah's eyes were "rolling back in his head".She denied a claim made by one witness who said she stopped to buy cigarettes on the way home and insisted she had not phoned for a takeaway pizza and curry within hours of Hamzah's death – despite not calling for an ambulance.Giving evidence, Hutton, 43, said: "I rushed upstairs to my bedroom and found Hamzah had passed away. I picked him up and checked all his pulse points and there was nothing. I tried to give him mouth-to-mouth but that wasn't working. I picked him up from my bed and put him over my shoulder and brown vomit came out of him, from his mouth."Hutton said she wanted to call the police but Tariq stopped her. Asked why, she said: "I'm not sure."Hutton was asked what she did after Hamzah died. "I stayed in my bedroom all night with him," she said. "I held him for hours."Hutton admitted concealing Hamzah's death from the outside world and said it had been a "relief" finally to be arrested and for the truth to come out. She said: "After the shock I just didn't know what to do. It was like a snowball that keeps rolling and keeps getting bigger and it gets harder each day."But the prosecution described her as a "nasty drunk" who put alcohol before her children. Hutton came to court so drunk on Monday morning that she was unfit to give evidence and had to be brought to court by the police, the jury heard.Taking the stand on Tuesday – a day later than planned – she angrily denied putting alcohol before her children and insisted she did not neglect Hamzah so badly that he died.The little boy's corpse was found in a travel cot under a pile of clothes and shoes in Hutton's bedroom in Bradford, West Yorkshire, in September 2011 – 21 months after he died. When police found his partially mummified body, the floors of her terraced house were ankle-deep in rubbish and the kitchen surfaces littered with vodka bottles. Flies swarmed all over the property."Just accept that through your terrible failings you killed that child," said Paul Greaney QC, prosecuting. "You were a nasty drunk who failed to feed or clean [Hamzah] properly long before [he] died," the barrister said to Hutton, later adding: "Drinking was more important to you than Hamzah's welfare". "No," she replied to all these allegations.She also denied locking Hamzah in a room in the dark as a punishment. "Not only did you neglect him, you abused him," said Greaney.Hutton insisted her spiral into alcoholism began only after Hamzah died on 15 December 2009. Experts have told the court the little boy probably died from malnutrition. When he was found, in September 2011, he was wearing a babygrow designed for a six to nine-month-old baby.Dressed in black and speaking so softly that the judge had to repeatedly tell her to raise her voice, Hutton said Hamzah was a "faddy eater" who was always underweight but that she assumed he would "grow out of it".Another of her sons, Qaiser, had been a similarly "fussy eater" as a toddler, she said, but he "filled out" when he was about five, which is why she had not been overly worried.Qaiser, now 22, gave evidence for the prosecution last week, accusing Hutton of child neglect. He claimed Hamzah slept upright in a urine-soaked buggy that "stank" and that he once saw his little brother eating the contents of his own dirty nappy.The jury also heard more about her turbulent relationship with Aftab Khan, father of Hamzah, Tariq and Qaiser.She said she started seeing Khan, a taxi driver and mechanic, when she was about 16 or 17, and that he was violent towards her throughout their relationship, sometimes constantly. Asked by Stephen Meadowcroft QC, defending, why she stayed with Khan, she said: "Because I loved him."She didn't tell anyone of the abuse she suffered in the early years because of the "shame", she said.But under cross examination she accepted that other women with violent partners managed to bring up healthy children who were not neglected. She wasn't blaming Hamzah's death on the domestic violence she suffered, she insisted, saying: "It was just background information."Hutton told the court that she moved house after Khan attacked her and Tariq in December 2008. Khan eventually pleaded guilty to one charge of battery after Hutton appeared in court to give evidence against him.The jury heard there are records dating back to 1996 of Khan allegedly assaulting Hutton, but that until December 2008 she had withdrawn every complaint.Hutton claimed it was an altercation with Aftab over the weekend which drove her to drink so much that she was unfit to give evidence on Monday. She said he had urged her to plead guilty, which "rocked" her badly.The court has heard that Tariq, along with his mother, has already pleaded guilty to a charge of preventing Hamzah's burial.Hutton has admitted charges of child neglect but insists she was not responsible for Hamzah's death.The case continues.