The Guardian is wrong to claim that the Intensive Supervision and Surveillance Programme (ISSP) is failing because 91% of young offenders go on to reoffend (Nine out of 10 young criminals convicted of new offences, October 28).The ISSP is targeted at the most persistent and serious young offenders - many of whom have been abused, are misusing drugs or have severe mental health problems. No single programme of activity could stop these youngsters offending. Dysfunctional, chaotic lives cannot be turned around without intensive, long-term help. The programme was designed to reduce the frequency and severity of offending - and it has. Young people on the programme commit 40% fewer crimes than previously and those they do commit are much less serious. The programme is certainly not a cure, but it has resulted in fewer victims and safer communities. By any definition, that's a success.Ellie RoyChief Executive, Youth Justice Board for England and WalesSo one in 10 children and young people who would probably have gone on to offend, do not. That does not sound like failure to me. The Intensive Supervision and Surveillance Programme, aimed at the most intractable young people, only went countrywide 18 months ago. The highest crime areas were enabled to implement the scheme first and these results will be dominated by those figures. Give the programme the chance to bed down before calling it a failure. The alternative is faster entry into custody with higher financial costs, high reoffending rates and greater damage to individuals and the community.Pauline BatstoneChairwoman, National Association of Youth Offending Team ManagersI am puzzled by Marcel Berlins's hostility to my proposals for a new tier of courts below magistrates courts (Please, no more brainwaves, October 24). Many local magistrates courts have closed - hence the idea of community offender panels. The police, housing associations and other public services could refer antisocial behaviour or local disputes to these panels, which would only hear cases where guilt was admitted. Nobody would be forced to go before a panel.Yes, they would be manned by "amateurs", but panel members would be recruited and trained by probation professionals, who would also oversee all panel meetings. Youth offending panels have been successfully introduced into the youth justice system, and Chard and Ilminster have created one for adults. Victims and offenders often prefer them to more formal courts.Ben RogersInstitute for Public Policy Research