Organised crime is working with the construction industry to illegally fly-tip tens of thousands of tonnes of building rubble around Britain, avoiding millions of pounds of landfill taxes and costing landowners large amounts to clear up. The gangs scout available land in advance, work with two-way radios, and may descend on a site with 30 or more unidentifiable lorries in a few hours, says the Environment Agency, which is increasingly concerned over a huge rise in fly-tipping incidents. An unpublished study, carried out by agency staff with the Jill Dando institute of crime studies, has found that building sites, roads, fields and electricity substations are the most popular sites for large-scale dumping of building waste, but that cemeteries, hotel grounds, golf courses and sports fields are also being targeted. Much of the dumping is done quite openly, says the report: "Building sites are particularly attractive since they are accessible to lorries, are flat, and do not arouse suspicion since to the bystander there is nothing wrong with lorries entering a building site." An Environment Agency spokesman said: "Large-scale tipping appears to be happening more frequently. We are told that people are moving out of drugs and into [construction] waste because it's just as profitable and people do not tend to end up in prison." The agency says opportunistic fly-tipping by gangs and individuals has risen by 40% in the past two years and is now running at more than 65,000 incidents a month. The cost to local authorities and landowners is believed to be £100m to £150m a year. The rise in the past three years has been largely driven by rising landfill taxes, local authorities charging for the collection of bulky waste, and more goods such as TV sets, computers and refrigerators being defined as "special or hazardous" waste. Leeds and Birmingham are among the worst-hit areas, reporting more than 20,000 mostly small incidents a year, but gangs are now working throughout the UK, sometimes transferring waste hundreds of miles. In north London, more than 70,000 tonnes of construction waste was fly-tipped in 2003, costing more than £1m to clean up, and avoiding £135,000 in landfill taxes. Other hotspots included the London boroughs of Harrow and Brent. Lewisham and Westminster boroughs reported 34,000 cases between them last year. Local authorities, farmers and organisations such as British Waterways, Network Rail and the National Trust all report more fly-tipping on their land. The large-scale tippers are resorting to new tactics, says the agency. In the north-east there have been several cases of large warehouses being rented, filled with car tyres and then abandoned. "Some offenders con landowners and groundsmen into allowing delivery of what they believe to be free topsoil, only to later find hundreds of tonnes of useless waste having been deposited on their land," says the report. Much of the tipping is attributed to "white van man" - small businesses, jobbing builders, plumbers and gardeners. "They are often ignorant of the alternatives," says the report. "They either cannot afford to pay or refuse to pay. Some subscribe to a perception that they are unlikely to be caught and prose cuted, or if they are, will receive trivial penalties." However, householders are also to blame because they are dumping more rubbish. The Country Landowners' Association has reported an increased incidence, with one in four farmers saying rubbish has been tipped on their land in the last few years. The association's survey of members found that building rubble was the most common material dumped, followed by household items such as fridges, deep freezers, beds, sofas and mattresses. Household rubbish included dead pets, baths, soft toys, telephones, syringes and condoms. There are thought to be fewer cars being dumped now than a few years ago because of the high price of secondhand steel, due largely to China buying up the scrap. Sue Doughty, Liberal Demo crat environment spokeswoman, will warn today that the recent closure of most of Britain's hazardous waste plants - to comply with EU regulations - has left millions of tonnes of potentially dangerous waste with nowhere to go and could further fuel fly-tipping. "It is scandalous that the government has had five years to prepare for the new rules under the 1999 landfill directive, but has failed to make sure that specialist facilities are ready in time," Ms Doughty said yesterday. "The result could be devastating for regions of England and Wales, with a huge rise in illegal fly-tipping by cowboy waste contractors." The Environment Agency study urges action on a national level and suggests it should be made easier for contaminated waste to be disposed of legitimately. "Reducing the availability of sites that can take contaminated waste makes it more difficult for waste carriers to behave legitimately, and enables fly-tippers to make excuses for their behaviour," it says. The Environment Agency says it has limited detective resources and no powers to stop vehicles or check identities. In London, for example, there were only 11 investigators dealing with more than 400 incidents of large-scale dumping in 2002. The fines for large-scale fly-tippers are minimal. Between 1999 and 2003 there were only 2,125 prosecutions, with fines averaging £2,300. "The fines given to construction and demolition waste offenders are considered to be quite insufficient to deter serious offenders, even if they were likely to be caught," says the report. "There is a lot of waste to get rid of and there is every sign that it will increase," says an agency spokesman.