Teenage joyriders will be given go-karting lessons and courses in car mechanics to prevent them reoffending under plans unveiled by the Liberal Democrats yesterday.Vandals will also escape having a criminal record if they apologise to their victims and serve a punishment such as cleaning up local graffiti or smashed bus shelters, to be meted out by a "community justice panel". They would only be given a conditional caution with none of the stigma a criminal record represents. The measures, to be debated today, form part of the home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten's new "tough liberalism agenda", designed to make the party appear more credible on crime while preventing re-offending and cutting the prison population. The Lib Dems are all too aware they have been politically damaged by opposing anti-social behaviour disor ders (Asbos) on the grounds of civil liberties, with Labour and the Conservatives being able to wield this in recent byelection campaigns as proof the Lib Dems are "soft on yobs". The new measures are only likely to exacerbate these calls. Yesterday the prisons minister, Paul Goggins, described the plans as a joke. "It is frightening just how out of touch the Liberal Democrats are on crime," he said.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "This is proof the Liberal Democrats are soft on crime. Britain has a real problem with youth crime and these proposals will do nothing to solve that problem". Mr Oaten acknowledged the plans would prove contro-versial when he attacked the media, in advance, for not allowing a sensible debate on the issue. "But I'm absolutely convinced this party should be arguing for that sort of process. It gives young people a purpose and it helps tackle crime." The go-karting plan, which is not explicitly outlined in the policy motion, is based on a pilot in Bristol, as is the car mechanics course scheme, which he said could lead to employment. He stressed that carjackers would also be punished by the courts. "Joy-riders ... need to go through the court process and you need a punishment. But at the same time what is going to stop them doing it again?"Mr Oaten also denied he was offering a "warm and cuddly" option to offenders of non-violent crimes by allowing them to chose whether to go to court or be punished by a community justice panel."Compared to sitting comfortably in court and receiving a fine, going before one of these panels will be a very uncomfortable experience. I want offenders to see the anger and hurt they cause to those living in their communities," he said."But this is not just about punishment. It offers the offender something a court appearance cannot: the chance to earn back the respect of the community."