John Palmer was probably looking forward to going home as his flight from London landed at the Reina Sofia airport on the Spanish island of Tenerife on Tuesday afternoon.This, after all, was the airport closest to the holiday resorts where a series of multimillion-pound timeshare scams had helped to turn him at one time into Britain's 105th richest person.Among the fellow passengers watching the 57-year-old gather up his bags and prepare to disembark, however, were Spanish police officers who had reportedly been tracking him from Britain.The man who became famous after being accused of melting down three tons of gold snatched from the Brinks Mat security warehouse at Heathrow in 1983, earning him the nickname Goldfinger, was about to be arrested once again.Grabbed by police shortly after leaving the plane, Palmer was taken to a police station. It is thought he was then transferred to Madrid to face the country's most celebrated investigating magistrate, Judge Baltasar Garzón."He is wanted by the court for being the [suspected] leader of an international criminal group based on the island," a police spokesman confirmed yesterday.While Palmer served just over half of an eight-year prison sentence in Britain for defrauding some 17,000 timeshare clients, getting out of jail two years ago, the charges he faces in Spain are potentially far more serious.The "multiple criminal activities" carried out by this gang included "timeshare fraud, money laundering, credit card fraud, threats, crimes against people's physical integrity and freedom, trafficking drugs, falsifying passports and possession of weapons", according to the police.They alleged that he had continued to run a criminal empire while serving time in a British prison. "From prison he managed and controlled the entire criminal network," a spokesman said.Police estimated his timeshare and property empire in the Canary Islands, built up after he moved to Spain in 1985, was worth about €360m (£245m). They placed his overall wealth at around €600m. It was not a figure that matched the £3.9m of debts declared when he was formally made bankrupt in 2005.Palmer's exact whereabouts last night were not clear. Although he was reportedly flown to Madrid on Wednesday to see Judge Garzón, the magistrate, who is known for ordering the arrest of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, was believed to be dealing with other high-profile cases yesterday.Court officials were unable to say whether Palmer was still in custody. Under Spanish law Judge Garzón has until tomorrow afternoon to decide whether Palmer should be remanded in jail while the allegations against him are investigated.A police spokesman refused to deny or confirm press reports that Spanish police had been on the flight with Palmer.Palmer's Spanish lawyers were understood to be working on getting him set free so that he could return to Tenerife.UnderworldThe criminal underworld on the island has been worrying Spanish authorities for the best part of a decade.Judge Garzón and prosecutors at the national court in Madrid have been trying to stem the proliferation of gangs which are giving the island a reputation as a haven for increasingly violent international crooks. With Palmer absent, the timeshare frauds continued in the hands of other people. Turf wars between gangs have been common, with claims that local police officers and politicians are on their payroll.In January 2006 two former Palmer employees, Billy and Flo Robinson, were tortured and murdered on the island. Mrs Robinson was found in a pool of blood beside her silver Mercedes. Her husband's body was on the back seat of his Porsche.Quite how Palmer has spent his time since he left prison is not clear. He is reported to have a girlfriend on the island, though she was thought to have been visiting him every weekend in Britain.What is clear, however, is the colourful past of a man who first came to public attention in connection with the Brinks Mat gold bullion robbery 20 years ago - at the time, the biggest in the UK.Melted goldPalmer helped to melt down gold in an oven in the garden of his home near Bath. But a jury cleared him of wrongdoing, and of laundering much of the 6,800 ingots, because the police had failed to prove that he had knowingly been dealing in stolen goods. Palmer, who had denied the charges, blew kisses to the jury on his way out of the court. Most of the gold was never recovered.At his timeshare trial at the Old Bailey, the court was told that Palmer owned "a confusing network of companies which pretended to be independent of each other". It was also told about how tourists were subjected to high pressure sales techniques after being approached on the streets of Tenerife. Thousands of ordinary people were tricked into buying timeshare apartments and handing over thousands of pounds in cash. The racket involved some 17,000 victims from all over Europe, with the largest group British.Many were later targeted a second time when Palmer's companies offered to "buy back" property, but first insisted on charging up front for their services.Palmer remained in the top 200 of the Sunday Times rich list for several years, including when he was in jail, before falling off it in 2005. The previous year he had been at number 153, just behind the landowning Duke of Northumberland and easyJet founder Stelios Haji-Ioannou.