You can set your watch by it, these days. No sooner has something horrible happened involving someone connected with football, than the true horror is implied to be football. In the case of Adam Johnson, his crimes are of the utmost seriousness. The former Sunderland and England winger has been convicted of sexual activity with a child, having already pleaded guilty to one count of grooming and one count of kissing the girl. All sympathies should rest with his victim. All efforts, however, appear to be under way to cast Johnson as football’s problem, when the rather more troubling reality is that people such as Johnson are everyone’s problem.Does football reflect society, or is it the other way round? My own belief is that the former is axiomatically true, yet judging by the reactions to a succession of court cases and fan incidents, this theory looks more and more fringe. I increasingly expect to be found muttering it alone in a cave when the cancer that is football has been finally driven from our society, taking with it all the things that are its fault.Clearly, it is hard to feel much but distaste for Sunderland football club, whose failure to suspend Johnson after he was charged lies on its corporate conscience – if you can imagine such a ludicrous paradox. The club appears to have worked (conveniently) on a strict innocent-till-proven-guilty basis, which would have been OK had they not been in possession of damning evidence that suggests a pragmatic judgment to suspend Johnson would have been morally preferable. I watched a bizarre report on the BBC’s 10 o’clock bulletin which was filled with woolly editorialising about ‘the game’ Their attempts to cast themselves as the victims of circumstance – which is to say, the legal process – are questionable because of this fact. Needless to say, the Football Association declines to criticise Sunderland, which is the usual joined-up twittery from an organisation that preposterously stripped John Terry of the England captaincy for supposedly having an affair with the former girlfriend of a club team-mate. But then, we don’t go to the FA for consistent moral guidance, do we?The sadness, alas, is that so many imply we do. Many are glossing this case of child sex abuse with the exact same cliches they might slap on a grasping contract negotiation or a particularly baroque Bentley customisation. Sense of entitlement, pampered prima donna, consequence-free environment – is it really all the same? No. No, it isn’t. Of all the things that are the fault of the Premier League (and heaven knows I’ve spent enough years detailing them) child sexual abuse is not one of them.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Adam Johnson leaves Bradford crown court on Wednesday. Photograph: Nigel Roddis/Getty ImagesThat said, we must countenance the possibility that football has stolen countless reporters’ brains, or at the very least caused them to forget how to deliver the news properly. On the night Johnson was found guilty, I watched a bizarre report on the BBC’s 10 o’clock bulletin that was filled with woolly editorialising about “the game”, and even featured interviews with random Sunderland fans outside the Stadium of Light, as though it were transfer deadline day. Just as wrong were all the pictures of fancy bars and luxury cars that peppered many written reports of the verdict, as though child sexual grooming and abuse were somehow related to consensual adult nightlife, or were a glitch that some Range Rover owners had been experiencing.These kinds of conflations are lazy in stories that don’t matter, and dangerous in ones that do. If papers such as the Sun really are hell-bent on seeing “connections”, maybe they’d care to mull why they invited readers to get a load of the “shapely pins” of Cindy Crawford’s 14-year-old-daughter during the Johnson trial? I don’t want to prejudge their internal investigation, but I blame football.Child sexual abuse can, clearly, happen in football. It can happen in the loftiest reaches of light entertainment, it can happen with British Airways pilots, it can happen at church, but – contrary to what the slant and sensationalism of most coverage might lead you to believe – it is overwhelmingly likely to happen in the home, with someone known to the victim.But that is not, in the toxically inappropriate parlance of such things, very sexy. It’s the same with racism, which is often sexed up with a football angle. When Chelsea fans shove and racially abuse a man on the Paris Métro, racism is cast as football’s problem, and consequently one on which the prime minister would obviously have a view.You can get the PM to comment on any old incident of football fan racism, but you’ll not get a peep from him on the “racist bus rants” filmed with increasing frequency in cities and towns across the UK, and uploaded to YouTube. The latter are presumably judged too unspeakable, too close to all our homes, too non-football to even begin to start dealing with.We can only hope that football learns from the sordid Adam Johnson case | Archie Bland Cameron had views to air on the Ched Evans case, naturally – another instance where the football connection caused righteous anger to be misdirected. Instead of trying to challenge the leniency of rape sentencing, all energies were directed toward stopping any football club from employing a man who had – however unrepentantly – paid what society currently judged his debt.Unfashionable though it may be to even mention, despite everything from viewing figures to its hold on the national conversation, football in this country brings joy – or at least an exquisite form of misery – to many. Furthermore, it remains one of the last bastions of social mobility, creating working-class millionaires by the bucketload. Maybe that’s what so many parliamentarians and pontificators hate about it, considering they’ve presided over a period in which the chances of poor children escaping the privations of their backgrounds have dwindled horrifyingly, with the social mobility and child poverty commission warning that Britain risks becoming “permanently divided”.Oddly, it’s a lot sexier to ignore this, and to fall back endlessly on the idea that players being paid the market rate is some kind of moral abomination, while that just isn’t the case with big movie star contracts, and not even to the same extent with bankers, of all junior villains to have to mention. Once you can think your way into this position, it’s hardly a stretch to state – in a mindbogglingly unspecified way – that football must take some of the blame for child abuse.Thus something too horrid to really think about more broadly can become another thing that is the Premier League’s problem, like the living wage, exported racism, materialism, the corrosive influence of some porn on sexual behaviour and expectations … the list is always open, and you should expect the next entry in due course.