The family of Hayley Richards said yesterday they were still waiting for police to explain why they missed chances to arrest the man who has become the prime suspect in her murder.Miss Richards's brother, Paul, said: "The family has been ripped apart by what happened. There are still lots of questions we need answered. And nothing will ever bring Hayley back." Officers twice spoke to the boyfriend of Miss Richards, Hugo Quintas, after she had reported that he assaulted her, but let him go. Less than a week after making the allegation she was killed. Detectives were following up "sensitive" leads in the UK last night and in Mr Quintas's native Portugal, where he flew to on Saturday after Miss Richards, who was three months pregnant, was killed. The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) is investigating Wiltshire police's handling of Miss Richards's complaint. It is also looking into suggestions that police delayed arresting Mr Quintas because they had difficulty locating a Portuguese interpreter. Miss Richards's mother laid a dozen red roses at the scene of the murder in the Wiltshire county town of Trowbridge yesterday. Police have said they searched for Mr Quintas after Miss Richards alleged that he attacked her. Twice officers not directly involved in the case spoke to him and took his name at least once but did not arrest him. Wiltshire police refuse to explain because they claim it would pre-empt the results of the IPCC's inquiry. But campaigners said yesterday that the case underlined the need for police forces to be compelled to put officers through new domestic violence training courses This is one of a series of cases which have focused attention on police failings, among them the murders of Julia Pemberton and Rana Faruqui. Ms Pemberton and her son William were shot dead in November 2003 by her husband, Alan Pemberton, at their Berkshire home. Before the killing she reported three incidents of serious abuse to Thames Valley police but the complaints were not put on file and no action was taken. Ms Faruqui was subjected to a six-month hate campaign by her former lover, Stephen Griffiths, before being stabbed to death as she cleaned out her stables. Again, the force at fault was Thames Valley, which admitted that it should have followed up a complaint she made about Griffiths two weeks before she was killed when he tampered with the brakes of her car. Across the country, police receive a call related to domestic violence every 20 seconds and two women are killed every week by a current or former partner. One woman in four is physically abused by a partner during her lifetime. The Association of Chief Police Officers has published manuals aimed at improving how officers investigate domestic violence, but serving officers are not compelled to undergo the training. The government is giving police more powers to detain suspects in domestic violence cases and is encouraging officers to concentrate less on soothing the victim and more on catching the attacker. Some forces have won plaudits for their initiatives. Lancashire, for example, has introduced three public protection units which bring together experts in domestic violence, child abuse and sex crimes. The force has also introduced a team of "domestic violence specialists" who are being trained to detective standard. "It's about making arrests," said Detective Chief Inspector Graham Gardner, who is responsible for public protection in Lancashire. The Metropolitan police is also doing work which has been commended by organisations such as Refuge. Its officers have access to an aide memoire which reminds them of potential triggers to domestic violence - such as a woman being pregnant - as was the case in the Hayley Richards killing. Nationwide, however, campaigners fear problems remain. When the Inspectorate of Constabulary examined the issue of domestic violence last year it highlighted problems such as "substantial variations" in the arrest rate at or near the incident across the country.