The jury in the Soham murder trial today heard how Ian Huntley, who is accused of murdering Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, expressed his condolences to Holly's father, Kevin, shortly after the girls vanished.The prosecution lawyer, Richard Latham QC, read statements from the families of the murdered schoolgirls to the court. The statements included detailed accounts from all four parents about August 4 2002, the day of the two 10-year-olds' disappearance. The Old Bailey also heard that Holly and Jessica were "sensible and responsible" girls who would probably have been made house captains had they lived to return to school last autumn.Mr Huntley, 29, a former caretaker at Soham Village college, denies killing the two girls in August last year.Girls' teacher gives evidenceJoy Pederson, who taught the girls at their Cambridgeshire primary school, St Andrew's, today gave evidence at the murder trial.Mrs Pederson said that Holly and Jessica were "very good friends" and "both bright girls" who were "mature in a sensible way".In a difficult situation, the girls "would have stuck up for each other and been very loyal and try to help the other one out", Mrs Pederson told Mr Latham.Mrs Pederson also talked about primary school teaching assistant Maxine Carr's relationship with the girls. She told the court that, after 26-year-old Ms Carr had taken over the temporary role of general assistant in her class in Easter 2002, she had tended to gravitate towards a group of girls in the class that included Holly and Jessica.Ms Carr had said she was "gutted" about not getting the permanent job, Mrs Pederson added.Under cross-examination from Ms Carr's QC, Michael Hubbard, Mrs Pederson said that the 26-year-old's behaviour could be "somewhat inappropriate". "Did you get the impression this was a young woman whose heart sometimes ruled her head?" Mr Hubbard asked. "Yes, sometimes," Mrs Pederson replied.Ms Carr, Mr Huntley's former girlfriend, denies two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Final sightings of Holly and JessicaMrs Pederson's evidence to the Old Bailey trial was followed by a series of witness accounts describing the final sightings of Holly and Jessica as they walked around Soham after 6.15pm on the evening of their disappearance.In one account, Lucy Tuck told how her husband, Mark, had seen the girls as the couple drove through Soham at around that time. He had said: "Look, there's two little Beckhams over there" - a reference to the girls' Manchester United shirts.Earlier, a statement from Holly's mother, Nicola, was read to the court. It described her growing "panic" as she waited for news of her missing daughter on the night that the girls disappeared. Mrs Wells said that Holly and Jessica had spent most of the Sunday together, playing at her house. In the evening, she and her husband talked with friends who had come round for a barbeque. She said that she last saw the girls at around 6.10pm, when they went upstairs following the evening meal. At around 8.20pm, she realised that they were not in the house.In her statement, Mrs Wells said: "At 8.35pm, I started to think 'she will phone in a moment' ... At 8.45, maybe nine, I started to panic a bit." At 9pm, Mrs Wells phoned Jessica's mother and asked whether the girls were at her house while Mr Wells went to look for them on his bike, the court heard. "I was getting desperate," Mrs Wells said. Mr Latham went on to read out a statement from Mr Wells, who said that he had spoken to Mr Huntley during his search for the missing girls that evening.At one point, after driving into the entrance of the girls' school in the town, Mr Wells saw Mr Huntley walking from the direction of the sports centre into the grounds of Soham Village college at around 11pm. School searchedDuring the early hours of the next day, Mr Wells decided, with friends, to search the school and college sites again, his statement said. Mr Wells said that the search party wanted to tell Mr Huntley of their plans, and noticed that the light in the caretaker's office was on. As Mr Wells and his two friends entered the school building, Mr Huntley's dog came rushing towards them in an aggressive manner, the court heard. A few seconds later, the statement said, Mr Huntley appeared. Holly's father told him that they wanted to conduct a search. According to Mr Wells, Mr Huntley raised no objection and said, "without prompting", that he was in the school at that time, writing a note to a work colleague in which he explained that he was going to be late because his sleep had been disrupted by the police.He then told of a further conversation with Mr Huntley after a press conference with the Chapmans and police officers at Soham Village college. Huntley 'offered condolences'He said that he had been having a conversation with one of the police family liaison officers, but had had to break it off because "I was aware of somebody standing just behind my left shoulder, too close for comfort and invading my personal space". "I turned round and saw it was Ian Huntley. I said 'hello'. He said, 'Kevin, I'm so sorry. I did not realise it was your daughter'. "I said, 'I know, thank you for your kind words. It just beggars belief, doesn't it', or something to that effect. He agreed and said, 'yes, I know'." Mr Wells' statement added: "I do recall thinking, God he looks terrible, because he had panda eyes and bags under them." Mr Wells said he saw "nothing wrong" with Mr Huntley's comments. "I genuinely felt he was being sincere in offering his condolences," his statement said. The court later heard a statement from Jessica's mother, Sharon, who said that her daughter thought Ms Carr was "cool" and the "best teaching assistant ever". Mrs Chapman said she regularly talked to Ms Carr about school issues, and added that her daughter seemed to be genuinely attached to her. Recounting the events of the evening of August 4, Mrs Chapman's statement told how her daughter had been eager to visit her friend because Jessica had just come back from a family holiday in Minorca. She said that she and her husband had been watching television when Mr Chapman "felt it was time Jess should come home", because it was 8.30pm. Mrs Wells then rang the Chapmans at 8.45pm to ask whether the girls were there. Mrs Chapman said: "I sat there for about 10 minutes thinking Kevin would ring back and say they were just at the sweet shop or something." After going out to search for the girls herself, Mrs Chapman said it was she who called the police, after having gone to the Wells' home. In her statement she said: "Nicola [Mrs Wells] was there and said: 'Have you got them?'. I said, 'no, where are they?'."They then spoke about whether they should call the police, and Mrs Chapman added: "I said to Nicola, 'do you want to do it or should I?'. "I looked at Nicola and she looked at me. I said 'I have only got my mobile, give me my phone'." On day eight of the Soham trial, jurors today heard the prosecution open the case against Mr Huntley and Ms Carr. Mr Huntley denies two charges of murder but admits a single count of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The jury yesterday returned from a two-day site visit to the girls' home town of Soham and Lakenheath, Suffolk. At Soham, they retraced the victims' final steps and were shown inside 5 College Close, the house the defendants used to share. Holly and Jessica went missing on August 4 2002. Their bodies were found in a remote ditch near Lakenheath 13 days later. The trial continues.