A lay preacher was jailed for 10 years yesterday for setting up phantom trading companies in a classic "carousel fraud" which cheated the government out of £51m in VAT on non-existent imported goods. Malcolm Edwards-Sayer, 49, a law lecturer who created a secret roundabout of bogus firms to obtain the tax payments, was caught after buying a meaningless lordship and using the title to set up offshore bank accounts.Passing sentence at Nottingham crown court, Judge Jonathan Teare said Edwards-Sayer was "diligent and dedicated in dishonesty". The court heard that the scale of Edwards-Sayer's invented businesses was "extremely sophisticated and involved a lot of hard work" for a decade starting in 1996.The failed lawyer, who admitted fraud, pretended to import high-value goods such as mobile phones and then sold them to a circle of fake firms, usually ending back with himself. The carousel allowed his string of bogus buyers to claim VAT back from HM Revenue and Customs on each transaction. The fraud used bank accounts belonging to the preacher's mother up to and after her death from cancer.Edwards-Sayer, using the name Lord Houghton, stashed his profits in wastebins of cash and gold Krugerrands, bought a BMW and had started negotiating for a house in Paris and a villa in Antibes when his modest bachelor home in the Nottingham suburb of Bramcote was raided by customs staff. The court heard that Edwards-Sayer's haphazard public career after leaving Nottingham university, which involved a failed legal traineeship and prolonged depression, disguised his flourishing secret empire. While he seemed content with a lecturing job at South East Derbyshire College and made a local name through preaching for the Anglican diocese of Southwell, he was setting up a web of paper companies. One claimed to have imported £28m worth of mobiles in four weeks, a transaction involving £4.87m of VAT.Nick Burriss, director of operations, criminal investigation for HM Revenue and Customs, said: "This was not some kind of victimless crime, but organised fraud on a massive scale perpetrated by criminals all bent on making fast and easy profits at the expense of the British taxpayer." Edwards-Sayer told HMRC investigators: "I'm either a central cog or someone who's stupid." The judge told him: "You are not stupid." Work is continuing to trace most of the money. John Ryder QC, mitigating, said: "The amounts that have may have resulted out of this fraud haven't funded a lifestyle that can be described as lavish."A two-year search by accountants had found nothing. Measures to combat carousel fraud of VAT and other taxes were brought in by the government in June. The Office for National Statistics calculated that £17bn worth of trade was tainted by the fraud in the first six months of 2006-07 alone.