In the prison gym, a group of men rhythmically stamp their feet and chant in unison. It's not a protest about poor equipment or conditions, but something more constructive: the sound of music in the making. Chanting and stamping are the warm-up; after three two-hour sessions over a week, the participants will put on a show on the final evening, much of it their own material. It is the sort of rehearsal familiar to amateur performers, but for a group including murderers, sex offenders and violent burglars, to be doing this in a high security prison is highly unusual. But Grendon prison, in Buckinghamshire, is unusual: the only British prison offering a therapeutic regime of education and personal development for up to 230 inmates. Men can ask to be transferred here from other institutions. If they are assessed as suitable, it takes 18 to 24 months for the programme to show results, says education officer Jill Lewis, who prefers to describe the regime as challenging rather than liberal. The group running the workshop is out of the ordinary, too. The six classical musicians of the Oxford Concert Party (OCP) have been working in prisons, hospitals, hospices and residential homes for almost a decade. They are basically a chamber ensemble with a sense of humour, describ ing themselves as Europe's only baroque and tango orchestra. They have done tours and TV, and been voted pick of the fringe at the Edinburgh Festival. As well as composing and recording music, and playing the accordion and harpsichord, artistic director Arne Richards is an authority on music for healing. "There's no deep philosophy behind it, but music does have great transformative power," he says. "Certain types of music can help people, where other types can have a negative effect. For instance, physically handicapped people may react badly to music with a strong rhythmic content. In a prison, you can soon see what does or does not work. "There's a highly charged atmosphere in a place like Whitemoor [high-security prison in Cambridgeshire]. To harness that high energy through music is a most wonderful experience. We've seen people in tears, tapping their feet, laughing for joy, no matter how reluctant they were before the performance." The potential effect of professional musicians working with prisoners became clear when, as violinist Isabel Knowland, Richards's wife, explains, they found after one of their first prison concerts that the men wanted the "hands-on communication" of trying the instruments. And so the workshops started. It remains a mystery to Richards how, after the chaos of the first two sessions, the pieces the inmates have brought to play or sing, and the improvisations he gives them, always cohere into a smooth third session and then a final performance - all accomplished within eight hours. The aim is clear: to increase the men's self-confidence and sharpen their sense of identity. It is the policy of governor Tim Newell to invite music and other groups to supplement Grendon's core education programme. Lewis is sure the workshops bring results. "It's a definite learning curve for [prisoners] to realise they can entertain other people," she says. "There's a definite growth in self- esteem, when the law has told you you're a load of rubbish." By the second session of the workshop, some of that confidence has begun to emerge. So has rather a lot of talent. George is rehearsing his bagpipes solo; Noel, with recent events in mind, has written a dramatic poem about a rail disaster, for which OCP musicians will provide a soundtrack; John is playing the electric guitar; Tom, as well as having poems published in OCP's newsletter, is going through his saxophone solo. The two hours are broken into a time for improvising in small groups. Each is given a theme, such as a circus or a procession, which will be interspersed into a longer work Richards and his musicians will play at the concert. Sounds weird, but Richards is a great blender and bender of world music. He might include in the programme anything from Argentinian tangos to Irish laments, but he says it always works. The buzz starts early in the session. There is a soundtrack of drumming, but, strangely, no one is letting rip. It's all taut self-controlled. Richards does not raise his voice and hardly seems to be pulling things together, but a process is at work. George, serving a sentence for a murder he committed at 16, has performed at previous workshops. "The first time, the adrenalin was running down my back," he recalls. But don't other inmates get annoyed by the wailing pipes when he is practising? "If you're liked, you can get away with anything," he grins. Grendon, which has an education budget of £400,000 (shared with Spring Hill prison on the same site) pays for a local RAF pipe major to coach George. John, similarly, has lessons with a professional guitarist. He, too, is inside for a murder committed as a teenager - "a paedophile abusing kids in my area," he says. The guitar has been his salvation; he has been passionate about it since he was 16. Now, through the opportunity to play in prison, he sees himself as a guitarist, with a plausible career he hopes to take up on his release. But for all the relative liberalism of the regime, and a timetable which allows men out of their cells for most of the day, these are pent-up men. John, taking a break with a roll-up and a mug of black coffee, says it is difficult to relate to others in the group who are at different levels "musically and intellectually". Despite such frustrations, music has been his saviour. "When I started, it was a bit of an ego trip," says John. "I wanted to play rock guitar. But after two years, it became more genuine. But it's not about competing; it's about working as a team." The team, in turn, is part of a wider community of music. For Grendon has its graduates: two former prisoners, who have participated in workshops, have returned to help with this one. One, a former sex offender, will be singing an aria or two in the final concert. Another was sent to Grendon for protesting at nuclear bases; he is now a music student at Oxford Brookes University, and says OCP's workshops impressed him because they're "all very egalitarian; everyone gets a chance to do a piece". Some unlikely characters turn up, too. Knowland says: "Some of the men are very musical and skilled. But some haven't touched an instrument in their lives, or heard anything that wasn't either rock or pop." The only puzzle is that, of the circle in the gym, only about a dozen are prisoners. A pity that such an excellent project (it costs £3,000 to stage a workshop) does not get bigger numbers. "There are other things on tonight," explains one participant. "It clashes with their programmes. And most of the guys would probably rather be watching telly."