MPs are to examine the implications of the government's decision to develop the forensic science service (FSS) as a public private partnership (PPP). The inquiry by the Commons science and technology committee would also look at the way evidence is gathered and presented in court following a number of high profile cases turning on scientific data, said the chairman, Ian Gibson, today. MPs want to hear evidence on the extent to which shortcomings in forensic science have affected the administration of justice."The public need to be reassured about the forensic service, how it gets its data, how it is interpreted and who by," he said, citing the successful appeal of Sion Jenkins against his conviction for murdering his 13-year-old foster daughter, Billie-Jo. That turned on scientific evidence on whether she could have exhaled tiny droplets of blood on to his clothing or whether it sprayed during an attack.Dr Gibson added: "Forensic science is a vital weapon in the fight against crime. We want to get to grips with what a PPP for the forensic science service will really mean. Are those opposing it just scaremongering, or should we really be worried?" Today two trade unions, Prospect and the Public and Commercial Services union, representing 2,750 scientists and support staff in the FSS, pledged to fight the sell-off announced by the home secretary, David Blunkett. He wants the service to be converted into a government-owned plc and between 51% and 75% of shares sold to a private sector partner."It would be bad for the fight against crime, bad for science and bad for staff," said Paul Noon, Prospect general secretary. "Forensic science is an integral part of the system of criminal justice. It is driven by a public service ethos yet more than covers its costs. It is madness to think the criminal justice system will be better supported by an organisation driven by profit, not by public interest. "There is no demand for this sale, which would put at risk all the achievements that have made the FSS a world leader in forensic science. We acknowledge the need to invest in FSS's laboratories, but Railtrack and Consignia have shown there is no guarantee that a government-owned plc will be able to afford the required investment." Last month, more than 1,600 employees of the FSS picketed laboratories across England and Wales in a long-running dispute over pay.The Commons committee is inviting evidence on the likely impact of a PPP, the quality of forensic science education and training and the supply of skilled personnel in forensic science. MPs also want to hear about the levels of investment in forensic science research and development, the use of novel forensic technologies by the FSS and criminal justice system, the use of forensic science in criminal investigations and court proceedings and the extent to which shortcomings in forensic science have affected the administration of justice.