They haven't had much to smile about at New Scotland Yard in recent months, but one incident a few weeks ago helped to lift flagging spirits. A small group of protesters gathered outside the Metropolitan police headquarters to wave banners and chant slogans.One of the faces was familiar: Imran Khan, the solicitor who acted for the family of Stephen Lawrence and has been one of the Yard's fiercest critics. So, was this another protest against some blunder, mishap or allegation of corruption?Nothing could have been further from the truth. Most of the demonstrators had driven to London from Telford in a hired coach to demand that Scotland Yard take over the investigation into the deaths of Harold McGowan, 34, and his nephew, Jason, 20, who were hanged in mysterious circumstances. The idea of campaigners demanding Scotland Yard expertise in a possible race crime was laughable last year, an irony not lost on those who watched from the staff canteen. But perceptions have changed and while some reputations were tainted or destroyed in the Lawrence debacle, others have been enhanced. John Gilbert Grieve, director of the racial and violent crimes task force and a deputy assistant commissioner, has seen his grow exponentially. With race issues driving the police agenda, he is now the most important detective in the country, with a higher profile than Sir John Stevens, the commissioner of the Met, or his deputy, Ian Blair. Mr Grieve, 53, is in charge of the investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence, the teenager murdered by a racist gang in Eltham, south London, seven years ago. The home secretary, Jack Straw, seconded him to coordinate the McGowan inquiry, and he has stepped in to help solve one of the country's longest running race hate campaigns, waged against cornershop owners Mal Hussein and Linda Livingstone in Lancaster. To the amusement (and envy) of some colleagues, he appears on BBC's Crimewatch almost as often as the presenter Nick Ross, and has been the star of a BBC2 documentary. Not bad for a man whose first application to join the police was turned down because of poor eyesight, forcing him to become a navvy on a road gang. Admirers use two adjectives to describe him. Unconventional and brilliant. The worst most have to say is that he is "a bit odd". He is certainly an individual. The lugubrious face and tatty suit camouflage a sharp mind, and his affability hides the ruthless streak which has made him one of the Yard's best "thief-takers". There are contradictions in his character. He is, say friends, very sensitive. But he doesn't seem to mind deliberately stir ring up controversy. His unlikely quirks include painting with watercolours and interests stretching from the writings of Dostoevsky (he has a masters degree in philosophy) to the drum rhythms of the Rolling Stones, to the heroics of the 19th century Apache Indian, Geronimo. Beneath this veneer is a hardnosed detective who, despite apparently liberal inclinations, has been involved in some of the dirtiest crime-fighting campaigns of the last 20 years. "JG is a bloody good cop," says one contemporary. "Forget all the airy-fairy bollocks. He works hard, nicks people and puts them in the dock. He likes being at the flashpoint of policing." Mr Grieve, an accountant's son born in Gosforth, Tyen and Wear, built his reputation in the drugs squad working undercover. He grew his hair and wore flares to infiltrate street gangs in the east end, securing numerous convictions. He went on to write a definitive guide to undercover work which has been adopted by other forces. His experiences then challenged him to "think the unthinkable". Speaking to the Association of Chief Police Officers several years later, he said licensing drug dealers would have to be considered. The suggestion, he admitted, was born of despair because the police were only "sitting on the lid of the problem".  Lateral thinking  His first high profile job came in the early 1990s when he was appointed director of SO11, Scotland Yard's criminal intelligence division. Mr Grieve seems to be at his most creative when he is thinking laterally and considering different ways of dealing with old problems. In SO11, he took risks with the use of informants to tackle Yardie-gangs and it landed him, and the division, in piping hot water. The division was using a registered informant and cocaine dealer, Eaton Green, a prolific source of information on the underworld in which he lived. In 1993, Green and an accomplice robbed 150 people at gunpoint at a party in Nottingham. Green shot one man in the foot and sneered at him: "Bleed, pussy, bleed." When the pair were arrested by local officers six weeks later, SO11 did not tell them he was an informant; worse, it seemed to do everything it could to have the trial of the two men aborted. After they were convicted, Mr Grieve said he "deeply regretted" the whole episode, but his attitude to using high risk strategies was unchanged. Green, he said, had been "well worth the investment. It is extremely unfortunate that we no longer have him available to us". Mr Grieve believes it is "impossible" to tackle serious crime without the use of informants. Though controversial, his tactics seemed to work and the number of Yardie murders levelled off. He was equally successful as head of the anti-terrorist squad, SO13. His appointment coincided with the IRA bombing of the Docklands, a spectacular and bloody end to the ceasefire. Mr Grieve, who was apparently "wide-eyed with astonishment" at the devastation caused by the blast, drew on all his experience. "John's time in the anti-terrorist branch was very significant," said one insider. "The provos realised there was a whole new ball game. He didn't wait for things to happen. He went out to find them. He was proactive in a way that some of his predecessors had not been. It gave the police the initiative." When the former commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, asked him to set up the racial and violent crimes task force in September, 1998, he creamed off the best detectives to work with him. Their first case was to reinvestigate the death of the black musician, Michael Menson, who died in February 1997, after being set on fire. Initially, the police had insisted Mr Menson had committed suicide. The Met was forced to reevaluate because of determined campaigning by the Menson family, and an inquest which ruled the 30-year-old had been unlawfully killed. Four months after taking over the inquiry, Grieve's men had arrested three of the men responsible for killing Mr Menson, and traced another, Ozgay Cevat, to northern Cyprus. The investigation bore all the hallmarks of the anti-terrorist branch. The evidence against the men came from conversations which were picked up and recorded by a bugging device planted in one of their homes. The men had been teased into talking about the crime again by fresh appeals for witnesses, including leafleting of the area where they lived.  Sophisticated unit  It was bold stuff. The conviction of Cevat in a republic which the British government does not even recognise was particularly audacious. Mr Grieve has been able to fashion the task force; this is reflected in the people he has recruited, and the way they work. The unit has the most sophisticated intelligence gathering and assessment system of any department in the Met. Mr Grieve regards his team of civilian computer analysts as core members of the team. Refreshingly, he is not obsessed by rank. If he thinks a junior officer has something to contribute, he or she will be invited to speak at the top table. Others in the Met have found this difficult to cope with. On one occasion, a young detective sergeant was asked by Grieve to join a high ranking meeting chaired by an assistant commissioner. The older men referred to each other by their christian names. The assistant commissioner was apparently apoplectic that the whipper-snapper had the temerity to join in. Mr Grieve was a regular visitor to the Lawrence inquiry, both for its hearings in London and around the country. Unlike some of his more defensive and straightlaced colleagues, he went out of his way to be affable and approachable to anyone who cared to engage with him. Despite his bear-like stature, he had a slightly shambolic, bluff persona which seemed to inspire confidence. He was an assiduous cultivator of selected journalists, giving them the impression that he valued their views and knowledge. "Come by and see how we really work," he would say, offering the sort of access that few senior detectives would contemplate. He went to the opening night of The Colour of Justice, the dramatisation of the Macpherson hearings, in January last year, and caused something of a stir by suggesting the play could have been much tougher on the Met. To some, his bonhommie has a touch of calculation: his handling of the new Lawrence inquiry has shown that he needs the support of the media to fly his kites. Mr Grieve has been on to something for months. Three people have been arrested and then released on bail, a knife was discovered in a back garden, and he has hinted that the alliances that once bound the original suspects are breaking down. Not everyone has been pleased to see his star rise. Last year, someone, possibly a Met officer, went to the trouble of sending to Stephen Lawrence's parents, Doreen and Neville, a four page document which attempted to smear him and other officers. It claimed, without foundation, that he had friends in the force who were known racists. It referred to a £32,000 payout awarded seven years ago to Sarah Locker, a police woman who claimed she had been denied promotion because of sexual and racial discrimination. Mr Grieve had been her overall boss at Lehman Street police station in the east end and apologised to her in public on behalf of Sir Paul Condon. It illustrates that Grieve has made enemies. Most of his colleagues, however, treat him with reverence. Officers in the task force call him "the boss" and look up to him with respect and affection. "He's like no other officer I have ever served with," said one. "He doesn't think like a normal detective." There is a fear at Scotland Yard that if Mr Grieve manages to charge and convict the racist killers of Stephen Lawrence, then he might be tempted to retire to his library of crime books, his canvases and selection of Bob Dylan records. "That's the last thing anyone wants," said an insider. "He's our prime asset at the moment. No wonder they're keeping him so busy."