The director of a fishing firm who has been questioned over the deaths of 19 cockle pickers at Morecambe Bay gave an extraordinary press conference yesterday in which he accused police and the government of inventing gangmasters to shift blame for the tragedy.David Eden, 33, who runs the Liverpool Bay Fishing Company with his father David, 60, said he felt they had been made scapegoats and claimed Lancashire police leaked information to the press to keep them away from the truth. "I am very angry and upset about it," he said. "In my mind, gangmasters have been invented by the government and police to shift the blame for the tragedy from themselves. There was no immigration question as far as I am aware." He and his father had been subjected to "the most horrendous ordeal". Mr Eden, who has worked in the fishing industry since he was 16, claimed he was approached at his factory in Liverpool four weeks ago by a tall Chinese man in his 20s, who spoke poor English and told him he had worked in Southport and Barrow for two years. The Guardian believes the man had lived in Deane Road, Kensington, Liverpool, in cramped conditions with other cockle pickers, who were living 10 to a room. Yet Mr Eden said that far from being exploited, the Chinese workers had received £15 for a bag of cockles (as opposed to £10 to British workers) as they produced a far superior product. He had provided police with the Chinese man's name but refused to reveal it at the press conference. "To the very best of my knowledge, these people were not being exploited as they were being paid more. "These people have been persecuted, not by gangmasters, but by British people, and they were attacked." He said the Chinese cockle pickers were victims of racist violence and abuse by British fishermen. Petrol and diesel had been poured on their bags of cockles and scuffles had broken out. Within an hour of employing the cockle pickers, he claims, he had received "in excess of 10" threatening calls on his mobile phone from British nationals. One of the callers threatened to burn down his factory. Mr Eden made a statement three weeks ago to Merseyside police about the threats. But the crime report number had been removed by Lancashire police when they searched his house while investigating manslaughter charges. "My father and I felt we had vital information to share with the authorities," he added. "But we were treated like criminals from the outset. My father spent seven hours in a prison cell and was not released until 2.30am." He claimed Lancashire police's handling of the investigation has been inept and at times flippant. His wife, Gerda, had to stand outside their house in the early hours with their four-year-old son while officers searched the property. He said he felt disbelief that he and his father might face manslaughter charges and said he felt no guilt for the deaths. "I have been hounded by the police and I have not done anything wrong." Mr Eden said the government had issued the Chinese nationals with cockling permits and they were working independently in a legal fishery. He had no involvement in the beach aspect of the job, but merely purchased the cockles. But Defra minister Lord Whitty said later that people who employed gangs of workers were directly responsible for them. Lancashire police described Mr Eden's comments as "completely inappropriate". A spokesman said: "This is a complex and sensitive investigation into the tragic deaths of 19 cocklers at Morecambe Bay. "Two men are currently on bail after being arrested on suspicion of manslaughter, and it is completely inappropriate for them to be commenting on this inquiry." More arrests are expected over the next few days as further searches were made, said Detective Superintendent Mick Gradwell, the senior investigating officer from Lancashire police.