Public shock, and opposition horror - crime is continuing to fall. The public don't perceive it; the opposition would want you to believe it isn't. But the figures come from the most authoritative source: the biennial British crime survey (BCS). Recorded crime provides only one quarter of the true picture (because half of all crime is never reported, and almost half of what is reported is not recorded). Yesterday's survey, based like its seven predecessors on a massive survey of the population, compiles its figures directly from victims. What more could a government ask for: stolen vehicles down 11% between 1997 and 1999; theft from vehicles down 16%; burglary down 21%; and even violence down 4%. The proportion of people falling victims was the lowest since 1983.This should not be happening. Crime has risen on average by 5% per year since 1918. All the usual indicators would point to a further rise: the number of males aged 14 to 25, the most criminal age group, is rising; the stock of stealable goods is at an all time high. Yet, two successive sweeps by the BCS, spanning the last four years, show a fall. Official reported crime shows a fall over six years, but the early official figures were dis torted by police under-recording of reported crime.What's happening? Crime prevention messages have been getting through. More vigilance by householders and car owners has led to a dramatic drop in burglary and car theft - even though in one fifth of burglaries, entry is still gained by an unlocked door or open window. Car manufacturers have helped slash car crime. And contrary to the vocal rural lobby, rural crime is not just way below the national average, but dropping. Ironically, the public has still to be converted. Asked about crime in general, Joe Public believes a bad situation is getting worse. Yet asked about crime in their neighbourhood, there is much less pessimism. Our ICM poll today on law and order shows a similar confused picture, with Labour 5% ahead but 56% unable to choose between the parties. That's a pity because Labour has a much more coherent approach than the dreadful regime of Michael Howard. Crime has dropped across the western world. Some 36 countries in Europe have registered falls. Is there a global trend at work? It is too early to say. July's police stats showed a small rise, which makes next January's figures even more crucial.