The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday called for police "strikes" to smash the street gangs who are carrying out the wave of carjackings and mobile phone thefts.He said the media focus on the sharp increase in violent street crime in recent weeks, particularly in south London, was affecting the "psyche of the nation". Mr Blunkett said that those who held people up at gunpoint or even killed them to steal their car would be put away for "as long as I can make it stick", suggesting terms of more than five years. "I believe these things go in phases. If we can smash the gangs by major strikes on the streets by the police we can reduce their visibility and their opportunity," he told the annual prison service conference in Nottingham. But while tougher sentences in harsher conditions were needed to "stamp on these outbreaks", he also said the mobile phone industry had so far failed to play its part by adopting the kind of security measures that the motor industry had used to cut car crime. Mr Blunkett backed the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf's call last week for violent mobile phone thieves and gang leaders to be jailed for a minimum of 18 months and up to five years. "When it comes to hijacking cars we are beyond five years and we are talking about people who have to be banged away for a very long time." He said while the focus on these "copycat crimes" in south London at the moment was partly the product of so many journalists living in the area, the 43% rise in robbery in the capital meant it had to be taken seriously. Mr Blunkett's promise of tougher action came as prison chiefs disclosed the full scale of the rising crisis in prison numbers and he confirmed his plans to introduce part-time prison, including weekend jails, a network of special open prisons and an earlier release date on the home detention curfew scheme. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, said the jail population had gone up by 760 in the past week alone - when the statisticians said there should be no growth at all. "We are struggling to cope with the insanity of a prison population which is hurtling towards 70,000 this summer." Mr Narey said that the courts had to adopt Mr Blunkett's "lighter touch" towards non-violent offenders. He added: "Otherwise there will be a point at which I will say we are full, and in the interests of dignity and decency we cannot take more prisoners." In the meantime the Home Office has asked the Treasury for the money to build thousands more prison places. Even if they get the extra cash, Mr Narey warned that the chances were bleak of also getting the investment needed to make prisons decent and reformative places. The new part-time prison regime will not come into effect for some time - a white paper on sentencing will come out in early summer - but ministers and prison chiefs are hoping that they can repeat the achievement of Douglas Hurd when he was home secretary in 1991 when he was able to cut the prison population by 4,000 by "talking down" the use of custody by the courts in advance of new legislation. Mr Blunkett said that the surge in the number of non-violent minor offenders on sentences under six months was seriously disrupting the successful work that was going on in prison to tackle the criminal behaviour of the more serious long term prisoners. The home secretary said that women prisoners, 60% of whom had children under 18, would benefit in particular from the plans for part-time prisoners as it would often mean their children did not have to be taken into care. Mr Blunkett said space for the new hostels could be found in old RAF camps and in existing prison grounds and so avoid battles with local residents.