Police raided two addresses in North Yorkshire early today in their search for Mark Hobson, a former dustman wanted in connection with the murder of twins and an elderly couple.The searches were carried out in response to reported sightings of Mr Hobson, Detective Superintendent Javad Ali told a news conference."We checked two addresses this morning ... following sightings by people who believed he may have been there," he said. But Mr Hobson "remains at large. We don't know where he is or whether he is alone."Det Supt Ali said his officers had received hundreds of calls and that "streams of leads" were being pursued. He confirmed two sightings in the Selby area early this morning."We have visited scores of locations in Yorkshire ... CCTV tapes from petrol stations and town centres are being analysed ... and taxi drivers are on alert," he said. "Make no mistake. We will trace him."As police across Britain, forensic teams and criminal profilers joined in the search, Det Supt Ali praised the public's response and encouraged people to keep coming forward with any information that might possibly lead police to Mr Hobson. He also warned the public not to approach the 34-year-old - described as 175cm (5ft 9in), of slim build, with a shaven, balding head and a 2in scar near his left eye - under any circumstances.Officers are investigating the deaths of the twins Claire and Diane Sanderson, 27, in the North Yorkshire village of Camblesforth and of Joan and James Britton, an elderly couple, who were found dead on Sunday morning some 25 miles (40kms) away. Officers were trying, as yet without result, to discover whether there were any "previous associations" between the Brittons and the Sandersons, Det Supt Ali said.He said, however, that their deaths "may well be linked" and confirmed that weapons had been found.The suspect is said to have attempted to sell the car of one of the victims, Diane Sanderson, to friends on Saturday at 8pm, according to newspaper reporters. Maxine Firth, 36, and David Gilmore, 31, told the Sun that Mr Hobson explained to them that he needed cash to emigrate to New Zealand with the twins and their family. "I've been shaking ever since. My young daughters and their friends were playing in the house. He was stood in our kitchen and the kids were running around him. There were knives within his grasp," Mr Firth told the paper. "He seemed really agitated. He was desperate to sell the car but we were a bit suspicious as it was so cheap." The couple decided against buying the vehicle. It emerged yesterday that Mr Hobson had previously admitted unlawful wounding at York crown court and was sentenced in June 2003. He was given a two-year probation order and 100 hours community service after admitting GBH with intent. It is understood he stabbed William Brace a number of times outside a shop in Selby, in March 2002. He left his job at the Rigid Containers factory in Selby - where Claire Sanderson also used to work - following his conviction.He then worked as a dustman in Selby, until June this year, when he left "of his own accord", the firm Onyx said. He is separated from his wife, Kay, and is believed to have three children.Det Supt Ali said yesterday that Mr Hobson was seen in the Wiggington Road area of York around 2am on Sunday. Later, a man fitting his description was spotted at 9.15am in Strensall, a short distance away across fields. Mr and Mrs Britton were found dead some time after 9.15am at their £400,000 home just outside Strensall. Mr Britton, 80, died from stab wounds and also suffered a number of other injuries to his body. His wife, 82, suffered a "vicious assault including stab wounds".Police said Mr Hobson had been dating Claire Sanderson for "some time" and that he had been living for the past three months in the one-bedroom flat where the girls' bodies were found.Det Supt Ali revealed Diane was strangled to death and suffered a number of other injuries after going to visit her sister. A postmortem examination had so far failed to establish a definite cause of Claire's death but she had been the victim of a "violent assault", he said.