A Cheltenham Gold Cup was stolen along with two other major trophies from a prominent racehorse owner's country mansion today.Burglars broke into the home of Raymond Mould in Wormington, Gloucestershire, between midnight and about 6.50am and got away with a haul worth an estimated £150,000, said police.The stolen Gold Cup – a new one is cast every year – was won in 1988 by the horse Charter Party, which was owned by Mould, his late wife, Jenny, and two friends.Also taken in the raid was the unique Britannia Handicap trophy, given every year since 1928 to the winner of an important race at Royal Ascot. The third stolen cup is thought to be the Grand Annual Chase Challenge Cup, another unique trophy awarded to the winner of a second prestigious Cheltenham race.Richard Dunwoody, who rode Charter Party to success in the 1988 race, said: "The Gold Cup is the pinnacle of our sport. It is arguably the most prestigious race. It must be a huge disappointment to Raymond to have lost these trophies."Hopefully they will be able to recover them. It was one of the highlights of my career winning the Gold Cup, it was a great day."He added: "I would imagine Raymond had some pretty prestigious trophies. He has owned the winners of some of the biggest races."Trainer Nigel Twiston-Davies said Mould was in London when the burglary happened. "Raymond is getting on with life and is just trying to deal with it as best he can," he said.Nigel Dimmer, whose family firm Martin & Co has been making a new Gold Cup every year since 1935, said the trophy could be replaced.He expressed more concern about the suspected loss of the Grand Annual Chase Challenge Cup, which Mould's horse Pigeon Island won this year. Dimmer said it was a "beautiful piece of silver", a one-off trophy that was part of Cheltenham's heritage.Ascot spokesman Nick Smith said the loss of the Britannia Handicap trophy, won by Mould's horse Ransom Note in June, was a blow. He said the race had been run since 1928, and he believed the same trophy had been awarded all that time.The winner usually keeps it until the spring after their victory, when they return it to be cleaned. Smith said he had no idea of the trophy's value, adding: "We'll have to find out now."As well as the three trophies, bronze ornaments in the shape of a hare, a spaniel with a pheasant in its mouth and two horses being ridden by jockeys were taken, along with a dark wooden clock, an ornament in the shape of a silver fisherman ornament and a cigarette case.Gloucestershire police said they wanted to hear from anyone who saw any suspicious activity in the area overnight.The Sunday Times rich list puts Mould's net worth at £60m. He set up a series of property development companies and profited from the boom in out-of-town retail parks.His home in the north Cotswolds is surrounded by acres of land and set back from the main road.His horse Bindaree won the Grand National in 2002.