It is a remarkably tranquil scene considering the violent life of the man who painted it.Ronnie Kray, the notorious East End gangster who shot fellow criminal George Cornell in the head and who ended his days in the Broadmoor institute for the criminally insane, often painted this distant cottage by a river. On bad days, he would alter it by including a black sun. This particular example of Kray's art is expected to fetch between £700 and £1,200 when it goes under the hammer in Lincoln on July 2. It is signed R Kray in large letters and is accompanied by a letter on Broadmoor letterhead paper which suggests it is a gift for a friend who was planning to visit him. "I was pleased to know that you have seen the police and may be able to come to see me soon," writes Kray. "Reg sends his best wishes." Reg is Reggie Kray - Ronnie's brother and partner in crime, who died from cancer aged 66 after 31 years in jail. Ronnie's letter continues: "Don't forget if you get any photos I am looking forward to seeing you on a visit very much. Did John give you the painting? Did you like it? Well my pal, all the best, your friend Ron." Craig Bewick, an auctioneer at Thomas Mawer and son in Lincoln, said he had been "inundated" with enquires about the painting. One of the interested callers already owns seven of Ronnie Kray's paintings. "The work itself does show some degree of promise - he obviously hasn't just picked up a brush and started painting," Mr Bewick said. "It's not very accomplished, but he wasn't an amateur by any stretch." It is hard to say how many Ronnie Kray canvases are in private collections. John Platts-Mills, the barrister who represented Ronnie Kray at his trial, mentioned his Kray landscape in his autobiography, Muck, Silk and Socialism. "Another special souvenir is one of Ronnie's oil paintings of a country cottage, whether seen in a dream or nightmare ... it is painted in the harshest colours which I call Kray colours, as in Burnt Kray, Earth Kray or Ultra Kray," Mr Platts-Mills wrote. Another Ronnie Kray landscape is for sale on eBay with an asking price of £10,000. "They are extremely rare and very seldom come up for sale," writes the vendor. London art dealer James Birch owns two of Kray's landscapes. They were painted in 1971 and 1984, but are almost identical. Mr Birch believes the earlier canvas was originally owned by the artist Francis Bacon, who corresponded with Kray in jail. Mr Birch believes the rural scene that so obsessed Kray is in Suffolk. The twins were evacuated there during the second world war and Ronnie went into hiding near Sudbury when he escaped from hospital in 1958. "I've always been interested in outsider art - people who don't go to art school," Mr Birch said. "But I have no real idea what they are worth. The fact they are by Ronnie Kray is enough."