The killer of schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson today dropped his second appeal against a 30-year sentence for her murder.Francisco Arce Montes withdrew the appeal to France's supreme court, meaning he will serve his full sentence for the killing of the 13-year-old in a French youth hostel in 1996.Caroline was on a school trip to Pleine Fougeres, in Brittany, when Montes broke into her dormitory and raped her in a brutal two-minute attack. She was suffocated by a cotton wad he had used to stifle her cries during the assault.During an initial appeal in June, Montes argued that he had not intended to kill her, but a jury of eight men and women took two hours to uphold the conviction. The second appeal was only permitted to consider technical legal issues.Caroline's father John today spoke of his "tremendous sense of relief" at the decision. "The word closure is something I can use on this occasion," he said. "We now hope to be able to carry on with our lives and allow Caroline to rest in peace."Montes, a 55-year-old former truck driver and waiter from Gijon, Spain, is still wanted in Spain and Germany for a 30-year series of rapes and assaults across Europe.He will be eligible for parole after serving 16 years of his sentence, although on his conviction last year it was recommended that he serve at least 22 years.Between 1985 and 1999, he served three years of a five-year sentence for raping two girls in Germany, and is also believed to have preyed on girls in Britain and the Netherlands.He escaped investigators until 2001 due to a botched investigation by a French examining magistrate. However, he was captured in Toronto when a US immigration officer spotted him after reading about the case in a newspaper. He had been arrested three weeks previously for committing a lewd act in a female dormitory in Miami, Florida.On the night Caroline died, Montes assaulted another English girl who was staying at a hostel in St Lunaire.Two school friends sleeping in bunk beds next to Caroline, who had been sleeping on a mattress on the floor, gave evidence for the first time during the June appeal. Ann Jasper, now 22, broke down as she said she had heard Caroline calling out "mum" and "help", but had thought she was having a nightmare and had gone back to sleep. Melissa Hutchings, also 22, described her shock at finding Caroline "blue and cold" and being unable to wake her in the morning. Forty-one students from Launceston Community College had travelled to France for the four-day cultural holiday.It was Caroline's first time away from her family and the quiet, studious girl had blossomed on the trip. Classmates said she had been in high spirits, laughing, joking and singing hours before she was attacked.