Government plans to allow courts to issue domestic violence injunctions against defendants who have been acquitted after a criminal trial are backed today by Cherie Booth QC.The prime minister's wife says she was "shocked by what I learnt was going on behind closed doors" as a young barrister representing women assaulted by violent partners. One client was murdered by her partner, she reveals in an article for the Guardian's law pages. Ms Booth describes the domestic violence, crime and victims bill as "a great step forward", but says the UK could learn from experience in the US. Last month she visited a court in Washington DC which has gone further than the measures outlined in the bill and integrated criminal and family cases involving allegations of domestic violence. The domestic violence unit of the superior court in Washington, DC, set up in 1996, has led to "huge improvements in the way cases are handled", she says. "The emphasis is on long-term safety and security of the victim, not just pursuit of the trial process. So the court also conducts post-trial monitoring into, for instance, the effectiveness of probation and restraining orders and other ways of trying to deal with domestic violence. "It has found, for example, that while the counselling and programmes for batterers did have an effect on the attitudes of first-time offenders, they had little impact on those with a record of such assaults. "What did succeed were victim treatment programmes. Indeed, the evidence suggests the best way to prevent future domestic violence is to empower the victims." The first integrated domestic violence court in the UK is soon to be set up as a pilot project in Croydon, south London, tackling criminal and family cases. The court, set up with the help of the New York-based Centre for Court Innovation, will explore ways to increase the accountability of offenders. Housing and social services staff will attend court to try to provide practical solutions. Ms Booth says she was shocked by the routine beatings, bullying and attacks even on heavily pregnant women she encountered. "I quickly realised that this violence can take the form of emotional or psychological abuse as well as physical assault and that these threats and denigration may, in certain cases, be as harmful as actual violence. "I discovered, too, that this violence was not simply the result of drink or drugs, nor was it confined to the poor or even to one sex. Domestic violence is about power and the breakdown and distortion of an intimate relationship."