Specially converted sea containers imported from China are to be turned into temporary jails to ease the British prisons overcrowding crisis, The Observer has learned.The plan is to have the modules installed in five prisons by June at a cost of £3.5m each. Prisons earmarked for the new units include Stoke Heath Young Offenders Institution in Shropshire and Wayland Prison in Norfolk.The government has also placed an order for two large-scale units comprising five containers bolted together and capable of holding 300 prisoners apiece. These larger modules will require planning permission, which means they are unlikely to be introduced until the end of the year. It is understood Rochester Prison in Kent has been identified as one possible site for the new units.Similar containers already house British troops in Iraq and Afghanistan but the plan to use them in prisons has astonished criminal justice experts, who warn it may have health and safety implications. 'Using containers to house prisoners, even for short periods of time, is extraordinary,' said Harry Fletcher of the probation union Napo.'There are clearly health and safety and environmental issues which would have to be addressed. The units are likely to be cramped so there will not be much room for activities such as education. No decisions appear to have been made on staffing and it is unclear where the money will be coming from.'The containers will have 30 cells, each capable of holding two prisoners. The cells are formed by slotting specially made wooden walls into the metal sides of the containers. Each cell will have a shower, a toilet and an anti-suicide porthole. As the containers - known as 'temporary custodial modules' - are under 1,000 square metres in size they will not require planning permission.The Home Office is desperate to install the containers by June, when the prison population is expected to reach crisis point. The situation has become so grim that Home Office officials have been forced to consider a plan for the early release of 2,500 prisoners in an attempt to ease overcrowding in Britain's jails.Whitehall sources last night confirmed the existence of the scheme, but said there were no present plans to activate it. They said it would be used only as a last resort and was only one of many options being considered.The Home Secretary, John Reid, has consistently opposed any such moves and has ruled them out on his watch, but The Observer understands that senior figures in the Home Office now believe they may have no choice but to put the plan into effect later in the year, if the prison population continues to rise.Last Thursday it reached more than 80,000, around 800 below usable operational capacity. Internal Home Office estimates suggest that, if present trends continue, it will touch 83,000 by June, triggering the need for drastic action unless more places are found.Under the new proposals, about 2,500 prisoners would be freed a fortnight early under what is known as a release on temporary licence. They can be recalled for breaching the terms of their release. This proposal differs from the standard early release scheme that carries no sanctions and which Reid rejected last year for fear that he would be seen as 'too soft'.Home Office sources stressed that only non-violent prisoners would be released under the plan and that those considered for it would be subject to strict eligibility criteria and supervision.Critics of the Home Office are likely to accuse ministers of political meddling to solve a crisis of their own making if they choose to activate the plan.'The release of these prisoners early would be a direct consequence of Labour's failure to address the chronic lack of capacity in our prisons, despite warnings from ourselves and their own advisers going back to 2001,' said David Davis, the shadow Home Secretary.In a separate move, Home Office minister Baroness Scotland, Lord Chief Justice Lord Phillips and the head of the National Offender Management Service, Helen Edwards, will tomorrow summon magistrates to a conference to discuss alternatives to jail. But any suggestion that magistrates should imprison fewer offenders is likely to be greeted by claims of interference and prompt an ugly row between politicians and the judiciary.The mounting crisis comes as independent research to be published by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies warns that the government's sentencing regime could be leading to more custodial sentences.'Home Office officials hoped a reconfigured community sentence and the new suspended sentence order would address the ratcheting-up in sentencing tariffs which has resulted in... immediate custody displacing community penalties,' said Enver Solomon, the centre's deputy director. 'Our analysis shows this is not happening and the government is having to resort to desperate measures.'