February 2007 A rapid succession of fatal shootings and stabbings of teenage boys in separate incidents across south London throws the spotlight back on the Home Office's crime strategies.February 14 2007  Despite John Reid having apparently sent Tony Blair proposals for splitting the Home Office in two before Christmas, it is reported the whole project is on hold until after the PM leaves Downing Street, allegedly because of scepticism from Gordon Brown. January 29 2007 John Reid is repeatedly forced to insist that he will not resign - indeed, that the Home Office needs "two-and-a-half years" to have its failings rectified - after a weekend of blunders exposed by the Sunday press. Mr Reid tells the Guardian "I expect more problems" and asks to be judged "not on the challenges but on my response to them". January 28 2007 The News of the World finds that 322 convicted sex offenders across the UK have been lost track of by police forces. It also emerges that the Identity and Passport Service has failed to enforce travel bans on 147 convicted drug traffickers. The Tories mock Mr Reid's intention to force sex offenders to take lie detector tests as being re-announced for the third time. January 23 2007  The home secretary writes to courts urgently demanding they send fewer convicts to prison, as jail numbers in England and Wales go through the 80,000 barrier with nearly 500 held in emergency police cells. January 21 2007  Mr Reid, despite previous opposition to splitting up the Home Office, puts a plan to cabinet to divide the Whitehall colossus into a national security ministry - dealing with terrorism, the security services, the police and immigration and identity - and a separate ministry of justice, responsible for the prison and probation services, criminal justice policy, and the current portfolio of the Department for Constitutional Affairs. This bears a remarkable similarity to long-standing Tory party policy to create a new "homeland security" minister out of the Home Office. January 16 2007  It emerges that a third terrorism suspect held under the government's control orders has absconded without trace. January 14 2007  The first victim of the internal Home Office inquiry into how police records of Britons convicted abroad were not updated on to a computer for more than two years is found, as a senior civil servant is suspended. January 9 2007  It is revealed that more than 27,000 records of Britons convicted abroad, including 500 serious criminals, have been left sitting around the Home Office rather than being uploaded into the national police computer database for the best part of two years. December 19 2006  In another U-turn, Mr Reid reveals that instead of a new "from scratch" computer database to handle the national identity register - the network underpinning a future ID card scheme - the database will be compiled from existing records across three IT systems. July 12 2006  In a major U-turn, Mr Reid abandons the plans of his predecessor, Mr Clarke, to merge police forces in England and Wales, creating around 23 forces instead of the existing 40. May 23 2006  Little more than two weeks into the job, the home secretary, John Reid, appears before the home affairs select committee to declare his department "not fit for the purpose, averse to a culture of personal responsibility, technologically ill-equipped for an era of mass migration and led by officials that are incapable of producing facts or figures that remain accurate for even a short period". He also signals that he is willing to sack the senior civil servants responsible. May 22 2006  In a mini-reshuffle of junior Home Office ministers interpreted as a demotion for Tony McNulty in the wake of the foreign prisoners fiasco, Mr McNulty is switched to be police minister, while Liam Byrne leaves that post to become minister for immigration, asylum and citizenship. April 25 2006  It is revealed that more than 1,000 foreign prisoners have been freed without being considered for deportation. Of those offenders, five have been convicted of committing sex offences on children, seven have served time for other sex offences, 57 for violent offences and two for manslaughter. The National Audit Office says it had warned ministers in July 2005 of the problem, but 288 foreign offenders were still released from prison between August 2005 and March 2006. By October it emerges that three of the most serious offenders are still at large and only 86 of the 1,013 total have been deported. Charles Clarke - who refused to resign at the time - is sacked shortly afterwards in a cabinet reshuffle following the disastrous Labour performance in the May local elections. He is replaced by the defence secretary, John Reid.