The new children and family court welfare service in England and Wales begins its first working day today amid growing controversy.Even before the launch of the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service (Cafcass), the complexities of creating a unified body to work in the best interests of the child were already becoming apparent.The challenge of combining family court welfare functions that were formerly provided by the probation service, the children's branch of the official solicitor's department, and guardian ad litem and reporting officer services into one integrated system means the embryonic service has been experiencing some uncomfortable birth pangs.Guardians ad litem, who represent vulnerable children in public law cases, are concerned about the way they will be paid in future. Before Cafcass came into being the guardians were mostly self employed, worked for councils and were paid an hourly rate. Under new arrangements there are plans to pay them under banding systems of fixed fees.Representatives of the National Association of Guardians ad Litem and Reporting Officers (Nagalro) are arguing that the new arrangements for fixed fees may fundamentally change the way they work and, as a consequence, undermine the vital work they do in representing and safeguarding children.As a result, the association is challenging the proposed pay structure and threatening a judicial review if no acceptable way forward can be found. A six-week moratorium has been agreed to find a solution, and Nagalro has taken legal advice, although it is said to be cautiously optimistic that a more reasonable agreement can be negotiated with Cafcass.Susan Bindman, chairwoman of Nagalro said: "The work that we do is highly complex and demands flexibility. Gathering together all the appropriate information that is required to safeguard a vulnerable child can be extremely time consuming. Our fear is that under the proposed pay structure many of the fundamental tenets underpinning the work that we do may be lost."We regret the attempt to reframe the issue of quality in public services. That is a disservice to the guardians ad litem and to the children they represent."Anthony Hewson, chairman of Cafcass says part of the agency's responsibility is to make sure the public purse is being properly used."We have a six-week period where we will have to examine the issues. And there are two very different positions. On the one hand we have the Inland Revenue telling us that guardians ad litem cannot be employed under their current terms. But Nagalro does not agree, and the answer is to talk and try to reach an agreement," he said.A short-term measure means that guardians ad litem will continue to be paid under existing arrangements.The Association of Family Court Welfare Officers (AFCWO) is among those that have broadly welcomed the new service. Chairman Jim Lawson said: "There are a number of potential benefits from an integrated advisory and support service for family courts, not least the fact that there can now be agreed national standards with practitioners. "In the past, family court welfare was formerly part of the probation service and had become extremely marginalised within the service. Guardian panels were administered by the local authority and that meant the authorities were effectively paying for the guardians." Most guardians ad litem are involved in disputes between local authorities and parents, but because of this financial link with council there were fears they would be seen as less independent than they really were.Mr Lawson sees the challenge for Cafcass as providing a new organisation that will encourage the exchange of skills and contribute to the professional development of all the participants."But there may be problems with vested interests if professionals attempt to cling to the past rather than embracing the future," he warned.Mr Hewson says delays in the family court system were leading to some children having to wait up to 40 weeks to get into the system: "In future we will be able to analyse the areas where children are facing unacceptable waiting times and effectively address the problems with a unified approach." He believes the main task is to listen to the views of children to create a truly child-focused system: "Over the next 12-months we are going to be asking children what it is that they would like to see in terms of a service. There are many ways we can do this. We have already begun talks with agencies like the NSPCC and that is crucial to the future."