The man suspected of stabbing Abigail Witchalls would have been charged with her attempted murder if he had not committed suicide eight days after the attack, police said today.Garden centre worker Richard Cazaly travelled to Scotland and took an overdose of paracetamol after being interviewed twice by police investigating the attack in the Surrey village of Little Bookham.Pregnant Ms Witchalls, 26, was left paralysed when she was stabbed in the neck while walking her toddler son along a country lane in the village on April 20. She has since given birth to her second son and recovered some of her movement."The question that's been considered is: If Richard Cazaly had been alive this day, would he have been prosecuted for attempted murder?" police said at a news conference today. "The answer is yes." Police today described Mr Cazaly's mental breakdown in the wake of the incident, as related by his girlfriend Vanessa McKenzie.Shortly after the attack she telephoned him while he was hunting one night. He confessed to having "skulled" a bottle of vodka and told her that he needed her to believe him."How do you know if you're going crazy? Crazy people don't know they are crazy," he said to her.He asked Vanessa to go home to Australia while he "got himself straight", but his identity continued to break down mental condition continued to deteriorate. After she flew home, she asked him by telephone whether he had stabbed Ms Witchalls."I know I didn't do it, but maybe there's a monster inside me," he said. "How do you know there isn't a monster inside of me?"Five days after the attack Cazaly drove to Scotland, where he took his own life on April 28.A suicide note left in the car read: "To my dearest Nessa, I am so, so, sorry. I guess there is two of me. I'm very scared but it will all be over soon and everyone will be better off. I don't know what happened but I am scared I did it."Police said that despite the lack of DNA evidence in the case, other clues would have given them enough information to put Cazaly on trial.His tall stature and wearing of large metal earrings resembled Ms Witchalls' description of her attacker, although there were discrepancies between her initial descriptions of his piercings and she failed to pick him out of a photographic identity parade in her hospital bed.His blue Volvo 440 also closely resembled Ms Witchalls' description of the car she had seen parked in woodlands shortly before the attack.Muddy tyre tracks indicated that the driver had pulled off in a hurry, police said, and the tracks were an identical make to those on Cazaly's car. A police dog given a scent from one of his jackets traced it from the scene of the attack to where it disappeared next to the tyre tracks.Police said that Cazaly had been a heavy user of alcohol, amphetamines and cannabis, and forensic officers also found traces of methamphetamines and cocaine on his body. They cited pathologist opinions that his level of drug and alcohol use may have triggered a paranoid or psychotic episode. "There was no prior evidence to suggest that he was capable of an act such as this ... He became psychotic and violent as a result of his long-term abuse of a cocktail of drugs, as well as the alcohol he is known to have taken that day."An avid hunter, Cazaly had a collection of knives with him when he took his life in Scotland. But missing from his collection was a small dagger-type knife and sheath that he used to cut the throats of pheasants, similar to that used in the attack on Ms Witchalls. "It is significant that we have not recovered this knife and sheaf," police said. He had admitted to going hunting on the day of the attack. Ms Witchalls' family put out a statement commiserating with the family of Mr Cazaly. "They extend their sympathy and prayers to the Cazaly family for their own loss in such tragic circumstances," the statement read.