The key witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial told a teacher she was being given a holiday in Spain by the police, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Watching police interview videos played to the court, the jury heard her say: "I am going to Spain for free." The teacher asked her: "So how come you are going to Spain for free?" Girl: "Cos the police are paying for it." The exchange came during police interview videos of the girl, now aged 14, recorded a month after she contacted police. The teacher, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was acting as her guardian during questioning by two police officers. In another part of the inter view the girl said: "I don't get none of this money until I'm 18." The court has been told that a £50,000 reward was put up by the Daily Mail after Damilola was ambushed on the North Peckham Estate, in south London, by youths who sought to rob him. Mark Dennis, prosecuting, has told the jury it will have to decide how much the reward helped or motivated the girl to come forward. Before the jurors began viewing the tapes the defence barrister George Carter-Stephenson QC told them to watch out for references to the reward "which we suggest are important". One of the officers told the girl she was brave to come forward. Asked why she had contacted police, she said: "Because I kept seeing the news and it was just making me upset that I knew and his family's looking for the killers. I would just like someone to confess. If it was my little brother then I'd want someone to say 'I know who killed him'." Damilola, 10, from Nigeria, bled to death on a stairwell after being stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle in November 2000. Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend, and a 14-year-old deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The prosecution says the girl was the only witness to the attack. She has told the court that she lied in her initial recorded interviews with officers. She said she was covering up the fact that she had witnessed the killing; she had thought she would get into trouble for not helping the police. But she said she told the truth in a later interview on January 31 2001, describing how she hid while the boys surrounded Damilola. The prosecution said the girl had been consistent in identifying the four defendants as the attackers. The judge, Mr Justice Hooper, allowed her to stay away until tomorrow while the jury watches the videos. The hearing continues.Press Association