The killing of two brilliant French university students, Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel Ferez, in New Cross, south London, took place on Sunday evening, but their case continues to grip the papers.Bonomo and his fiancée, Mary Bertez, are pictured on the front pages of the Times, Mail, Express and Sun. Experienced detectives have spoken of their shock at the brutality of the crime. The Sun speculates on a possible link to an earlier burglary of the pair's flat a week before. Officers say there was no sign of forced entry before Sunday's killings, meaning the culprit might also have stolen door keys if he was behind the earlier raid."All the papers agree the ferocity of the killings points to the work of an "amateur". Experienced criminals, writes David Canter, of the Times, want to get away as soon as they can and "may well have access to weapons that allow quick deaths". He says: "More than 200 stabbings indicate an extended process that could be explained by two or more people goading each on, aggravated by drugs or alcohol."The Mail picks up on the comments of French newspaper readers, who see the episode as proof of "London's spiral into violence", as the paper puts it.A commenter on the conservative Figaro newspaper's website writes: "Gangs kill each other with knives over territory, but the English media doesn't talk about it because these outbreaks of violence are occurring daily so it is no longer shocking."On the left-leaning Libération, a reader using the name Condor says: "I lived in London a long time. I prefer to live in Paris because the English are not very welcoming. When night falls, the skinheads go looking for a fight with foreigners."Not all of the French see London as returning to the days of Jack the Ripper. A Libération blogger makes the point that crime is not rising in Britain and the number of murders has remained stable in the last decade. But they go on to say young gangs have created pockets of criminality in big cities such as London, Manchester, Liverpool and Birmingham.Ferez's sister Hélène tells the Guardian in a Facebook message: "Nothing can change what's happened, but I want to know who did this, and why. I will do absolutely anything to find the person or persons who did it."This is an edited and extended extract from the Wrap, our daily digest of the morning papers.