The need to safeguard the independence of public service watchdogs has, by necessity, exercised Anne Owers ever since she was appointed to the job of chief inspector of prisons two and half years ago. Both of her high-profile predecessors, Sir Stephen Tumim and Sir David Ramsbotham, found themselves in open clashes with the home secretary of the day. For Owers, halfway through her five-year term, it has proved a less turbulent time - if only because the current home secretary, David Blunkett, has not tried to stop her doing her job. Instead, she has faced a different kind of struggle over her role that may contain some wider lessons for other public service watchdogs. The imminent merger of the prisons and probation services into a national offender management service (Noms) is going to mean the creation of a single inspectorate that could leave Owers as the last chief inspector of prisons. She is keen to ensure the independent role of the inspector in providing an outside check on the conditions and treatment of those detained in closed institutions does not get lost in the process. The next few months will determine the structure of Noms. Owers welcomes the principles behind the merger, particularly its new focus on the offender, the promise of "seamlessness" to end the situation whereby somebody who comes out of prison "drops off a cliff", and the need for prisons and probation to engage the rest of the community to offer jobs and treatment. "But it is a huge enterprise to then say we are going to merge two services with very different ways of working, structures, ways of being employed and which have actually drifted away from each other quite considerably over the last five or six years. It used to be quite usual for an outside probation officer to go into prison to see a client. They almost never do now." Owers says while she understands the impatience to get on with it, the scale of the change must be planned and implemented very carefully "and in a very controlled and ordered way with sufficient resources behind it". She worries that, unlike the successful restructuring of the juvenile justice system by the Youth Justice Board, significant amounts of new money are not going to be available this time to help do the job. She says it is going to be difficult "in that kind of climate with those kind of restrictions and given that both prisons and probation have a very demanding day job to do", adding that it is not only the prisons that are under pressure, the probation service has even less headroom to deal with all their clients. So what of the future of the prisons inspectorate? Owers says the proposal to be enshrined in a correctional services bill this autumn is for a single inspectorate that will inspect Noms but that is complicated by the fact that nobody yet knows what the structure of Noms is going to be. She says it will mean some gains, such as looking at how offenders are managed through the whole system which doesn't happen now. "But one of the things we can't lose and mustn't lose is the focus of this inspectorate on individual prisons. When you lock people away in closed institutions what happens to them in that institution is vitally important." The prisons inspectorate has just reissued its own criteria, referenced against international human rights standards, for judging whether or not a prison is healthy in the way it treats its prisoners. "In all the communications I have had with ministers and Martin Narey [Noms chief executive], I have always made clear that in any new organisation that task of going into individual prisons and seeing if prisoners are safe and treated with dignity and respect is a task in itself that needs to continue in announced and unannounced inspections." Owers says a recent focus on cross-cutting inspections within the criminal justice system has been useful in identifying gaps but only if the levers exist for closing them: "You can point to the fact it exists but you can't inspect a gap. What is sometimes lost sight of is the fact that inspections of prisons isn't just about inspecting whether the criminal justice system is effective. That is not all we do. We are not even just people looking at whether prisons are effective in preventing reoffending. We want them to be. We are also people who look at whether prison is a safe and decent place in itself. That is an aim in itself." What this means is pointing out to ministers and prison managers when structures are not in place to prevent suicides, or when she finds the Victorian practice of "slopping out" is still going on in a women's prison. The job is to ensure that prisons and other places of state custody meet the basic standards that are demanded by inter national human rights. "That stands outside the aim of making the criminal justice system more effective," she stresses. Owers says the danger is that basic tasks will get lost in the drive to have a single way of working in a newly-merged inspectorate: "For me independence has two key bits to it and they are ones that I have defended ever since I started working here. The first is that the way you do your work is separate from the department and is not controlled by departmental officials or anyone else. What you say and how you say it is for you to decide. The second, in terms of prisons, is that you are inspecting by the standards that are mandated by human rights instruments and the standards of decency. You are always asking all the time the question what ought to be happening inside this prison." When she took over as chief inspec tor there was an attempt by the Home Office to persuade her to judge jails by standards set not by the inspectorate but by the prison service itself. She made it clear, privately as well as publicly, that she was not prepared to do that: "That is one of the key bits of independence. We inspect by our standards and not by theirs. If they want to move on that they need to find themselves another chief inspector to do it," she says. Indeed Ower's strong campaigning background in human rights and asylum organisations means that no Home Office minister could have been in any doubt that the first woman chief inspector of prisoners was going to be anything other than robustly independent. She has had a ministerial letter confirming that, post-merger, she will be able to continue to inspect individual prisons, no less often than now, and by the inspectorate's own criteria. It also recognises that task is equally as important as examining the management of offenders throughout the system. But Owers is concerned that new legislation expected this autumn to create a single inspectorate explicitly recognises that these two tasks - inspecting individual prisons and managing offenders throughout the system - are equally important and that this is reflected in the inspectorate's new title. It is not an academic question as there is growing official pressure for more cross-cutting inspection of the effectiveness of the criminal justice system. Owers wants to ensure that means no less time for her role of casting light on closed institutions and that she maintains her direct reporting line to ministers. Owers may not be as high profile as her predecessors but that does not mean she is any less determined to defend her independence. The CV Age 57  Status  Separated, has two sons and a daughter  Lives South London  Education Washington grammar school, Co Durham; Girton College, Cambridge University (history)  Career 1968-71: researching PhD on African history, and teaching in Zambia; 1981-92: Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants (general secretary, 1986-92); 1992-2001: director of Justice, the all-party human rights and law reform group; 1999-2001: a member of the Home Office taskforce on human rights; 2001-present: the first woman chief inspector of prisons  Interests Theatre, music, family and friends