The brother of one of the men who killed British soldier Lee Rigby on a busy south London street says the killer has a "tremendous amount" of sympathy for his victim's family.Lee Rigby was run over and then hacked to death by Michael Adebolajo and his accomplice Michael Adebowale in May last year. Adebolajo was sentenced to a whole-life term for leading the al-Qaida-inspired attack, meaning he is unlikely to ever be released from prison.On Wednesday, speaking for the first time since his brother was sentenced, Jeremiah Adebolajo said: "I have a tremendous amount of sympathy towards the son of Lee Rigby, who will grow up without a father, and I think my brother does too."Jeremiah said he was "reasonably close" to his brother and had visited him in prison last week. He said the whole life sentence was unduly harsh, comparing it to that of Pavlo Lapshyn, a white supremacist terrorist who was jailed for 40 years for killing a Muslim man and planning to bomb three mosques."It seems strange to me that a man can be sentenced to life for the death of one man and another man can be sentenced to 40 years for the death of one man and the attempted murder of many others," he told BBC Radio 5 live's Victoria Derbyshire on Wednesday morning. "I wonder what the difference is here … It seems strange that [the judge] can suggest there is no prospect of rehabilitation for my brother and there is a prospect of rehabilitation for [Pavlo Lapshyn] who openly stated he wished to create a race war."When he handed down the life term, the judge highlighted the treatment of the Rigby's body, the lack of remorse shown by the defendants and the fact that Rigby had been carrying out a public service.But asked if he believed there had been an element of Islamophobia in the sentencing decision, Jeremiah, said: "Not only that but I think it was trial by the public. There was a lot of public outrage as could be understood … with the death of a soldier. I would suggest that [the judge] was simply giving in to that pressure. We all know … that my brother was the focus. I believe [the judge] was simply giving the public what they wanted."Adebowale and Adebolajo hacked at Rigby's body with a variety of knives and a cleaver as they attempted to behead him on a busy street in Woolwich. Adebolajo claimed his act of butchery was a military strike commanded by God and that he was a soldier of Allah.At their sentencing in February, where Adebowale was ordered to serve a minimum of 45 years in jail, the pair fought with guards before being dragged from the court.Jeremiah said on Wednesday that he was surprised when he first found out what his brother had done, but refused to expand further. He said he believed there was a link between the attack in Woolwich and UK foreign policy in Iraq and Afghanistan. But he said he believed his brother would not pose a danger to society if he was rehabilitated."Were he to be rehabilitated I think he would lead a productive life – I think it's important not to forget that he has young children himself."