Maxine Carr today told the Soham trial how she had lied to protect Ian Huntley, saying: "I thought I was doing the right thing."The prosecution alleges that Ms Carr, Mr Huntley's former girlfriend, gave him a false alibi by claiming that she was in Soham on Sunday August 4 last year, the day that Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman died, when she was really in Grimsby. She admitted that she lied to protect Mr Huntley, but insisted that, at the time, she had no idea that he was involved in the disappearance of the two 10-year-old girls.She said Mr Huntley told her that Holly and Jessica had been in the Soham house he shared with Ms Carr on the day they vanished, but that they had left alive.Giving evidence for the first time at the Old Bailey, Ms Carr vehemently denied that she would have lied for Mr Huntley had she thought he had killed the girls. She told his murder trial: "I just knew Ian - I knew he wouldn't have done anything like that." Asked whether she would have shielded him if he had told her, she said: "I would have been out of that house like a shot. Straight to the police or straight to the nearest person to tell them." Ms Carr, 26, a former teaching assistant in the girls' class, said that she knew it was wrong to lie, but added: "Even though I knew it wasn't right in moral terms, I thought I was doing the right thing, at the time, for that person." She insisted that she had never heard the version of events Mr Huntley has put before the court - that Holly died accidentally in his bath, and that he killed Jessica as he tried to silence her screams - until it was told to the jury. Recalling her telephone call to Mr Huntley from her mother's home in Grimsby at 6.56am on the day after Holly and Jessica disappeared, she said that he had sounded "very tired and quite drained".Ms Carr said: "He said he had been up all night searching with the police for some missing kids." Michael Hubbard QC, representing Ms Carr, asked her: "Did he tell you who the missing kids were?" Ms Carr replied: "No, he didn't say whether they were boys, girls, how old they were or anything, just missing kids." Mr Huntley told her that the police had called around late at night so that they could search Soham Village College, where he was a caretaker. He said that he had not returned home until 5am. Ms Carr said that the call had not contained any more information about the missing children.She said: "It hadn't really gone in when he said 'missing kids' - it just went in one ear and out the other, and I went back to sleep." Ms Carr said that it had been in a later conversation, while she was still with her relatives in Grimsby, that Mr Huntley had revealed the names of the two girls.Prompted by her QC, she explained that she felt angry because "the first thing that came into my head was that these children are going to go and tell everyone ... they've sat on the edge of Miss Carr's bed." She said that Mr Huntley told her that the police thought he was the last person to have seen the girls, and that this was making him "anxious". After agreeing to cut short her trip and return home to Soham, she said that Mr Huntley had come to pick her up from Grimsby and, on the way home, "I just kept saying to him about the girls ... and he just kept telling me, 'don't worry Maxine, they will be all right, they will find them'." She said that, as Mr Huntley grew more anxious over the following days, they had started to discuss the possibility that she would help to back up his story. He said repeatedly that it would have been much easier if she had been there. "But I said if I was in the house, I would have spoken to them," she told the court.Ms Carr said that Mr Huntley told her she could have been in the bedroom or the bathroom, to which she responded that there was "no way" she would be in bed at 6pm. "So the bathroom was the only alternative," she said. She continued: "I said everybody knows I wasn't here, I was in Grimsby." But she said that Mr Huntley had told her that nobody knew she had gone away. "I said, well, if I say I'm here, who am I going to say this to? He said anybody that asks," said Ms Carr.Mr Hubbard asked whether, by this stage - the end of Tuesday, two days after Holly and Jessica disappeared - she and Mr Huntley had agreed to lie. Ms Carr said that neither of them had made it expressly clear. "Ian said you don't have to do it but I knew that because of the way he was, I had to," she added. Ms Carr agreed that she had lied "persistently", and had been wrong to lie.Mr Hubbard asked what she was hoping the police would do when she told the lie. She said: "I just wanted them to go and find the person who had done it and stop plaguing people who hadn't done anything wrong."The trial continues.