The Newcastle midfielder Joey Barton was today banned for 12 games, six of which are suspended until the end of the 2009-10 season, and fined £25,000 by the FA for assaulting his former Manchester City team-mate Ousmane Dabo.The ban, which eclipses the 11-match ban handed to Sheffield Wednesday's Paolo Di Canio in 1998 for shoving the referee Paul Alcock, means Barton will be unavailable for Newcastle until at least mid-October and could see him out of Premier League action until the end of November. His potential comeback game is the derby match against Sunderland on October 25.The extra six matches of the ban would be automatically added should the midfielder be found guilty of a similar charge involving violence or be sent-off during a game for violent conduct, though not for a red card for serious foul play. A four-man FA panel, which included the former England manager Graham Taylor, took just under two hours to reach their verdict. Kevin Keegan, who resigned as Newcastle manager yesterday, was scheduled to attend the hearing as Barton's character witness but is thought to have submitted a character statement by fax instead. Barton had previously admitted the charge of violent conduct in August, but requested a personal hearing in an attempt to plead leniency. He has now has two weeks to appeal the verdict."Much has been written about Mr Barton over recent months," said the FA in a statement. "The regulatory commission had the benefit of taking all appropriate information into consideration. The commission members considered principally the serious attack by Mr Barton that clearly cannot be accepted."The commission members wanted to punish the offence appropriately but give Mr Barton an opportunity to ensure his professional conduct does not falter again and ensure he is fully aware of the consequences should he make another serious error of judgment."The attack left Dabo, now of Lazio, with several cuts and bruises as well as a suspected detached retina. The France midfielder said the attack was so bad that it had left him "looking like the elephant man". In July the 26-year-old Barton was handed a four-month suspended sentence for the assault and also spent 74 days in jail after being sentenced to six months' imprisonment for assault and affray in a separate incident.Earlier today, Joey Barton's agent, Willie McKay, accused the press of hounding his client following photographs printed in the Daily Mirror that suggested the player jumped a red light and used bus lanes as he drove to meet his probation officer.McKay said he was unaware of the details of the incident but questioned the actions of the photographer. "Why are they following him? It is a disgrace," he said.The decision caps a tumultuous few days at the club, after Keegan's resignation as manager yesterday. Newcastle's next game is at home to Hull City in the Premier League a week tomorrow.