Winston Silcott, who was convicted and subsequently cleared of murdering PC Keith Blakelock in the 1985 Broadwater Farm riot, is to be released from prison next week after ministers backed the Parole Board's verdict that he poses no risk to the public, his solicitors confirmed yesterday.Silcott, 43, is serving a life sentence for the unrelated murder of the amateur boxer Anthony Smith a year earlier. He has always insisted that he stabbed Mr Smith in self-defence after he and two other men attacked him at a party in east London. Although he has lost his appeal against the conviction he still hopes to pursue a claim in the European court. His solicitors, Bindman and Partners, confirmed last night that their client remained "intent on proving his innocence" and pointed out that he had served nearly four years more than his original 14-year tariff. PC Blakelock, a father of three, was hacked to death during the riot in Tottenham, north London, on October 6 1985. At the time, Silcott was on bail awaiting trial for the murder of Mr Smith. In March 1987, 13 months after being convicted of murdering Smith, he was convicted of murdering PC Blakelock. Six years after being sentenced to 30 years in prison his conviction was overturned on appeal because of tainted police evidence. He has since been paid £50,000 compensation by the Metropolitan Police. Prison sources said Silcott's exact release date was not yet fixed, but confirmed it would be some time next week. The Parole Board's decision was approved by a Home Office minister and the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said: "The Parole Board have a duty to consider whether an individual is a risk to the public and clearly in this case they have decided that he is not. "He has served 18 years and most people convicted of murder serve 12 to 14, so he is at the top end of that tariff." However, the Metropolitan Police Federation chairman, Glen Smyth, said: "The public were promised by former home secretary Roy Jenkins that life would mean life and it clearly doesn't." In a statement, Silcott said: "I am looking forward to returning to my family and to overturning my conviction."