The Earl of Shaftesbury, who went missing five weeks ago, was the victim of a campaign of psychological torture in the months leading up to his disappearance, The Observer can reveal.Sources close to the police investigation say the tormentors of the elderly playboy peer were members of a gang of French con artists who used sophisticated techniques designed to make him question his sanity and leave him feeling 'freaked out'. This closely mirrors the plot of the 1944 thriller Gaslight, in which a man tries to drive his wife insane to conceal his true motive for marrying her - to seek out jewels hidden in her home. In the case of 66-year-old Shaftesbury, the gang hoped to empty his bank accounts and sell off all his possessions, but were forced to change their plans when he became aware of their intentions and tried to stop them. Several key gang members, who first befriended the peer after meeting him in a seafront bar earlier this year, are now the prime suspects in the investigation. The case began as a missing person inquiry, but senior officers believe it is now increasingly likely that he has been murdered by members of the gang. When Shaftesbury vanished, lurid stories linked his disappearance to his unconventional, swashbuckling lifestyle. He inherited his title from his grandfather when he was 22, along with the family seat at Wimborne, Dorset, and its 9,000-acre estate. He had made headlines two years ago when he started an affair with Nathalie Lions, a nude model he met in a lingerie shop in Geneva. He recently broke off their engagement and became involved with a nightclub hostess called Nadia. Some reports say the peer was supporting three girlfriends in the south of France. Despite this, friends say he first went to France to seek a reconciliation with Jamila Ben M'Barek, his third wife.It now seems Shaftesbury was caught up with a group of highly dangerous people not connected to his womanising. He was last seen on 6 November, when he checked into the Noga Hilton on the Cannes seafront for one night. Ten days ago police based in Nice seized a painting, furniture and antiques that had gone missing from the earl's French home in Versailles. It appears this gave them a link to the gang. French police refuse to comment publicly about the exact circumstances that led to the recovery of the painting and the other items, but say no arrests have yet been made as a result. However, they have recovered fingerprints and DNA evidence which they hope will enable them to identify the thieves. Shaftesbury discovered the items were missing during the summer, but when he asked for them to be returned one member of the gang assaulted him, leaving him badly shaken. He went to the police, but members of the gang told detectives he had given the items to them as gifts, and claimed to have witnesses to support this. Soon afterwards the peer appointed a local lawyer, Thierry Bensaude, to launch a civil court action against four members of the gang in order to force them to return the items. At least one of the men has a lengthy criminal record, including offences of violence. 'He fell in with a bad crowd,' Bensaude told The Observer. 'We are talking about bad, bad people. They were messing with his mind at every opportunity. 'The earl is a generous and distinguished man who falls in love easily and meets people in bars as far removed from his social background as it is possible to be, and this was the case here. He asked me to take the men to court, though he was worried about the consequences of doing such a thing. He was living in fear day and night.' The police initially suspected that Shaftesbury had been kidnapped, but they have all but ruled this out because no ransom has been demanded. Early reports seemed to indicate that he was in hiding or that his wallet had been stolen when a transaction involving his bank account took place. It has since emerged that this happened before he vanished but took a few days to show up on his bank records. Tomorrow Detective Chief Inspector Adam Hibbert and Detective Inspector Russ Bagley, of the Sussex Police Major Crime Branch, will travel to the Riviera to hand over newly gathered information about the case.A Sussex police spokeswoman said: 'They will have discussions with the French police to make sure all channels of inquiry have been exhausted, and to say they will be available to continue any future lines of inquiry. At the same time, they are looking to close down the British side of the investigation as there is no evidence to suggest that the earl left France.'