A woman has died and her teenage sister is seriously injured after being stabbed by a man who less than an hour earlier is said to have attacked a third woman, leaving her with multiple injuries.The suspected killer was arrested on a bus in the early hours after the attacks in Brixton, south London, on Monday evening.The 17-year-old girl is in a serious condition in hospital with knife wounds to her head and hands after she tried to save her 28-year-old sister, who was pronounced dead at the scene.Half an hour earlier, a 46-year-old woman was left fighting for her life with multiple stab wounds after she was assaulted on a balcony in front of neighbours and young children.The 40-year-old suspect, who is said to know the three victims, was arrested on suspicion of murder at 12.42am on a bus less than a mile from the last attack after a tipoff following a five-hour manhunt.A witness who saw the first attack in Redlands Way said: "I came out when I heard her screaming that someone was killing her and shouting for help. The woman had got out on to the balcony and she was just screaming. There was this tall black guy who came out of nowhere – it was like a film."He just grabbed her and stabbed her in the back – a couple of us saw it. The children were playing out in the park right in front, which made it more traumatic."Police were called at around 6.40pm, with paramedics and the air ambulance. "The guy escaped but we saw her coming down with bandages and the bandages were bleeding," said the neighbour.At 7.31pm police were called to nearby Tilson Gardens after a neighbour in the housing block heard a boy raise the alarm by screaming from a balcony.The dead woman, named locally as Keisha, was the sister of the 17-year-old who was also stabbed and the mother of the boy."The boy came out on the balcony. He was crying and screaming," said Hawa Musse, 20, who lives nearby. Another neighbour called the police and took the boy away. "He was shaking. He only had one piece of cloth around him," said Musse. She then saw the injured girl outside the flat. "She was sitting on the floor. There was a lot of blood coming from her head. She was saying, 'My sister is inside.' I think she was talking to the police," she said.A local resident described the dead woman as "a neighbour and a friend, someone who was well regarded in the area – probably one of the most important compliments is the fact that she was a committed mum to her young son."She was jovial, quite vibrant, very committed and caring and supportive to her son."Detective Inspector Will Reynolds said: "Our investigation is at a very early stage. However, we are confident that there are no outstanding suspects."We believe that all three victims were known to the man who is currently in our custody. There is no suggestion that the victims were selected at random.""The violence used was extreme and we're trying to establish what was the trigger to these circumstances, what was the precursor."He added that young children were taken from the scene at both addresses.Chuka Umunna, the shadow business secretary and MP for Streatham, who visited both crime scenes, said the community was "deeply shocked and traumatised" by what happened."I think the most disturbing thing is the ferocity of violence which occurred and which was witnessed by young teenagers and children on the two estates," he said.