FIRST THE RIOTS, THEN THE RECRIMINATIONS… and now the calls for new and tougher laws. As Nicholas Watt reports, David Cameron announced yesterday that he wanted to give police discretion to remove people's facemasks "under any circumstances where there is reasonable suspicion that they are related to criminal activity". No "phoney human rights concerns" about publishing CCTV images of suspects involved in rioting would be allowed to "get in the way of bringing these criminals to justice". The PM also said he would consult telecoms companies to see whether instant messaging services could be closed down if they were being used to incite riots.Cameron also wants to amend the Riot Damages Act so that any homeowner or business person whose property was damaged will be able to seek compensation under the Act, even if they were uninsured.It was a day of frenzied activity in courts:"I'm OK now. I was gibbering at 8am." It was 1.30pm at a busy cafe outside Westminster magistrates court, and a harried solicitor in her 50s had grabbed a sandwich and a bottle of water to keep her going. She had been working since 2am. She had four clients appearing in court that day, she said, though one had yet to appear before a judge – when he arrived at the court in an armoured van, security guards had been unable to bring him inside as every cell was full.Yesterday, the PM indicated that he wanted to see rioters jailed. It isn't your decision, Mr Cameron, writes the blogging magistrate Bystander: This week's riots have been so shocking that normally level-headed people start to see due process of law as an encumbrance to justice. The reverse is true – due process is fundamental to justice, even for the unprepossessing and the downright nasty offender.Larry Elliott, the Guardian's economics editor, is also a part-time magistrate: From the bench, what magistrates see is a raging bundle of id impulses, the desire for immediate gratification untempered by a sense of guilt and with only an ill-formed notion of right and wrong. The temptation to bang them up and throw away the key is strong, and magistrates will no doubt be encouraged to do just that over the coming weeks. It is, though, not the way the courts work, and a good thing too.Meanwhile, the IPCC has admitted it may have misled the media over Mark Duggan's shooting, which sparked the first riots in Tottenham.MORE ON THE AFTERMATH OF THE RIOTSMatthew Flinn: Does publishing photos of rioters infringe their human rights?Elizabeth Prochowska: Should rioters lose their entitlement to benefits?Criminal barrister Rupert Myers offers a brief guide to making a citizen's arrestALSO ON GUARDIAN LAWApple and major publishers face lawsuit over ebook "price fixing"Alex Aldridge: Law firms fear 'double dip' recessionNeil Rose on the people making legal advice accessible to the deafAdam Wagner: Does Britain need a bill of rights? (This article provoked a particularly lively discussion)THIS WEEK'S JOBSDirector of Human Rights, JusticeLocum Project Lawyer, Public Law ProjectGlobal Contracts Manager, International BaccalaureateBEST OF THE WEBObiter J on the defence of property: what is permissible?Google jumps into the online law business with Rocket LawyerPathe 1959 newsreel of the trial and execution of a prisoner in CubaGUARDIAN LAW'S BOOK CLUB: THE SHORTLISTLast week we invited readers to suggest which volume the Guardian Law book club should tackle first. Suggestions ranged from Plato's The Laws to Michael Connolly's The Lincoln Lawyer, and the following are in contention:Tom Bingham: The Rule of LawMichael Sandel: JusticeFranz Kafka: The TrialJust Law: Helena KennedyDo weigh in with further thoughts.OFF TO STUDY LAW THIS AUTUMN?Then join our live Q&A at 4.30pm next Tuesday with current and former law students and faculty staff. They'll be offering advice on what to read before you go and how to weather the first term of a law degree. The discussion thread will open on Monday for you to post questions. (If you're a law tutor, do join in too.)Finally, you can keep up with the latest developments on the UK riots on the Guardian's live blog.Until next weekThe Guardian Law team