The chief inspector of prisons has warned that hundreds of inmates at Wandsworth must be moved out to ease an intense overcrowding crisis that has left the London jail among the "most impoverished" in the country.Anne Owers says in her inspection report, published today, that Wandsworth is failing to meet basic standards of decency and activity for most of its 1,460 prisoners. The report coincides with a disclosure from Wandsworth's independent monitoring board that at times staffing levels have been so low that there has been "a very real fear that serious trouble and possible insurrection were brewing". The prison service's new director general, Phil Wheatley, yesterday rejected the demand to remove hundreds of prisoners from Wandsworth, saying there was no room for them anywhere else. "Given the prison population, the only alternative would be to hold prisoners in police cells," he said. "This would not, for those held in police cells, provide a better regime than that available at Wandsworth." At the time of the January inspection Wandsworth held more inmates than any other prison in England and Wales. Repeated overcrowding "drafts" from Brixton, Pentonville, Belmarsh and Wormwood Scrubs have left it holding 200 more inmates than it did in 2000 - many of them two to a single cell - and without any extra staff or accommodation. Today's report follows scathing reports into Pentonville and Liverpool and confirms that overcrowding has put paid to efforts to improve conditions at the three largest prisons in the country. A fourth critical report, on conditions at Parkhurst, is due to be published this week. "This is the third depressing report on an overcrowded local prison that we have published within three weeks," said Ms Owers. "Wandsworth stands witness to the damaging effects of simply cramming more people into prisons that do not have the capacity or resources to do more than contain them, let alone carry out effective work to reduce offending. "It is part of a prison system that is coping, but at great cost to prisoners, staff and long-term public protection." The latest figure for the prison population for England and Wales is 72,958: about 7,000 higher than the system's uncrowded capacity. The chief inspector says her January inspection found that the experience of prisoners at Wandsworth was amongst the most impoverished at any prison: · 800 inmates were locked in their cells at any time, many for 23 hours a day; · black and minority-ethnic prisoners made up 73% of those on the "basic" - the lowest - regime although they were only 45% of Wandsworth's population; · there was inadequate access to telephones and showers for the majority of prisoners, who were unemployed. The chief inspector says that despite these problems the jail is largely safe and its work with foreign prisoners is among the best in the country. But she says that its operational capacity must be reduced to allow a decent regime to be provided and for the refurbishment of one wing and the healthcare centre. However, the director general of the prison service said yesterday that this would mean putting prisoners into police cells, which was expensive and would divert police resources away from policing. "Although when fully overcrowded Wandsworth offers less than either the prison service or the chief inspector would like, it does provide prisoners with the basic requirements of a decent and safe environment," Mr Wheatley said. 