You might have thought that those who had got away with murder would take care to keep their mouths shut. Some, however, seem to have a compulsion to chat about their crimes. One killer, for example, was sitting in his flat in Hastings watching the BBC TV programme Crimewatch one night in 2001 when it featured an unsolved contract murder that had happened more than 20 years ago. He couldn't resist making a remark to his wife, who was sitting on the sofa too, which seemed to imply that the job was his handiwork.A few days later, the phone rang. It was the police. "We'd like to see you about a murder many years ago," the voice at the other end of the line announced. Police had bugged the flat after getting a tip-off that he had done the killing. They hoped the Crimewatch programme would make him spill the beans. He confessed to the murder and was sentenced to life in prison. "The thing that made him plead guilty was that he saw the daughter of the man who had been killed interviewed on Crimewatch and he felt ashamed," says David Levy. "He wanted to clear his conscience." Levy heads the Central Criminal Court Trial Unit, where police and the Crown Prosecution Service uniquely cooperate to bring killers to justice. Traditionally, police and prosecutors, who are qualified as solicitors or barristers, have worked separately, the police investigating and charging the suspect and the CPS taking over the case at that point to run the prosecution. Three police officers work in the unit, set up two years ago, at CPS headquarters in the City of London. It deals with all the Metropolitan police homicides - murder, manslaughter, attempted murder, conspiracy and incitement to murder - which go to the Old Bailey. Crown prosecutors give advice on how investigations should be carried out and evidence gathered, with the aim of preventing cases coming unstuck when they reach court. Prosecutors also give guidance on what charges should be laid, a process that used to be the responsibility of the police alone. Pre-charge advice by crown prosecutors, mainly based in police stations - in all sorts of cases, not just homicide - is currently being piloted around the country and in future, under provisions in the 2003 Criminal Justice Act which have yet to be brought into force, crown prosecutors will take over responsibility for deciding what charges should be laid. The pilots show a significant increase in guilty pleas and convictions, and a substantial reduction in the number of cases having to be dropped later because of wrong decisions taken at the outset. "It's the initial decisions, often historically taken by the custody officer or by investigating officers, that are the most crucial, because once you have taken the initial decisions, you've drawn the map of the case," explains Rene Barclay, director of the serious casework sector for CPS London. "You can't get away from it because every thing follows that tactical decision." Decisions about how evidence should be gathered can also affect the prosecution's chances of success. The prosecution of Colin Stagg for the murder of 23-year-old Rachel Nickell, who was stabbed 49 times in south London in 1992, was ignominiously thrown out by an Old Bailey judge in 1994. The judge described the honey trap set by police, in which an undercover policewoman encouraged Stagg to talk about his sexual fantasies, as "wholly reprehensible". Barclay notes: "The police did that of their own accord and we were looking to consider the implications of it after it had been done." Now prosecutors work from the early stages with the three officers down the corridor, who liaise with the police on the ground. The crown prosecutors make sure surveillance is properly authorised beforehand, and that any undercover work does not amount to entrapment, which would cause a judge to throw a case out. In one case where Levy's team advised from the outset, the defence argued that an undercover operation to flush out a serving prisoner, Richard Alan Spring, who was attempting to have a child killed, amounted to entrapment. The judge disagreed and Spring eventually pleaded guilty and received a life sentence for incitement to murder. Spring, in prison for indecent assault on an eight-year-old girl, had decided to put out a contract on her. "One of the other prisoners was chatting to him and although that prisoner was also a paedophile, he didn't like the idea of a child being killed," says Levy. A policewoman posing as "a hard-nosed East End lady" contacted Spring, saying she had heard from the other prisoner that he wanted a job done. She arranged to visit him in prison to discuss the contract. "The undercover officer was wired up and there was a discussion about the terms and conditions of the contract. It was overwhelming evidentially," says Levy. "Although there were various arguments about entrapment and unfair behaviour, when it came to court, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to life imprisonment." Under a new protocol hammered out between the CPS and the Met, which came into force last week, hand-picked lawyers are on call to provide charging advice to police in London from 8am to 10pm, seven days a week. Usually police won't need to charge someone outside office hours, but sometimes they will need to act quickly - if, for example, they think a suspect may be leaving the country. That happened in the case of Michael Menson, the black musician who died after being set on fire by a gang of thugs in February 1997. Police at first believed that Menson, who had psychiatric problems, had set fire to himself. After two failed investigations the case was taken over by the newly formed Met police racial and violent crimes unit. Police bugged the suspects' flat and installed a TV camera. "It wasn't very well done and the suspects walked in, saw some mess on the floor, looked up and saw the camera," Levy remembers. "So they realised the place was bugged and the police realised they would probably do a runner. I was contacted for advice about charge. Once they were put into custody the case was publicised and people came forward who had been frightened to talk about what they had said to them." The three men still in the UK were tried and convicted. A fourth, who had absconded to Cyprus, was convicted of manslaughter there. Proposals for surveillance or undercover operations are instigated by police, who then check with prosecutors whether what they plan to do falls on the right side of the line. Entrapment happens when police entice a suspect into doing something he had not already decided to do. In the Spring case, says Levy, "The officers came to see me beforehand and said, 'We're proposing to send an undercover officer in. What do you think about it?' They adhered to my advice and it was totally successful." Some of the most difficult are the "cold cases", unsolved murders that are reopened when information comes to light years later. One of the most dramatic was the case of Irish labourer Patrick Folan, whose wife Michelle's skeleton was discovered under a concrete floor in 1999 when a north London hospital site was being excavated. She disappeared in 1981 after a drink at a pub with her husband, who claimed she had run away. He brought up their two children. Fully clothed and with a rope around the neck, Michelle's body was identified by dental records and her gold, diamond-clustered engagement ring. Soon after his wife disappeared, Folan obtained a passport. He never used it, but it included a photograph of him taken around the time of the crime. Police found it when they searched his house. They tracked down the original building contractor but were unable to prove that Folan was working on the site at the time. They showed the photo to several men who had worked there, who recognised their co-worker. Police showed some of the prospective witnesses only the photo of Folan, not a range of pictures, which would, says Levy, have been better practice. He adds: "They came for advice after they had shown the photo and we told them what they should have done." Folan was convicted. He appealed, arguing that the way police used the photograph was unfair, but the court of appeal upheld the conviction. Early cooperation between police and crown prosecutors is paying off, with a conviction rate of 85% for the unit's cases. With any luck, the "Judge Blasts CPS Fiasco" headlines should stay in newspapers' cuttings files.