Two elderly men jailed 23 years ago on the evidence of a psychopathic liar walked free from the court of appeal yesterday.Terry Pinfold, 70, and Harry "Big H" Mackenney - once described as Britain's most wanted man - are set to be cleared after the court was told that evidence against both men by the chief prosecution witness John "Bruce" Childs was worthless. Childs, who had himself admitted to six murders, suffers from a serious mental disorder which compels him to lie repeatedly in a way which would not have been detectable to a jury. Mr Mackenney, 72, of Dagenham, Essex, was jailed in 1980 at the Old Bailey for four murders although he was acquitted of murdering a business associate Terence "Teddy Bear" Eve because of a lack of corroboration. Even so Mr Pinfold, of Hornchurch, Essex, was found guilty of procuring Mr Mackenney and Childs to murder Eve. No bodies or murder weapons were found and in each case Childs's evidence was crucial. Yesterday the judges, led by Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, reserved their judgment but released Mr Mackenney on condition he returns to his partner's East London home and reports daily to the police. Before the hearing, he was serving a "whole life" tariff and faced the prospect of never being released. Mr Mackenney said he was shattered but relieved. "It has been a long time coming. The case should never have got to court. It was a fiasco. This has come 23 years too late." Mr Pinfold, who was released two years ago, having served his minimum recommmended term, said: "I can't believe what we have been through. Much of the information we have now was known back then. Why wasn't it at my trial in 1980?" Both men have suffered during the years of imprisonment. Mr Pinfold has had six strokes and now has serious heart and bowel problems. Mr Mackenney is gaunt and frail having contracted emphysema and a near fatal dose of pneumonia. Both men lost appeals against their convictions in 1981. In 1987 they were denied leave to appeal again. In the 1970s, Mr Mackenny worked at Mr Pinfold's factory in Dagenham making diving equipment. Eve was given factory space to manufacture teddy bears but vanished in November 1974. Childs implicated Mr Pinfold and Mr Mackenny four years later. But Lord Woolf was told that after giving evidence at the original trial, Childs changed his story on numerous occasions. David Somekh, a consultant forensic psychiatrist, said Childs suffered from personality disorders. During the three day hearing, it emerged that attempts to tell the trial jury about Childs's mental state were blocked. The court also heard revelations about the trial. Though Mr Pinfold was said to have procured Mr Mackenney to murder Eve, Mr Mackenney was acquitted at the Old Bailey of having committed the murder. It also emerged that before their trial, there were doubts within the Metropolitan Police about whether Eve had been murdered at all. James Harri son-Griffiths, a retired detective chief inspector, said he attempted to investigate Eve's disappearance in 1976 but was warned off by Commander Bert Wickstead, head of the serious crimes group. "There was a conflict between senior officers. My chief superintendent was encouraging me and Commander Wickstead was discouraging me. There was politics involved," he said. He added: "Commander Wickstead told me that Terry Eve was living under an assumed name in south London. He told me that the future of the CID would be short-lived if I didn't stop this inquiry." Mr Harrison-Griffiths said he pursued a number of leads and alleged sightings of Eve and concluded that he was dead. But he also revealed that Eve would have had good reason to disappear because there was a warrant for his arrest in connection with the hijacking of £75,000 worth of stereo equipment. Eve was facing five years in jail. Lord Justice Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Aikens and Mr Justice Davis, said they hoped to produce a full judgment before Christmas.