Detectives hunting an armed robber who murdered a police officer and then escaped custody 10 years ago are today launching fresh efforts to recapture him by offering a £10,000 reward and adding wrinkles to his photograph to show how he may now look.Scotland Yard has added James Francis Hurley, 42, to its "most wanted" list, having aged his picture digitally by adding crow's feet and a receding hairline. Hurley was jailed for life in 1989 for his part in the murder of an off-duty policeman, Francis Mason, 27, who was shot in the back as he tried to stop an armed gang stealing £15,000 from a security van outside a bank in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire. He was also convicted of robbery and firearm offences. In February 1994 Hurley escaped while being transferred between jails, when another prisoner to whom he was handcuffed held a knife to a prison officer's throat and ordered other officers to unlock the cuffs. The guards complied, but the hostage still received a serious cut to his face. Hurley managed to escape as his accomplice was overcome by other officers. Commander Andy Baker, of the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate, said: "Hurley is a convicted murderer and armed robber who was involved in an incident in which an off-duty police officer was callously murdered while bravely trying to intervene in an armed robbery. "Hurley has been on the run for 10 years now; perhaps he is tired of spending his life looking over his shoulder and we would urge him to contact police and turn himself in. "We believe Hurley may have adopted a new identity and tried to start a new life for himself, but you cannot leave your past behind." PC Mason, who died at the scene of the robbery, was posthumously awarded the Queen's gallantry medal for his bravery. His widow, Jill Mason, told Sky News yesterday: "[Hurley] should not be allowed to roam the streets thinking he has got away with it. Murder is murder." Police say that Hurley still has friends and contacts in the UK. They believe he may be living in Ireland, possibly in the Roscommon area, and may travel to Spain.