Two writers come to mind when I think about the Securitas robbery. David Mamet, in his screenplay for the film Heist, has the line: "Anybody can get the goods. The hard part's getting away"; William Burroughs, in The Adding Machine, reckons you should "steal everything in sight."People have stolen from other people throughout history, whether it's artists stealing other people's ideas or robbers taking other people's possessions, and I think the people who carried out the Securitas robbery are just another chapter in that history. Someone else will come along who will want to carry out an even bigger robbery.I have to say that it looked like a very difficult proposition from the start. If the job had been suggested to me, I would have quoted Chet Baker who said "Well, if I could play like Wynton [Marsalis], I wouldn't play like Wynton." Which means that, even if I had been offered the chance to carry out the biggest robbery in those circumstances, I still would have turned it down. There seemed to be too many risks.On the other hand, as "Nipper" Read [the detective who was part of the team that investigated the robbery] said about us, perhaps they would have carried it out even if they had known that they would get caught. After all, when they left the scene with their £50m, one of the robbers said: "Let's rock and roll."That's pure film script stuff, isn't it? It's as though they have all been watching Ocean's 11 or Mission: Impossible.We all have our benchmarks and for us the benchmark was the Brink's robbery in Boston in 1950, which was the largest robbery in the United States at that time. We wanted to do something as spectacular as that. We wanted to draw our line in the sand. I was quite young at the time and I liked the challenge. I wanted to move in those circles. It's insanity, of course, and we knew that we would be in the frame as soon as the robbery happened but it's the same madness, I suppose, that drives people to bivouac on the north face of the Eiger.The Securitas robbers faced the same problems that we had because we both had a large group of people but it was different for us because we all came from a common background; we shared the same mores and we trusted each other. With Securitas, they had two Albanians and seemed to have half of the team from Kent and half from south London.Their other problem was that their robbery, like ours, was too big. You throw down the gauntlet to society and obviously society has to respond. The police are given carte blanche. We always wondered that, if what we had stolen had been smaller - say £875,000 - whether there would have been such pressure to catch and punish us. We knew there would be a hubbub but we didn't know that it would be so lengthy. Normally, there is a lot of publicity for a couple of weeks and then it dies down. With us it went on for months - and it's still going on after 40 years. Ronnie Biggs is still in prison, after all.The other weak link would seem to be the inside man. That is where the police will look first and they had an Albanian in there as an obvious suspect.They also faced other problems that we did not have. For instance, it's much more difficult to launder money now than it was in 1963. We did not have mobile phones in those days and they can be used now to place you near the scene of the crime. Surveillance and CCTV cameras did not exist in the way they do today.That said, I think they should have left the country immediately. I don't think that they really have to spend a fortune on plastic surgery. As Charlie Wilson [one of the late train robbers] said: "Why bother with plastic surgery - they can hit me in the face with a shovel and I'll go to St Thomas'."You have to say hats off to them for imagination and ambition but you wonder if that will be enough to sustain them for the years they'll have to serve in prison. As Robert Burns said: "The best laid schemes o' mice and men / Gang aft a-gley." If you really want make money nowadays, you should go into hedge funds or be like Conrad Black, who'll do his time in a health farm - but where's the buzz?· Bruce Reynolds masterminded the 1963 Great Train Robbery, which netted £2.6m. At the time it was Britain's largest robbery. He spent five years on the run before being jailed for 25 years in 1969. He was released in 1978. He has written three books and performed with the band Alabama 3, for whom his son, Nick, plays.