Prisoners are being ordered to choose between having a shower, exercising or phoning friends and family because of the overcrowding crisis in Britain's jails, a charity has warned.The problem is forcing prison officers to keep many inmates locked up for long periods - and putting staff and prisoners at risk, says the Prison Reform Trust.There has already been a marked rise in jail violence, the charity warned. The incident command suite at Prison Service headquarters went on red alert 62 times this year, up 27% on last year."I would not want to predict a riot but I think when prisons are bursting at the seams, security and safety can be compromised and the possibility of a disturbance is more likely," said Enver Solomon, the trust's policy officer.The charity believes Prison Service figures show that 11 prisons have exceeded their maximum capacity, including high-security Belmarsh in London - where the chief inspector of prisons, Ann Owers, reported yesterday that staff were struggling to meet prisoners' basic needs. The Prison Service denies that jails have exceeded capacity. A spokeswoman explained: "We hotbed so if a prisoner is in hospital then we put someone else in their bed. It's not like anyone has to sleep on the floor."And we have a very large number of empty spaces that have come online or are about to. Birmingham prison has just opened another 400 capacity space. We are not in the situation we were in last year when we were looking at police cells."However, the prison population is set to go on rising steadily. Last Friday it stood at 73,802 and the director general of the Prison Service, Martin Narey, has said it will top 80,000 within three years.The charity said that has led to rehabilitation being badly affected. Waiting lists for training and workshops in some prisons are now so long that few prisoners have a chance to attend - even though the classes are seen as a vital part of programmes to reduce reoffending."Unless we reduce the prison population then prisons don't have a chance to try to stop reoffending," Mr Solomon said. "There should be an outcry, but people don't stop to think that overcrowded prisons do not work." The charity is calling for a reduction in the number of people jailed for petty offences and those given sentences under six months. "Prison governors can't do anything constructive in under six months," Mr Solomon said."There have been new community sentences brought in but judges are getting mixed messages. The tough rhetoric coming from the government means that judges are reluctant to impose them."A spokeswoman for the Prison Service admitted that overcrowding was causing problems, though pointed out that it was the courts that decided who to send to jail."In Belmarsh there was a problem with showers and in Pentonville for two weeks - after a near riot when they were on an emergency regime - prisoners were getting showers whenever the staff could manage it," the spokeswoman added."It may be that prisoners are having to make a choice between two things, both of which they should have."Sir David Ramsbotham, the former chief inspector of prisons, appealed for a greater focus on alternatives to prison in a SocietyGuardian.co.uk online chat yesterday."The trouble is that imprisonment as currently conducted, in overcrowded conditions where too many prisoners are left in their cells all day, gazing at television, discredits the whole process, lessens its impact and deterrent effect," he said.