The drinks industry has been issued a warning by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to clamp down on underage sales or face "draconian action" on the sale and availability of alcohol.The government's new alcohol strategy, to be published next month, is expected to identify binge drinking by young teenagers buying alcohol in supermarkets and off-licences as a major factor in anti-social behaviour on the streets. His warning for the drinks industry to take action or face the possibility of sales bans came as the police were given new powers yesterday to tackle anti-social behaviour, including the ability to close down crack houses within 48 hours and keep them closed for up to six months. Ministers claimed yesterday that the new powers were the "single biggest package of measures to tackle anti-social behaviour" ever to come into force. The measures are contained in the government's new anti-social behaviour act. They include: · dispersing groups that cause harassment or intimidation; · restrictions on ownership or possession of airguns and replica weapons; · bans on the sale and manufacture of high-powered air weapons; · extending fixed penalty notices for disorder to 16 and 17 year olds; · allowing newspapers to name and shame teenagers punished by courts with anti-social behaviour orders; · giving local authorities powers to apply for anti-social behaviour orders to tackle nuisance neighbours. The Home Office also published yesterday a campaign pack, including a guide to the new powers, to ensure that local officials use the new measures effectively. "From today people have new tools in their fight against neighbours from hell, intimidating groups on their streets and potentially lethal fire-arms," said Mr Blunkett. "But the government cannot do everything on its own. We have delivered the powers people on the front-line wanted, they must now be used for the benefit of everyone," he said. Frank Whiteley, the assistant chief constable of Northamptonshire and spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, welcomed the package. "We know that several police forces are already planning to make use of the provisions enabling swift action to be taken against crack houses," he said. "The provisions as a whole will give extra support to police, local authorities and communities working together to tackle the menace of anti-social behaviour, while at the same time providing proper safeguards to ensure they are wisely and proportionately used."