Ronnie Biggs, a member of the gang that carried out the Great Train Robbery, has become infected with MRSA while in hospital and "could die at any moment", his lawyers said today.Biggs, who has suffered several strokes and minor heart attacks and can no longer speak, is understood to have contracted the superbug while undergoing routine treatment.Medical reports on the 76-year-old's condition say he is in a terminal decline, and lawyers have written to prison authorities to demand his released on compassionate grounds.Biggs is currently being held at Belmarsh, a category A prison in south-east London, where he receives 24-hour nursing care.In a letter to prison officials, his solicitors, Paul Martin & Co, said evidence that Biggs was suitable for compassionate release was overwhelming."The two consultant physicians clearly state [in medical reports] the position as it is - namely that our client is a man who is extremely ill and can effectively die at any moment, to put it bluntly," the letter says. "The probation service have already confirmed that there would be no problems whatsoever with regard to aftercare, and it is crystal clear that Mr Biggs is in absolutely no position whatsoever to even contemplate any criminal enterprise."We take the view that a decision must be made by the secretary of state before matters get completely out of hand. Any further procrastination will only see a deterioration in our client's health and the application may be superfluous."Biggs's son, Michael, visited his father in hospital on Sunday, and is understood to have been alarmed at the decline in his health.Last month, it emerged that prison bosses had rejected the train robber's latest attempt to be freed early on compassionate grounds because he was not considered to be ill enough. "We can confirm that a prisoner at HMP Belmarsh attended the local hospital recently for routine treatment," a Home Office spokeswoman said today. "Following this procedure, the prisoner developed a local infection and subsequent tests showed this to be MRSA."He has completed his treatment and further tests will be undertaken later this week to ensure the problem has been resolved."Biggs was one of a dozen men convicted for the Great Train Robbery, which took place in 1963. The gang made off with £2.6m from the Glasgow to London mail train. Biggs is serving the remaining 27 years of a 30-year sentence imposed in 1964 but interrupted after 15 months when he escaped from Wandsworth prison and fled to Brazil.He returned four years ago because of ill health and partial paralysis following a number of strokes. He was sent back to prison, is serving most of the time in the hospital wing at Belmarsh and would not normally be eligible for parole until 2010.Biggs began an early life of crime by rummaging through the wreckage of bombed-out buildings in south London during the second world war. His first conviction was in January 1945, at the age of 15, for stealing pencils. Over the next few years, he was convicted nine times. He joined the RAF in 1947, but was dishonourably discharged after breaking into a chemist's, for which he received six months in prison. He was then jailed for stealing a car, and it was while serving this sentence that he befriended Bruce Reynolds, the mastermind behind the Great Train Robbery. In his autobiography, Odd Man Out, Biggs wrote affectionately of the common interests that drew them together - music, literature and breaking the law.