Tony Blair insisted yesterday he would press ahead with plans to deport "the vast bulk" of foreign prisoners after their sentences, regardless of the threat they face in their home countries.The prime minister upped the ante by telling the Commons: "There will be an automatic presumption to deport and the vast bulk of those people will be deported. And those people, in my view, should be deported irrespective of any claim that they have that the country to which they are going back may not be safe."That is why it is important if necessary that we look at legislating to ensure that such an automatic presumption applies."The immigration minister, Tony McNulty, said later the situation in some countries was too "parlous". Downing Street acknowledged later that exemptions could be made on a "case by case" basis, but only three countries - Somalia, Chad and Ivory Coast - were automatically regarded as unsafe.Currently foreign prisoners who serve more than 12 months in jail are supposed to be considered for deportation, or 24 months if they are from EU countries. Downing Street said the prime minister wanted that to change.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said Mr Blair was being "disingenous". "I don't actually believe that they are going to change the law so that foreign criminals - let's say somebody who is locked up for not paying a fine - are then sent abroad to be executed by a repressive state," he told BBC Radio 4's PM programme. The European court of human rights has ruled against deportation where individuals might face death or torture.John Reid, the home secretary, issued revised figures this week which showed 179 foreigners who committed serious offences have been released without being considered for deportation, among 1,023 overall - the nub of a crisis which forced his predecessor, Charles Clarke, from office.At prime minister's questions David Cameron, the Tory leader, said Mr Blair was "rattled" in the wake of the foreign prisoner controversy and the admission on Tuesday by Dave Roberts, director of enforcement and removals in the immigration and nationality directorate, that he hadn't "the faintest idea" how many illegal immigrants were in Britain."Two weeks ago the prime minister said automatic deportation would apply to any foreign national convicted of a criminal offence," Mr Cameron said. "Last week he said it would apply to those actually in prison. This week the home secretary said automatic deportation would only apply to foreign nationals serving a significant jail term. We've gone from 'all prisoners', to 'all significant prisoners', and now we've got the 'vast bulk'. He's just making it up as you go along."Mr Blair replied: "It may be that if they were sent to prison for example for a very short space of time and they'd been in this country for a long period of time, then the presumption of automatic deportation would not apply."The prime minister does appear to have shifted his language but his spokesman said the explanation was in line with previous clarifications by Downing Street. Mr Blair was looking for a review of the law on deportations, which could involve amendments to the Human Rights Act, as "a matter of urgency".Mr Blair said Mr Roberts' comments were unremarkable. "The reality is that no government has ever been able to say how many illegal immigrants there are," Mr Blair's spokesman said. The prime minister quoted a previous remark by the former home secretary Michael Howard, to that effect.Downing Street said 20,370 failed asylum seekers had been removed in 2004, compared with 6,610 in 1997.On Monday Mr Blair acknowledged the public were more dissatisfied about criminal justice than any other public service."It's you who made the criminal justice system a top priority and yet you said this week it is the department most distant from what reasonable people want," Mr Cameron said. "Why after four home secretaries, 43 pieces of legislation and nine years should anyone believe that you are the right man to sort it out?"But Mr Blair replied that crime was down and police numbers were at a record high. "I don't say we have got everything right. Of course not, we have got to do far more. But every time the tough measures that you go out and tell the media you want are introduced here, they are opposed by you and your party."