'Life, in your case, should mean life..." They must be difficult words to hear if you're standing in the dock at the end of a murder trial. For no matter how appropriate they may sound to onlookers - and regardless of the heinousness of the crime - those words spell living death. What many people may not realise, however, is that the judge's words are simply a recommendation: it is the home secretary who will decide how long the prisoner serves - whether the judge ruled that "life should mean life" or not.Last week the new lord chief justice, Lord Woolf of Barnes, signalled that when the European convention on human rights is incorporated into British law in October, that may all change. It may take only one test case to overthrow the home secretary's right to set the sentences of all 3,400 mandatory life prisoners. Many in the criminal justice system - not to mention inside prison - would be delighted to see him lose that power. Until 1994, few if any lifers were even told the length of their tariff (the minimum time they must spend in custody) as set by the home secretary. A lifer was obliged to estimate his tariff by adding three years to the date given to him for his first parole hearing. But no such conclusion could be drawn if the parole hearing was set to take place at the 17-year stage. If that was the case, a 20-year tariff could only be hoped for because a much, much higher one may have been set. Bizarrely, even prison governers were kept in the dark about tariffs. Then, in 1994, the High Court ordered the home secretary to tell all lifers the length of their tariff, and the reasoning behind that tariff - including details of judicial recommendations. The revelations came as a shock to many. A man I knew who had been sentenced to life at 19 had by then served five years. During that time he had made sufficient progress to have secured a job as a "red band" (trusty) working on duties unsupervised in the prison grounds. But his situation changed drastically when he received his tariff letter. He discovered the judicial recommendations were that he serve "at least 15 years". The home secretary, however, had set the tariff at 30 years. The governor of the prison, who was equally shocked, had no option but to take away the man's red band status - and he was subsequently transferred to a special prison tailored specifically to life sentence prisoners. More disturbingly, another man I knew who had already served 20 years was expecting a transfer to a low-security prison based on his positive response to therapy. A few weeks before Christmas, prison officers went to his cell an hour after night-time lock-up and escorted him to the segregation unit, where he was handed his tariff letter by the governor. The judiciary had originally recommended 20 years, but the home secretary decided on a "whole life tariff", meaning he should die in jail. He was held in the segregation unit for a while, then transferred back to a maximum-security dispersal prison. There were many others who found their tariff significantly higher than the judicial recommendations, though some found that the minister had agreed with the judiciary, and a minority found that, inexplicably, the minister had set a tariff lower than recommended.  One man, a chap from the north east, summed up the situation for everyone. Shouting from the top landing one day when the whole wing was unlocked for lunch, he yelled: "I have done 10 fucking years and only now do I get my sentence through the fucking post." His judge had told him in open court that he should serve "at least 15 years". His tariff letter, however, revealed that the home secretary had decided that he should serve "at least 25 years". That year representations were invited by the Home Office so that tariffs might be reviewed. Some were reduced, many were not. The life sentence journey is arduous and precarious, but many in the justice system believe successful rehabilitation for these men will be made far more achievable if the political element is removed from sentencing. It's vital - if you're to work towards becoming a useful member of society - that you know when you're going to get out and that no politician can prevent that. Without that goal, men can lose hope. And it's hope that keeps you going on the inside.