The only time my son had his face slashed open, the cut was inflicted by an unprovoked assailant's ringed hand slamming into his cheekbone, a half inch from his eye. Like most of his friends, he had been threatened with worse fates, as he walked home late at night. 'I've got a knife,' said the older boy who took his mobile phone and bus fare.Police officers knew the mugger, but he went unpunished. And anyway, such episodes seemed part of growing up in the inner city. Now, a few years on, there is a lengthening list of those who will not grow up or grow old. Kiyan Prince, 15, who died of stab wounds outside his school; Thomas Grant, a university student, killed on a train. A young father bled to death last week while his daughters, aged three and 10, screamed: 'Daddy's been stabbed.' As special constable Nisha Patel-Nasri was buried, with her attacker still at large, a teenage shop assistant was knifed.The liberal reflex to epidemics of murder and injury is to debunk hysteria and point to falling crime. This time, though, something is going on. Almost every criminologist believes that stranger-stabbing is increasing, despite a woeful lack of data. The British Crime Survey, which recorded almost 2.5 million violent assaults last year, does not include young people, the group most likely to go armed. Of the third of London schoolchildren who say they carry knives, some may just be sounding tough. But the government smells trouble. It is panicking accordingly.A mandatory jail sentence for carrying a knife has been mooted. John Reid is said to favour raising the top penalty for possession to five years, even though he recently voted against the Tories' attempt to do just that, and even though the current two-year maximum is hardly ever applied.It is not surprising that the Home Office is at a loss. Knife attacks are puzzling. They are the ultimate convenience crime, stripped of planning or premeditation. The weapon is a status symbol for the swaggerer or a comforter for the frightened. Some killers set out with butchery in mind, but many never imagine the second of fear or rage in which a blade will slide the three inches between chest wall and aorta.Britons see little of death. Even the natural sort is cleaned up, medicalised and viewed almost as an aberration by those who crave everlasting youth. Consumers of murder want it served up as fantasy, in crime novels or on a PlayStation screen. Now, suddenly, vicarious thrills are brushing up against reality. I would be astonished if the group jostling past me each day on the station escalator have guns, but I can easily imagine that these young men carry knives.When slaughter is haphazard, crime-solving demands precision. Last year, 839 homicides were recorded in England and Wales. Who died? When, where and how? Who killed them, and what for? Some time ago, academic Danny Dorling, of the University of Sheffield, tried to unravel this social Cluedo. Boy babies under the age of one are most at risk of being murdered, followed by young men, victims of 25 per cent of all homicides. Things have got worse for them. Last year, the murder rate for under-16s rose by a quarter: stabbing was the biggest cause.The current crisis displays a more random pattern of victims: the football prodigy, the woman police officer, the dad from the council estate. Their gender and background barely matter in media obituaries. The knife, the grimmest agent of democracy, accords equality to these dead. Or so we think. Crises are actually, and invariably, built round certain types of stabbing. The deaths of headmaster, Philip Lawrence and millionaire financier John Monckton sent a chilling message. When leading citizens die this way, then murder has jumped species. Suddenly, none of us is safe.Dorling revealed a different picture. Richer people have never been more secure, while less affluent ones have rarely been less safe. Those in the poorest decile are 182 per cent more likely to be murdered than the average citizen. Nor are they killed in the same way. The rich are often poisoned, strangled or shot; the poor are mostly knifed or kicked to death. Men born after 1965 run a higher risk than their predecessors, something Dorling attributed to the social divisions and job insecurity of the Eighties.But there was a later watershed, in 1997, when Tony Blair came to power, convinced the causes of crime are 'woven into the very fabric of our society'. The cures he proposed, such as SureStart, bled into a fixation with Asbos and criminal justice antidotes to yob culture. Last week's Home Office study showing that almost half-a-million children belong to law-breaking gangs was a requiem to the respect agenda. Laws designed to make youngsters good have, on the government's own testimony, produced a generation of knife-toting mini-gangsters.Richard Garside, acting director of the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, has rightly condemned the report as 'propaganda' for a get-tough agenda, but it is also a terrible indictment. Britain's knife wielders, in the main, lack education and self-esteem. The bullies and the bullied, they are the flotsam of Blair's meritocracy.Once, failing children were New Labour's tabula rasa; now, they are its demons, playing up to their allotted role. Among the capital's excluded schoolchildren, for example, 62 per cent say they carry a blade. The government wants tough sentences and quick results. But prisons, about to reach their operational capacity of 80,000, may soon - and properly - send non-serious offenders home. Imprisoning armies of under-age knife carriers, an absurd idea, would also be impossible.That is not an argument for leniency. Anyone using a knife to maim or kill must be severely punished. But solving the wider problem, and keeping the innocent safe, means educating children on the dangers they pose, and the risks they run, as well as resurrecting old policy ambitions. Blair found his holy grail long ago, but the mantra of better chances got lost in the widening gulf between the haves and have-nots. Somehow, Labour will have to rediscover its dream, for no one else will dare or bother. Meanwhile, the media recycle another gallery of the dead. Those images will fade in time, the panic will subside and others will carry on dying, unremarked.Some killers will be brought to justice, but knife murders will not be solved until society realises that it is also culpable. Men may be created equal, but they mostly kill and die according to their status. Statistics always made it likely that my son would come home alive on the night he was wounded and that some other woman's child would not.· mary.riddell@observer.co.uk