Newcastle United footballers Kieron Dyer and Lee Bowyer will find out next week if they are to face the courts for their on-pitch brawl in April.A file has been prepared by the Crown Prosecution Service on their clash, which took place during a match against Aston Villa in April.Following the fight, Bowyer and Dyer received four-match and three-match bans respectively, and Bowyer was fined six weeks' wages by his club.A spokesman for Northumbria police said today: "We have received a file from the CPS which we will review before making a decision. This is likely to be next week."CPS official Nazir Afzal confirmed that a number of incidents "in the Premiership in the last season" were under investigation. He did not give details of specific police forces or incidents.The news came as the CPS held a conference in London to draw up guidelines on when police and prosecutors should intervene in sport. Mr Afzal, one of the organisers of the Crime in Sport conference, criticised football authorities for their reluctance to address the issue of violence on the pitch. He drew a parallel with the reluctance of some Asian communities to speak out on crimes that occur within them."They prefer silence to dialogue and it would appear to me that the football community is like one of those communities."Mr Afzal, the sector director for CPS London West, stressed he did not want to remove aggression from sport. "Sport is about aggression, it is about hostility. It is about all these things that we love and enjoy. "We don't want in any sense to neuter it. But if it is criminal activity then it is something we are concerned about." Gordon Taylor, the chief executive of the Professional Footballers' Association, the footballers' union, who is attending the conference, said the game's professional bodies were already able to dish out heavy punishments to discipline footballers. Some of the biggest names in sport could be affected if police are given fresh instructions to investigate flare-ups during matches. Officers rarely step onto the field to break up violent incidents, with the referee typically given the authority to deal with on-pitch affray. Police chiefs are concerned that they have left sport to rule itself for too long, Mr Afzal said. "We have no hesitation in prosecuting spectators who attack players but there is a feeling that we are too tolerant about violence among players themselves."Sporting-related prosecutions are not unknown, with Duncan Ferguson the most high-profile footballer to have served a prison sentence. Ferguson, while a Glasgow Rangers player in 1994, headbutted John McStay of Raith Rovers. He was jailed for three months and served six weeks. But football has seen many violent incidents go unpunished by the law, with sporting authorities left to impose their own penalties. The intimidation of referees by players could also justify police intervention if guidelines are tightened up. The CPS conference will also consider its stance on spectator offences. Mr Afzal added: "A lot of people believe that hooliganism has been subdued but they are wrong. "It takes thousands of police officers every weekend to give that impression."Police have to be taken away from their everyday duties dealing with crime to guard against football violence." Mr Afzal also highlighted the issue of racism associated with sport, which he said was not just "a European problem" as many believed. He said: "The CPS is aware of dozens of incidents of racism by what we call '90-minute bigots', by people who scream abuse for 90 minutes plus injury time, then go back to their normal lives and black and Asian friends." He said the CPS was considering sending a team of prosecutors to Germany for next year's World Cup finals. Sports lawyer Steven Barker told the conference the law should not intervene further into the world of sport. He said there were exceptions, namely conduct that was "so outrageous that it is not really a sporting incident" as well as racism. Other topics on the agenda for today's conference include drug abuse, racism, organised crime and match-fixing.Police action in footballEl Hadji Diouf was fined £5,000 in September 2003 after spitting at a Celtic fan during Liverpool's Uefa Cup match at Celtic. Eric Cantona was sentenced to two weeks in prison in 1995, which on appeal was reduced to a community service order, after aiming a kung fu kick at spectator Matthew Simmons during Manchester United's match against Crystal Palace at Selhurst Park. Cantona had been sent off and the football authorities banned him for eight months.