The bars and pubs of Clifton were busy with party-goers by 8pm , as was Park Street, which climbs up from central Bristol through the university quarter and into the smart hilltop district.The mood, though, was subdued, given what happened here two weeks ago and the fact that a member of the community continued to be questioned after his arrest on suspicion of murder.Landscape architect Joanna Yeates, 25, had left the Ram pub on Park Street, where she had been drinking with colleagues, on the evening of December 17. Clearly in a good mood (CCTV caught her smiling), she visited shops to buy cider and a pizza.Police believe she arrived at her Clifton flat at 8.45pm. Then she vanished, sparking a police hunt, a murder inquiry and a narrative that has gripped the nation, culminating in an arrest that caused such a media stir that the attorney general warned against sensationalist reporting.The bare facts are horribly familiar. On Sunday 19 December Yeates's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returned to their flat on Canynge Road. He knew at once that something terrible had happened. Yeates was absent but her coat, keys and purse were there.By lunchtime the next day police were appealing for information while Yeates's many friends used social networking sites to ask for help and handed out leaflets on the street. Her parents, David and Theresa, joined the police appeal but were resigned to the idea that she had been abducted, murdered or both.A couple walking dogs in Failand found her snow-covered body on Christmas Day. A murder hunt began two days later, once a pathologist had told officers that Yeates had been strangled. By then the story had been hitting front pages and leading bulletins for days.David Wilson, professor of criminology at Birmingham City University and a commentator on social affairs, said that, as far as the media was concerned, Yeates – white, female and professional – was an "ideal victim". "Yeates's professional and personal life immediately had resonance with people watching television or reading newspapers," said Wilson.The visit to a pub and shops created a picture ordinary people could relate easily to. The timing, Christmas, made the agony of her loved ones all the more touching at a time when hard news is scarce.Finally there was the murder-mystery aspect. "The British public loves a whodunnit," said Wilson. "It's a particularly British thing. We were the first nation to use murder stories to sell newspapers and that culture is more ingrained here than elsewhere."Police were quick to rule out Reardon, who had been in Sheffield, but felt it was likely to be someone Yeates knew.On Wednesday neighbours said Yeates's landlord, Chris Jefferies, had claimed he had seen someone who might have been Yeates leave home with two people on the night she vanished. Jefferies later rowed back from these comments. The next morning he was arrested. TonightAvon and Somerset police were granted more time by magistrates to question him in custody.Today's papers were full of stories, some lurid, about Jefferies, a flamboyant former English teacher at the fee-paying Clifton College who used to sport blue hair and had a fondness for Christina Rossetti.The attorney general, Dominic Grieve, warned the media to be mindful of contempt of court laws: "We need to avoid a situation where trials cannot take place or are prejudiced as a result of irrelevant or improper material being published."As searches continued, more details of 17 December seeped out. Neighbour Peter Stanley told how he and Jefferies had helped jump start Reardon's car to send him on his way shortly before he left town. "It was a non-event at the time, but absolutely poignant now – what if we didn't get the car to start?" Stanley asked. It was also revealed that before Yeates was murdered police were reinvestigating the case of Glenis Carruthers, 20, who was strangled in 1974 a few minutes' walk from Canynge Road.For Joanna Yeates's loved ones, 2010 will remain with them for all the wrong reasons. One tribute outside her flat seemed to sum up their feelings: "Sweet Jo, we'll miss your smile and laugh, work won't be the same without you."• This article was amended on 21 January 2011. The original described Clifton as a Bristol suburb. This has been clarified.