What was so great about the Great Train Robbery? I've been thinking about this because there were around a dozen complaints about an article by Great Train robber Bruce Reynolds, which appeared on the front page of the Guardian the day after five men were convicted of stealing £53m in a raid on a Securitas depot in Kent. A paragraph introducing the piece said: "the man who masterminded ... the biggest heist of the 1960s, reflects on the pitfalls and excitement of going for a criminal spectacular." That was a fair summary and some readers felt the piece glamorised both crimes.Bruce Reynolds is a robber turned writer, with three books to his name, who was involved in a crime 45 years ago for which he served time in jail. This was his fourth article for the Guardian - the others were reviews of: a film (Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels) a play (Loot) and a documentary (on the Great Train Robbery). They were written from the point of view of a former robber and it was this perspective that the Guardian's senior correspondent, who commissioned the piece, thought would be of value and interest as part of the newspaper's coverage of the Securitas robbery."Let us clear out of the way any romantic notions," Mr Justice Edmund Davies said when he handed out 30-year jail sentences to seven of the Great Train robbers in 1964. "This is nothing less than a sordid crime of violence inspired by vast greed." On the day the Guardian published the Reynolds piece on the front page, it reported similar comments from Kent's chief crown prosecutor about the Securitas robbery. "It's quite wrong for it to end up being romanticised in an Ocean's 12 way," he said. "There is nothing romantic about a child being held at gunpoint by a masked man." For some people this was part of the problem with the Reynolds piece - it ignored the violence used in both crimes.What particularly troubled some readers (and me) was a line towards the end, which began: "You have to say hats off to them for imagination and ambition, but you wonder if that will be enough to sustain them for the years they'll have to serve in prison." The call for appreciation at the start of that sentence rather overpowered the warning that followed.The Guardian's senior correspondent explained that Reynolds wrote to his brief, which was to compare the two crimes. The piece looked at the similarities and differences in a fairly matter-of-fact way. It also provided an insight into the way criminals think, telling readers that the Great Train robbers wanted to do something "as spectacular" as the 1950 Brinks robbery in Boston.The piece was intended as part of a "whole package" of reporting on the Securitas robbery, which included the paper's coverage of the callous and violent aspects of the crime. Reynolds' job was to provide a completely different point of view, the senior correspondent told me. "It would be dangerous to say such pieces should not appear in the Guardian," he said. Part of the paper's remit is to provide a range of views, the deputy editor told me. He also said that the article should not be judged in isolation from the rest of the paper's reporting. "Our approach to crime is not to glamorise it," he said. "I'm sorry if some readers viewed it that way." I tend to agree with him that the Reynolds piece did not glorify either robbery; the analysis might be described as business-like, the tone flippant in places, but that is not the same thing as glamorising crime. A former Great Train robber's perspective on a comparable crime has a place in the paper but when, as here, its tone is lighter and at odds with the paper's own reports on the subject, it's reasonable to ask whether that place is on the front page. The prominence given to this piece, which was next to a grainy image of two masked armed robbers inside the Securitas depot, may have given readers an impression of the Guardian's approach to a serious crime that in no way reflected the rest of its coverage. reader@theguardian.com