Relatives of one of the police officers killed in a gun and grenade attack in Greater Manchester have paid tribute to their "caring and loving girl" who was "always happy with life" and loved the job that tragically brought her into the line of fire.A day after 23-year-old Nicola Hughes died alongside her 32-year-old colleague, Fiona Bone, in Hattersley, Tameside, her parents, Susan and Bryn, and younger brother Sam said they would always be "exceedingly proud" of her.A statement released through Greater Manchester police said: "Nicola was our only daughter and a beautiful child. She was always happy with life and lived for her family."She had an infectious personality and sense of humour and was a very caring and loving girl. When she left the house this morning she was going to the job she loved."Nicola always wanted to make a difference and, in doing so, she made such a big difference to everyone she knew. She cared about everyone and especially her colleagues."Nicola was only 23 years old and had the whole of her life in front of her. We cannot express how we feel today except to say we have always been exceedingly proud of Nicola and always will be. She knew she was loved by us all and we shall all miss her dreadfully."Hughes, a karate fan described as a "bubbly" and cheerful "chatterbox" by her chief constable, Sir Peter Fahy, lived with her mother in the Oldham area. She joined the Greater Manchester force in 2009 and had served all three years of her service in the Tameside division.PC Bone, who had five years' service with the force, was described by Fahy as a calm and gentle woman and appreciated colleague by at an emotional press conference on Tuesday. She had been "so happy with her partner", he said, with whom she had been planning a civil partnership. Police said her family were due to fly in to Manchester from the Isle of Man."Her fellow officers said that they always loved being partnered off with her as she was always calm, collected and professional, and could defuse situations with her calm, gentle way," Fahy said.An online book of condolences has attracted more than 2,600 messages, many of them from fellow police officers. Tom McGhie, former chairman of the West Yorkshire Police Federation, wrote: "My experiences when I was the chairman of West Yorkshire Police Federation at the time that Ian Broadhurst and Sharon Beshenivsky were murdered will live with me for ever. Their sacrifice and those of your colleagues murdered today will never be forgotten. My thoughts and heartfelt condolences go out to all those affected by this senseless tragedy."