Police searching for five-year-old April Jones, who went missing more than 10 weeks ago, have vowed to continue to look for her until all viable lines of inquiry have been exhausted.Dyfed-Powys police said April's mother and father, Coral and Paul Jones, had shown great strength of character as they dealt with the fact that they might not see their daughter alive again.In an emotional statement issued through the force, April's parents said Christmas would be a difficult time but they would attempt to mark the occasion for the sake of their other two children. They were trying to come to terms with the fact that their "baby girl" had been taken from them, they added.Police continue to search the mountains and valleys around Machynlleth, mid-Wales, and say they are focusing on an area of about 60 sq km. They are also preparing for the trial of Mark Bridger, 47, who has been charged with the abduction and murder of April.The former lifeguard, from the hamlet of Ceinws near Machynlleth, is accused of disposing of April's body and concealing it with intent to pervert the course of justice. He is scheduled to appear in court in the new year.Speaking at a press conference in Machynlleth, Superintendent Ian John emphasised that the search for April, who went missing from outside her home on 1 October, continued. He said: "For over 10 weeks Dyfed-Powys police have been searching for April Jones. The aim of everyone working on this case is to locate April, to investigate her disappearance, support her family through this traumatic time and reassure the community."He said teams of officers from "all corners of the UK" were also assisting the search. "This week we have 16 search teams comprising a search leader and six officers, together with 12 crime scene investigation dogs with their handlers, out in the mountains and valleys around Machynlleth."They have been out in all weathers carrying out systematic and methodical searches of the very challenging terrain. This is one of the largest searches in the UK in police history. Specialist teams from other agencies and organisations have been searching rivers, the sea, mines and quarries and various other spaces in the hillsides of Machynlleth. Volunteers from mountain rescue teams have walked for miles, all working together looking for clues and evidence that might help us find April."The river Dyfi, which flows through the town, has been a main focus of the search. John said another key area was the "massive" Dyfi forest, which stretches for miles north of Machynlleth.John said: "We will keep on looking until we have satisfied ourselves that we have exhausted all viable lines of inquiry. We are not putting an end date on the operation and we are not prepared to speculate on how much longer it will last. We are committed to stay here until we are sure there are no more viable places to look for April's body."The investigation team continue their work to uncover what happened that evening and prepare for the trial. Specially trained family liaison officers continue to support the family through the difficult times as they try to recover to some sort of normality."The Jones family have shown great strength of character through their ordeal as they come to terms with the fact that they will not see their daughter alive again."John said the community had been "rocked" by April's disappearance but he paid tribute to how people had joined the hunt or helped by providing searchers with food, equipment and warm clothes. He added: "The key message is that while the operation will scale down over Christmas, work continues at a pace."John read a statement from April's family: "It has been 10 weeks since April, our beautiful girl, was taken from us and the pain of our tragic loss does not get any easier to bear. With support we are taking each day at a time. The police family liaison team are helping us get on with everyday life as well as keeping us up to date with search plans and the work being done to prepare for the court case."Messages of support from all over the UK have continued, and we are grateful that we are in people's thoughts and prayers. The empathy shown towards us by not only local people but those from afar has shown us that people really do come together during difficult times."We are extremely grateful to Dyfed-Powys police for their continued efforts to find April. The dedication and determination shown by the search teams has been truly amazing. We take comfort to think that they will be returning to their families to take a well-earned rest over the Christmas and new year period."We understand that Christmas will be a particularly difficult time to be without April being amongst us, but as parents of Harley and Jasmine we will obviously acknowledge the festive period as best we can. We sincerely hope that families around the world will enjoy a peaceful and loving Christmas."April's parents concluded by thanking the media for giving them space. "We realise this is a big media story but for us it our life and we are coming to terms with the fact that our baby girl has been taken from us."April was last seen as she played close to her home. She had been allowed to stay out later than usual because her parents had just received a glowing report on her progress at school.