Italian police were yesterday holding three suspects in connection with the sexual assault and brutal murder in Perugia of British student Meredith Kercher after detectives suggested she had tried to fight off her attackers before she was killed.Four days after Ms Kercher, 21, was found with her throat cut at her student accommodation, police took into custody her American flatmate Amanda Knox, 20, Ms Knox's Italian boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito, 24, and Diya Lumumba, the manager of a Perugia bar. All are being held on suspicion of murder and sexual assault, said Perugia's police chief Arturo De Felice at a press conference yesterday to announce the breakthrough.Ms Kercher was found on Friday at 1.30pm, semi-naked in a pool of blood and covered by a duvet in her bedroom.The possibility resurfaced yesterday that she had been made to have sex by her killers. "This was probably a sexually motivated killing," said Mr De Felice, adding that Ms Kercher appeared to have fought against her attackers."It's an ugly story in which people which this girl had in her home, friends, tried to force her into relations which she didn't want," the interior minister, Giuliano Amato, told a news conference.The pathologist who carried out the autopsy on Ms Kercher had previously said that she had sexual intercourse shortly before her death, but was not raped, prompting theories she had consensual sex before being killed. But he did not exclude the possibility that Ms Kercher had been forced into sex."The autopsy showed no sign of the lesions that suggest rape, but I cannot rule out intercourse under threat, which might not leave the same signs," said Luca Lalli. "I feel free to say that now that the police have a break in the investigation."The three suspects were not named by police, but they were identified as Ms Kercher's American flatmate, and an Italian man subsequently named by Italian press agency Ansa. The police identified the third suspect as a 37-year-old Congolese bar owner who had been in the country since 1988. He was also later named by Ansa. Two of the suspects, Ms Knox and Mr Sollecito, returned to the scene of the crime on Friday at about the same time as police, who were visiting after finding Ms Kercher's mobile phones abandoned near the house.They claimed they had slept at Mr Sollecito's house the night before. Mr Sollecito, who comes from a well-off family in Bari, southern Italy, told reporters on Saturday he had been shocked to stumble across the woman's body.On Tuesday evening, Italian news agency Ansa reported that records of calls made and received on Ms Kercher's mobile phones, as well as fingerprints found at the crime scene were crucial in identifying the three suspects taken into custody.Mr Lumamba studied at the University for Foreigners after arriving nearly 20 years ago and settling in the city. He was reported by friends in Perugia to be a father of a one year old child by his Polish girlfriend.Before being held by police he mingled with journalists and friends of Ms Kercher on Monday outside the university, telling one reporter he had liked Ms Kercher, and was about to give her a job handing out leaflets with Ms Knox.Ms Knox studied at Perugia's University for Foreigners with Ms Kercher and has also worked for the Le Chic bar in Perugia, handing out advertising leaflets. The bar is managed by , Mr Lumumba, known as Patrick in Perugia, where he is widely known in student circles.Ms Knox has kept a blog on the website MySpace, in which she recounts her life in Perugia."Speaking of working," she wrote, "I've been working everynight (except for Monday night) from 10pm to 2.30am at a bar called Le Chic. Its a really small place owned by this man from the Congo. his name is Patrick."Mr Sollecito posted photographs of himself on his own blog wrapped in toilet roll to imitate a mummy and holding a meat cleaver.His aunt meanwhile defended her nephew yesterday. "He is a model student and would not hurt a fly," said Rosaria Achille.Before holding the suspects, police suspected that Ms Kercher knew her assailants due to the lack of signs of forced entry to the house, which Ms Kercher shared with Ms Knox and two Italian women who did not sleep there on Thursday night.