Terrorists and organised criminals are turning to fraud because they know the chances of detection and conviction are small and the sentences for those unlucky enough to be caught are lenient, the attorney general said yesterday.Lord Goldsmith, addressing prosecutors and academics from almost 40 countries at a conference on economic crime, said: "The advantages of committing economic crime as opposed to other criminal activity are known to terrorists. "Other organised criminals are all too well aware of the costs and benefits viz a viz the risks when compared with other forms of crime. "To put it bluntly, the risk of detection, investigation, prosecution and conviction of an offence of fraud is small, and if you are unlucky enough to be caught, the sentence is probably tolerable for the gains you have made. Whereas trafficking in drugs or people or arms may result in increased risk of detection and certainly more severe penalties." Lord Goldsmith told the delegates at Jesus College, Cambridge: "It is notable how often defendants receive non-custodial and suspended sentences despite committing serious economic crime." One of the attorney general's powers is to refer cases, including serious frauds, to the court of appeal if he feels the penalty imposed by the courts was too lenient. He cited a recent serious fraud office case in which a conman received a 15-month suspended sentence for a conspiracy to defraud £1.75m. The appeal court imposed an immediate jail term in place of the suspended sentence handed down by the trial judge. Lord Goldsmith said that the UK had enacted legislation to make it easier to cut off and disrupt terrorist financing through account monitoring, asset freezing, cash seizing and information disclosure from financial institutions. A militant cell, thought to have raised more than £350,000 through cheque and credit card fraud, was recently convicted of terrorist finance offences. The UK authorities have frozen the assets of more than 200 individuals and 100 organisations. The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 aimed to take the profit out of crime and dismantle and disrupt criminal empires by removing the money that was their motivation and lifeblood, he said.But criminal investigation was necessarily lengthy and the results uncertain. Although there were cases which could not be allowed to go uninvestigated and not prosecuted, in many instances the authorities would have to make do with second best; for example, disrupting criminal activities. Lord Goldsmith said it was a myth that economic crime was less evil than other criminal activity because it did not damage people. "Economic crime fuels terrorism. Money laundering is essential to serious and organised crime. Revenue fraud - involving particularly indirect taxes such as excise duty and VAT - is one of the major threats to the UK from organised crime, according to the most recent report of our national criminal intelligence service." Because of the global threat, the response must come from all countries, he added. "No country should be allowed to be a safe haven for money laundering or other financial crime ...unless ringfenced, one country can bring down all our efforts. I am sure that no country here would want to be, in that sense, the weakest link." Lord Goldsmith said there were still a number of "non-cooperative countries and territories" likely to undermine the work of other states by providing safe havens. "This is a global effort requiring all nations to participate fully," he said.