The battle is almost won. Seven law lords were unanimous yesterday in their ruling that politicians should play no role in establishing the length of sentence individual offenders should serve. They were reviewing the last category in which home secretaries still retain a sentencing role: setting the tariff (the minimum period for retribution and deterrence) a convicted murderer must serve. The second part of the sentence, under which murderers are still detained if they pose a public risk, is decided by the parole board after expert assessment.The home secretary had tried to persuade the court that his power was "fundamental to confidence in the criminal justice system". The law lords gave short shrift to that argument. Under article six of the European convention of human rights - drafted by English lawyers and ratified by the UK decades ago - convicted offenders have a right to sentences imposed by "independent and impartial" tribunals. It was under this article that home secretaries had already lost a succession of other sentencing powers in the last decade. But now we have a human rights act of our own, this last category was heard in London. The law lords rightly concluded that the home secretary was neither independent nor impartial, but an important member of the executive. Far from reinforcing public confidence in justice, the blatant political manner in which successive home secretaries have used their sentencing powers has only undermined it. The last four incumbents have all opted for the easy option: be as tough as you can with public hate figures. Some, like Jack Straw and David Blunkett, used it as a cover for more liberal moves. Michael Howard used it solely to curry public favour. Indeed, he created a third criterion on top of tariff and risk: whether release was publicly acceptable. This was to deny the purpose of criminal justice: to lift it above lynch law. Contrary to the current home secretary's assertions, executive sentencing has no place in a democracy. It is a power for tinpot dictators. Both Scotland and Northern Ireland have already accepted the principle. England should follow suit. Mr Blunkett, who promised to resist the judgment, now says he will set legislative guidelines for judges to follow. As breaches to the guidelines can only be decided by the judges, it looks as though the judges have won. But wait for the details before reaching a final judgment.