The rise in the smuggling of stolen cars from the UK to Africa, the Middle East and other countries has forced police to raise the priority of these types of crime in an attempt to tackle the problem.Operation Stairway has started targeting suspected freight agencies and the gangs involved, some of which have been stealing millions of pounds worth of cars. While overall car theft in the UK has fallen in recent years, the theft and smuggling of vehicles abroad is thriving.Up to 20,000 high-value cars a year are now removed from the streets of Britain and sold on through secondhand car markets in Africa and countries such as Cyprus, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Spain.Some gangs, like the one sentenced at Southwark crown court today for smuggling cars to Dubai, target high-performance luxury cars. The vehicles smuggled to Africa, however, are often more modest and reliable, making the parts easier to find. Operation Stairway was initiated after a series of criminal teams in the south-east of England were convicted of sending hundreds of top of the range Mercedes and BMWs to Nigeria and Kenya. The operation is being run by the Vehicle Crime Intelligence Service (AVCIS), a specialist unit within the Association of Chief Police Officers.The precise scale of the problem is unknown, according to Superintendent John Wake, the head of the AVCIS, but is large enough to have generated a secondary profession of "bounty hunters" who earn their income repatriating stolen cars.Police are also investigating whether they need more powers to monitor ports and combat the gangs, and the results of an inquiry are due to be published in December.One concern is whether the regulations governing what is written on the cargo manifest accompanying each container are adequate. Requiring more information on car registration plates or chassis numbers might strengthen controls.In an increasingly globalised economy the problem is becoming more acute. In September, a combined investigation by Hertfordshire, Essex and Kent police resulted in a dozen-strong gang receiving total sentences of more than 50 years for carjacking and theft. Most of the crimes involved burglary of keys from homes, enabling £4m worth of vehicles to be driven off. Officers seized 92 cars from containers bound for Mombasa in Kenya at Felixstowe port.A London-based gang arrested last year was found to have been stealing 120 prestige cars a month, mostly Mercedes', stripping them down to spare parts, packing them into containers and dispatching them to Nigeria. One policeman compared their methods to "an industrial production line" adding that: "they were incredibly professional, like a Formula one pit crew but in reverse".Operation Stairway involves officers from AVCIS and local forces. "There are thousands of containers going out on ships every day, let alone vehicles on Ro-Ro ferries," Wake told The Guardian. "We are trying to gather data about how many [stolen cars] are going out."Some coastal forces are reluctant to monitor exports, he explained, because stolen vehicles recovered from other forces' areas do not improve their own crime statistics. "We now have officers in a number of ports gathering data for a strategic document [to show] there's some benefit to joining together and tackling it," Wake said.Holding up a container ship to search for suspect vehicles is a punitively expensive business. "So we are targeting containers where the freight forwarder had been involved before or where scanning equipment picked up something on the manifest as wrong," he said.Wake is talking to Customs to see whether there are "weaknesses" in export control regulations. "We are trying to identify whether there is stringent enough ... action at the ports." What is needed, he added, is a "robust system that would prevent vehicles being exported from the UK without full identification of the vehicle".Of 180,000 vehicles stolen in the UK overall last year, 48% were recovered. The rest were scrapped for spare parts, "cloned" - given a false identity - or shipped abroad."There's clear evidence of a significant number of vehicles leaving the UK," Wake said.Repatriation agencies, collecting rewards for stolen cars, brought about 1,000 vehicles back to Britain from overseas last year. They employ spotters in places like Cyprus, Dubai and Spain looking for suspicious UK-registered cars.They watch out for luxury cars parked in docks where thieves often leave them for days to see if they are protected by tracking devices.Rewards of £500 or £1,000 are offered by insurance companies for valuable vehicles. "They are effectively bounty hunters for cars," Wake said. "Not a bad little earner."The use of electronic immobilisers has stopped cars being hot-wired and driven off but has started a technological arms race between thieves and manufacturers.In some cases, criminals have learned to disable tracking devices, although some have anti-tamper mechanisms. Tracking devices can work on either GSM (mobile phone) networks or GPS satellite systems.Another potential security weakness lies in the fact that some electronic doorbells use the same frequency as remote car key locks. It is technically possible to jam a car key signal with a doorbell push, preventing the car being locked. Wake believes this method has been used in a handful of cases. Drivers should always double-check that doors have been locked, he added.There is currently a dispute in the EU about whether the manufacturer or the individual driver should own the key codes that unlock each car."There has been talk that car security should be improved using keys that work on biometrics," Supt Wake said. "That sounds fantastic but that increases the risk of, for example, lone females [being taken too]. One result of improved security has been an increase in violent carjackings, where drivers were pulled out of their vehicles at gun or knife-point."A Department of Transport spokesman said that its port documentation only required that the car type on the manifest matched the vehicle inside the container. "Chasing number-plates is not us," he added.A spokesman for Customs said: "We have arrangements in place where we work with police if we suspect a vehicle has been stolen."The British Freight Forwarding Association said that neither licence plate nor chassis numbers had to be recorded on the customs declaration form."There's nothing in the [manifest] code or the supporting documentation that could lead Customs to suspect a vehicle is stolen," said a spokesman for the association."Because so many trans-shipments go through Antwerp, the Belgian authorities were last year looking at the problem and whether more information is required on documents, particularly for vehicles."