Prison isn't working for you, the taxpayer and law-abiding citizen. As a country, we are addicted to using a Victorian invention to tackle 21st century problems and the results of our custodial obsession have brought the penal system to its knees.England and Wales has the highest imprisonment rate in Western Europe. We hand out almost twice as many life sentences as the rest of Europe put together. Almost every week we are hitting all-time records for people jailed in England and Wales. In October, the prison population overtook the 81,500 mark. Ten years ago, we had an average prison population of just over 61,000.Yet people do not feel any safer. And it is little wonder: almost two-thirds of those sentenced to custody are reconvicted within two years. Among young men aged 18-20, reconviction rates rise to just over three-quarters. With males aged 15-18, the reconviction rate stands at 82% - rising to a staggering 96% for those with a history of more than seven convictions. In comparison, community sentencing can reduce reoffending by up to 22% compared to a short custodial sentence.Prison, it seems, does nothing to deter offending. It feeds the crime problem rather than solving it. Yet our obsession with placing punishment and questionable deterrence over actually cutting crime has led to gross overcrowding, rising prison suicides, falling staff morale and old, crumbling prisons starved of cash for renovation and repairs. When prisoners are released from such a dysfunctional system, it should be no surprise they fall back into lives of crime.Though ministers are desperate to ease prison overcrowding and fully aware that short custodial sentences only exacerbate the crime problem, they lack the courage to take a rational policy argument to the public. Familiar attempts at political fudging then ensue. For example, proposals have now been floated for those sentenced to six months or less to be sent to prison only if places are available. This is the worst of all halfway houses, given that it is fundamentally unfair for two people who have committed the same offence to be given completely different sentences simply because of the exigencies of overcrowding. Justice should not be seen to depend on a jail's empty beds.Far better if the government in Westminster followed the lead of Alex Salmond's administration in Edinburgh, which has committed to ruling out the use of custody in sentences of six months or less as a matter of principle. But that kind of political bravery appears to be scarce south of the border.The shame is that reducing the use of prison is not only good criminal justice policy. It is also the prudent thing to do. The Economic Case For and Against Prison, a new economic analysis published this week by the Matrix Knowledge Group, now proves that our custodial obsession is also costing us dearly as taxpayers. Community sentences can deliver savings to the taxpayer from £3,437 to £88,469 per sentenced offender, depending on the level of intervention from community supervision to surveillance and residential treatment for drug addiction, and up to £200,000 per sentenced offender when taking into account cuts to what the analysis terms ''victims costs". These victims costs take in the success rates of community interventions in cutting reoffending, as compared to prison sentences, and show how much the public sector saves not only in the administration of the sentence but also the avoided tangible and intangible costs to victims.For example, the Drug Treatment Alternative to Prison Programme (DTAP) diverts non-violent drug-addicted offenders into community-based facilities rather than custody, with group counselling, training and 24-hour residential supervision. Those who have gone through DTAP are 43% less likely to reoffend after release than comparable offenders receiving prison sentences. The cost of the DTAP intervention per year is £5,299 per year, compared to the average cost of a prison place at £23,585 per year. Estimating the value for money based on the reduced chance of reoffending over an offender's post-release lifetime, the study calculates the savings to the taxpayer are £88,469. Using a complex model to factor in the effect of fewer victims costs, the study estimates that savings to the public sector could be as high as £202,775 per sentenced offender.Some serious offences will always require long prison sentences and the economic analysis also takes this into account. It shows that enhanced prison sentences for long-term prisoners, incorporating some form of training or treatment, are also considerably more effective in reducing reoffending. While more expensive than a "prison basic" sentence, enhanced custodial interventions are better value for money in the long term, saving up to £130,000 per sentenced offender when taking into account the savings from fewer victims costs.In short, this latest economic analysis adds to an ever-growing body of evidence that prison should be the "heavy end" of the criminal justice system, not a first port of call as it has become for many. It also confirms that if prison isn't working for the public, then people need to be made aware of how exactly it is failing them. This requires political leadership and a willingness to fight for public opinion. Robust community interventions, tackling the underlying causes of crime, must be championed. Restorative responses that involve victims in a positive way and enable those who commit crimes to make amends must be explored. These 21st century solutions to our custodial obsession are not tough, or soft, but effective. They will deliver the one result that surely everyone wants - less crime and fewer victims of crime.