What a terrible and tragic case. A mother stabs her two children to death while they sleep. Two girls, Davina, 16 and her sister, Jasmin, 13 murdered by the very person to whom they looked to for love and protection, their lives snuffed out before they had a chance to reach maturity.Rekha Kumari-Baker had gone shopping the previous day to buy the knives with which she stabbed her daughters a total of 69 times. Her actions appear to have been premeditated and cold-blooded. This week, the jury took a mere 35 minutes to consider its verdict. The members rejected Kumari-Baker's defence of diminished responsibility, despite the fact that she had previously been treated for depression – rightly so, in my opinion. Instead, they were persuaded by the prosecution case, as I am, that she killed the girls in order to destroy her ex-husband's happiness with another woman.What a wicked, wicked woman and what a heinous crime.I only have one question to ask of this case. Why was Kumari-Baker sentenced to serve a minimum of 33 years in prison, one of the longest tariffs ever handed to a woman in England? Certainly, if Kumari-Baker were deemed to be a danger to the public, she should only be released when that is no longer the case. However, no evidence was put forward to suggest that she poses such a risk.In sentencing, the judge said: "Most people will find it inexplicable that a mother could kill her own children, and you have given no explanation for it." He is right, but does it not also seem that we unconsciously accept crimes of this nature that men commit but reserve a special sort of hatred for women?Paternal filicide is at least as common as maternal filicide (depending on how the statistics are compiled). The plea of diminished responsibility on psychiatric grounds by John Hogan, who killed his son and seriously injured his daughter by throwing them off a hotel balcony in 2006, was accepted by a court in Greece; and the Crown Prosecution Service has indicated that no further action will be taken now that he has returned to the UK for treatment. Earlier this year, Ashok Kalyanjee was found guilty of stabbing to death his two sons. The judge sentencing him at the high court in Glasgow reduced his tariff from a potential 28 years to 21, because of Kalyanjee's early guilty plea. Obviously, every case is different and each has its particular circumstances, but the harshness of Kumari-Baker's sentence seems exceptional.As in this case, where men kill their children, no thought for the children as humans is given whatsoever – they are mere cannon fodder in a scheme to extract revenge. Some men kill their children and then themselves if they are depressed and feel hopeless, usually if the mother of the children has left him.Whatever the reasons, entitlement and control are generally at the forefront, along with rage, jealousy, revenge and hatred. The general view on these matters seems to be that men can't help themselves, but women can. Women are expected to love and care for their children above all else, whereas men can be distant and even cruel but still considered "good enough" fathers.My view on the Kumari-Baker case is straightforward. What she did is unforgivable, and I feel no sympathy whatsoever for her. I would, however, like to see judges sentencing dangerous male killers accordingly, and not reserving such extreme sentences for women. Double standards in the law are not acceptable, however unpalatable we find crimes of this nature.