A serial sex attacker nicknamed the Spider raped a teenage girl months after being released from jail, although he was living at a bail hostel under close supervision of probation officers.Richard Ewing, 41, was electronically tagged, subject to a curfew at night and had to report to the hostel every two hours, but was able to plan and carry out the attack on the 17-year-old, Dorchester crown court heard yesterday.When interviewed by police, he said he had a "demon" inside him. He said he had seen the girl four or five times before and ignored her."But this day was different," he said. "Everything changed, my personality changed. I wasn't the same person, I had no control. I just turned round and grabbed her and marched her into the shed. She screamed and stuff and that didn't mean anything to me. I didn't know how to stop."The case highlights the problem facing the probation service which does not have the resources to monitor every dangerous sex offender 24 hours a day. But it will anger those who argue that criminals like Ewing should not be released so early from long sentences.The court heard that Ewing, 41, was staying at the Weston bail hostel in Weymouth, Dorset, when he attacked the girl in July. He had been released eight months before, when 12 years into an 18-year jail sentence.Martin Meeke QC, prosecuting, said that before the attack Ewing planted some rope in a remote storehouse at a farm. The victim, described as a "slip of a girl", was walking home after a shopping trip when Ewing pounced. He tied her up and raped her.Mr Meeke said: "Until that moment, this 17-year-old girl was a virgin." When he let her go Ewing told her that if she told anyone what had happened he would find her and rape her again.Ewing was quickly linked to the attack and his name and picture released. An off-duty police officer recognised him from a wanted poster and he was arrested.Mr Meeke said that the probation service "could not have done any more in terms of supervising this man than was done".Ewing pleaded guilty yesterday to two counts of rape and one of kidnapping.Imposing a sentence of life imprisonment, Judge John Beashel told him: "You were complying with the terms of your licence, but at the same time you were cynically planning your next offence."You have demonstrated all too clearly that no matter the restrictions placed on you outside of prison you will find a way to obtain sexual gratification by attacking women. You are a very dangerous sexual predator."Ewing was given the nickname of the Spider because of the meticulous and ruthless way in which he had carried out his sex attacks in the past. He attacked three women in Exeter, Devon, between 1989 and 1993.