The family of a woman shot dead in a robbery on her jewellery shop in suburban Nottingham called yesterday for the government to do more to stop crime.As the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced record police numbers, the daughters of Marian Bates claimed that while in the past they had known their local bobby well, nowadays they did not set eyes on a police officer from one week to the next. Mrs Bates, 64, died protecting her daughter, Xanthe, at the family-run shop, the Time Centre, in Arnold on Tuesday. The gunman, one of two thieves in their late teens or early twenties, also aimed to shoot Mrs Bates' husband, Victor, but his gun misfired. Ms Bates, 34, yesterday told how Mr Bates, 64, had in the past contacted the local newspapers several times calling for there to be more police patrols. In days gone by, she said, "there was a bobby on this street. He would come in and have a cup of tea with us". Mr Blunkett, she said, "needs policemen that are approachable on the streets of Britain ... We should not have to live like this. A policeman is a deterrent. That deterrent has gone." The shop had been her place of work and the family's home for years, and she herself had gone to nursery school in the same street. The family were, she said, a "traditional family with traditional family values", but she doubted that she would now be able to return to the shop. Ms Bates began to break down as she said: "She [Mrs Bates] was a shop assistant in a quiet suburb of Nottingham. I did not expect this to happen to us when I got out of bed and took my children to school on Tuesday morning. I wish I could go back to Tuesday morning." During his speech to the Labour conference Mr Blunkett said his heart went out to Mrs Bates' family. He said: "The community of Arnold has been and must be again a peaceful place in which to work and live, and communities across Britain must be restored to their people, protected from the organised gangs and gun-runners." Mr Blunkett said he wanted lessons learned during Operation Trident, the Metropolitan police's campaign against gun crime in the black community, and initiatives in south Manchester to be spread across the country. "The reality of the moment may well be the challenge of guns," he added. "But it will not be the reality tomorrow if this Labour government succeeds in getting a third term in office to carry forward our agenda." Mr Blunkett also confirmed that police numbers had reached a record high of 136,386, breaking the government's target by nearly 4,000 six months early. Xanthe's sister, Naomi, 36, did not seem impressed by the rhetoric. Asked what her message was to the government, she said ministers should: "put their money where their mouth is". Naomi said that in recent years her mother had been worried about a decline in Nottingham, which has seen a wave of gun crime, mainly gang-related. The daughter said: "She was concerned about how it was going and she said she no longer could go out in Nottingham at night. We seem to be dragged down by a criminal element continually."