As many as 20,000 stolen vehicles, including high performance Range Rovers, BMWs, Mercedes and Audis, are shipped abroad every year by organised criminal gangs to be resold in Asia or west Africa, according to official estimates.The scale of the trade, which has been linked to the spate of violent carjackings in London and the south-east, is attracting increasing attention from law enforcement agencies. Britain's national criminal intelligence service (NCIS) is heading a European investigation into the problem and ways to disrupt the main smuggling routes. It is due to report later this year. Last autumn dozens of car showrooms in Hertfordshire and Essex were raided at night, keys were stolen from security offices and transporters used to drive away at least 100 top of the range vehicles. Most of the BMWs and Audis are thought to have been hidden in shipping containers and sent overseas. The trade has become so lucrative that some criminals, according to police intelligence sources, have abandoned drug smuggling - and the prospect of lengthy prison sentences - for steadier returns from car crime. Evidence has also emerged that British gangs are extending their operations into Europe. One scam involves criminals renting left-hand drive vehicles on the continent, paying for them with stolen credit cards, then transporting them through the Channel tunnel. "Before the rental agreement runs out," said the NCIS's head of organised vehicle crime, Alex Game, "the cars are taken to a 'stuffer's yard' in the east end of London, packed into a cargo container and dispatched to a port. The export manifest will describe the contents as sanitary ware or fridges." It is known as "stuffing" because skilled packers can get three vehicles or parts from 20 cars inside one 40ft container. Around 340,000 cars and motorbikes were stolen in Britain last year. The annual figure has been decreasing as improved security devices, such as immobilisers and alarms, become standard fittings on new cars. There are few reliable statistics, however, on recoveries. The NCIS believes 150,000 vehicles a year disappear into the black economy. Its figures are in line with the Home Office which says 67% of stolen cars are returned to their owner. The number recovered, however, has not changed significantly, suggesting there is an established criminal trade which continues to flourish. Exactly how many are smuggled abroad is more difficult to estimate. Mr Game suspects it could be 10% of unrecovered vehicles, around 15,000 cars; the Home Office fears it could be nearer 15%, more than 20,000 vehicles. "Thieves are going for off-road or luxury vehicles such as Range Rovers, four-wheel drive Japanese jeeps, Mercedes, BMWs, Audis and Porsches," said Mr Game. "German cars are highly sought after because they have service agents all over the world. "We are seeing significant problems with luxury cars being shipped to west Africa. They are sent to Togo, Ghana, Benin, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. I was in Lagos last year and we pulled 14 vehicles out of a container in the docks. We have also seen left-hand drive cars [parked by European tourists visiting London] targeted." The largest market for stolen vehicles is eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union but those areas are supplied by left-hand drive cars lifted by thieves from the streets of, probably, Berlin, Vienna and Milan. A few UK cars have recently been recovered in Lithuania and Russia. The other market for Britain's purloined vehicles are countries where they drive on the left-hand side of the road, such as Cyprus, Pakistan, Malaysia, India, Japan and parts of east Africa. Many of the cars heading east are laundered through Dubai. The United Arab Emirates is a free trade zone where they can be sold as high value, second-hand models. The trade is reciprocal. Last year Hampshire police revealed tens of thousands of Mazdas and Toyotas stolen in Japan had been imported via Dubai into Britain through the "grey market" of independent dealers. The gangs involved in Britain usually have family contacts overseas: one operation, recently broken up, allegedly involved a Nigerian father based in Britain who dispatched stolen cars to his son who sold them on in Lagos. No one knows how many of the vehicles snatched in the recent wave of carjackings - such as that involving company director Gloria Hamilton, who was punched unconscious by two men and forced out of her four-wheel drive Mercedes in south-east London earlier this month - have ended up abroad. The Metropolitan police say there is no evidence linking attacks to changes in the number of vehicles smuggled abroad. Often seized cars are used to commit further robberies after having been "cloned" - provided with a new set of number plates which are identical to a similar make, legally-owned car. In many cases sports cars are broken down into spare parts which can be sold for large sums to non-franchised garages. A more sophisticated operation is "ringing", where stolen vehicles are provided with new number plates, vehicle identification number and logbook to match a write-off. To combat the problem the DVLA at Swansea is considering more stringent identification checks for those requesting the reissue of registration documents and the compulsory registration of licence plate manufacturers. The sharp increase in violent carjackings reflects the fact that improved car security means, as the Metropolitan police say, "the key is the key". Hotwiring is an outdated skill. Without the car key, the vehicle's alarm will render it immobile. Taking keys from the owner by violence is one way of overcoming the problem. The other increasingly popular method involves break-ins where the object is to steal car keys. Some thieves carry out "letter box burglaries", where a fishing rod or hook is used to retrieve keys left on a table or shelf just inside the front door. Those who steal high performance cars for sale abroad usually sell them to organised gangs for as little as £700. Gangs will often leave stolen vehicles in a car park or road to check they are not fitted with electronic tracking devices. If they have not been picked up for several days they will drive them to a waiting container and ship them overseas. Car alarm· Tracker, a company which sells hidden electronic devices to help locate stolen cars, says it has recorded an 89% increase in violent car thefts against its customers in the past year. Over the same period there had been a 58% rise in break-ins involving the theft of keys. · Felixstowe, Tilbury and many other ports have installed sensors to help detect when tracking devices are driven into the docks. Most police helicopters and some patrol cars are also equipped with surveillance gear to detect them. · Interpol runs a global database, called the automated search facility, which records vehicles reported stolen in 56 countries, including the UK. · In the US, the national insurance crime bureau estimates 200,000 cars - at a value of $3bn - disappear abroad every year, mainly from conurbations near large ports. Specialised scanning machines to check the contents of cargo containers have been installed. · For years car thieves targeted veteran Peugeot 505s which were cut into spare parts and shipped out in containers to Zambia, Zimbabwe and Nigeria to keep Africa's ageing fleet of taxis mobile. · More than 100 tractors vanished from farms in England after the Kosovo war. It is believed they were smuggled to the Balkans to replace those lost in the war.