These days, the French don't know whether to rejoice or be frightened. They're doing both: celebrating Ingrid Bétancourt's arrival in Paris as a free woman, and grieving about the horrific and gratuitous murders of two French students in London last week. The French have long had a good relationship with London: summer is the time of English language exchange trips for many French teenagers and the beginning of six-week courses at British universities and summer internships for ambitious young French students. At first, the French media restrained itself from giving out too many sordid details on the murder case, but they couldn't ignore the lurid covers of British tabloids for long. France suddenly had to wake up to the gruesome reality of London violence. For London has recently felt like a far more violent capital city than Paris. According to official figures from Inhes, nobody was stabbed to death this year in the French capital and its neighbouring suburbs, whereas in London 19 teenagers have died during knife and gun attacks since the beginning of the year. Significantly, according to this report from Inhes, more than 80% of acts of physical violence in France are committed without any weapon. However, their number has been increasing over the years: 164,359 acts of physical violence against people have been reported to the police in 2006, a 10.6% increase compared to 2005. At the same time, however, in Paris, there has been a decrease of 4.9% of these attacks, down to 33,400 (see details here). Violence follows different cultural rules in the UK and in France. In Paris, and in France at large, violence is usually played out in theatrical ways. The parading itself often defuses any potential threat. In Britain, violence is often deeply hidden, only to suddenly arise in unexpected blows. In the first few weeks and months of their arrival, most foreigners in London can't feel London's undercurrent of violence. They find the city vibrant, yet extremely civilised. People talk to each other on the tube or buses, which they hardly do in Paris. French visitors can't read the subtext, or the cultural context. They are oblivious to the dangers around them. When a drunken brawl spills out of a pub, they look at it with the curiosity of anthropologists. After a few years spent in London, however, they slowly learn how to assess danger. No other European city makes you as streetwise as London. Ten years ago when I first arrived in London, I thought the city was very safe and walked innocently through its streets at night. There was, however, no knife crime to speak of, certainly not at the level we've been experiencing for the last year. This worrying trend is shocking to any Londoner – not just to French visitors. Recently, some of my Londoner friends – who used to break up fights or intervene in dangerous situations (two people shouting at each other, children playing pranks on passers-by, teenagers making too much noise on the train) – admitted that they would now think twice about raising their voices. The current climate is insidiously dawning on most of us.