The Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, defiantly refused to resign yesterday on the eve of publication of the Lawrence report, which accuses his force of institutionalised racism. As the clamour for his resignation grew, Sir Paul, fighting to save his job and his reputation, crucially won the backing of Jack Straw, the Home Secretary. The commissioner is prepared to accept that the force is 'unwittingly' racist, but he does not intend to resign unless accused of dishonesty or malpractice.Sir Paul and the parents of Stephen Lawrence were yesterday given sight of the full report, which is expected to become the most significant landmark in race relations since the Scarman report when it is published tomorrow afternoon. The three were invited by Mr Straw to study Sir William Macpherson's findings as the Home Secretary announced a mole-hunt to discover who leaked key extracts of the report. Mr Straw said it was only fair to allow the parents of the dead teenager and Sir Paul the chance to read the report in full after partial publication of some of the key details. There was no immediate comment from either the family or Sir Paul. Sir Paul, in an interview in the London Evening Standard, said: 'If I thought going could somehow draw a line under it, I wouldn't hesitate. I think it would lead to a polarisation rather than a cathartic process.' There is a lot of sympathy in the Home Office for this view, believing that institutional reform is more important than a witchhunt. However, there is a suspicion among senior police figures that elements in the Home Office may be trying to force the commissioner out. Sir Paul is due to retire in January after seven years in office and wants to see out his term. The net is already being cast for a successor. On the issue of institutional racism, which he denied existing at the Met when questioned during the Lawrence inquiry, Sir Paul said: 'I have never, never denied there was racism in the police service and I've spent most of my career trying to fight it. But this is not a debating society or a group of students having a moot. This will set the tone of policing for the next 20 years. I hope, pray, anticipate that the judge [Sir William Macpherson] will say something significant around institutional racism. I will embrace that with zeal.' He has the backing of the Police Federation. 'Scapegoating one person won't move this forward at all,' said Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan branch of the federation. In the Commons, Mr Straw defended the police commissioner against the selective leaking of the report to the Sunday Telegraph but, in bad-tempered exchanges, was forced to defend the Government's decision to seek an injunction against the press. Mr Straw deprecated the way in which the partial leak of the report had led to 'prejudicial comments' against the Metropolitan Police commissioner to which he was unable to respond. With the injunction row marking the lowest point in his 22 months in office, Mr Straw promised that the leak inquiry, which was begun yesterday by the permanent secretary at the Home Office, David Omand, would be pursued seriously. A Downing Street spokesman earlier yesterday expressed scepticism about finding the culprit, a view echoed by the Home Office. Mr Straw was loyally backed in the Commons by Labour MPs and the Liberal Democrats. Defending Sir Paul, he said the premature publication of parts of the report meant 'the police service and the commissioner have now been subject to a wholly unfair process of speculation to which they could not and cannot properly respond. That prejudicial comments have been made against the commissioner, even before he had a chance to see the report, is one reason why it was right to seek to stop this happening.' He made a point of praising the police: 'The job we ask our police service to do on our behalf is a difficult one at the best of times.' He did not see the injunction as an issue of press freedom because the report was due to the published anyway. Sir Herman Ouseley, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, said that what had appeared of the report so far vindicated the black community over its complaints of police racism down the years. He added that it did not matter who headed the Metropolitan Police provided that person was committed to making the changes necessary to make the service racism-free. 'His position becomes untenable if the report is very critical of him, if he is not prepared to accept what is there, and if the family are saying that 'one of the conditions of us feeling there is a movement towards justice is that he has to go', Sir Herman told Channel 4 News.