Danielle Beccan was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time when she was shot dead in a drive-by attack as she returned home from a fairground with her friends: an innocent young victim of a pathetic and absurd gang feud.Her killers are prominent members of Nottingham's Waterfront Gang. Mark Kelly is known as Yardie Mark, while his accomplice, Junior Andrews, a self-confessed heroin dealer, calls himself Prentice. They loathed people who lived in the rival St Ann's area - and they fired at random on a group of teenagers who were returning there from the city's medieval Goose Fair.On the night of the killing, Kelly was driving his mother's gold Citroen Xsara with its tinted windows and throaty exhaust. Andrews was the front-seat passenger who pulled the trigger of the self-loading pistol, firing the bullet into the group of teenagers. As the car sped off, he raised his black-gloved hand into the triumphant shape of a W, the sign of the Waterfront Gang.In the hours leading up to Danielle's death, Andrews and Kelly had been drinking in the Toll Bridge Inn. They had also burgled a house in the Clifton area of the city.Despite their denials of involvement in her death, evidence of their gangland activity was obvious. Andrews filmed himself on his mobile phone a week before the shooting, boasting of his prowess as he walked through the rival turf, his face partially covered by a hooded top. During a rambling monologue, he referred to the Waterfront Gang and said: "I'm a real killer."On his neck, he has etched "NG2" - the Nottingham postcode of the area where his gang is based. A gun and bullet adorn his arm. After the shooting, he paid a taxi driver £350 to take him and his girlfriend Natalie Gee to his mother's house in Aberdeen. He claimed they were "fleeing the mob" as feelings were running high. Natalie later claimed it was Kelly who pulled the trigger.Andrews called in some drug debts to finance his trip, fearing for his life and that of his girlfriend. They had intended to stay in Scotland in the hope that his name would be taken out of the equation.He was in quite a state on the night of the shooting after taking cannabis and cocaine, but said the first he knew of it was on a television news report the next day.Meanwhile, Kelly shaved off his corn row hair braids and fled to Birmingham. He was eventually arrested at his aunt's house in south London, having arrived there with his younger brother's passport and a substantial amount of cash.