Ten years ago there were only 25 prisoners serving full-life sentences in England and Wales. "Life means life" was reserved for the most notorious serial killers: Moors murderers Myra Hindley and Ian Brady, Dennis Nilsen, Rosemary West. But in the past decade, as Britain's prison population has increased dramatically, so has the number of lifers and whole-lifers. Over the past 10 years, the lifer population has shot up from just under 4,000 to 13,200 – a figure higher than the rest of Europe combined. Meanwhile in the past five years, the number of criminals handed whole-life sentences has more than doubled. They can't all be serial killers, so who are these people? The more I thought about them, the more I wanted to know. What do they do every day? How do they keep going? Do they wish they were dead?Early in 2008, I meet with the lawyer Simon Creighton, who represents many of Britain's whole-lifers. He says some of his clients might be willing to write to me because they are challenging their sentences. He explains that if I want to visit, we'll have to get the law changed as the Home Office approves media visits only if there is a perceived miscarriage of justice. Meanwhile, he gives me the prison address of three whole-lifers – Ron Smith, Steve Williams and David Taylor.I write to them, explaining why I am interested in their stories. I hear nothing, and write again. A few months later, a letter finally arrives from Ron Smith at a prison in the north of England."Dear Simon Hattenstone,Received both your letters. Sorry for not replying straight back, but 'letter writing' is not at the top of my 'essential things to do' list."Smith's tone is cold and abrasive. "After 18 years in prison, I've got sick of reading the shit in people's letters and writing the same shit. I don't go anywhere, I don't do anything and I'm not interested in anything that goes on beyond the prison walls. That world no longer exists for me. I'm no longer part of it."Ron Smith was in his mid-20s when he decided to commit murder. He chose a man he'd never met, tricked his way into his home by pretending to be a motorbike courier and bludgeoned him to death with a hammer. Afterwards, he taunted police, leaving messages that the crime gave him "a buzz better than smack", saying he could become addicted to killing and that his next target was the police. An arsenal of weapons was discovered in his home, including a sawn-off shotgun, crossbows and home-made knuckle-dusters.At his 1991 trial, the judge branded Smith an "exceptionally dangerous man", while doctors labelled him a psychopath. Three years later, then home secretary Michael Howard ruled the crime so horrific that, in his case, life should mean life. Yet the question remains: does Ron Smith deserve to have all hope of redemption taken away from him? Everybody deserves a second chance, don't they – even psychopathic killers?Smith warns me that he's not interested in "chit-chat frivolity", so if we are to communicate it should be on a strictly business basis."Your questions? What does the whole-life sentence mean to me? It means nothing to me. It means I'll never be released, that I'll die in prison. Considering I deliberately threw my life away and was intending to die, life in prison is irrelevant. My life wasn't up to much anyway."Am I denied hope and rehabilitation? Rehabilitation is just a word politicians use and psychologists dream about. People rehabilitate themselves when they're ready to change, when conditions are conducive to it. They can't be bribed, blackmailed or forced to rehabilitate themselves. And to 'hope' or to 'dream' is no different from fantasising your life away."Smith goes into details about his daily routine. He is locked up 23 hours a day, seven days a week, and has spent the last 12 years in a non-contact segregation unit. He is labelled an exceptional risk. Every morning, he does his t'ai chi exercises, meditates, has breakfast, then does more t'ai chi. In a caged area he uses the multi-gym for half an hour a day. After lunch, he returns to his cell where he meditates some more, does yoga, reads about meditation and watches television – nature programmes, news and documentaries. He has recently started a computer class, on Wednesday afternoons – the education room is two cells divided by bars, with Smith on one side, the teacher on the other. The one time in the week he is face to face with anybody is Wednesday morning when he does t'ai chi with Maureen, a member of the chaplaincy: "It's the only time I'm unlocked and freely associate with someone." Only three guards now supervise him when he's out of his cell, instead of the seven who used to. He is more trusted these days. "Ten years ago I was so at war with the system/authority, so full of hatred, that I tried to kill a governor and committed several assaults. I was self-destructing."Towards the end of the letter, quite casually, he mentions that his whole-life tariff has recently been overturned as a result of a legal challenge. "We had a quiet, stable eight years and on May 16 my whole-life tariff was reduced to 18 years."Not surprisingly, the family of Smith's victim were alarmed at the prospect of his release. His daughter, who discovered her father's body and has suffered post-traumatic stress ever since, said at the time, "We were dumbstruck – horrified." Two months later, the attorney general appealed on the grounds that 18 years was unduly lenient, and the sentence was revised back up to 30 years."What did I feel? What do I feel?" Smith writes to me. "Nothing. True there is a glimmer of life at the end of the tunnel now where before there was darkness. But it's one of those lights that no matter how far you walk towards it, it never gets any brighter. I never think about getting released."The letter leaves me with more questions. Why had he deliberately thrown his life away? Did he really have no regrets, as he claimed, and if so, did I want to continue writing to such a man?As if pre-empting a request, he tells me he has not been visited in prison for more than a decade, and prefers it that way. "I don't do visits. Last visit I had was December 1995, I don't enjoy them. They stress me out as I've got to pretend that I'm enjoying the visit in a noisy visiting room when I'm not. I've got to force myself to think of things to say and pretend that I'm interested in the 'small talk' that my visitors have to tell me. I just find the whole situation stressful. I used to come off visits drenched in sweat."I make sure not to bore Smith with small talk. My reply is brusque – just a list of questions. Why had he been put in care as a child? Why was his life such a mess?His answers are as direct as my questions."Dear Simon Hattenstone,Received your letter all right. I got put in care as a child because I was becoming 'difficult' at home. I wasn't attending school, and started absconding from home. It wasn't a very nice home. My dad was a violent bullying control freak, a piece of shit basically. At first, after running away, I used to break back into our house at night for some food or to hide behind the settee or under the bed to sleep, until our dad realised what I was doing. He then nailed all the windows down so I couldn't get back in. That's the kind of person he was."He tells me how he shoplifted food to get by, and was officially put into care aged 12. "I learnt criminal behaviour from others in these so called 'care homes'. I ended up in Aycliffe Secure Unit age 13, escaped from there 2 or 3 times before being sent to remand centres, detention centre, borstal, prison."To Dr Bob Johnson, psychiatrist at the high-security prison Parkhurst for five years in the 90s, Smith's story is depressingly familiar. Nearly all those he has worked with, he says, have suffered traumatic childhoods. Many, he adds, still live in fear of their parents. "So many lifers have a prison in their head that is vastly more overwhelming than the prison they're actually in."He says the important thing for him is to help them make sense of their past, and work their way towards a manageable future – even if it's behind bars. Johnson believes most murderers kill because they are emotionally immature. "One prisoner said, 'When you're four and you have a tantrum, you stamp your foot on the floor. When you're 24 and you have a tantrum, somebody dies.' So you have to say to them, 'Don't you want to grow up emotionally?' Violence is a learned disease and it can be unlearned."The trouble is, he says, whole-lifers are being treated as anything but adults and are placed in an environment even more dysfunctional than the one in which they grew up. "They are not there to be rehabilitated, they are there for warehousing. Just so much stock."Shortly after hearing from Smith, I receive a letter from Steve Williams."Dear Simon just a short letter to let you know I received your letter and I'll reply to it in the next couple of weeks. I'm very lazy when it comes to writing letters, but I will reply soon." It's strange how the whole-lifers seem to be too busy for letter writing. Perhaps they have to convince themselves that is the case.A month later he writes again, describing his crimes in detail. Williams served 10 years in prison for the murder of a colleague. He was released on licence, but after a fight was recalled and given an extra six months for affray. Shortly after leaving prison in 2007, he killed his wife and was given a whole-life sentence.Williams tells me how the first murder came about. He was in his 20s, married with a little boy, when he got into a row with a fellow worker. He claimed his victim produced a knife and attacked him. He said he'd fought him off before stabbing him – 13 times. "I received my first life sentence with a tariff of 12 years reduced to 10 years on appeal. Self-defence I hear you saying. Everybody I know said the same." But in the same letter he admits the evidence pointed more towards murder than manslaughter. "The number of stab wounds and no injuries on me I think did it for me."Back then Williams was a heavy smoker and had never lifted weights in his life. But towards the end of his sentence he started taking steroids and working out. In open prison, he passed his heavy goods test and was driving lorries by day, locked up by night and on home leave once a month, which is when he met his second wife. He was also introduced to cocaine, and started drinking a lot. "Not a good mix with the steroids." Williams slept around, started fights, all before he was released. When he finally came out on probation, things got even worse. "Ten years locked up, then man about town with girls falling at my feet, money in my pocket (I was now selling cocaine). Looking back I couldn't handle it. Started taking more and more drugs. Relationship with woman who was now my wife was very volatile. I had one fight too many and was recalled to prison and then released after 11 months. Jail to drug dealer and back to jail. After eight weeks of release I killed my wife after a blazing argument when drunk, on drugs and steroids."He handed himself in to the police, and pleaded guilty. Despite this, he received a whole-life tariff, which he's now appealing against. "I don't really expect to have it reduced but worth a try I suppose. They can't exactly give me any longer."In May 2008, I finally hear from David Taylor, now 80 years old. He has been in prison for all but three years since 1962, when he was sentenced to life for murdering a man during a robbery. A month after he was released on licence in 1978, he shot a diamond jeweller in the back during another robbery, and also accidentally shot his accomplice, who bled to death. He eventually confessed to the killings while in custody for another armed robbery in 1991 and was given a whole-life sentence. Like Smith and Williams, he says keeping fit has helped him get by. As with Smith, the lawyer Simon Creighton has successfully appealed to have his whole-life tariff reduced – in this case to 25 years."Dear Simon,Thank you for your letter. The question of a whole-life term is very difficult to put into words. It can be simple or complicated, it all depends on the way each individual approaches the sentence. Obviously a sentence such as a whole life takes away all hope of ever being released. So the first thing you do is accept this fact, which strange to say everyone does. It must be part of the human condition to accept disastrous events. Put it this way, every day all round the world people are told by their doctors, you have cancer (for example) and you have six months to live. Once the initial shock wears off, they accept their fate and carry on doing the best they can. Rehabilitation is largely a waste of time. What's the point when you're never going out? Those who do courses do them for purely personal reasons, maybe due to a desire to try and understand how and why they came to be in this position. The article you intend to write won't be easy. First you have to understand a great deal. I find it passing strange that convicts understand honest folk, but honest folk don't understand convicts."RegardsDavid TaylorThe mandatory life sentence was introduced for all murder convictions when the death penalty was abolished in England, Wales and Scotland in 1965. The underlying principle was that every convicted murderer, theoretically at least, forfeited his liberty to the state for ever. In practice, nearly all lifers would be released on probation at a point when they were deemed safe. Occasionally, the home secretary ruled that an individual, such as Myra Hindley, would never be released.The whole-life tariff was not officially introduced until 1983 when the home secretary began to set minimum terms that killers had to serve before they could be considered for release on life licence (meaning that if they committed another crime they would be recalled to prison to continue their life sentence). Not only did home secretaries set the minimum sentence, they also had the power to keep people imprisoned beyond the tariff recommended by the parole board. But in May 2002, the European court of human rights ruled that this was an abuse of power.The then home secretary, David Blunkett, countered with legislation providing a new set of mandatory guidelines to judges about how long lifers should serve. Until then a life sentence had usually meant between 15 and 20 years. Blunkett's legislation introduced a slate of offences where life should mean life – criminals who had murdered two people, who had killed with a degree of premeditation, or who abducted or sexually abused their victim, child murderers, murder done to advance a political, religious or ideological cause. A final, alarmingly vague category was introduced: judges could recommend a whole-life tariff simply if they considered the offence was serious enough to merit it. A freedom of information request for this article has revealed that between 2005 and 2009, 29 new whole-life sentences were handed out (some have subsequently been overturned).In her eight years as chief inspector of prisons (she stood down in July this year), Dame Anne Owers inspected most of Britain's jails. Yes, of course she was aware of the increasing numbers of lifers and whole-lifers; one in six of Britain's prisoners are now serving life or indeterminate sentences, she stressed. But Owers is also quick to tell me the ways in which she is proud of Britain's prisons. "One of the things that surprises people is when I say that in the course of inspections we all draw our own keys, we all walk around unaccompanied by prison officers, we open cell doors – even in high-security prisons. And there are not many countries in the world where you'd be allowed to do that or where you could do it safely."But surely the increasing number of lifers makes Britain's prisons harder to manage? She nods. "It means you are managing some very different risks. If you're looking at whole-life tariffs and you want prisons and prisoners to be safe, you've got to create some horizons, some milestones within that – whether that's through activity, achievements, education, you've got to create an environment in which there is something literally worth living for. Because if prisoners feel there is nothing to lose, then prisons become less safe."After he murdered a stranger, Ron Smith claimed he suffered amnesia. "By the time of my arrest, three months later, I was totally convinced of my innocence. Even now I have very little memory of it... But I did start to get flashes of recollection, and only recently was able to piece all the fragments together to form a picture. I wasn't a very nice or stable person."He says that, through t'ai chi and meditation, he has trained his mind. "I have memories which occasionally pop into my head but they have no emotional content. It's like watching the TV with the volume down or looking at someone else's photos. One time I had nothing but bad memories which fuelled my anger."Initially, he says, his violent thoughts were poisoning him to the extent that he started to feel stabbing pains in his liver and kidneys. He spent night after night pacing his cell. Then they started to diminish. "As the weeks, months went by, I was able to start meditating again which got deeper as the years went by, until now I am able to empty my mind at will. Stop the thoughts and you stop the anger. It's as simple as that. Easy to understand, but extremely difficult to do. My worst days are behind me. I've finally got the beast under control and caged now."He has spent a great deal of time reading existentialist philosophy. "In the past I had nothing and wanted everything which made me turn to crime. And because I couldn't have everything I got angry and resentful with those who had the things I hadn't. I hated the world... Now I have nothing and am happy with nothing."Does he feel he deserved a whole-life tariff for what he had done?"If someone killed a member of my family in a similar fashion to what I did, I wouldn't want them released either. It's only natural. I suppose a whole-life tariff was justified given the circumstances of my offence and the fact that I had put the family through the ordeal of a trial didn't help."Last June, Steve Williams appealed to have reduced the whole-life sentence he received for killing his wife while on licence for his first murder. The appeal was rejected. The local paper reported the relief of his wife's family. Her brother said: "He'll never get out now. He won't be able to hurt anybody else. It takes a bit of stress off our mam. It's just been an absolute nightmare, losing my big sister. She was bubbly, fun-loving, a brilliant sister. She was always there if you needed someone. It's left a very big hole in all of our lives."Williams tells me he wasn't surprised. "I've obviously only given you a brief history but you make your mind up. Do I deserve to die in jail or not? I'm young and fit and I've maybe got another 50 years of life as a category A prisoner left. Torture every single day. I actually pray for a heart attack or cancer."David Taylor never dreams of such an escape. In prison you can make a life for yourself, he says, "a very basic life", but it is better than death. "In March 1963 I had the misfortune to find myself standing in the dock in the Old Bailey. Watching as the black cap was placed on the judge's head before he sentenced my co-defendant to death by hanging, it was, I can assure you, a very sobering experience, especially because whilst on remand I was weighed and measured in case I was hung as well."The last sentence is so shocking, I have to read it again.In his next letter he tells me about his childhood. He grew up in the second world war, when London was being bombed by the Germans. Every day, prayers were said at school for the previous day's fatalities. "I suppose you could say everyone became tougher than the people are today. Everyone just carried on and did the best they could. And this state of affairs continued until I was about 12 years old and I was living with my foster family who as far as I was concerned were my real parents. I had two sisters and we were a normal family until one night our house suffered a direct hit from a German bomb and everyone was killed except me. I survived and from that moment I became a survivor and I still am."I wonder if the everyday nature of death in the war shaped Taylor's attitude to killing – if life is so cheap when you are growing up, maybe killing another person becomes easier. "Regarding your question about the war having an effect on me, I don't think it did. After all, thousands of children who grew up during the war never turned out like me. One thing I'm sure of is if my family had survived they would have guided me down a different path."He drifted into crime, he says, without being aware of the consequences. "There comes a time when you realise the seriousness of your actions, but by then often it's too late because you're locked into the criminal lifestyle. When I was 16 I was in Wormwood Scrubs mixing with men of 30 upwards and this had a great influence on me. Older criminals became my mentors, with disastrous results. I was taken into prison at a very early age and I learnt how to survive in prison, but I wasn't taught any skills that would help me survive outside."Of the whole-lifers, Smith is the most regular correspondent. I look for hope or humanity in his writing, but they aren't easy to find. In his first letter, he had described doing t'ai chi with the chaplain. I tell him that it sounds as if she has befriended him, but he is quick to quash that idea. "Yes, I get on all right with the chaplain woman, I suppose. I wouldn't consider her a friend. People use that term too readily these days. That's just someone I do t'ai chi with – we share an interest, that's all."Smith's only relationship of substance appears to be with his mother, but I wince when he writes about it. "What does my mam write about in her letters? Stuff that doesn't interest me in the least. Gossip about people I don't know and don't wish to know. Trivial chit-chat about the weather, length of the grass, cost of living, a constant repetition of the last letter. Letter writing/reading is a tedious affair – one I'd rather do without. But because my mam is such an emotional wreck, she'd be even more of a wreck if I stopped completely. Still, she did used to write every single day. Seven days of shit, seven days a week, and she expected a response to every single one. If I never replied, she'd 'worry'. I fell out with her big style. Threatened to stop writing altogether. In the end I got it down, reluctantly, to one letter a week."I ask him why he said he threw his life away on a "death mission"."I wasn't living, I was existing. Doing the same thing day in day out, seeing the same people (other criminals), talking about the same things (crime). I was drinking and taking drugs just to deal with the monotony of it all. I had no job (I've never worked), no money. I lived on a crime-ridden estate. I was with a girl I felt nothing for. I was dead inside except for a burning fire of anger and hate."Now that he has managed to piece together the murder, does it make him think more about it? "The past is the past. Nothing good can come out of dwelling too much on things like that. Guilt is a product of obsessive thought, it develops into self-pity, and self-pity serves no purpose in prison other than causing depression, to self-harm and commit suicide. A person can accept their crime and acknowledge the effect it's had on the victim's family, and resolve not to do that act again without guilt interfering to complicate matters internally. If I could bring the person back I killed by dying, I wouldn't hesitate. But I can't, so I never think about what can't be changed."Has he ever considered killing himself?"I suppose I have in the past, but I've never self-harmed. I've never been depressed. What keeps me going is knowing I'll be dead soon enough anyway of natural causes. The average male only lives until he's 60-65. The way I see it, I'm closer to death than birth."Williams is no more positive about the future. "I just sort of move along each day completely numb and that's how I get by."The only optimistic note is struck by 80-year-old David Taylor, looking forward to release in seven years' time. "My life as a criminal is over. I will never return to crime. I want to do my best not to die in prison. By the time I get out I will have served 28 years, which is long enough for anyone. But I'm not depressed. The time for depression has long gone. I'm just like everybody else. I live in hope."In January 2010 I receive a disturbing letter from Williams. It's been months since I've heard from him. Now, he explains, his circumstances have changed. "I am sitting in the 'block' and have been for a number of weeks. I was involved in a stabbing (not fatal) on the wing. You see how I can admit in a letter to an offence as serious as that. It's because the judge when he sentenced me to natural life gave me an invisible licence that said that I can breach any laws I want, no matter how serious, and the law can't touch me. I'm above the law. I'm actually under police investigation for the incident. Like I said to the governor, don't waste any money on investigations, just give me another life sentence for my collection. They don't mean anything any more."Williams says he can't do without drugs in jail, and every time he has stopped taking them he's been involved in a violent incident. "Some life. That's why I already had two failed suicide attempts."At the end of the letter he apologises for "ranting" and says he was feeling sorry for himself. "It's the boredom down here. Not even a TV. Just 23 and a half hours solitary bang up, day after day, week after week."Creighton had been battling with the government for a year about the right to visit the whole-lifers when the court of appeal ruled that there was a public-interest justification. I tell Smith I've requested a "media visit". "The only way you'd be allowed to visit me is if I send you a visiting order," he writes. "And the only way I could do that is by having you cleared for visits, vetted by the police. You'd have to give me your home address details (no work address) so the police could visit you. I'd have to fill a form in this end. There's no way you're going to give me your home address."It's hard to know whether this letter is a threat or dare, or simple statement of fact.In the end it doesn't matter, because although the court has accepted the idea in principle, it's decided that, in the case of Ron Smith, the risks outweigh any benefits.Since I first wrote to the whole-lifers, the economy has collapsed, the coalition has come to power in Britain and new secretary of state for justice Kenneth Clarke has announced plans to reduce Britain's prison population by 3,000 to save money. Meanwhile, earlier this year the European court of human rights started to examine whether whole-life tariffs breach human rights. For budgetary or humanitarian reasons, the numbers of whole-lifers in British prisons today might never be surpassed.This seems to make little difference to Smith, who does not give the impression that he considers himself ready for release. I'm not sure that he thinks he'll ever be ready for release but, equally, he believes he should never have been told that he would die in prison. "It was said at my original trial that I was suffering from an untreatable psychopathic disorder. Now they say it's treatable. I don't know. I can say that I no longer 'think' or 'feel' like I used to. My head has cleared somewhat. I no longer have the anger or hatred I used to have back then. Not that it means anything. Impression I get off the system is 'once a psychopath always a psychopath'. I don't expect to be released. They're reluctant to even let me out of solitary."Despite fighting successfully to have his whole-life sentence reduced, Smith now says he cannot afford to think about the possibility of release. "If I ever walk out them gates, great, so be it, I won't look back. If I never walk out them gates, that's just how it is. I expect nothing."I write back, telling him he must have some hope if he's even talking about release. But Smith isn't having it. "Hope is for those who can't bear the present. It's a crutch for the discontented, the unhappy, the depressed, those who struggle to stand upright on their own. It's not for me. I have no need of hope.Best wishes,Ron"• The prisoners' names have been changed.