Carrying swords and machetes and waving green Islamic flags, protesters marched through the streets of Khartoum yesterday demanding the execution of British teacher Gillian Gibbons. "No one lives who insults the prophet," read one of the banners outside the British embassy.More than 1,000 Muslim demonstrators in the Sudanese capital called for her to be shot or stabbed for insulting Islam after her pupils called a teddy bear Muhammad.Gibbons, 54, of Liverpool, was sentenced on Thursday night to 15 days in jail followed by deportation in a case that has attracted international condemnation.Last night she was moved from the women's prison where she was being held to a secret location across the Nile for her own safety.British Muslim groups have been especially harsh in their criticism of the Sudanese government, saying the verdict has harmed Islam's image.The Foreign Office was caught off guard, having assumed that a deal had been struck to acquit Gibbons and allow her to return home. After the foreign secretary, David Miliband, called in Sudan's ambassador, Omer Siddig, for a second time on Thursday night to protest against the decision, the Sudanese authorities are understood to have agreed to allow Gibbons to be released today . But the angry protests mean that is no longer certain.While many in Khartoum thought the arrest was harsh - the Sudanese blogosphere is awash with derision aimed at the authorities - leaflets were distributed at some mosques calling for protests against Gibbons after Friday prayers.Some protesters arrived at Khartoum's central mosque on foot, waving knives, clubs and ceremonial swords. Others came on the back of pick-up trucks, covered in printed banners and flags. Initially, the atmosphere was jovial, as the first groups of men moved towards Martyrs Square in front of the president's palace in central Khartoum. Passersby shook their fists in encouragement and motorists honked their horns. But the mood soon darkened as the crowd swelled to more than 1,000.Organisers shouted encouragement through megaphones. The crowd responded with traditional Islamic chants, extolling Allah, urging the death of anyone who insulted the prophet Muhammad. Newspaper pictures of Gibbons were burned on a makeshift stage at the heart of Martyrs Square. One protester was seen making a stabbing gesture with his sword. A group of men shouted: "She must be killed by the sword."Men wearing traditional robes and turbans leaned out of car windows waving swords and machete-like blades. Individuals shouted threats at western journalists, shouting: "You must go", and drawing their fingers across their throats.There was little doubt the protest had been carefully orchestrated. The banners waved by marchers and tied to the front of vehicles had all been pre-printed. Before the verdict, imams across the city also focused on the case in their sermons. One address, broadcast on national radio, accused Gibbons of purposefully comparing the prophet to a bear - an animal that was "alien" to Sudan, he said. "She deserved what she got," he added.The police did not intervene, indicating that the protest received the official approval of the authorities. Unauthorised protests held by opposition and other groups in Khartoum have in the past been broken up with teargas.The crowd moved up the road to stand outside the walls of Unity high school where Gibbons lived and taught. The school has been closed since her arrest last week, and all gates were barred. In September, a month after Gibbons arrived in Sudan to teach, she asked her seven-year-old pupils to name a teddy bear. The children chose Muhammad. A class diary was created featuring a picture of a bear and the label "My name is Muhammad".A Muslim office assistant at the school complained to the ministry of education, and the case was passed to Khartoum's top prosecutor, culminating in Gibbons' arrest on Sunday.Yesterday, protesters were met by a line of pick-up trucks packed with riot police.Their next stop was a few blocks away - the British embassy compound and the nearby residence of the British ambassador. Teams of police kept the crowd about 100 metres from the embassy buildings.The embassy defences - among them metal fences, topped with barbed wire - had recently been strengthened following reports by Sudanese security forces that they had uncovered a bomb plot against western embassies. Within three hours of the start of the protest, the crowds started to disperse, many of them taken back to their homes in chartered buses.Khalid al-Mubarak, spokesman for the Sudanese embassy in London, blamed the death threats on "hotheads" from hardline mosques, and said the protests were not representative of society in Khartoum. "After prayer, people in particular mosques, not the mainstream, were the ones shouting slogans to this effect," he said.British officials still hope Gibbons will be released early. "We are still in talks with the authorities and the possibility of early release remains," said a diplomat in Khartoum last night.Gibbons, who maintains she intended no offence, was initially taken to Omdurman women's prison in Khartoum, but was moved yesterday to a secret location to avoid her being targeted by other prisoners or protesters, according to Kamal al-Jazouli, her lawyer.The British deputy ambassador to Sudan and the consul, Russell Phillips, visited Gibbons yesterday morning, and said she was in "good condition".