Calls to introduce US-style 24-hour courts in Britain, today received a cautious welcome from civil rights and legal groups.Metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens urged the introduction of round-the-clock courts in London and other cities to fast-track offenders through the criminal justice system. The civil rights group Liberty said that it supported the idea, provided it did not compromise justice. The Magistrates' Association echoed that cautious welcome, saying that getting defendants into preliminary hearings as soon as possible after they were arrested would be beneficial. Sir John said that he had seen the 24-hour courts system in operation in New York and believed it could work here. He told the Times newspaper: "I have seen it in New York and it works."When [people] are arrested they go straight to court, whatever the time, day or night. It saves time. It allows you to process them in a far, far quicker way. "Some of these persistent offenders, these youngsters, society quite honestly needs a rest from them."Home secretary Jack Straw was "very keen" on the idea or a similar way of tackling persistent young offenders, Sir John said. The government promised to halve the average time from arrest to sentence for persistent young offenders from 142 to 71 days. But recent figures showed that the average in October last year was 94 days. Magistrates' Association chairman Harold Mawdsley said that he welcomed the proposal, but he voiced concerns over magistrates sentencing people at "two in the morning", when they might not be able to concentrate properly.However, he added that getting defendants through a preliminary hearing as quickly as possible was a good thing. Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said she believed the 24-hour courts could be a good idea, but called on the government to work closely with the police to avoid making the system too bureaucratic. Sid Brighton, the chief executive of the Justices' Clerks Society, said the possibility of 24-hour courts had been talked about some years ago but never really got off the ground. Potential difficulties would include costs, staffing levels and availability, Mr Brighton said, adding that the majority of people were already taken before a court within 24 hours of arrest. The Home Office refused to confirm or deny that 24-hour courts were being considered, but it said an ongoing review of the criminal justice system could lead to "radical changes" for the courts. Magistrates' courts could already sit during the night or at the weekend if they choose to do so, the Home Office said.Related articles 16.02.01: Met chief calls for 24-hour courts Useful links Criminal Courts ReviewLiberty human rights organisationLondon Criminal Courts Solicitors' AssociationBackground: Home Office courts information