Recently, we have heard a good deal of concern expressed about the "yob culture" - The politicians are promising to address this. Worryingly, recent research, as well as anecdotal accounts, have indicated that yobs now include girls who are also involved in gangs, with some carrying knives.Should we be surprised at this? Not really - although I understand why it may be hard for many to understand why females would be involved in what we believe to be male-type behaviour.The gender stereotypes tell us that men are dominant and aggressive, and more violent, than nurturing, caring and passive women. Why, then, are we seeing this behaviour in our girls? Several possible explanations come to mind.Over the past 50 years, society has changed considerably. Secularisation of society has seen a diminution of religious controls over behaviour and social attitudes. Our increasingly liberal attitudes have allowed people to behave as they please without fear of social disapproval. For example, women can have children without being married and without fear of ostracism. Women now, more than ever, regulate their own lives, as they should; no one can tell them their behaviour is not appropriate, unfeminine, unladylike.Women have new-found power and choices. These include taking dominant and high status roles in the workplace; but, at the other end, of the scale they can involve getting drunk just like the men.Men are also showing a different side, are caring for children, showing a loving, nurturing element that hitherto remained behind closed doors, if it existed at all. In short, men and women are becoming more androgynous - men more like women, and women more like men. Disapproval of those who do not meet the gender stereotypes is diminishing.However, we also need to look at our understanding of the assumed relationship between aggression and gender. Aggression can be defined as any act that is intended to do harm to another, whether physically, emotionally or psychologically. There has been considerable debate regarding the differences between men and women in the context of aggression. Are men really more aggressive, and if so, why? Is it physiological (nature), perhaps to do with the Y chromosome? Is it related to the male hormone testosterone or to brain chemistry?Research suggests these are possibilities and certainly have been shown to have some relevance in the animal kingdom. It is, of course, more difficult to research this area in humans. Is any difference connected to evolution: man the hunter developing aggressive behaviour, while women nurtured and developed a caring disposition? Perhaps ... or is it all to do with socialisation (nurture)?Hitherto, it was unacceptable for girls to fight, exhibit overt aggression or behave like truculent boys. And, to some extent, this still applies today - hence our confusion at the growth of girl gangs.Women have, heretofore, mainly expressed their aggression in non-violent ways. They have learned to use "relational" aggression. Thus, while boys will scrap in the school yard, girls will send other girls to Coventry (they will maliciously gossip about them and reject them). This is, of course, aggressive behaviour, intended to harm, and it does cause significant damage.So, in fact, females can be just as aggressive as males. The difference, at least until now, seems to have been the form the aggression takes. But as society has changed, the social restrictions, which may have historically maintained the gender stereotypes, are weakening. Girls can now vent their spleen as they wish: they can express their aggression in an increasing number of ways; they can join gangs and carry knives, just like the boys.Even more concerning, perhaps, is that girls no longer just take a supporting role in male gangs, as girlfriends and admirers, but are now seemingly forming their own gangs. What a bleak prospect this evokes.