The breakthrough in DNA analysis that led to the conviction of Gary Dobson and David Norris for the murder of Stephen Lawrence this week raises the question of how many other unsolved murders could be solved by similar means and, more controversially, how many miscarriages of justice cases could be cleared up.The detailed scientific review that painstakingly went through all the exhibits in the Lawrence case reportedly cost £3.4 million. The Met's homicide and serious crime command alone are currently re-examining between 15 and 20 cold case murders, all of which take time and money. Clearly there would be reluctance to dedicate those sort of resources to investigating alleged miscarriage of justice cases which have slipped from public view but many campaigners believe that, if the money was allocated to such intricate analyses, some cases could finally be resolved.It is nearly three years now since Sean Hodgson walked out of the court of appeal as a free man after spending almost three decades in prison for crimes he did not commit. His 1982 conviction for rape and murder of Teresa de Simone three years earlier was quashed as a result of a DNA analysis that could have established his innocence a decade before. Hampshire police had reopened the murder inquiry after new analysis of DNA evidence from the scene did not match a sample from Hodgson. Such tests were not available at the time of his trial. In the wake of the appeal, the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) asked the Crown Prosecution Service to review all similar murder cases where DNA evidence was available and the defendants still alive."We decided to look again at every application received by the commission in relation to a conviction for rape or murder arising before 1990," said a CCRC spokesperson.  "We did so with an open mind, but we did not anticipate that there would be a great many cases because the commission is an organisation created after the use of DNA evidence became established in this country, and DNA has therefore always been a routine consideration in reviews." A total of 240 cases were re-examined. The number does not include a further 38 cases which met the criteria but which had already been referred by the commission and the conviction quashed. In 80 of the cases, it was established that admitted facts about the case meant that DNA could not be at issue, such as rape cases where intercourse was admitted and the issue was one of consent, and murder cases where applicants admitted causing the fatality but claimed provocation or self-defence. In the majority of remaining cases, the commission decided to take no further action after re-examination of the facts of the case. There is one case outstanding. Such DNA testing, of course, may not always bring about the result sought by campaigners in miscarriages of justice cases. James Hanratty was hanged in 1962 for the murder of Michael Gregsten and became the subject of a series of campaigns to have his name cleared. In 2002, DNA evidence from the murder scene was deemed to link him to the murder, establishing his guilt "beyond doubt", in the words of the then lord chief justice, Lord Woolf. His supporters have argued that this showed only that the evidence must have been contaminated.One case in particular would merit more detailed analysis: in 1993, Susan May was convicted of murdering her 89 year old aunt, Hilda Marchbank. She was sentenced to life imprisonment and ordered to serve a minimum of 12 years. In 2005, she became the first convicted murderer to be released "on tariff", despite continuing to protest her innocence. Marchbank was found dead in her home in Royton, Lancashire. She had been beaten and the house ransacked. Police initially believed her to be a victim of a robbery gone wrong, but suspicion was cast on May, who was her aunt's carer. The main plank of the prosecution's case were marks found on the wall of the deceased's home. These marks were said to contain human blood, suggested to be that of the victim. May's fingerprint was said to be within one of the marks. May has repeatedly requested the samples containing the marks be re-tested using proper analytical techniques. Her requests have been denied. Her case has twice been rejected by the court of appeal; simple, affordable, tests could send her back to that court.