One of Britain's most notorious child killers, Robert Black, was being questioned by detectives in Northern Ireland yesterday about the abduction of a young girl in August 1981.Black, 58, a long-distance, delivery driver who is serving 10 life sentences, was flown to the province to be interviewed about the murder of Jennifer Cardy, who disappeared as she was cycling to a friend's house. Her red bike was discovered near her home in Ballinderry, Co Antrim. The nine-year-old's body was not found until six days later by two fishermen at McKee's Dam a few miles away near Hillsborough, Co Down. Black - convicted of murdering Susan Maxwell, 11, from Cornhill-on-Tweed, in July 1982, Caroline Hogg, five, from Edinburgh, in July 1983, and Sarah Harper, 10, near Leeds, in March 1986 - has been questioned by other police forces re-examining the disappearance of young girls. They had all been sexually assaulted. Last month he was questioned and bailed back into prison custody by officers from Devon and Cornwall police who travelled to Yorkshire to interview him about the disappearance of 13-year-old Genette Tate, who vanished from near her home in Aylesbeare, Devon, on August 29, 1978. Her body has never been discovered. There are strong similarities with the Northern Ireland case. Genette's bicycle was found, undamaged, lying in the lane by two girls who had been walking towards the village with her minutes before.The Police Service of Northern Ireland said yesterday that officers had arrested a 58-year-old man on suspicion of murder and that he was being questioned at Antrim police station about the murder of Jennifer Cardy in 1981. It is thought that Black, who is from north London, may be held for several days in Northern Ireland for more interviews. He was taken from Wakefield prison in Yorkshire. At his trial in Newcastle-upon-Tyne in 1994, the jury was told there was no forensic evidence to link him to his victims. There have been significant scientific advances since then. He was convicted after being detained for the failed abduction of a six-year-old girl in the village of Stow, in the Scottish Borders. Petrol receipts and interviews with firms to which he delivered posters subsequently placed him in the areas where his victims disappeared.