Police investigating the murder of a young man who was stabbed to death in a fight in a subway have arrested a 14-year-old boy, officers confirmed today.Kasif Mahmood, 16, was killed in Riches Road, under Winston Way, in Ilford, Essex, on Tuesday in a fight with another teenager that escalated to involve a group of a dozen youths.Kasif died just after 5pm in King George's hospital, from multiple stab wounds, a postmortem examination revealed.Metropolitan police said detectives were questioning the 14-year-old at an east London police station after officers searched three addresses in the Ilford area at 6.30am in connection with the attack.During an emotional press conference this morning, Kashif's parents appealed for help to catch his killers. His mother, Parvin, a driving instructor, urged anyone with information about the attack to come forward."No matter how small you think it might be, please come forward. Please help us to find our son's killer. He must be brought to justice and should be punished for what he has done," she said. "Kashif was a caring boy ... and we cannot rest until he is caught.""They took my son away from me," said his father, Ashad, before urging the prime minister to make life sentences longer.The family only moved to Ilford from Stepney, also in east London, six months ago, believing the area would be safer for their children.Detective Chief Inspector Keith Garnish, leading the murder inquiry, said it appeared that Kashif may have known his killer.Detectives were examining reports that there had been some form of dispute on Monday evening, Det Ch Insp Garnish said. There had then been an argument in the subway the next day between Kashif and another youth, and that had escalated as at least another 10 youths became involved.Det Ch Insp Garnish said: "I think he was probably aware of him [the killer] because they walked in together and because of the body language. I think he probably knew who he was."Around 20 to 40 youths, most of them Asian, had been outside the subway and had taken pictures on their mobile phones of police and paramedics at the scene. It was not thought that they had filmed the attack itself, he added.Police are still looking for the murder weapon. The incident was not being treated as racially motivated, Det Ch Insp Garnish said.Kashif had been due to start a college course in motor mechanics. He had been out buying a boiler suit and new shoes for the course when the attack happened.Detectives are examining CCTV footage from inside the subway and from Ilford train station for more details about the attack. Det Ch Insp Garnish said he was confident detectives would find everyone involved because the footage was so clear.On Tuesday night detectives interviewed 10 teenagers who had come forward. One of those, an 18-year-old, was arrested in connection with the inquiry and bailed to return to an east London police station on October 5.