The father of three young children found dead in a townhouse in Edinburgh said today that his family was struggling to come to terms with an "immense and tragic loss".Postmortem examinations were being carried out on eight-year-old twins Augustino and Gianluca Riggi and their sister, Cecilia, five, who were found with "suspicious injuries" in the property on Wednesday afternoon after the emergency services were called to reports of a possible gas explosion.Police still want to talk to the children's mother, Theresa Riggi, 46, who is in a serious but stable condition in hospital after being found on the ground outside the flat, having apparently fallen from a second floor balcony.The Riggi children had been at the centre of divorce proceedings between their parents and were being sought by court officers at the time of their deaths after their mother failed to turn up to a court hearing.In a statement released by Lothian and Borders Police today, the father, Pasquale Riggi, 46, asked for privacy to grieve for his children. Riggi, an oil worker who is originally from Colorado, is not a suspect in the investigation and has been helping police to try to piece together the last movements of his children and estranged wife. He was told of his children's deaths at his home in Aberdeen on the night of the tragedy."Our family is struggling to come to terms with the immense and tragic loss of three beautiful children," said Riggi in his statement. "Thanks to all who have offered such great comfort and support. We request that the media respect our privacy at this difficult time."Last month the Riggi children had become the focus of a missing persons' inquiry after disappearing with their mother from the family home in Aberdeenshire. They were later traced to the property in Slateford Road, Edinburgh, but Mrs Riggi failed to attend the court of session in the city on Tuesday for a scheduled hearing in a divorce case brought by her husband. A judge instructed court officers to locate the children, involve social workers and apply for a protection order if deemed necessary. The Riggis had been due back in court for a further hearing.A friend of the family said Gianluca and Augustino, known as Luke and Austin, and Cecilia, had come from "the most loving family home you could imagine", and had been doted on by both parents. The children had been home-schooled and this was said to have been an issue between the parents.Police were called to the house after reports of an explosion. They found a small fire, but no problems with the gas supply and launched a criminal investigation. Officers have said they want to speak to Mrs Riggi to ascertain exactly what happened. They are taking advice from doctors at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary where she is under sedation.