As a species they are endangered and unloved. But a pressure group taking up the plight of Britain's traffic wardens has yet to see the light of day.In the absence of meaningful support, one of the companies which employs them has decided to address the issue. NCP, which employs hundreds of wardens across Britain, has revealed the backlash from motorists being endured by low-paid wardens. In Westminster, central London, incidents include numerous serious assaults, threats to kill and maim, and chemical spray attacks. In one month alone a warden was held hostage by a driver demanding the clamp be removed from his car. Another warden was confronted with a broken bottle by a driver who only fled when members of the public intervened. Another was sprayed with cement. Yet another was menaced by a driver with a spanner. One motorist, on receiving a ticket, struck the warden in the face with a baseball bat. Other drivers are recorded as using their cars as battering rams. NCP believes there is a direct link between inflammatory media reports about the parking control regime in London and incidents of abuse and assault. Attacks on women wardens by male drivers are common, and racist abuse against the many black wardens is endemic. Those responsible come from all social classes. One was racially abused by an official from a foreign embassy. Many of the confrontations are being investigated by the police - but prosecutions are expensive and difficult to pursue. Incidents occur most often when wardens refuse to rescind tickets. But they no longer have the discretion to withdraw penalties and it is left to the drivers to appeal to an independent adjudicator. Motorists complain that privatised companies have been over zealous, turning parking control into revenue raising. The AA accuses councils of being more interested in making money than regulating traffic flows. Drivers in London paid £162m last year in parking tickets. Westminster council issued 976,476 fines, which raised around £39m. Last month, as a result of public concerns, Westminster told wardens to be scrupulous about sticking to the rules. "This level of violence is totally unacceptable when you consider that our staff are simply just trying to do a good job and it is not just Westminster now, it is UK-wide," said NCP's chief executive, Bob Macnaughton. "We are spending a lot of time and resources protecting our staff but the problem is getting worse. We believe there is a direct correlation between tabloid coverage of so called parking horror stories and these incidents." The company also has contracts in Manchester, Brighton, Lancashire, Sunderland and the Wirral. Its wardens are paid between £14,000 and £16,000 a year, relatively high for the industry. Last month the Guardian revealed that wardens in Hammersmith are so afraid that they are demanding anti-stab protection vests. Geoff Martin, the London convener, said: "These wardens have the worst jobs in London." A BBC investigation being screened tonight includes footage of a warden being confronted by a motorist in central London. All in a day's workMonday February 23 Attendant A was called "black nigger" and "idiot Somalian" after issuing a ticket to a driver who threatened to kill him if he did not spoil the ticket. Wednesday February 25 Driver tore up ticket issued by attendant C. Driver told C that he was a member of the United British Front and showed a badge. He said he would like to behead all foreigners and would kill C's family. Driver spat at C. Police are investigating. Wednesday February 25 Driver slapped attendant D across the face after getting a ticket. Driver's associate then hit D with a traffic cone. Thursday February 26 Attendant E issued ticket to a driver who then moved his vehicle and asked E to explain why he had issued the ticket. When E refused to spoil the ticket he was kicked in the groin and punched, then hit with his handheld computer. Members of the public intervened and the driver left. Police attended and are investigating. E suffered a badly bruised hand and bruising to his groin. · Real Story, BBC1, 7.30pm.