The Conservatives like to style themselves as the traditional party of law and order in this country, which is why I am all the more baffled by their hostility to working with our EU partners to crack down on crime. They are against the European Arrest Warrant, which has closed down the Costa del Crime and repatriated 335 criminals to face British justice.Yet the modern cross-border criminal has no respect for 20 miles of English Channel. Gangsters operate internationally. Paedophiles share material on the internet. Cyber-crime is booming and ruthless traffickers trade people, drugs and guns with scant regard for national boundaries.An international problem requires an international solution. Yet the Conservatives seem to believe we live on a fantasy island where we can simply pull up the drawbridge and forgo the help of our European neighbours.The case against the Tories is substantial. The European Arrest Warrant, shepherded through the European parliament by Liberal Democrat MEPs, has slashed extradition times across the EU from an average of 18 months to just 43 days. Without it, rapists, murderers, armed robbers and paedophiles would not have faced trial, conviction and prison. If the Conservatives had their way, it is likely that many of these crooks would still be sipping sangria on a beach. It is astonishing that a party that sees itself as tough on crime would oppose something that makes it easier to make criminals face justice.Another consequence of Tory hostility to the warrant is that they would have us spend £25m a year warehousing criminals in our overcrowded prisons rather than sending them swiftly to face trial in another European country. This is the best-case scenario. Without the increased co-operation between police forces fostered by the European Arrest Warrant, many of these felons might still be stalking British streets. If the Tories take us out of the European Arrest Warrant, as they have promised, then they will turn Britain into a safe haven for the worst offenders in Europe. There is no better example of why they are unfit to govern.The Conservative party has also tried to throw obstacles in the way of Europol and Eurojust, the bodies that allow European police forces and prosecutors to work together to combat cross-border crime. They do not believe that Europol should have the mandate to tackle child-kidnapping, arms trading and murder. They do not believe that Britain should be a member of Eurojust, despite its efforts during Operation Koala, which cracked a horrific paedophile ring and led to more than 90 arrests across Europe, over half of whom were British. It is a deeply entrenched, deeply dangerous kind of isolationist dogma that continues to oppose bodies whose work has led to vulnerable children being saved from further abuse.Nor have the Tories relented when faced with the overwhelming evidence of such cross-border success. In April, the European Criminal Records Information System was launched in the face of Conservative opposition. This allows for the easier exchange of criminal records between police forces and risk employers such as airports and schools. The system that existed before was voluntary and did not even include every country in the EU.It is astonishing that anyone would want to make it more difficult for us to check whether people coming to this country are dangerous criminals. It is reckless in the extreme. Their own justice spokesman in Scotland, Bill Aitken MSP, has urged his party to take action on the issue of criminal records but nothing has been forthcoming. Once again, Euro-dogma trumps pragmatism. The Conservative party is only tough on crime as long as the criminal stays at home.I am appalled that this election campaign has not allowed for a serious discussion about how to tackle cross-border crime. Conservative idiocy in this area is crying out to be exposed. It is ridiculous that any political party, particularly one boasting about being the next government, should put ideology ahead of public safety. The country deserves better than to have a possible future government talk tough on crime but act to help criminals in Europe.The tragedy of European elections is that the British public believe two contradictory things at the same time. The first is that Europe increasingly runs our lives, and the second is that Europe is far too boring to bother finding out about. In fact, Europe has a modest role – spending, for example, just one fortieth of what member state governments spend – but a crucial one in areas where we can only resolve problems if we work together. We will not recover from recession if we indulge in 1930s-style beggar-my-neighbour protectionism. We cannot tackle climate change unless we all curb carbon emissions. And we cannot cut crime and terrorism in the Ryanair age without co-operation with our EU partners.