The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday May 18, 2003This report said that 'the Home Office will propose putting reckless drivers on a par with the most serious crimes below murder and rape which carry mandatory life sentences.' Rape cases carry a maximum sentence of life imprisonment, but the basic sentence for heterosexual rape committed by an adult without any aggravating or mitigating circumstances is five years.-------------------------------Dangerous and drunk drivers who kill will face up to 14 years in prison, the highest sentence a court can give without imposing a life term. In an amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill to be laid before Parliament this week, the Home Office will propose putting reckless driving on a par with the most serious crimes below murder and rape which carry mandatory life sentences. Abduction, blackmail and some of the worst types of armed robbery would receive a similar sentence. At the moment the maximum term for causing death by dangerous driving is 10 years, a penalty which is rarely imposed. 'It is time to send out a signal to people who have yet to learn the lesson that taking a car, joyriding or driving while drunk and then killing someone is the most horrendous of crimes and should be treated as such,' said one Whitehall source who was involved in putting together the package of proposals. The maximum sentence for causing death by dangerous driving will be increased from 10 to 14 years, while the maximum sentence for 'aggravated vehicle taking' - joyriding - will be increased from five to 14 years. The Government was pushed to act after a series of controversial cases in which joyriders and drink drivers who had killed were given what victims viewed as 'lenient' sentences. Road safety groups lobbied the Home Office for a change in the law in February after Ian Carr, a banned driver and career criminal with 89 previous convictions, was sentenced to nine years in prison for killing a child in a hit-and-run accident on New Year's Eve. Carr, 27, who was sentenced at Newcastle Crown Court, was at the wheel of a stolen Vauxhall Astra when it went through a red light and crashed into the car of Stephen Sawyer, killing his daughter, Rebecca, six, and critically injuring Kirsty, her 18-month-old sister. Last September there was further controversy when a banned driver killed a father of four children after a heavy drinking session. Gareth Furmidge, 22, who had 17 previous convictions for drink, drugs and driving-related incidents, was speeding in a stolen car when it crashed into David Mather's car on a roundabout on the Isle of Wight. Jane Evason, of the Campaign Against Drink Driving, said at the time that Furmidge would have got a longer sentence if he had stabbed someone. 'The actions of dangerous and irresponsible drivers which result in someone losing their life are devastating, not only for the victims and their families but for the whole community' said Hillary Benn, the Home Office Minister. 'That is why we are proposing to increase the maximum penalty for the offence of causing death by dangerous driving.'