Lawyers acting for the latest suspect in the murder of the student Meredith Kercher in Italy claimed yesterday that he would lead police to the real killer.Rudy Hermann Guede, 20, from Ivory Coast, is being held in Germany awaiting extradition to Italy on suspicion of sexually assaulting and killing Kercher, 21, in Perugia on November 1.Walter Biscotti, Guede's lawyer, said his client had not only tussled briefly with the killer at Kercher's house in Perugia but heard her final words, which would be "at the heart of the defence case". Italian newspapers have reported that Guede heard the British student whisper the initials AF as she lay dying with her throat cut.Guede claims he and Kercher entered the house at about 8.38pm on the night of the murder and that an Italian man followed them in and killed her as Guede was in the bathroom. Guede said the man, whom he had struggled briefly with, had brown hair and was shorter than himself. La Repubblica reported that the man told Guede: "You are finished. A black man found is a black man condemned.""I don't know the exact words," said Biscotti, "but they were laying the blame on him because he is black."Guede has said he tried unsuccessfully to revive Kercher before fleeing in panic. Now, said Biscotti, he was determined to return to Italy "to proclaim his innocence and demonstrate that he had nothing to do with the crime". Nicodemo Gentile, another lawyer representing Guede, said his client had been "caught in a moment of extreme confusion, extreme fear" and had not been "thinking straight". Speaking to the media yesterday, Biscotti and Gentile gave contradictory accounts of the night: Biscotti said there had been "no sexual relations at all" between Guede and Kercher, while Gentile said the two had had sex.By the end of the day both had agreed that no sex took place and Gentile said they would soon show how Guede's DNA came to be on Kercher's body. "There was great affection between them," he said.Guede was detained in Germany after a fingerprint match was found in Kercher's blood. He is to be extradited within 15 days to face police in Perugia."This is a rather improbable account," magistrate Guiliano Mignini told La Repubblica, speaking of Guede's version. He said the door to Kercher's house reportedly showed no signs of a break-in, despite the entry of Guede's "unknown Italian". He also said police had found the house cleaned up after the crime and that a window had been smashed in an apparent attempt to simulate a burglary.Two other people, Raffaele Sollecito, 23, and Kercher's American flatmate, Amanda Knox, 20, are also being held on suspicion of the killing. They deny involvement.Police sources have played down Italian press reports that tests on tissues found at Kercher's house will point to an unidentified couple present at the killing.