When substantial cuts of up to 25% in police budgets were first mooted by the Conservative-led coalition in September, the Police Federation chairman, Paul McKeever, warned that they were creating "Christmas for criminals". But does history back up that claim?The Police Federation was created in 1919, after strikes called by the outlawed National Union of Police and Prison Officers. The first of these began in London at midnight on 29 August 1918. The then home secretary and the commissioners of both the Metropolitan and City of London police were on holiday. So, too, it seemed, were London's criminals. Despite an almost total police walkout, there was no noticeable rise in crime or disorder.The strike, commented the Times, would have "a lasting place in the social annals of the country for the proof it afforded of the people's ingrained respect for law and order". The prime minister, Lloyd George, was less sanguine. For him the "country was nearer to Bolshevism that day than at any time since". His apprehension was only partly confirmed by further police strikes in 1919. There was substantial violence and looting in Merseyside, quelled only by the military. But in London and Birmingham the strikes did not result in any upsurge of lawlessness.These events question the widespread assumption that "the lack of efficient and effective policing – visible and otherwise – would deny public safety, and anarchy or something dangerously close to it would prevail", as claimed in the opening paragraph of Tom Winsor's independent review of remuneration and conditions of service for police officers and staff published on 8 March. The ferocious debate about cuts in police resources and pay largely takes for granted that as far as public safety and the control of crime are concerned, police size matters.The former shadow home secretary Alan Johnson vigorously attacked the cuts when they were announced in the autumn of 2010 as likely to result in rising crime. His successor, Yvette Cooper, has taken a somewhat more cautious line, arguing the cuts will affect communities, but not necessarily directly through rising crime.There can be little doubt that, as with all other public services, the cuts now facing police budgets will drastically curtail the quality of life of people, especially in the most deprived areas. What is much more doubtful is whether the police cuts will cause crime to rise. Crime and disorder are indeed likely to explode in the coming years, but that is because of the surge in inequality and social exclusion brought about by the coalition's economic strategy, not the police cuts per se.The minister of state for justice Nick Herbert has suggested that the relationship between police numbers and crime is not straightforward (just as Ken Clarke has done for prisons). But the main line taken by the government, expressed by Theresa May, does not question the conventional assumption that more police cut crime, but rather argues unconvincingly that economies can be achieved by back-room efficiency savings without reducing frontline services.The relationship between policing and crime levels is complex, as the experience of police strikes shows. There is an extensive body of evidence calling into question the potential impact of policing on crime overall. Crime is shaped by a variety of factors: shifting definitions of criminality; social, economic, cultural and psychological pressures and seductions motivating potential offenders; the ebb and flow of opportunities and means to offend; and the varying constraints of informal as well as formal social controls.Policing is only one aspect of the last of these. Poor policing may result in pathologically high levels of crime, and police reform in such a context can appear to produce spectacular results by returning the level to its base of normality (perhaps this accounts for some of the New York "miracle", when the city's crime rate for violent offences dropped about 75% between 1991 and 2004). And especially smart or tough policing may suppress the rate below the long-run norm. This is not to argue that police do not have many indispensable functions: responding to a variety of troubles, including crimes, and symbolising social concern for justice and for the plight of victims. But it is chimerical to see them as the primary means of controlling crime levels.Where tough policing can make a substantial although ethically questionable and often only temporary difference is in suppressing disorder. The last time the Conservatives presided over such savage cuts, Margaret Thatcher kept the police on side against her "enemy within" by special treatment, stuffing their pockets with gold.They duly served their purpose in crippling trade unionism, above all during the 1984-85 miners' strike, the British bobby's unfinest hour. We are already witnessing a wholly understandable uprising of protest. Is the government being reckless in risking the police joining with their own protests, ignoring Juvenal's ancient conundrum of statecraft, which may be paraphrased as: "Who kettles the kettlers"?