Figures showing that the police are still disproportionately targetting the black and Asian communities will today prompt the Home Office to set up a new stop and search action team to combat discrimination.The figures, to be published today, were described by the Home Office minister Lady Scotland as "frustrating". "We intend to aggressively address this, but I want to know more about why there is that level of disproportionality," she said. The action team, advised by a community panel, will be expected to produce a plan for change within six months to be sent to every police force in the country, setting out procedures on how to deploy stop and search, including what might constitute reasonable grounds for suspicion. "The police on the ground need to know that 'If I do this and this in the way I communicate, stop and search, then I will know I am acting appropriately, and get a better result'," Lady Scotland said yesterday. The figures, which include a big increase in Asians being stopped, are likely to confirm the suspicion among Britain's Muslim community, revealed in a recent Guardian poll, that they are being victimised by the police in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attack. Lady Scotland said she believed that ethnic minorities -often the principal victims of crime - did give their assent for stop and search so long as it was properly explained by the police, as had occurred in the fight against gun crime in Operation Trident. But she said the low number of arrests following stop and search had to be attributed in part to inadequate police intelligence. Today's figures will for the first time break down the ethnic backgrounds of those being stopped under the Terrorism Act 2000. A government source said the figures were similar to those from a recent Metropolitan police authority study which showed that, nationally, black people were up to eight times more likely to be stopped than whites, and Asians five times. In London, where a quarter of such searches take place, the "disproportionality" was getting worse, not better: the rate rose 30% for black people, 41% for Asians and 8% for whites be tween 2000-01 and 2001-02. She defended the use of the Terrorism Act's stop and search powers, saying that "one of our aims is to make the terrorist nervous". But Lady Scotland's decision to set up the new action team to combat the problem comes after both the Macpherson and Scarman inquiries, as well as repeated promises by the Home Office to root out racism and prejudice in the police. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has already ordered that police must record every incident in which they stop a member of the public to meet the recommendations of the Macpherson report into the killing of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence. A nationwide scheme is due to come into force in April next year. Lady Scotland said she would not leap to the conclusion that the figures reflected ingrained racism in the police force, pointing out that some believe the greater "availability" of Asians and blacks on the streets led to more stops. She said: "The lack of progress was frustrating since we have done so much to change procedures." She pointed to the fact that 20% of police applicants are now being screened out on the grounds that they have inappropriate views on race. "The racial composition of the police force is changing," she said. "We have have got to create an environment in which our entire community believe that joining the police is something they can do." She promised "to bust a gut" to improve the ethnic minority community's perception of the criminal justice system. She said it understood the need to take tough action against terrorism, pointing out that blacks and Asians were also the chief victims of crime.