One day, society will look back on the treatment of women prisoners at the start of this millennium as scandalous. The alarming and simple conclusion will be that we locked up vulnerable people who had no place in prison. In 2007, we have scarcely advanced from the 19th century, when people were jailed for no offence greater than an inability to pay their debts or the misfortune of suffering from a mental illness.Most of Britain's 4,300 female inmates have at least one psychiatric problem; many are drug addicts; more than half have suffered domestic violence. Fewer than 10 per cent have committed a violent crime. Two-thirds of those held are on remand, with only half going on to serve a prison sentence.Later this month, the Corston Review, commissioned by the Home Office following the deaths of six female offenders at Styal prison in Cheshire, will be published. As The Observer reveals today, the report will recommend the expansion of options to custody and new ways of improving women's life chances. Such approaches require investment. But they would bring long-term dividends by curbing recidivism. Today, almost two-thirds of women offenders go on to commit further crimes, often because when they leave prison they have lost their homes, their children and their dignity.There have been reports in the past highlighting this problem. Even the Home Secretary has acknowledged there are too many vulnerable women in jail. 'It is clear to me that there are people in our prisons who should not be there,' Dr Reid told Parliament last year.In 2001, the government said the best strategy to reduce offending would be: 'To improve women's access to work; to improve women's mental health services; to tackle drug abuse by women; to improve family ties; and to improve the life chances of young women at school and in the community.' But the huge gulf between that goal and action to meet it has not closed.The government must pay heed to the Corston Review, implementing its recommendations for non-custodial, community-based punishments for non-violent offenders. The alternative is to continue with discredited practice that brings shame on our society.