A vulnerable man was locked up for years and tortured for his benefit money before being decapitated and dismembered, his body then thrown into a lake, a court heard yesterday.The body of Michael Gilbert was found last May in the Blue Lagoon, a nature reserve at Arlesey, Bedfordshire. He had suffered years of violence and abuse at the hands of two brothers, their parents and their girlfriends at their home in Luton before he was killed at the age of 26, the prosecution claimed.Stuart Trimmer QC told the court that all six people charged had some responsibility for what had happened to Gilbert. "He was kept, amongst other things, to take his benefit money," he said.Gilbert was repeatedly beaten by the family, who filmed the abuse on mobile phones, he said. "He was abused and assaulted, in reality, for entertainment. He was burnt, beaten, his body still had airgun pellets in it when it was taken from the lake."All six are accused of familial homicide, the offence of causing or allowing the death of a child or vulnerable adult, a charge designed to ensure those jointly accused of the murder of such a person cannot avoid prosecution by blaming each other or remaining silent.James Watt, 27, and Robert Watt, 20 deny murdering Gilbert on or around 21 January last year. Their father, Antonio Watt, 60, is charged with familial homicide and perverting the course of justice. Their mother, Jennifer Smith-Dennis, 58, is charged with familial homicide and two counts of perverting the course of justice.Natasha Oldfield, 29, who lived in the house with James Watt, and 21-year-old Nichola Roberts, the girlfriend of Robert Watt, are charged with murder, familial homicide and perverting the course of justice.Gilbert's contact with the Watt family began when, at 15, he met James at a children's home. He later lived with the family at various houses in Luton.Gilbert, who had been homeless for parts of his life, tried to escape from the family several times, the first time in 2002. But he was recaptured, the court heard, and once "back under the control" of the family the violence against him escalated.He was hit with bats, shot, stabbed and made to walk around the house just in boxer shorts, the court heard. He was forced to do chores for the family, and on one occasion was made to goad a pet lizard until it stung him with its tail.He escaped twice more, but on each occasion James Watt traced him, using his national insurance number to find out where he was collecting his state benefits. On one occasion, in June 2007, Gilbert was arrested with Watt, and he told police about the abduction. But, said Trimmer, he refused to press charges, saying: "It will make it worse for me in the long run."In the months before Gilbert's death the family stepped up the violence against him, the court was told. He was forced to lie on his back while people jumped with both feet on his stomach. James Watt regularly threw a snooker ball at him while, according to one witness, Watt's girlfriend, Oldfield, hit him in the stomach with a hammer. The court was told that in her diary she described a game show, where contestants would pay £5 to slap Gilbert and £25 to headbutt him. The court heard Gilbert often slept handcuffed, on the floor by James' bed.Gilbert was last seen alive on 16 January at a job centre. He was killed between 21-22 January, according to the prosecution.His remains were driven to the lake 14 miles away and weighed down with heavy stones from the patio wall of the Watt family home, said Trimmer.On 10 May last year, two dog walkers discovered a bag which, they told police, had "the smell of death". Inside the bag was Gilbert's torso, left forearm, both hands, his lower legs and feet. His knees, right forearm and head were found earlier this month.The case continues.