Myra Hindley's death has robbed her of the freedom which seemed at last within her sights after a long legal battle to win her release.Legal moves to strip the home secretary of his powers to fix minimum terms for prisoners serving mandatory life sentences for murder could have seen her set free next year, after 36 years of incarceration. Her death will remove an embarrassing confrontation with the judges for David Blunkett, who vowed that she would never walk free, whatever the courts might say. Unlike Ian Brady, her accomplice in the sadistic murders of five children, who fought unsuccessfully for the right to die in custody, Hindley had desperately wanted a life outside the prison walls. She fought a losing battle through the English courts through the 1990s, suffering her final defeat in the House of Lords in March 2000. Undaunted, she lodged an application at the European court of human rights in Strasbourg, which was still awaiting a hearing when she died. In the meantime, the Human Rights Act came into force in the UK in October 2000. That act, and a favourable ruling in Strasbourg in another case, paved the way for another mandatory lifer, Anthony Anderson, to challenge the home secretary's powers in the House of Lords last month. The law lords are widely expected to rule soon that to allow a politician, rather than a judge, to decide the length of a prison term breaches the European convention on human rights. At present, the trial judge and the lord chief justice recommend a minimum term, after which a prisoner can apply to be released on licence. But it is open to the home secretary to override the recommendation and fix a longer tariff, a power which was removed from ministers in Scotland and Northern Ireland specifically to comply with the European convention. If Anderson succeeds, some 225 prisoners whose tariffs were increased by the home secretary will be entitled to have them reviewed by the lord chief justice. Around 70, including Hindley, have already served longer than the judge recommended. She could have been one of the first to be released, because the parole board assessed her as low risk five years ago and recommended that she should be moved to an open prison. When she was convicted with Brady in 1966 of murdering three children, the trial judge said he hoped she would stay in prison for a long time. In 1985 the then lord chief justice, Lord Lane, recommended a tariff of 25 years. Two years later she and Brady confessed to the murders of two more children. In 1990 the then home secretary, David Waddington, decided that in her case, life would mean life. Her "whole life" tariff has been confirmed by successive home secretaries. Anderson's QC, Edward Fitzgerald, who also acted for Hindley, told the law lords last month that decisions on tariffs "should be taken openly, publicly and fairly in court by a judge, not secretly and unfairly by a politician who has never heard the case and is subject to all the inevitable pressures of public opinion". Hindley was one of 23 prisoners - including Brady and other notorious murderers, such as the serial killers Harold Shipman and Rosemary West - with whole life tariffs. Mr Blunkett has pledged to keep them inside, but his room for manoeuvre is limited by the European convention and the Human Rights Act. Hindley, who converted to Catholicism and expressed repentance for her part in the killings, was said to have considered going to a convent on her release. She would have adopted a new identity, and would probably have been protected by the same type of blanket high court injunction won by Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, the killers of two-year-old James Bulger.