In England and Wales, more children are imprisoned than in any other western European country.In the UK, we lock up 23 children per 100,000 of the population, compared to six in France, two in Spain and 0.2 in Finland.The rate of child imprisonment is increasing all the time and, contrary to popular belief, the majority of children in custody have not committed violent crimes.Youth Justice Board figures show that in 1992 100 children under 15 were sentenced to penal custody, with all those sentences awarded under the "grave crimes" provision (section 53 of the 1933 Children and Young Persons Act), for children who have committed serious violent offences. In 2005-06, 824 under-15s were jailed, but only 48 of those came under the grave crimes provision.The Howard League for Penal Reform has a legal team that represents children and young people in custody. The league's director, Frances Crook, says the team's case files provide a litany of the "chaos, neglect and abuse of dysfunctional families and an often failing care system", and that children can be seen in criminal courts from the age of 10, with little regard as to why they have ended up in the dock in the first place.Does locking up so many of our children make them – or society – better?The system of dealing with children who break the law, many of them vulnerable – and victims themselves – fails disastrously in preventing re-offending: 82% of boys sentenced to custody are reconvicted within two years of release.If the Ministry of Justice is seeking a fairer, more humane and effective approach to young offenders, then perhaps rather than studying France, Spain or Finland, it should look closer to home. Some 26 children were held in prisons in Scotland in 2006 – compared with 816 under-16s in England and Wales.Crook says Scotland does not jail fewer children because youth crime does not exist north of the border. The social problems there are the same as in England and Wales; but Scotland does not demonise children the way we do, punishing young people as individuals for what amount to failures in social policy. Scotland recognises that appalling juvenile re-offending rates – over three-quarters in England and Wales – show that prison is no place for children."Scotland is not Timbuktu," Crook says. "As the Department for Children, Schools and Families has now taken joint ownership of youth justice in Whitehall, perhaps the time is ripe for London to look to Edinburgh for a better way forward."In 1971, the children's hearing system took over from the courts in Scotland most of the responsibility for dealing with children and young people under 16 – and in some cases 18 – who commit offences or are in need of care and protection. It is more than coincidence that the two groups are placed firmly in the same bracket; the system is welfare-based and there is little, if any, difference in the treatment of those who are perceived to be victims and those seen as offenders.There are several steps to a hearing, usually beginning with the reporting of an incident. It may be alleged that a child has committed an offence, that his or her welfare is at risk and/or they have suffered abuse or neglect. In all instances, the procedure is the same. The case is referred to a children's reporter who then investigates the circumstances, usually by requesting information from different agencies: social workers, police, school, health and voluntary organisations. The reporter then decides whether there is a need for compulsory intervention. If there is, the child is referred to a children's hearing.Each hearing consists of three panel members, all trained volunteers from the local community. The child and family, or carers, are the central participants and all decisions are made openly. The most common outcome is a supervision requirement, ranging from supervision at home to secure accommodation; though temporary emergency measures, such as child protection orders, are sometimes used. Local authorities have a statutory obligation to implement the decisions made by panels.In his 2006-07 annual report, the chief inspector of prisons for Scotland repeated his call for an end to the detention of children in Scotland's prisons as he reported 26 cases of under-16s having been admitted to a young offenders' institution or adult prison that year. His report aroused a degree of public concern at the notion of children in adult prisons. In response, Scotland's justice minister, Kenny MacAskill, announced the abolition of the law which allowed under-16s to be detained in prison. MacAskill said he did not believe that, "in the long run Scotland will be well served by jailing children"."Lock up a youth alongside hardened criminals and there's a risk you'll lock them into a life of crime. I agree with the chief inspector that prison is no place for children." MacAskill added.Fergus Ewing is the minister for community safety in Scotland, and oversees the children's hearing panels. He says the policy of dealing with children referred to the panels for alleged offences and those referred on care and protection basis in the same manner reflects the welfare-based nature of the system. He spoke of children from poor backgrounds having massive health and education issues, and who need to be diverted away from the "booze and blades" culture prevalent in many urban areas. He said: "Many of these children have never seen a mountain, or a running river, we have to show them that there's a better way of life."Ewing concedes that some people may see the children's hearings system as a soft approach, but asserts that most people working in the system see it as a far more effective approach to the problem of youth and child crime.