The prime minister was warned yesterday that the Prison Officers Association is ruling nothing out in its campaign for a better pay settlement and the restoration of the right to strike. The warning came at the end of talks with the justice minister, Jack Straw, after this week's wildcat strike."Considering the fact that the prime minister tried to scupper the talks before they started, they went reasonably well," said Brian Caton, general secretary of the Prison Officers Association. "He [Gordon Brown] is due to talk at the TUC in two weeks and we'll see if he's smiling when he sits down."Asked whether further industrial action was likely following the injunction granted against the union in the high court this week, Mr Caton said: "We're ruling nothing out and we're ruling nothing in at this stage."Mr Straw had brought a "level of reasonableness" to the talks. Mr Caton compared him favourably to his predecessor John Reid, who he said had declined to talk to the union and had been responsible for some of the current problems. There had been no movement on pay, he said, but further talks were scheduled."We have had some hours of constructive discussions," the Justice Ministry and the POA said in their official joint statement. "We will be meeting again in two weeks' time. The justice secretary, Jack Straw, emphasised to the POA that there can be no change in this year's pay settlement. The POA told him that they had no intention of further industrial action at this time, but would continue to seek a resolution to this current dispute."The statement added that discussions would continue between the government and the POA on wider criminal justice and prison-related issues. There would also be discussions about evidence to the prison service pay review body about next year's award.The talks concluded as the latest projections of the size of the future prison population were published by the Justice Ministry. They suggest that the prison population in 2014 could reach 101,900, compared with the current 79,730 and the 1997 figure of 61,470.It was also announced that among 3,832 prisoners released early to ease overcrowding, reoffenders committed 56 crimes. Of the 2,131 released early in July, 126 had been recalled for reasons including committing further offences. A total of 43 who failed to meet the terms of their release agreement are missing and being sought while 83 have been sent back to jail.The ministry also published an update of its prison building plans yesterday, stating that 8,000 new places should be available by 2012. Prison capacity has increased by 20,000 since 1997. One of the issues raised by the prison officers this week was the claim that severe overcrowding made their jobs more difficult.Paul Cavadino, chief executive of Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said the projections suggested that the prison system would be at least 5,000 cells short by 2014."These alarming figures show that there will be no solution to the prison population crisis unless the government restricts courts' powers to use prison sentences. Otherwise new prisons will be rapidly filled with extra prisoners, providing no respite for overcrowded jails."