The mother of Damilola Taylor wept today as a child's silver jacket was held up at the Old Bailey trial into his murder.The jacket was identical to the one worn by 10-year-old Damilola when he was stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle in Blakes Road, Peckham, south London, on November 27 2000. Gloria Taylor wiped away tears with a handkerchief as prosecutor Mark Dennis held the jacket up for a witness to see. She sat with her husband, Richard, just feet away and was visibly upset for several minutes. Two brothers, both aged 16, deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Today was the first time a jacket has been seen by the jury, which has been shown pictures of Damilola's blood-soaked hooded coat. The 18-year-old witness said he did not think a boy he had seen touching a broken bottle in Blakes Road at the time of the killing was wearing such a jacket. The 18-year-old and his 19-year-old friend both agreed that the boy they saw was not dressed as Damilola appeared in CCTV footage taken just before his death.The witnesses had been called by the defence and had given statements to the police after Damilola's death. The male witness said they were leaving a house at around 4.45pm when he heard the sound of a breaking bottle. He turned to see a boy of about eight or 10 who "picked up a piece of glass". His friend had shouted at the boy. "The lad got scared. He ran off," said the witness. Under crossexamination, the witness agreed that he told police at the time that the boy was wearing dark clothing. He had been shown pictures of a silver jacket and said in his statement: "I am confident the boy I saw was not wearing this silver jacket." He agreed that he also said: "I would say the person I saw was darker than Damilola." Mr Dennis asked him: "The boy you were saying you saw was plainly not Damilola but another boy?" The witness answered: "It may have been. I am not too sure it was him or not." He agreed that his doubts may have been caused by the "passage of time". The female witness said the boy was wearing dark trousers and a dark coat. He was bending down and appeared to be picking up the glass when she called out to him. She walked about six steps when she heard another sound like glass, turned round and heard the sound of "ah" before the boy ran off. "I thought the boy had hurt himself," she said. She told police she did not think the boy was Damilola because of his clothing.The trial continues.