A man was yesterday convicted of murdering his wife, four years after she vanished without trace in circumstances that led police to believe her body could have been buried on a farm or fed to pigs.Martin Baker, 54, an engineer from Egham, Surrey, was found guilty of murder even though police were unable to find a body or weapon - or the crime scene. The prosecution presented "very powerful" circumstantial evidence that indicated Baker had killed his wife, Tina, 41, fearing he would lose their 14-acre farm after she met another man and demanded a divorce.Mark Dennis QC told the jury that Baker had "carried with him" a chilling threat he made to his first wife. "Several years ago, during a row with his first wife, Baker angrily threatened her, saying 'do you realise I have the power to make you disappear permanently - no one would ever find you?'" he said. "We conclude that in July 2002 this defendant put into effect the threat he carried within him ... and has been responsible for the permanent disappearance of Tina. Baker's high anxiety and pestering that occurred before [the day of the murder], and attempts to find her, then stopped. Why?"Mrs Baker was last seen in the summer of 2002 leaving her lover's house to feed the animals at Brookfield Farm, a plot of land in Surrey she co-owned with Baker. Her bank account was left untouched and her pet dog was found abandoned. Her disappearance was treated as a missing person inquiry until detectives became suspicious of Baker, who was described in court as controlling and jealous.When Baker's first wife told police her former husband had said he could make her permanently disappear, with the phrase "I would cut you up and feed you to the pigs", forensic officers analysed the pigswill and manure on the farm, near the village of Chobham, but found no evidence Mrs Baker's body had been disposed of as animal feed.Sniffer dogs were used to scour the site for the scent of human remains. In October last year, after three years trying to decipher the circumstances surrounding her death, police arrested Baker and charged him with his wife's murder.The court heard that in May 2002 Mrs Baker had rekindled a relationship with an old schoolfriend and separated from her husband. She left the home of her new lover on the day she vanished, saying she was going to feed her animals and would meet him later.Baker denied being at the farm on the day Mrs Baker disappeared, telling the court: "She was the best thing to happen to me." He claimed he had gone to work on the day she disappeared, but left early after breaking a machine and being sent home. But a witness said she encountered an "agitated" looking Baker that day, who made her feel unwelcome on the farm. Telephone records also revealed he had been in the vicinity of the farm that morning, and showed he made contact with a friend who ran a breaker's yard which could dispose of cars on the same day.Less than a year later he used his estranged wife's maiden name to obtain a DVLA licence for a stolen BMW. "This is clear evidence he knew full well that Tina, now missing for eight months, was dead and her ID could safely be used by another," Mr Dennis told the jury. Baker will be sentenced later this month.