The trial of a bank employee accused of being the "inside man" in Britain's biggest robbery collapsed yesterday after the prosecution admitted the case was brought on circumstantial evidence.Chris Ward was found not guilty of involvement in the £26.5m heist at the headquarters of the Northern Bank in Belfast four years ago. The bank worker's family were held hostage while he and a colleague, whose wife was also held captive, brought banknotes out in plastic bin liners which the gang loaded into two vans. Police blamed the IRA for the robbery and the fallout threatened to undermine the peace process.The prosecution said Ward had altered his work rota to ensure that he was on duty at the time of the robbery. But during the trial it emerged that other employees had played a central role in the rota changes.Speaking outside court, Ward's lawyer, Niall Murphy, said: "Mr Ward has been rescued from the appalling vista of a miscarriage of justice but there is no guarantee that this will prevail on every occasion. There must be a root and branch analysis of how some high profile criminal cases are prosecuted." He said the "Kafkaesque farce" started from the premise that Ward was guilty. "From the outset Chris Ward was denied the presumption of innocence."Indeed it is a regrettable fact that in this society the mere fact that Chris Ward was a Catholic from Poleglass [a housing estate on the outskirts of West Belfast] and charged with this offence was enough to seal his guilt in the eyes of some people."Murphy confirmed last night that his client would be taking legal action against the Northern Bank after being sacked, and had lodged papers with an industrial tribunal. The bank said it was "disappointing that such a major crime remains unsolved". Ward denied robbing the Belfast bank and abducting colleague Kevin McMullan and his wife Karyn. The trial heard how Ward and McMullan's families were held hostage in their homes while the men went to work in December 2004.Three masked men arrived at Ward's home on Sunday December 19 and two held his parents, brother and his brother's girlfriend hostage while he was driven to his supervisor McMullan's home, where two men posing as police officers had already arrived. They said they were delivering bad news over a motoring accident before donning masks and tying the couple up at gunpoint. Mrs McMullan was taken to an undisclosed location where she was held blindfold for more than 24 hours. At 6pm the next day, acting on the gang's instructions, Chris Ward left the bank carrying a holdall containing about £1m and handed it to a man on the street, in what police believed was a dummy run by those who planned the heist. At 7pm money was loaded into crates and collected by a van. An hour later the van made a second collection from the bank. Irish and British security sources said yesterday that they were adamant the robbery had been an IRA operation, masterminded by the Provisionals' "director of intelligence", a close ally of Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams. Sinn Fein denied IRA involvement.BackstoryThe collapse of the Northern Bank trial is the third major blow to the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) and the Public Prosecution Service in 10 months. Even before yesterday's decision to halt the trial against Christopher Ward the view within the Northern Ireland legal system was that the trial was fatally flawed. The PSNI poured huge resources into trying to catch the gang behind the £25.6m robbery. They followed suspects to Spain and bugged their conversations with their partners; they even took samples from a septic tank belonging to the family of one of the abducted bank officials to find forensic evidence. It was all to no avail. Privately security sources in Northern Ireland believe those responsible for the raid will get away with it. Just a few months ago a judge cleared two men charged in connection with the murder of Robert McCartney - an alleged victim of an IRA gang who became an international cause celebre. No one has been brought to justice for killing McCartney. And in December 2007 the trial against the only man accused in relation to the Omagh bombing 10 years earlier collapsed. Sean Hoey walked free after police forensic evidence against the south Armagh man was discredited.