The chairman of the British Airport Authority, Sir Nigel Rudd, and his wife were robbed at knifepoint by a gang who targeted ostensibly wealthy people leaving upmarket London restaurants, a court was told.The couple were victims of a gang who stole more than £242,000 in four robberies after following their targets home and mugging them, Southwark crown court heard.Gulam Gani, 47, Nicholas Lewis, 34, and Shaun Wallace, 30, would cruise the streets in top-of-the range cars, including a Mercedes and a BMW, singling out elderly and lone women, and striking four times in three weeks, the jury was told.Prosecuting, Kenneth Millet said the gang would follow victims home, force them to the floor, stifle their screams and remove their jewellery.Millet said there were "a series of strikingly similiar robberies" in May 2011 and another in October 2011, "when a group of men using stolen cloned cars toured central London, mainly in the evening" . The crown's case was that the men had "gone to posh restaurants, looked at who is leaving, followed them and robbed them".The Rudds, who are in their 60s, left a restaurant in Chelsea on 25 May 2011 and walked home at about 11pm. Lady Rudd was about to close the door when it was violently forced open, causing her to fall backwards. A masked man then pushed her in the face, the jury heard.He removed her rings and a Cartier wristwatch, tried to remove her bracelet, breaking the clasp, and ripped off her necklace. A second man held a kitchen knife to her husband's chest and shouted for them to tell him where the safe was, the court heard. They escaped with £84,000 worth of valuables.The gang allegedly carried out similiar separate attacks in the same month, taking jewellery from Elizabeth Kaye, Jennifer Boschetto, 57, and Rosemary Foyle, who were followed from restaurants in Mayfair, Chelsea and the West End, it was alleged. In a fifth robbery, in October 2011, a £75,000 ring was taken from another woman, Barbara Walker.Millett told the jury they could "imagine the psychological effects of those crimes upon those people which extends far beyond the shock of the offences at the time". The stolen goods were sold through a "fencer", Radcliffe Benjemin, 55, and his Hatton Garden jewellers, Hush, the court heard.Gani, of White City, west London; Lewis, of Romford, Essex; and Wallace, of west London, deny conspiracy to rob. Lewis denies a second robbery charge. Benjemin, of Ilford, Essex, denies two charges of conspiracy to handle stolen goods between May and November last year. The trial continues.