A gang of suspected people-traffickers was arrested in London today in a dawn offensive involving more than 200 police officers.A total of 21 people were detained in the operation by detectives investigating the murder of a young boy whose torso was found floating in the Thames. Police believe they have smashed a crime network responsible for smuggling African children into the UK. Officers swooped on nine addresses in east and south-east London early today. Most of those detained are Nigerian nationals. They were arrested on suspicion of immigration, people trafficking and passport offences. They are suspected of bringing in youngsters and adults via Europe - the route they believe was followed by the unknown murder victim, who police named Adam, discovered near Tower Bridge in September 2001. Detective Inspector Will O'Reilly, leading the Adam inquiry, said today: "This is the trafficking side of the Adam investigation and it is significant and important to that inquiry as a whole. "We've uncovered what we believe is a criminal network concentrating on people trafficking, particularly from mainland Africa through Europe to the UK. "We don't know how many children are involved in this operation but it's certainly in the hundreds, if not the thousands, coming from mainland Africa into the UK." Commander Andy Baker, of Scotland Yard, said children brought into the UK on false documents are often used to carry out elaborate benefit frauds, as "slave" labour or used in the sex industry. Many arrive at airports travelling alone and escape the attention of the authorities because they are travelling on stolen or forged British passports. Detectives believe the children are given false identities and are passed around adults claiming to be their parents to make bogus child-benefit claims. Those arrested in today's operation will be DNA tested to see if there is any family link with Adam. Det Insp O'Reilly said: "We are pretty confident that we have a group of individuals who would have trafficked Adam into the country but our inquiries are still at a very, very early stage." He said that some "interesting substances" were recovered from one of the addresses. These included soils and clay as well as an animal skull wrapped in a fibrous substance, and with a nail through it. This discovery was of particular interest because Adam was found with a substance including ground-down bone in his stomach. "These items obviously have some ritualistic meaning and we are bringing them back to our experts," he said.The unknown boy was aged between four and seven and had been mutilated in what police believe was a ritualistic sacrifice, possibly by the African black magic "muti" cult. His torso measured just 18in by 8in and was discovered naked apart from a pair of orange shorts which could be bought only in Woolworths stores in Germany. Detectives used groundbreaking forensic techniques to establish he was from a region of south-west Nigeria between Benin City and Ibadan. The majority of those arrested today were believed to be from the Benin City area. Earlier this month, a Nigerian man was interviewed by police investigating Adam's death. Sam Onojhighovie, 37, appeared at Dublin's high court as part of an attempt to extradite him to Germany, where he has already been convicted in his absence and sentenced to seven years for offences linked to human trafficking. Det Insp O'Reilly has spoken to Mr Onojhighovie and requested a DNA test, believing he could be the boy's natural father.He is thought to be the estranged husband of Joyce Osagiede, who was arrested by police investigating the murder a year ago in Glasgow. She was not charged and was later returned to Nigeria. The inquiry, codenamed Operation Swalcliff, has seen detectives hunting for Adam's true identity and his killers in several countries and an appeal for help by former South African president Nelson Mandela.