One of Britain's most notorious conmen, who swindled a doctor by posing as a top barrister in the Jill Dando murder trial, was jailed for four years and four months yesterday.Paul Bint, 41 - labelled "King Con" for a 25-year career of deceit during which he has impersonated an aristocrat, a ballet dancer, a banker, a doctor, a playboy, a policeman and a property magnate - convinced a hospital consultant, Annie Park-McGuinness, that he lived in the so-called Millionaire's Row in Hampstead, north London. He also told her he had just crashed his Aston Martin car. The doctor, who worked in University College hospital, London, where he was being treated for minor injuries, later recalled: "I thought he was a respectable and lonely professional. He said he knew many rich and famous people." She tried to help him out by letting him stay at her home. But Inner London crown court heard that Bint repaid her hospitality by stealing £60 cash and a credit card to fund a spending spree in which he bought more than £200 of clothes and other items. After he had duped her he got himself admitted to a second hospital and stole another card from a dying patient, which he used to pay for a £1,000 romantic weekend for two in a hotel with the daughter of a pensioner he befriended in a third hospital. When he was finally arrested police found legal papers on him relating to the Jeremy Bamber murder trial, as well as two bogus interview tapes bearing the names of Carr and Huntley - a reference to Maxine Carr and Ian Huntley, who are to stand trial in connection with the Soham murders. Bint, a former hairdresser, who told police he lived in Edinburgh, admitted eight counts of obtaining property by deception, one of driving while disqualified, and two of theft. Bint has committed more than 500 offences during his criminal career. Hospitals were his favoured hunting ground for cash and credit card theft. In 2000 Bint began the Scottish phase of his career by boarding the first-class carriage of a Virgin train headed for Edinburgh. Posing as an eminent QC named Lachlan Campbell-Brierdan who was involved in the Lockerbie trial, he complained his wallet and laptop had been stolen. Apologetic Virgin executives agreed to cover the cost of his accommodation in Edinburgh at the Caledonian Hotel where he ran up a £545 bill and romanced a former Miss Edinburgh. She became engaged to him, believing he was a wealthy lawyer. During their affair he talked about owning a London mansion and a collection of classic cars. He fled after five weeks. In 1988 he was sentenced to four years in jail at St Albans crown court for conning a salesman out of a Ferrari by posing as the Duke of Arundel.