Detectives investigating the murder of the Southampton student Hannah Foster confirmed last night that she was strangled by her killer.Postmortem examination results revealed the teenager died as a result of compression to the neck. There was no evidence that she had been sexually assaulted. The autopsy was conducted at a hospital in Winchester where Hannah's parents, Hilary, a nurse, and Trevor, a manager with a gas exploration firm, had identified her. The 17-year-old's body was discovered on Sunday in brambles five minutes drive from her home after police were alerted by a teenage boy passing in a car with his mother. Police believe Hannah, a studious sixth-former, was probably abducted by a stranger in a random attack. The murder - likely to have taken place yards from her home in Portswood, Southampton - was "apparently motiveless". More than 50 calls from the public had provided at least three strong leads.The teenager, who had a place to study medicine at Bristol University, was last seen on Friday night waving goodbye to a friend at a bus stop in Portswood. She was sober after an evening out with four friends when she began her short walk home down a quiet, residential street. Detective Inspector Tony Adams said Hannah's body was found fully clothed in the West End area of Southampton, but he could not reveal if she had been indecently assaulted or whether possessions or bits of clothing were missing. "There have been no similar incidents of this seriousness in the Portswood area," Det Insp Adams said. "There was no significant attempt to hide the body. Its particular location did not make it easy to find." He said police had not com pletely ruled out the possibility that Hannah was attacked by someone she knew. But there was no suggestion a former boyfriend or a fellow student at Hannah's college, Barton Peveril in Eastleigh, were involved. Officers had spoken to one former boyfriend, but had no concerns about him. "There is no suggestion whatsoever that fellow students had been causing any problems; nothing to suggest she had been stalked," Det Insp Adams said. More than 100 officers, including forensic experts, were involved in the investigation. Finger-tip searches of the area continued yesterday.