Shortly before Christmas 2012, a group of young men booked a room at a Premier Inn in Bristol. The friends, all in their early 20s and members of the city’s Somali community, chatted, drank and chewed the stimulant khat.One of the men, a local drug dealer called Said Zakaria – also known by his street name Target – was tasked with the job of finding some girls to “party with”. Zakaria, 22, made a few calls and went off to pick up a girl he had been having sex with who can only be identified as Complainant 1 – C1. She was 13.Zakaria did not bring the girl directly back to the hotel. He first dropped her off at a flat in Barton Hill, an inner-city area of high-rise flats and high crime. There the girl was raped by a stranger. Only then did Zakaria take her on to the Premier Inn, where he raped her on the bed and in the bathroom. She did not protest because she was scared he would hit her. He passed her on to another man, who again raped her. When she went home she could not sit down. She said she “felt nasty, just wanted to disappear.”C1 is one of around 10 girls, mostly white, who have come forward to claim that they have been systematically abused by men of Somali heritage in Bristol. Police and other agencies believe there could be many more victims.The catalogue of assaults, which can be revealed for the first time after reporting restrictions were lifted following the two long trials, has echoes of child sex scandals in Rochdale and Oxford, where members of an ethnic community have been implicated in widespread abuse. It will once again call into question the ability of authorities to spot such abuse.By the time C1 was picked up by Zakaria, she was accustomed to abuse, having been carefully groomed by one of Zakaria’s friends, Mohamed Jumale. C1 met Jumale via Facebook when she was about 11 and he was about 18.She lost her virginity with him under a bridge on a cycle way. She later described herself as “vulnerable”, adding: “I would pretty much talk to anyone cause I never really had anyone to talk to back then.”Jumale, a clever, handsome man with aspirations of a good career after university and dreams of becoming a model, also coerced her into having sex with other men. He told her that this was his culture. She knew he was “just chatting shit... but I did it anyway”.C1 was not the only girl abused by Jumale’s circle. After police began investigating concerns about her, other teenagers came forward to report that they had been abused by young men of Somali origin in flats, parks, and in the disabled toilets in a shopping centre.In January last year – the month after the Premier Inn attack – another very vulnerable girl arrived in the city.Victim A had been in the care of a local authority outside of Bristol for most of her life and had dabbled in drugs and crime. At the start of last year, when she was 16, she and her boyfriend were arrested for an offence of dishonesty. A court ruled that she could be released from custody as long as she immediately left her hometown, which cannot be named for legal reasons.Social workers found her a flat operated by a private provider in an area rife with drug-dealing. She was to live there alone. Her adoptive father described her as “very vulnerable and frightened inside”. She was said to be scared of the dark and craved company. However, she was given a little supervision but left to cope alone for 22 hours a day.One of the first people she met when she ventured out alone was Said Zakaria. She asked him if he could get her “weed” and they began chatting. Within hours, the drugs gang Zakaria was part of was setting up shop in A’s flat. Over the next months they used it as a safe house to stash and prepare heroin and cocaine before selling it.They also began to sexually abuse A. At first it was a “casual” arrangement. She would give oral sex to gang members for £30. But then one of them, Idleh Osman (street-name: Sniper) began acting as her pimp. He would stand guard as she had sex with men. Together they could make £300 a day from five or six clients.Victim A grew fond of some of her abusers (her social worker compared it to a kidnap victim falling for her kidnappers). She thought of one of the gang leaders, Arafat Osman (Left Eye) as her boyfriend. When his brother, Abdulhai Aden (Trigger), came out of prison, Osman asked her to have sex with him as a welcome home present. She ended up having sex with both brothers. She later said she was glad to please the men and felt “part of something”.In May last year, her 14-year-old sister, who was also in care and had run away, was raped by Aden. Police arrived looking for her and heard a knocking from a cupboard under the sink. The girl was dressed only in her underwear. She was crying and make-up was running down her face. “They made me do stuff,” she said.As Avon and Somerset police began to investigate, they realised that this was no isolated incident. They linked it to the assault at the Premier Inn and launched Operation Brooke, a huge and ongoing inquiry into child sexual exploitation in Bristol.A serious case review will examine the role of the authorities but the police have been keen to point out that the offences committed here were relatively recent. However, there may have been chances for the authorities to intervene before May.In February last year – a month after A had moved to Bristol – the police found six or seven men of Somali origin and evidence of drug taking at her flat. A police woman asked Victim A to sit in a police van with her and A told her that many of the men had forced her into sex and would bring drugs into the house.During the same month, A confided to one of the workers from the private company that provided the accommodation that she was being forced to have sex for alcohol and drugs and told her social worker that the men visiting her flat were “clients”.The local authority that placed the 16-year-old girl alone at the flat, which cannot be named for legal reasons, said its social workers had to find her a place to live very quickly after the court stipulated that she had to leave her hometown. It said that within a few weeks of her arriving it had “very real concerns” and tried to persuade her to move but she refused to and it could not force her.Zakaria was convicted of rape, sexual activity with a child, trafficking (this offence relates to him taking C1 to the house and hotel where she was raped) and drugs charges. Jumale was found guilty of rape, sexual activity with a child and aiding and abetting a sexual offence. They are due to be sentenced on Friday.Brothers Arafat Osman and Abdulhai Aden have been jailed for 13 years each for a string of sexual offences. Idleh Osman has been jailed for 10 years for arranging or facilitating payment for the sexual services of a child.