Eight out of 10 convicted substance abusers handed a drug testing and treatment order by the courts are reconvicted within two years, a study published today reveals. A report, for the National Audit Office (NAO), found that only 28% of the programmes terminated last year were completed in full by the offenders. Completion rates varied "considerably" across the country from 71% in Dorset to just 8% in Kent.The reconviction rate for those who finished the treatment was 53%. Under the orders, known as DTTOs, offenders must have two drug tests a week and initially complete between 12 and 20 hours of contact a week with probation workers and counsellors. Sir John Bourn, head of the NAO, said: "The order can help some offenders turn their lives around and reduce their use of drugs. However, the high drop-out rate and evidence from pilots of the order of a high rate of reconviction need to be addressed." The scheme was rolled out by the government across England and Wales in October 2000 to combat drug misuse and crime. More than 18,400 orders had been imposed until December 2003. Ministers allocated nearly £54m to the project across England and Wales in the 2003-2004 financial year.Home Office minister Paul Goggins said: "We know that treatment can make a real difference and the longer someone can be kept on a DTTO the better chance of reducing the level of drug use and offending. "The challenge now is twofold. First, to make the DTTO available to a greater number and a wider range of offenders; and secondly to improve retention and completion rates."DTTOs were first piloted in 1998 to give drug testing, treatment and supervision for criminals addicted to Class A drugs. Over 50 % of orders were breached in the pilot. But now, the drop-out rate is much higher. Edward Leigh MP, chairman of the commons' public accounts committee, said the "dreadfully low" number of offenders completing the courses was of great concern.He said: "Much more needs to be done to ensure offenders comply with the terms of the order. By next year the government wants to double the number of DTTOs that are issued to 12,000 a year. That is good, but the Home Office needs to make sure that the extent of the scheme is matched with the delivery of reduced drug misuse and offending, if we're to reach our goal of a safer society."Despite low completion rates, auditors recognised that DTTOs could be a successful community sentence for some drug misusing offenders who might otherwise have been jailed. "It can help some addicts reduce the level and frequency of their drug misuse," the NAO report said.The DTTOs cost between £5,200 and £7,600 per order which equates to between £25 and £37 a day. Auditors found this to be less expensive than keeping someone in prison, which costs around £100 a day.But campaigners say that while the scheme is "sound" in principle, the practical expectations are unrealistic. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of probation union Napo, said: "DTTOs are a sound idea in principle but the government's obsession with targets means that people are being sentenced to these orders who have very little hope of completion. What we need is quality rather than quantity."Richard Kramer, head of policy at Turning Point, a support group for alcohol and drug abusers and people with mental health and learning disabilities, said that DTTOs "narrowly" focus on meeting people's needs. He said: "DTTOs have a critical role to play but the structure and delivery of the scheme needs to be reassessed. There is an urgency to recognise after-care and mental health needs, and prioritise individual treatment."Mr Kramer said that while DTTOs were geared towards heroin dependency, they were less effective in areas such as alcohol misuse.He suggested that courts should took a central role in monitoring the DTTOs, and that agencies that treated convicted substance users deployed better methods in recording figures and data. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "Labour's flagship policy on drugs has fallen far short of their bold claims. With such high drop-out rates and massive levels of re-offending, it's time to go back to the drawing board. "We need proper, abstinence-based treatment for hard drug addicts, that places a much bigger emphasis on getting people to complete treatment and give up for good."