By any standards, the murder of Shafilea Ahmed has torn her family apart.Ten years ago, the ultra-strict Pakistani couple Iftikhar and Farzana Ahmed had five children – four girls and a boy. Now, one daughter is dead, one is estranged and a protected witness, and their youngest daughter is in local authority care.Only their son Junyad, 22, and daughter Mevish, 21, have remained loyal to their parents. But the credibility of Mevish Ahmed was questioned during the murder trial at Chester crown court when it emerged she had made silent phone calls to a friend who was a prosecution witness, in an apparent attempt to intimidate her. She also had previous issues with drug use and had been accused of stealing from her family.The couple's second oldest daughter, Alesha Ahmed, now 24, has probably caused the biggest family rift. She organised a bizarre armed robbery at the family home in Warrington, Cheshire, in August 2010, in an apparent cry for help after carrying the secret of her sister's murder for seven years. The robbery led to a crucial breakthrough in the police investigation as until that point, the evidence against the couple had been entirely circumstantial.  Iftikhar Ahmed, who denied murdering his daughter Shafilea at his trial at Chester crown court. Photograph: Martin Rickett/PAIftikhar was out at the time of the robbery and 49-year-old Farzana was in the house with her children when the men burst in and tied everyone up [apart from Alesha]. The family realised something was amiss as the robbers also knew Alesha's name. Cheshire police were called and she was arrested. She admitted her role in the robbery and told officers that she had watched her parents kill her sister.The couple had initially told the same story to the authorities. According to their account of events, their daughter had run away from home for a final time and they were not involved in her disappearance nor death.But on 9 July, Farzana changed her account. She effectively pointed the finger at her husband, Iftikhar, saying he was involved in a single, violent assault on their daughter on the night she went missing. She told the court that as far as she was aware, Shafilea was safe and well. Her husband had asked her never to question him about it again unless "she valued her dear life". The couple, who had left to go home every day at the conclusion of court proceedings, were both remanded in custody as one parent was testifying against the other. In the witness box, Iftikhar Ahmed maintained he still loved his wife, no matter what she said.Mevish rubbished her sister Alesha's version of events as lies. She had been due to be called as a defence witness, but it emerged she had been attempting to contact one of her friends, a prosecution witness, making silent calls.However, Mevish was called as a witness by the judge. The court was shown papers she had written in 2008 that depicted her sister's death, using characters with the same names as her family. Mevish dismissed them as "fiction" and "free writing." The papers had been given to her friend, Shahin Munir, who went to the police.In one extract from her writings, Mevish wrote: "Three times she ran, but they got her." Another said: "She didn't do nothing. Shouting, time after time. What did she do? That's it, space of one to two minutes – gone."Andrew Edis QC, prosecuting, suggested it should be called: "How my parents killed my sister." Mevish replied: "No, it is not based on me or my family. It is just chat – just random stuff." She admitted using the names "but that doesn't mean it is about us".Mevish admitted asking her friend to return the documents but said she had kept photocopies. Earlier, she denied witnessing her parents killing her sister.The free writing included: "They treated her like shit. Even when she was a kid, she'd get beaten. I'd do anything to change that night. I wish I'd never seen, but I did. I even seen the suitcase they took her in. They knocked me over and smacked me coz I seen.""How did that happen coz I was there. Why didn't I stop it. Imagine if people knew what I was writing now. That's it. I'd be gone."When it was put to Mevish that she saw her mother and father kill her sister, she replied: "No, I didn't. No."In August 2008, Mevish met Munir, who took a note of the conversation. "They sat her down in a chair and her Dad went mad," Munir's note said. "He started proper hitting her. Mevish tried to stop it, but her Mum pushed her away. They used the plastic bag to suffocate her and one or two minutes, she was gone."Junyad told the court his sister Alesha's account of events was "a pack of lies". He denied saying that Shafilea "deserved it". He had not played any part in his sister's death or been involved in a cover-up. He denied the prosecution's assertion that he was taking his father's side and sticking to "a family lie".Asked what he thought about his mother's allegations, he replied: "Well obviously, I think it's a lie what she is saying. But that's her personal account to give."Another sister, who was seven at the time and cannot be identified for legal reasons, said she could not remember the night of her sister's disappearance. She was called by the defence after her mother changed her account.She admitted saying to Alesha last December that she wanted a magic wand to change everything so they could be a "normal family."When the younger girl had her ears pierced, her parents said she had brought shame on the family. They reacted "like anybody else would – with shock," she said.  Farzana Ahmed leaving Chester crown court. She said she witnessed her husband beat Shafilea on the night of the murder. Photograph: Martin Rickett/PAShe said her mother "wore the pants" in the Ahmed household. And she denied being able to remember what happened the night Shafilea disappeared.In the witness box, Iftikhar said he had never harmed his daughter, contrary to his wife's revised defence statement. He specifically denied a claim that he harmed Shafilea on 11 September 2003.What his wife was saying was not the truth. "She's still my wife and I love her to bits," he said. The couple never got any rest from the questions and the "constant media attention, police presence, social services presence every day," he said, meaning they were unable to grieve properly. The children were taunted at school. "The way the inquiry was, it was constant finger-pointing, like the parents are involved one way or another."Her father said when a body was found in February 2004 he couldn't believe it. He and his wife hoped it was somebody else. He said his daughter was "absolutely brilliant" education-wise. Her character was very bubbly, very talkative.With both parents jailed for life, the divisions in the Ahmed family will continue. The remaining children have lost both a sister and their parents.