A British woman with management training and fluent in six languages who is accused of running Europe’s most extensive network of call girls appeared in court for the first time yesterday. Margaret MacDonald, 43, had established an extremely efficient and profitable procurement business and recruited 538 women and 56 men to work for her agency by the time she was arrested in a Paris hotel last year, prosecutors claim. Her lawyers insist that she is innocent and that she was simply running a relatively small escort agency. Her fluency in languages, including Japanese, Arabic and Greek, enabled her to communicate with clients of various nationalities, while her time at Reims management school, one of France’s best business training centres, gave her a vital understanding of European banking systems. Even the vice squad officers who uncovered the alleged network paid tribute to her “brilliance”. The opening of the two-day trial gave a fascinating insight into the logistics of Ms MacDonald’s business, much of it pieced together from entries in her personal diary, bugged telephone calls and interviews with about 25 former hostesses. She had developed a sophisticated recruitment system, placing small ads in free newspapers in Paris and interviewing prospective escorts -students, air hostesses and the occasional married woman - in restaurants and hotels off the Champs-Elysées. She also paid for advertisements offering escort services in the personal columns of the International Herald Tribune. Later photographs of her hostesses were posted on the internet and appointments could be made by mobile phone or on the web. MacDonald charged about €1,000 (£700) an hour for her employees’ services, with reductions for bookings for an entire weekend. The women were dispatched to private homes, yachts or smart hotels across Europe; occasionally they were said to have been given cocaine or ecstasy to take to the client. French newspaper reports claim that the names of several celebrity customers will come out during today’s hearing. Ms MacDonald took a 40% cut from the fee, and told police she earned an average of €20,000 a month, the money deposited in bank accounts in Jersey. Equipped with a laptop, six credit cards, five mobile phones with a dozen SIM cards - to evade police attention - and several aliases, she operated from homes in Milan and Greece or from capitals around the world, it is alleged. Ms MacDonald looked relaxed as charges of “aggravated procurement for the purpose of prostitution” were read out. “My client gave [the escorts] complete freedom. Sexual relations were not imposed,” her lawyer, Emmanuel Marsigny, said. She was unaware that some of the women may have been selling sex, he said. Escort agencies are illegal in France, but such an offence carries a much lower sentence than the 10 years’ imprisonment facing Ms MacDonald if she is found guilty on procurement charges.Known for her fondness for expensive clothes before her imprisonment last May, she was dressed simply yesterday in white trousers, white shirt and flat sandals. She smiled at friends on the public benches and waved to a former escort girl. “Margaret was always straightforward, firm and adorable. She never forced me to do anything,” the former escort girl said outside the courtroom. In the short statement she made to the court yesterday, Ms MacDonald, originally a convent girl from Bedford, portrayed herself as the unhappy victim of an ambitious former employee, who wanted to establish herself with a monopoly of the escort industry in Paris and the Côte D’Azur. She stated that she and Laura Schleich had initially been friends, lived together for a while and worked together to expand the internet end of her business. Later Ms Schleich set up a rival business and began to poach her clients and staff, targeted her websites with viruses and became threatening, Ms MacDonald said. “She started harassing me, then telephoned me day and night to threaten me. I felt like Michael Douglas in Fatal Attraction with Glenn Close behind me,” she told the court in excellent French. Ms Schleich was arrested after France’s vice squad bugged her telephones and had her followed. She denounced Ms MacDonald during police interrogation. In documents presented to the court, Ms MacDonald is said to have turned to prostitution in the 1990s in order to pay off large debts; later she is alleged to have used her talent for finding rich clients all over the world to find work for other women, before abandoning prostitution herself in favour of the more lucrative business of procurement. The French media has renamed Ms MacDonald “la Madame Claude Britannique” in honour of the notorious French 1960s madame, who said: “There are two things that people will always pay for - food and sex. I wasn’t any good at cooking”. • This article was amended on 13 March 2017 to remove a name for reasons of privacy. 