George Michael was jailed for eight weeks today after he admitted crashing his Range Rover while under the influence of cannabis.The 47-year-old star, whose real name is Georgios Panayiotou, was also fined £1,250 at Highbury Corner magistrates court in north London and banned from driving for five years. Michael was told he will serve four weeks of the sentence, with the remainder on licence.The singer was found slumped at the wheel of his car in July this year after it ploughed into a branch of Snappy Snaps in north London. Police who banged on the window to rouse him suspected he was under the influence of something after they found him "spaced out", and with no memory of what had happened.The former Wham! star was found to be carrying two cannabis cigarettes and blood tests showed he had chemicals linked to the drug in his system. Michael, who has a previous conviction for the same offence, admitted driving while unfit through drugs and possessing two cannabis cigarettes when he appeared in court last month.Michael sighed as District Judge John Perkins sentenced him today. One fan sobbed in the public gallery as he was taken towards the cells by security guards.Michael's jail sentence is the culmination of a long line of clashes with the law for the singer, who has been open about his use of cannabis and has claimed in the past that he was trying to cut down.The court heard Michael held a previous conviction for driving while unfit through drugs after he was found collapsed in his Mercedes in October 2006. When sentenced for that offence in June 2007, Michael was banned from driving for two years and sentenced to 100 hours of community service.In the latest incident Michael was held in Hampstead, north-west London, in the early hours of 4 July. He was arrested shortly before 4am when two police officers found him apparently unconscious in his grey Range Rover. Michael appeared to try and get the car back in gear when he was roused by an officer banging on his window. When he got out of the car the officers found he was soaked with sweat and breathing heavily. After being told he had crashed into a shop, added: "No I didn't. I didn't crash into anything."Michael was handcuffed, arrested and driven back to Hampstead police station, where he failed a test to determine whether he was fit to drive. He had not been drinking.Michael admitted smoking a "small quantity" of cannabis at about 10pm the previous evening and said he also took a newly prescribed sedative to help him sleep. He told police he decided to drive between his homes in Highgate and Hampstead to meet a friend on the spur of the moment and forgot he had taken the sedative.Judge Perkins told him today he had taken a "dangerous and unpredictable mix" of prescription drugs and cannabis.As the pop star arrived at court, fans screamed his name and tried to break through a barrier of police officers. Michael, wearing a charcoal suit with a black tie, was escorted from a black car with tinted windows by four private security personnel.The judge told Michael: "It does not appear that you took proper steps to deal with what is clearly an addiction to cannabis. That's a mistake which puts you and, on this occasion, the public at risk."The judge said he took into account that Michael had checked into a clinic after the crash to seek help for anxiety, depression and insomnia, which had led him to depend on prescription drugs."I accept entirely that you have shown remorse for the offence, that you are ashamed of it, that you admitted it," he said, but added that a jail term was inevitable because of Michael's previous conviction. At that point, Michael's long-term partner Kenny Goss threw his head into his hands.Mukul Chawla QC, defending, said that Michael personally repaid the cost of the damage to the shop owner. "The only thing that Mr Michael has specifically asked his lawyers to address to the court is his profound shame and horror of having repeated the conduct of 2006," Chawla told the court.Michael completed a stint in rehab following the crash, apologising to fans via his website. "Personal problems, which I had tried to deal with myself, had clearly got the better of me," the singer wrote. "I am sorry that my pride has prevented me from seeking help before now."When Michael was caught in a public toilet at Hampstead Heath in 2008 and arrested for possession of substances believed to be crack cocaine and cannabis, he said the frequency of his brushes with police was becoming "boring".The singer has, however, found inspiration from his brushes with the law. After he was first arrested for engaging in a lewd act with an undercover police officer in a Beverley Hills public toilet in 1998, he openly disclosed his homosexuality in the irony-laden and suitably risque song, Outside.Michael was an 80s icon as the heartthrob singer of Wham! along with his schoolfriend Andrew Ridgeley, who leapt to international stardom thanks to songs such as Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go and Club Tropicana. He released his first solo album, Faith in 1987, which topped the UK charts.The singer spent much of the early 90s locked in a legal fight with his record company, Sony, which prevented him from recording any fresh material. Virgin and Steven Spielberg's DreamWorks Records finally paid Sony $40m (£23.8m) to release him from a multi-album deal. His last album of original material, Patience, was released in 2004.