At 14, Max is tall and strapping and looks more able than most boys his age to take care of himself. But he has still fallen victim more than once to 'kid on kid' mugging. It first happened when he was 11. He and a friend were getting off a Tube train when a group of older boys asked them for money. They said they didn't have any, so the boys attacked them. Adults on the platform stood by and did nothing while Max was being kicked in the head.Two years later, he was coming home from the park on a new mountain bike that he had spent 18 months working and saving for. Four boys surrounded him, pulled him off his bike and ran off with it; when he pursued them, one turned around and hit him in the face, breaking his nose. 'We knew who they were, but in the end we were too frightened to do anything about it,' Max's mother says. 'They lived close by and would have found out where we were. It makes me so angry. It has taught Max a lesson he didn't need to learn at that age and made him far more anxious about protecting himself. 'Now he is really into boxing, which has horrified me. He says, "Nobody's going to get me now, Mum". And, of course, I'm just imagining three guys with a knife.' National crime statistics published by the Home Office last Friday show that the number of street robberies rose by 28 per cent in the year to March. When it comes to street crime, boys aged from 10 to 17 are among the most vulnerable sections of society, much more vulnerable than pensioners. And most of those who prey on them are the same age as their victims. Figures from the Metropolitan Police area, where the problem is at its worst, show that 65 per cent of people accused of mugging and other street crime in London between April and November last year were between 10 and 17 years of age. According to the Home Office, most offenders and half of all victims involved in thefts of mobile phones nationally were 15 or 16. The official number of young muggers is rising: from 2,545 in London between April and December 2000 to 3,158 in the same period last year. There could be many more. Because the victims are other children, incidents frequently go unreported. One problem is that today's school-children walk around with a great deal more that is worth stealing than in the days when they had only their bus fares home. The Metropolitan Police's biggest bugbear is the mobile phone. 'If nobody carried mobile phones, you could probably reduce this kind of crime by 60 per cent,' says Superintendent Simon Pountain. 'The most helpful thing schools could do is to tell children not to bring these phones to school. 'Young kids shouldn't have the most up-to-date mobiles, either. Someone should make a phone for schoolkids that is the equivalent of those standard NHS glasses of the Sixties, something effective but so unattractive that nobody would want to steal it.' The trouble is that parents, torn between the need to allow their children a bit of independence and fear of what can happen on the streets, are reluctant to give up the umbilical cord of the mobile phone. At one north London secondary school, mugging and intimidation of pupils in surrounding streets has become so rife that boys are advised not to leave the premises in their uniform. Instead, they are encouraged to take off their ties and blazers and leave them in their lockers at the end of the day, so that they look less conspicuous. 'Sometimes, if my son is locked out of his classroom with his blazer on, he will ring and ask to be picked up, because he is afraid to walk home looking like the kind of boy who might have something worth stealing,' says one mother. 'I have a friend who picks up her son every day for her own peace of mind. I'm tempted to do the same, but I have to stop myself because he is 14 now and he needs the exercise and independence. But I think he does get scared coming down the quiet roads. 'We don't discuss it, but I think the awareness of the potential dangers must be deep in his psyche now. The other day, he went out with friends and when he came home, he showed me he was wearing three pairs of socks and had hidden £10 between the second and third pairs because he was so worried about being mugged. 'It's a real dilemma because they get to a certain age where you have to let them out. But every time, you just hope you are going to see them again.' Psychotherapist Susie Orbach paints a gloomy picture of the potential long-term effects on children of having to deal with this continual threat of danger and violence. 'What is really shocking is the way the kids brush off being mugged as if it's no big deal,' she says. 'There is a kind of bravado going on, a pretence that it's not going to affect them, whereas it does affect them quite deeply. 'OK, they are living in a different world than we are and so have different defences. But it doesn't mean that being assaulted by someone is no big deal. It is a shocking and traumatic experience.' Orbach has come across children who refuse even to tell their parents they have been mugged: 'They don't want their parents to worry about them. I think what it's telling us is that they are really worried themselves. Violence isn't something that doesn't have an effect on us. It has an enormous long-term effect.' The battle to reclaim Britain's streets has been waged with particular determination over the past few months. In March, the Home Secretary announced a new initiative to tackle street crime, involving the 10 police areas that together account for 82 per cent of Britain's robberies. In April, the Prime Minister, whose son Euan was mugged by a gang of teenage boys during a night out in north London, convened an emergency Cabinet committee, known as Cobra, with the aim of bringing street crime under control by the end of September. Since February, the Met has been engaged in Operation Safer Streets, targeting street crime in 15 London boroughs, including hotspots such as Lambeth, Hackney, Southwark, Haringey, Brent, Westminster and Camden. The greater police presence should reassure parents that their children are safer, but somehow it does not. For one thing, the future of Operation Safer Streets is only guaranteed until the end of the financial year. After that, the Met's over-stretched resources may have to be switched to the next political priority. 'I just can't believe it is having any great effect and the initiative won't last anyway,' says Jehane Markham, a writer and mother of three teenage boys in north London. 'There still never seems to be a policeman around here when one of these mugging incidents takes place.' Markham and her husband, actor Roger Lloyd Pack, have given a good deal of thought to the subject because their middle son has been mugged five times in 18 months. Each time it was by boys of his own age who were after cash and his mobile phone.Three of the incidents took place in daylight, with several adults around who did nothing to intervene; in fact, one group refused to phone the police and laughingly told the boy to go after his assailants himself if he wanted his phone back. 'I feel really angry about this endless persecution of boys,' says Lloyd Pack, who played Del Boy's lugubrious friend Trigger in Only Fools and Horses. 'What makes me particularly annoyed is the fact that adults can just sit by and watch it happen. As a society, we do not take responsibility for what is happening under our noses. We no longer feel we have to look after each other. People just watch and think, "It's nothing to do with me".' Trying to think constructively about what could be done to safeguard children from mugging, Markham has come up with an ingenious idea. Parents at local schools could, she suggests, set up networks of 'safe houses' - one or two per street on popular routes home from school - where children know they could go if they were in danger. 'When our son was mugged, other parents started telling me their children were too frightened to go from school to home by themselves and I thought, wouldn't it be nice if all those kids who were frightened knew there were houses in the road and surrounding roads, where they could knock on the door and find safety?' A few years ago, every parent would have taken such a duty for granted. Every house would have been 'safe' to a young boy or girl in a state of fear. Today, unfortunately, it is by no means certain that every parent who should be involved will want to be.