The father of a young man murdered in a Liverpool bookmaker's 25 years ago will today call for the release of the person convicted of killing him. He has also offered the man, whose supporters claim he is innocent, a place to stay if he is freed.John Suffield was a 23-year-old bookmaker working for Joe Coral's in Toxteth, Liverpool, in March 1981 when he was stabbed to death during a robbery by two men. He had expressed fears to his wife because he had had an argument with two men over a fake betting slip and they had threatened to attack him.Raymond Gilbert, then 22, and John Kamara, then 25, were convicted of the murder. A key factor in the case was a confession, later retracted, by Gilbert in which he implicated Kamara, who had always protested his innocence. During the trial, Gilbert changed his plea to guilty and both men were jailed for life. Kamara was cleared on appeal in 2000 after his case had been reinvestigated by the Criminal Cases Review Commission.The murdered man's father, also called John Suffield, will attend a meeting to call for his release. "I don't know whether Gilbert is guilty or not but I would like someone to look at the evidence again," said Mr Suffield, 72. "I also believe that he has served his time and should be released. If no one would have him to stay, he would be welcome to stay with my wife and me. I have no fear of Gilbert."The meeting in Liverpool to call for Gilbert's case to be referred back to the court of appeal will also be addressed by Bruce Kent, vice-chair of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, who investigated the case after receiving a letter from Gilbert, whom he visits in prison. "There is absolutely no evidence against him," said Mr Kent. "He was certainly not convicted beyond reasonable doubt."Initially, said Mr Kent, he had been sceptical because Gilbert had confessed, but having learned about his background of psychological problems, he believed the case should be reopened. Gilbert claims he made the confession under pressure and because he believed that, as he was innocent, he would not be convicted. He falsely implicated Kamara, he said, when police demanded to know of an accomplice and changed his plea to guilty mid-trial in the mistaken belief that this would mean Kamara would not be convicted.Eamonn O'Neill, a journalism lecturer and journalist whose students have been reinvestigating the case, as the Guardian reported last week, will also attend. "When I heard about John Kamara's case, I thought it needed looking at and eventually this was done and he was released," said Mr Suffield."Raymond Gilbert is a different case. He pleaded guilty, whatever his intention was in doing so, but the only evidence against him is his confession."It was recommended that Gilbert serve a minimum of 15 years. He has been in trouble while inside and this, with his denial of guilt, has prolonged his sentence.