Twenty years ago, on a dark November morning, a gang of five armed robbers were sitting in a stolen blue Transit van on the Heathrow trading estate, waiting for their "inside man" to turn up. The inside man was going to let them into the Brinks Mat warehouse where, the gang had been told, there were goods worth up to £3m. Thanks to the inside man, the robbers already knew which of the two security guards had the combination numbers to allow access to the safes. The shift began at 6.30am, and with several minutes to spare all of the guards were leaning on the wall outside the warehouse drinking cartons of milk and smoking. All, that is, except the inside man, who had overslept. The gang assumed that he'd bottled it and were about to cut their losses when, 10 minutes into the shift, he was spotted running across the car park towards the warehouse.Tony Black was the inside man, and his lateness was emblematic of the story of the Brinks Mat gold bullion robbery. In monetary terms it was the most spectacular heist Britain has ever seen, but as a criminal operation it was strewn with farcical errors. Only mistakes made by the police turned Brinks Mat into the longest-running game of cops and robbers in British history. Fifteen years after the break-in, Scotland Yard was still trying to track down key members of the gang, and 20 years on not a single bar of the gold has ever been found. "Tony was always running late so it was no big deal when he finally rang the doorbell," says Michael Scouse, who was the key-man on that morning shift. "He didn't look too great, either, and almost as soon as he got in he had to go to the toilet. I felt quite sorry for him." Black didn't go to the toilet. He went to the front door and waved the robbers in. Brinks Mat later talked about its state-of-the-art vault, but it must have been hard to keep a straight face when it did so. A single, fixed surveillance camera was attached to the building, but it was on the opposite side to the main door. There was an alarm on the door, which sounded when the gang pushed their way in, but no one could possibly hear it upstairs, nor was it connected to anything outside the trading estate. "The first thing I knew," says Robin Riseley, the guard who, along with Scouse, had the combination numbers, "was a man pointing a semi-automatic pistol at my face and telling us all to hit the floor." Once Riseley and Scouse had been identified as the men who held the combinations, their ordeal began in earnest. "They slipped a hood on my head and then there was a knife in the crotch of my trousers and before I could say anything they were down round my ankles and there was a liquid being poured on me, which was obviously petrol," remembers Riseley. Scouse was hooded and soaked in petrol too. "I heard this voice say, 'If we don't get what we want, if the police turn up or the alarms go off I'll put a match to you and I'll put a bullet through the back of your head.' And I believed every word of it." The two guards were taken down to the vault. Inside was a million pounds in used banknotes. Scouse punched in his half of the combination, but when Riseley was pushed forward to complete the sequence there was a problem. "The company had just changed the combinations and I hadn't memorised the new one, so the safe wouldn't open. They felt I was messing about. I heard someone say: 'It looks like we got a hero,' and he started rattling a matchbox in front of my face and then pulled out a diver's knife and said he was going to castrate me if I didn't give him the numbers. He was furious. Well, I was doing my best." After 20 minutes of trying and failing to break into the safe the robbers, almost by default, turned their attention to the drums and boxes scattered around the floor of the vault. As they opened the various lids and discovered scrap silver, degraded platinum and highly traceable travellers-cheques, it seemed the job was going to end in complete disappointment. Then one of the robbers went up to an unprepossessing pile of grey cartons in the corner and snapped off one of the lids. Inside the box were 12 perfectly formed bars of pure gold. As if to check they weren't dreaming a few more lids were prised off to reveal the same awesome sight. All told there were 6,800 gold bars - £26m worth of them, weighing nearly three-and-half tonnes. It was an enormous amount to be held in one place at a single moment, more than the gang could cope with. As the robbers filled up the battered Transit with this windfall the vehicle's axles started to bend. More than one eye-witness later reported seeing an old van with a wheezing engine riding very low on its suspension through the streets of Hounslow. The gang had got away, but 10 days later, their inside man, Black, cracked and started naming names. "It was obvious from the start there had to be an inside man," says Tony Brightwell, one of the first Flying Squad detectives to arrive at the scene of the crime. When Brightwell decided to take all the guards back to the warehouse and film them, in situ, talking about the robbery, Black emerged as the only viable candidate. "He was extremely nervous and, in my opinion, obviously lying. When the film was shown to the rest of the Flying Squad officers it was rather like watching a B-movie whodunnit where everyone sort of jeered when he came on." Black was not a professional criminal. After a single night in police custody it all came out - a full, detailed, precise confession. He then agreed to turn Queen's evidence. Out of the gang of five, three men were fingered - all of them known to the police. The first was McAvoy, the second, a well-known south London villain called Brian Robinson. The third was a man that Tony Black claimed was called Tony White. When the case came to trial at the end of 1984, the first two got 25 years, but White was acquitted at the Old Bailey. It hadn't helped the prosecution's case that Black had been confused about whether the man he remembered as "White" had a beard or not, but it's at least arguable that the jury was ultimately swayed by a ghastly police blunder. In the Scotland Yard archives there is an unsigned statement allegedly made by White in which he not only admits to being on the robbery but wonders whether he can take the £2m reward if he returns his share of the gold. In this statement White is also said to have read Black's confession and told the police: "I agree with the fucking thing, but I can't remember who done what, or where. Can't we leave it at that?" This was before the police were required to tape-record interviews, and at the trial White claimed the statement was a police fiction. At this point Scotland Yard was asked to produce the relevant copy of Black's confession to see if White had left his fingerprints on it. At first they claimed to have mislaid it, but eventually they said they had had the copy destroyed for security reasons. An even more catastrophic mistake had been made a few weeks before. A month after the robbery, Scotland Yard got a tip-off that a man had been seen in London's Hatton Garden jewellery district trying to buy an industrial gold smelter. Bill Miller was the Flying Squad officer who got the call, and a week later he was undercover in Worcestershire, watching the smelter being loaded into the back of a golden Rolls-Royce. "He was easy to follow because the smelter was too big for the Rolls and the boot wouldn't close. We followed him all the way back to Kent." The car was parked up outside a cottage while the driver went inside. Miller stayed with the vehicle all night and was relieved by a specialist surveillance team in the morning. When the driver returned to the car, the team followed on behind. "Within five minutes they lost him," says Miller. When they returned to the cottage later in the day the smelter had gone. The failure to nip the Brinks Mat case in the bud enabled the remaining gang members to go on to bigger and more sophisticated things. Police suspect they made links with bent lawyers and property developers and began to work in alliance with gun-runners and drug-traffickers in Spain and the US. Profits from the robbery were laundered and sunk into areas such as the nascent Docklands developments of the mid-80s, where they yielded extraordinary dividends. Brinks Mat, meanwhile, no longer exists as a single entity, and its Heathrow vault was decommissioned several years ago. Scouse moved on too. His appetite for that kind of work had diminished anyway. None of the guards was given counselling after the trauma; in fact they were regarded with some embarrassment. "At the end of the day the robbers got the gold and me and the other lads were still intact, virtually uninjured," says Scouse. "I got the impression from some of the management that it would have been better if we weren't around."· Brinks Mat - The Greatest Heist, 9pm, November 24, Channel 4.