Senior officers at two police forces are facing an official investigation over allegations that a BBC TV producer was wrongly accused of murder in order to gain access to his confidential files. Paul Atkinson, a former sergeant with Greater Manchester Police now working as a freelance journalist, claims that a search of his home by officers from Cheshire police in January led to the seizure of documents and videos connected to the controversial TV programme, The Secret Policeman, which revealed serious racism at a police college near Warrington. His claim to the Independent Police Complaints Commission is that the material was later passed to GMP where it was used to identify serving police officers who had collaborated with the programme makers. The Secret Policeman sent shockwaves through the police when it was broadcast in October 2003. An undercover reporter, Mark Daly, signed on as a recruit at Bruche police college, which serves the north-west of England and Wales, and filmed scenes of one recruit dressing in a mock Ku Klux Klan outfit and boasting about assaulting Asians. Charges of deception against Daly were later dropped by the Attorney-General. Atkinson worked as an adviser to the programme, which was two years in the making. The investigation by the IPCC may prove to be deeply embarrassing to the Chief Constable of Greater Manchester, Michael Todd, who has been tipped as a future Metropolitan Police Commissioner. There is no suggestion that Todd was personally responsible for Atkinson's arrest, which was carried out by another force. But documents seen by The Observer show that he is named in complaints, including allegations of inappropriate conduct and collusion between the two forces over the investigation of Atkinson. The IPCC has confirmed that it is in the process of selecting a chief constable to head its inquiry, a process only necessary when a high-ranking officer is the subject of a complaint. Atkinson was initially interviewed in September 2003 by Cheshire police about the murder of a drug dealer, Brian Waters, who had been whipped, beaten and burnt to death by members of a rival drugs gang earlier that year. The gang was led by James Raven, who had worked on a number of BBC programmes as a consultant. Raven was arrested the day of the murder and Atkinson's telephone number - along with that of dozens of other journalists - was found in his files. Atkinson was interviewed as a matter of routine, but was not cautioned as he was not a suspect. Despite this, in January 2004 Cheshire's murder squad arrested Atkinson at his home near London. He was taken into custody and kept for 15 hours. He remains furious that he was not formally eliminated from the inquiry until April 2004, despite the fact that his wife gave the officers a verifiable alibi as he was being escorted to the police van - at the time of the murder he was with his wife in a hospital 250 miles away. After the raid, Atkinson launched a complaint against Cheshire and Greater Manchester police for wrongful arrest and imprisonment. He also complained that journalistic documents, whose confidentiality is protected in law, had been taken from his house. Cheshire immediately asked neighbouring West Mercia to investigate the complaint. Todd decided to deal with the matter internally. At the heart of Atkinson's complaint against GMP is a letter sent to Atkinson on 23 February 2004 saying that he was not the subject of an investigation into The Secret Policeman. But by 28 May, GMP was forced to write again, admitting that Atkinson had indeed been under investigation. A request under the Data Protection Act by Atkinson showed that GMP kept him under investigation for some time. Nicholas Long, the IPCC commissioner in charge of the case, has drawn up a list of Atkinson's complaints against Greater Manchester and Cheshire which he accepts require investigation. Cheshire Constabulary has agreed to the IPCC inquiry but GMP, which must register the complaint before the investigation can proceed, has yet to respond to the commission. However, a spokeswoman confirmed that the IPCC was determined to press ahead. 'Because the complaints are potentially of a serious nature, we are duty bound to ensure they are investigated,' she said. Atkinson told The Observer he was still astonished by the arrest: 'All they had to do was knock on my front door and ask me where I was on the day of the murder. It would have saved a major police operation and a great deal of money.' Cheshire and Greater Manchester police said they will not comment on the allegations until after the inquiry by the IPCC.