If there was a training manual for aspiring young criminals, it might include the instruction: "Do not get your chest tattooed with the image of a pitbull's head accompanied by the phrase 'only the strong survive'." That tattoo, along with others written in Thai and Arabic, is among the identifying details for one of the men on the Ten Most Wanted list, issued this week by the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca) and Crimestoppers, in pursuit of British villains they are hunting in Spain.The publication of their names and mug shots is a reminder that, despite the closing of extradition loopholes many years ago, the "Costa del Crime" remains one of the most reliable bolt-holes for criminals on the run. But while hundreds of the chaps who provided the role models for Sexy Beast may still be in Spain, the British criminal is increasingly discovering that other foreign countries may now offer a safer haven: of the 60 men sought in Spain since Operation Captura was launched five years ago, 39 have already been nicked, one of them only this week.Going on the run abroad has always been a career option for the professional crook. After the 1963 great train robbery, those protagonists who managed to get away from Britain made it variously to Australia, Mexico, Canada, France and, of course, Brazil. Jack Slipper, the detective lumbered with the thankless task of trying to bring Ronnie Biggs back from Rio de Janeiro in 1974 recalled in his autobiography that Biggs talked nostalgically about "the green fields of England and how much he missed English food" but still managed to remain at large until he returned voluntarily and in ill-health in 2001.Lee Murray, the cage-fighter who was one of the ringleaders of the £53m cash robbery from the Securitas depot in Kent in 2006, hightailed it swiftly to Rabat and successfully fought extradition because he was half-Moroccan. Now that he is in a less than luxurious local prison he may wonder whether he made the right choice.Since the introduction of the European arrest warrant in 2004 it has been much easier to extradite British criminals who have holed up abroad but close to home. Turkish-occupied Northern Cyprus for a while offered the possibility of a sunny retreat because the UK does not recognise it and therefore has no official extradition agreement. But those days are passing, too, as evidenced by the deportation by the Turkish-Cypriots of a Geordie club owner wanted for drug offences in the UK last year. Only two years earlier, he had told me in Kyrenia what a joy it was to be in a country where the police were "respectful".Thailand remains a favoured destination. False documentation is easy to come by and extradition can be a lengthy process. Anyone feeling the hot breath of the law on the back of their neck on the beach in Pattaya can pop across the border into Cambodia safe in the knowledge there is a limit to the amount of time the British police will spend in their pursuit unless they are a murderer or a terrorist.The internet has made life more awkward for people on the run and the days when a new moustache and a nose-job were reckoned to be disguise enough for a new life abroad have gone. It's too easy now for inquisitive neighbours to check whether the nice man who has moved in next door and who does not like to take his shirt off in the sun is actually wanted for a bank job in Tooting.But there are, of course, a bunch of chaps who have cheerfully made off with lots of other people's money and now live with their espadrilled feet up in such places as the Caymans, Monte Carlo or the Bahamas. They're called "tax exiles", and you can be pretty sure they don't have a dog's head tattooed on their chests or, if they do, it will be a labrador with a smile on its face.