It sounded like a "domestic" when news broke a week ago of a fatal shooting in Gateshead, a grim but not unusual alleged revenge attack by a jilted former prisoner on his partner and her new boyfriend.No one could have imagined that the attack in the quiet backwater of Vigo, with streets named after Lake District fells, would result in heatseeking RAF Tornados streaking over Northumbria and police sealing off an entire town."The worst that's happened round here before is a lost dog," said Andrew Skeoch, 19, when local reporters arrived last Sunday morning.But by then, six hours after the murder of karate instructor Chris Brown, 29, and the near-fatal wounding of Samantha Stobbart, 22, police had the first clues that they were hunting a vengeful and vicious man.The suspect was rapidly identified as 37-year-old Raoul Thomas Moat, a nightclub doorman and panel beater, who had been released two days earlier from Durham jail after serving 18 weeks for assault. Chillingly, officers had been given a warning from prison staff the day after Moat's release that Stobbart could be in danger from him.Events moved rapidly with the revelation that Stobbart had told Moat that she was dating a policeman, to keep him away after a split. And then came a 49-page handwritten letter from Moat alleging a string of police injustices and swearing to have revenge on the force. At quarter past midnight last Sunday, their worst fears came true when a man alleged to be Moat walked up to a parked patrol car in Newcastle and shot its driver, PC David Rathband, a 42-year-old father of two, in the face and chest.Fifty minutes later, police a took a 999 call from Moat claiming they were "not taking him seriously", which was linked to a taunt on Moat's Facebook page: "Ha, ha! You can come but you can't catch me."This was linked to a warning posted the previous Friday, which read: "Just got out of jail, I've lost everything, my business, my property, and to top it all off my lass of six years has gone off with the copper that sent me down. I'm not 21 and I can't rebuild my life. Watch and see what happens."That was what the whole country came to do as the week went by, with further messages and disquieting evidence that the alleged killer was not acting alone. Early on, police discovered he had gone on the run with two men who were initially thought to be hostages.But when the media blackout which is customary in kidnaps was lifted on Tuesday, a different picture emerged. The "hostages" were found walking on the edge of the Northumbrian market town of Rothbury, but were not released into the arms of anxious relatives. Instead Karl Ness, 26, and Qhuram Awan, 23, were arrested and later charged with conspiracy to murder.Soon after, a two-mile cordon was flung around the town and its famous National Trust property Cragside, along with a five-mile no-fly area up to 5,000ft. Into this poured hundreds of police from a dozen forces, many with guns, while helicopters scanned the forests and broken hillsides which rise from Rothbury towards the Cheviots and the Northumberland national park.The reason was the discovery of a battered black Lexus that had been the subject of nationwide police appeals. In a town used to thousands of visitors, its presence since the previous Sunday night had previously gone unremarked.Working on the sighting, and information about Moat's fondness for Rothbury, detectives were certain their suspect had gone to ground nearby. They went so far as to say "the net was closing", a phrase which came back to haunt them until the breakthrough.Local people reacted by and large with sang-froid, farmers cutting meadows almost within sight of a rundown property called Wagtail Farm where a tent was found on Wednesday. Inside it was another letter, this one addressed to Stobbart, defying appeals from the head of the hunt, detective chief superintendent Neil Adamson, that "this has got to stop now" and imploring Moat to think of his children.Reported sightings of the man on the run also began to come in, most extraordinarily, one in the centre of Rothbury on Thursday evening, soon after a town meeting called by police to reassure anxious residents. Detectives had meanwhile found three mobile phones apparently used by the fugitive, and other evidence which convinced them the cordon was holding.Tension was ratcheted up, however, by further revelations that Moat had allegedly widened his revenge plan to include the public as well as the police. In a delicate operation made practicable by a huge force, detectives nonetheless felt able to defy this and keep Rothbury open.At the same time the seriousness of the potential threat was underlined by photographs of Rathband in hospital, blood-stained and battered. News also emerged of the arrival of 20 armoured police cars from Northern Ireland, and Tornado aircraft announced themselves with deafening runs overhead.Northumbria police stepped up the pressure by offering a £10,000 reward for information on a man alleged to have many contacts in the Newcastle underworld. Unpublicised inquiries in the city and Gateshead led to a former associate of the wanted man joining police in Rothbury to show them places frequented by Moat in the past. Separately, a couple was arrested in the port of Blyth, north of Newcastle, and charged with assisting an offender.Then the force's appeal to the public to serve as its "most effective weapon" bore fruit when a man broke cover from bushes by the river and was seen and recognised by walkers. Within seconds, armed officers were on the scene, surrounding the fugitive at a distance, as he crouched pointing a weapon similar to a sawn-off shotgun at his own head.As the standoff by the river ended, the beginnings of a long aftermath were already apparent. The killer's surviving victims remain seriously ill but stable in hospital. An independent police complaints commission inquiry is underway into the warning from Durham prison. Northumbria police authority said that reserves would be sufficient to meet the cost of the vast operation.And Moat's grandmother spoke of a man who hated the police, after a string of charges but only one conviction, but who had always been kind to her.