Five youths and a teenage girl went on a rampage of violence that ended in the murder of a man by the Thames in central London, the Old Bailey heard today.Eight victims were attacked in five separate attacks in the South Bank area around Waterloo station and Hungerford Bridge during the early hours of October 30 last year.Richard Horwell, opening the case for the prosecution, alleged that 37-year-old David Morley was left dead by the defendants after becoming the victim of their second beating."The lives of the six defendants held such little interest that they set out on a plan to use violence for its own sake," he told the court. "It was random, indiscriminate violence for what can only have been pleasure."Mr Horwell alleged that, on one occasion, a mobile phone was used to record an attack. "The violence was sometimes accompanied by robbery - but the desire to rob was always secondary to the desire to inflict harm," he said. He told jurors: "You have been summonsed to this court for a case which is as depressing as it is alarming."The violence took the form of beatings, kicks and stamping. Weapons were not carried and were hardly necessary when you had such an advantage in numbers."The violence left some with relatively minor injuries, but one - David Morley - was killed by the severity of the beating inflicted on him."He said the group of six had gone on to commit further attacks after assaulting Morley. "The terrible violence inflicted on him did not cause a single member of this group to desist or at least to have second thoughts," he added. "It continued on its way."The first attack, at 2.30am, was on David Dobson, a 24-year-old actor working as a barman at the Old Vic Theatre in Waterloo Road. He was walking home when he was confronted by a group of people who spread across the road in Lower Marsh, Mr Horwell said."One male, the tallest, asked him if he had the time - an opening remark which was sometimes used as a prelude to violence and robbery. He just had sufficient time to answer no when he was punched hard in the face," he said."He fell to the ground and was then kicked in the face. He was able to pick himself up and run away, his property intact."Mr Dobson later toured the area with police, but was unable to find his attackers."Although he was severely shaken by his ordeal, his injuries were not severe - but there was worse to come," Mr Horwell said.Barry Lee, 20, Reece Sargeant, 21, and Darren Case, 18, together with three teenagers who cannot be named because of their ages, deny murdering Morley, a barman from Chiswick, west London. The accused are all from south London.They also deny conspiracy to rob and conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm.The trial continues.