The Tia Sharp murder inquiry took a dramatic twist after detectives announced they had arrested her grandmother over the 12-year-old's death.Christine Sharp, 46, was being questioned in custody in a south London police station on suspicion of murder. In another unexpected development, Paul Meehan, a 39-year-old neighbour, was also arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender and held in custody.It follows the arrest of Tia's step-grandfather, Stuart Hazell, 37, who was detained on suspicion of murder eight hours after a girl's body was found, reportedly in the loft, at Tia's grandmother's home in New Addington on Friday. As the murder inquiry broadens, extra forensic teams could be seen on the south London estate where Tia was murdered, rummaging through wheelie bins and scouring grass verges in the search for evidence.Questions remain over why it took police four separate searches to find what is thought to be Tia's body and over how Hazell managed to go missing before he was arrested on Friday night following a tip-off from a member of the public.The makeshift shrine of candles at a nearby bus stop – where police assumed the last, unconfirmed sighting of Tia happened – has already been cleared away, with chalk messages remaining on the pavement saying "Tia come home".The Met apologised on Saturday afternoon for the "stress and concern" over delays in finding the body. Commander Neil Basu said in a statement that four scene examinations were conducted of the property and that officers should have found the body on the second search."It is now clear that human error delayed the discovery of the body within the house. We have apologised to Tia's mother that our procedures did not lead to the discovery of the body on this search."Neighbour Dale Robertson, 44, said: "There's a mixture of anger and heartbreak. People feel aggrieved. They were duped. Even people who couldn't get out on the searches have posted up on Facebook that they are angry and they were duped."Robertson said thorough searches of the house should have been done sooner. He added: "I don't think it happened soon enough. After 24 hours they should have been ripping that house apart."A former Scotland Yard Commander, John O'Connor, branded the apparent lack of a thorough search of the grandmother's house as "unforgivable".It is understood that a criminal justice review will be launched examining how agencies and police supervised Tia's family during the investigation. The manner of the police investigation will be placed under scrutiny either through an inquiry led by the Inspectorate of Constabulary or the Independent Police Complaints Commission.The probation officers' union, Napo, also said it believed that a raft of reviews relating to Tia's disappearance and death would be launched early this week. The London Borough of Croydon's safeguarding board is expected to instigate a review of what interaction Tia had with the local authorities. The board will seek to establish what, if any, involvement the youngster had with social services in the months before she died.As news of the latest arrests filtered across the vast New Addington estate yesterday, the mood of shock among residents was palpable. Elaine Alchin, 49, who lives adjacent to the house where Tia's body, which has still not been formally identified, was found, said: "I cannot believe it. To think that she was in there all that time. But we knew something was wrong, that she might have actually never left the house, when CCTV of her when she was meant to have gone to Croydon never turned up."Throughout yesterday, a steady trickle of neighbours and friends, many clutching flowers, visited the home of Tia's grandmother at The Lindens. Billie-Jo Butler arrived with her three daughters beside her. "I helped search for her, I handed out leaflets. I'm really stressed that it's happened here." The 26-year-old photographer – who said she knew Tia's mother, Natalie – left the growing pile of condolence notes and flowers in tears. "This is so shocking for everyone around here," she added.Her sentiments were echoed by Joe and Malita Desouza. Chartered accountant Joe, 61, said: "It's absolutely disgusting. It makes you think that this girl could have been our grandchild. We cannot comprehend it."However, some neighbours managed to find positives. Sara Messenger, 38, who works for a construction company, said the manner in which residents had rallied around to search for Tia illustrated the tight-knit nature of the estate. She said: "People have the wrong impression of the estate. The way everybody pulled together proves there is a strong community."