A confused and hungry heroin addict, dressed in soaked clothes and with no money, bus ticket or mobile phone, was callously dumped on a near-freezing roadside by two police officers, a court heard yesterday.Michelle Wood, a mother of three aged 25, died of hypothermia in a nearby field after she was taken from a police station and left at the Lincolnshire police force's boundary. Two constables and a sergeant who ordered them to drop Ms Wood off five miles short of her home are all charged with manslaughter following the tragedy in January 2003. PC Andrew Wood, 44, PC Ian Clark, 43, and Sergeant Andrew Hickinbottom, 40, who between them have 50 years of police service, deny causing Ms Wood's death through gross negligence. A jury at Hull crown court was told that Ms Wood, who lived in Grimsby, had been arrested on suspicion of attempted burglary in Louth and taken for questioning to Skegness police station. James Goss QC, prosecuting, said that after a decision had been made not to lay charges, the police faced the question of what to do with her. "She had been behaving irrationally and was assessed as being a heroin addict 'in a very poor mental condition'. Physically she was thin and gaunt. Her clothing was wet," he said. "It was early January, the weather was cold. She could not simply be turned out of the police station in those circumstances on to the streets." Sgt Hickinbottom decided that she should be taken "towards her home but not right to it," said Mr Goss. "Rather, she should be dropped off that night at the boundary between the Lincolnshire police force and the Humberside police force. "No doubt some of the thinking behind that decision was that she would then be 'off his force's patch' and no longer the Lincolnshire force's responsibility." The sergeant had instructed the two constables to take Ms Wood to the boundary and leave her there. They had done what they were told, against all their training in their duty of care. The court heard that the police car had stopped to talk to a passing patrol from Humberside police, but no request had been made for Ms Wood to be taken to Grimsby. She was last seen alive later in the evening by another driver, who was so worried about her staggering around on the road that he dialled 999. "By their actions these officers removed Michelle from a place of safety in custody and placed her in danger, leaving her on her own, over five miles from home, on a cold, wet night without money or means of communication, in wet clothing, unrefreshed, as far as they were aware, and behaving in a way that had demonstrated irrationality and unreliability," said Mr Goss. "Had she not been dropped off where she was and in the condition in which she was, then there is no reason for her to have died." Mr Goss urged the jury not to be judgmental about her behaviour as a heroin addict. Ms Wood had set out on a shoplifting foray to Louth to pay for drugs with a gang of other addicts from Grimsby. She was arrested after telling police she had been "dropped from an aeroplane to buy clothes." The case continues.