The home secretary, David Blunkett, faced a difficult job rewriting the laws on sex - a subject that above all provokes passions at polar opposite positions. But he has done well by making protection of the most vulnerable - children - his overwhelming priority.Blunkett's message to people who buy sex from children is unequivocal: if caught they will spend a long time behind bars. Of all the children who suffer different kinds of abuse in our society, those caught up in prostitution are most in need of protection.For these children, almost without exception, their childhoods have been tales of abuse, neglect, cruelty and lovelessness. They have no reliable support structures, as I know from the poignant stories I heard while writing a book on runaway children recently, and those who end up on the streets have usually run away from home. So, rootless and frightened, they cleave to anyone who appears to care for them. Hence pimps posing as caring partners to these boys and girls have an easy run. Violence and drugs are then used to make sure they service customers. All of which renders these children, who see themselves as trapped and utterly dependent on the pimps for their survival and their fixes, voiceless and powerless.This scenario perfectly suits those adults - men almost without exception - who believe that if they can pay, then they have every right to get their impermissible appetites met. So if this law begins to make life difficult and less desirable for pimps and customers, terrific. But that alone is not enough. These children need a great deal more support and care from society in their early years, when their lives are so manifestly damaging. If that happens they can grow up with the confidence and skills to be able to care for themselves and make choices about how they can earn a living. Child protection is also, of course, the reason the tough ruling on "grooming" children on the internet is 100 - no, one million - percent right. Police and professionals attempting to protect children are convinced that far more "grooming" online goes on than is ever known about. It is easy to see how this is an even more seductive and beguiling process when the groomer can construct themself as anyone they want to be. We have seen several cases of men pretending to be teenagers in order to lure trusting young victims. We know that women abuse children too, so it is not just men that children need protecting from. But sentences for those creating child porn on the net should have been particularly draconian. These sites offer pre-pubescent children being raped anally; toddlers manacled to bars as their abusers perform oral and penetrative sex; small babies being buggered and children of all ages being tortured. I would have those responsible - as depraved and wicked as anybody - locked away for ever. For these pictures to be available real children have to be used. And these may be abducted children, those we sometimes hear about who have been sold by families involved with paedophile rings. Very often this involves children trafficking, where children are kept prisoner, possibly drugged, and often "disappear" once their usefulness is over. Having seen the distress, the desperate babbling about "naughty man with a stick" of a friend's Down's Syndrome daughter who returned from a weekend with respite foster parents, I applaud Blunkett for putting into law the knowledge we all have that families and those in loco parentis all too easily abuse their charges. Blunkett has also included women in the protection of the vulnerable by tightening the rape laws, and that is welcome, but let us hope women respond by being extra careful about when and why they cry rape. And on the other side he has recognised that, in terms of private sexual mores, this is the 21st century. I also commend the change in laws for homosexuals. I can't see why gangs of gays shouldn't fornicate privately if they wish or hold hands in public. But I'm glad I still don't have to watch them, or anyone else, indulging in such activities in my public lavatory... · Angela Neustatter is a journalist and author specialising in young people and criminality.