Police are spending just over half their time on out-of-office "frontline duties", despite a government drive to cut down paperwork and get more officers on the beat, it was revealed yesterday.This is the third year that the Home Office has compiled performance monitors for the 43 forces in England and Wales, but the first time they have included a measurement of "frontline duties". Statisticians found officers spent an average of 63.6% of their time on activities such as patrolling the streets, surveillance, making inquiries, interviewing suspects and dealing with incidents. But the government also defined case paperwork, which accounts for about 10% of police hours, as "frontline", bringing the amount of time spent out and about, dealing with the public, closer to 53%. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "No amount of Home Office spin can cover up these statistics. Two years ago, David Blunkett promised to free police from the burden of paperwork and nothing has changed." Jan Berry, chair of the Police Federation, said: "The public sees frontline policing as a visible presence. These statistics don't provide a qualitative assessment of what actually takes place in intelligence gathering and other activities. If there are going to be definitions of frontline policing, we need a debate about what is actually involved." Hazel Blears, the policing minister, admitted the government definition was debatable but insisted meticulous case preparation was a core police task. "If they [officers] get it right, they get a result, they get a conviction," she said. The City of London service was assessed separately, but the other 42 were compared in baskets of about seven similar forces, in order to account for the differences between rural forces and urban ones. They were graded on six key criteria - reducing crime, investigating crime, citizen focus, providing assistance, promoting public safety and resource usage. Performance in relation to the others in each group was then plotted on a so-called "spidergram", a hexagonal diagram, which shows the areas in which a force is above or below average in comparison to its peers. But rough calculations seemed to suggest Dyfed-Powys was the top performing force, with Northumbria second, while the worst performing force appeared to be Nottinghamshire, with Avon & Somerset next. The Home Office Police Standards Unit was working with Avon & Somerset until recently, and is working with Cambridgeshire, Cleveland, Greater Manchester, Humberside, Nottinghamshire, Northamptonshire and West Yorkshire. The spidergrams showed 19 of the 42 forces were below average at investigating crime, while 15 were below average at reducing crime, although Ms Blears agreed crime reduction was not solely the responsibil ity of the police. The overall average detection rate fell 0.3% to 18.8%. Twenty-four forces achieved achieved a lower rate than last year. The Metropolitan police had the lowest detection rate - 12.7%, followed by Humberside and Cambridgeshire, the two forces severely criticised in the wake of the Soham murders, with 14.6%. Dyfed-Powys had the best rate - 36.6%, while Gwent scored 30.2% and City of London 29.7%. Ministers aim to raise the average detection rate to 25% by 2007-08. But she argued the dip was due to more rigorous selection of cases by the Crown Prosecution Service, so that cases which got to court were much more likely to succeed.