A mother who punched and kicked her toddler son to death in south-east London was jailed for life today.Collette Harris inflicted more than 40 bruises and marks on 21-month-old Bobby Louch, the Old Bailey heard. Most of the injuries were sustained in the last 48 hours of his life which ended in December 2008. He suffered "catastrophic" blows to his head and abdomen.Harris, 30, of Dartford, Kent, tried to blame her boyfriend, 25-year-old James Phillips, for the injuries. He denied killing Bobby and was cleared of all charges.The child had been treated for a broken leg three weeks earlier and kept in for a scan when bruises were seen on his forehead. At that time Harris complained she was being "victimised" and said the bruises were due to Bobby banging his head on his cot. A consultant at Darent Valley hospital in Dartford who had seen Bobby before sent him home the next day after checks were made.On the weekend before he died, Bobby had been left alone with each adult over the weekend at the family home in Bexleyheath, south-east London.He was kicked in the stomach on Saturday with such force that it damaged vital organs. On Sunday he was vomiting and looked disoriented. He had a burn mark on his right hand which could have been made by it being placed on an oven door.Harris refused to take him to hospital. She told a friend she would be suspected of abusing him, the court heard. In the early hours of Monday morning, a neighbour said he heard "a baby whimpering" and murmuring "mummy". Later, Harris rang for an ambulance, saying: "My baby won't wake up."Richard Whittam, QC, prosecuting, said: "At the time of his death, Bobby was covered in bruises. There is compelling evidence the multiple injuries were the result of deliberate and repeated violence." His injuries included two broken ribs, bleeding in the spine, substantial damage to the brain and to the abdomen, including a damaged liver and pancreas.The jury was told Harris ended her relationship with Dan Louch, Bobby's father, in October 2008 and took up with Phillips. She screamed: "Oh my God," and collapsed in tears as the jury found her guilty of murder. She was jailed for life with a minimum term of 16 years.Andrew Flanagan, chief executive of the NSPCC, said: "Tiny Bobby Louch was used as a human punchbag, dying under a hail of 40 blows which caused massive internal injuries, fractures and brain damage. The level of brutality inflicted on this helpless infant is sickening."