Obscene graffiti scrawled inside a train door led to the sentencing yesterday of four paedophiles who were described by a judge as "morally abhorrent, wicked and harmful to those they abused".The men were caught after a local newspaper reporter spotted a scribbled advert which said: "Girls 8-13 wanted for sex. Girls only. Text 660."Ruth Lumley, 26, who was then a journalist on the Chichester Observer, pretended to be an 11-year-old and received sexually explicit messages back. She reported the matter to British transport police, prompting a 10-month nationwide investigation that uncovered "horrific" child abuse on eight victims and led detectives to Trevor Haddock, 55, of Worcester, Ian Jones, 43, of Worthing, West Sussex, John Farmer, 68, of Pevensey, East Sussex, and Derek Moody, 43, of Newcastle.The men pleaded guilty to a range of sex offences at Hove crown court earlier this month and yesterday were given jail terms ranging from eight years to life.Haddock had charged up to £150 for other men to abuse a young girl he procured and plied his victims with sedatives, alcohol, and cigarettes. It emerged that Jones had received a 42-month sentence for the attempted rape of a 20-year-old woman in Burgess Hill in 1984. Haddock admitted 14 offences including rape, attempted rape, conspiring to rape and sexual assault. Jones admitted conspiring to sexually assault, attempting to cause or incite a child to engage in sexual activity and four counts of criminal damage with intent to commit a sexual offence. Farmer admitted arranging or facilitating the commission of a child sex offence and Moody admitted incitement to rape a young girl.Sentencing the men, Judge Anthony Niblett said: "Each of you is a paedophile who poses a continued danger to young children, specifically to young girls." They were being given such stiff sentence to protect vulnerable young children from their predatory activities. He sentenced Haddock to six life sentences, and said he would not be eligible for parole until after at least 12 years. Jones received a life term, with a minimum tariff of 10 years, Farmer was jailed for eight years and Moody was handed a life term with a minimum of four years' imprisonment.In a previous interview, Ms Lumley said: "The message struck me as weird. I thought it could be a sick joke but I decided to give the number a ring. There was no answer but about half an hour later I got a text message asking if I was male or female, how old I was and where I saw the message." She said: "I received loads of messages containing some horrendous stuff. They obviously believed I was 11 and I realised I was in touch with a really nasty piece of work." Thirty minutes after her first message, Ms Lumley, now a reporter on the Brighton Argus, received a text from Jones which said: "U male or female how old whr u c my number tx bck only." She sent a text message back, saying "Female, on train, 11" and within minutes received the reply "U up 4 it? R U a virgin or not wht skol u go 2 whr u live tx bk".Jones then sent a number of messages to Ms Lumley, and when he got no response, he left a voicemail message asking her to call him followed by another text message inciting her to send a naked picture of herself.A police officer pretended to be a 12-year-old girl and arranged to meet a man outside a Burger King in Brighton. The arrest of Jones there led to the capture of the rest of the gang.