 The following apology was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Tuesday July 25 2006 The following leader column referred to James Bulger, the two-year-old boy murdered in 1993, as Jamie. His correct name and that used by his parents and those who knew him was James. The diminutive, Jamie, was applied to him by the media only after his death. Apologies.The mood was cosily consensual in the Commons yesterday, as the home secretary unveiled his criminal justice review. Both the Tories and the Liberal Democrats gave broad support to a package branded as "rebalancing the system in favour of the victim". Along with the tired slogan came elements that deserved support, including a renewed emphasis on judicial discretion. Recent legislation tied judges' hands too tightly, so that, for example, the sentence reduction automatically flows from a guilty plea, regardless of whether it reflects remorse or having been caught red-handed. Freeing judges to respond to the contours of the case in front of them will improve justice.Yet other aspects deserved tougher scrutiny and did not seem to get it. The tone, for one thing, needed challenging. The forward to the review, written in the prime minister's name, suggested that safeguards for the accused are anachronistic, reflecting "Victorian" concerns. The disturbing implication of that is that nowadays those under suspicion can normally be assumed to be guilty. There were few signs of this nonsense driving the policy that followed, but it was an odious use of a powerful voice. Innocent people can be victims of false suspicion as surely as they can be victims of crime.On prisons, too, more discord would have been healthy. Plans for 8,000 new places are necessary, but only given a sentencing policy that has filled the prisons to bursting. And other uncontested announcements yesterday will ensure pressure continues to build - for example, the new four-year term for carrying a knife. John Reid's tough advance spin ("Blair axes soft sentences" screamed yesterday's Sun) disguised a more subtle understanding of the reasons some lesser offenders should not be imprisoned. Since Britain has western Europe's highest imprisonment rate, this is welcome, although he failed to explain how he was going to translate words into action. Similar statements from his predecessors failed to turn the tide on the vast number of short terms handed down. Part of the difficulty is that ministers fail to send out the message clearly and consistently. Tabloid temptations pull the other way.Dostoevsky reflected that "the degree of civilisation in a society can be judged by entering its prisons". This is a point that matters to victims as well as criminals. Conditions should encourage inmates to mend their ways, not make them worse. Yet yesterday's review was entirely silent on how sentences are spent. Ignoring the quality when the quantity is at a record high is a staggering omission. While prisoners languish instead of learn and are routinely bullied, jails will continue to churn out people who, more often than not, are reconvicted in two years. Plans to do away with the stand-alone prisons inspector risk diluting the scrutiny that is one of very the few pressures for improvement.For over a decade, the prisons debate has ignored the reality, which is that the evidence does not suggest that further increases in imprisonment will will significantly cut crime - as a report published by the prime minister's own strategy unit has pointed out. The current boom in numbers started in 1993, as judges responded not to new laws, but to tough talk in the wake of James Bulger's murder. Since then, ministers of both stripes have continued to signal that prison works and numbers have virtually doubled. This is something that is not being questioned as it should be - even the Lib Dems seem to shy away from explicitly calling for a reduction, although they deserve credit for arguing yesterday that secure mental hospitals, rather than new prison places, should be the first call on public spending. The overhaul the system really needs is to cut the use of prisons, and increase the quality and effectiveness of those that remain. There was little, yesterday, to suggest that any of the major political parties are ready to deliver that.