OJ Simpson's Ford Bronco being chased by police cars. Photograph: PAIn the mid-90s, when the OJ Simpson murder trial was dominating British news, journalists sceptical about the level of coverage made the point that no British legal case would receive such attention in the US. Alastair Campbell is thought to have presented this argument rather forcefully to the BBC news executives who ran the Simpson verdict ahead of a conference speech by Tony Blair on the 6pm bulletin.But there is now an example of the OJ effect in reverse. In New York earlier this week, I was astonished to find that there was no relief from the suffocating coverage of the Madeleine McCann case.She smiled out from the stacks of People magazine at the airport. The TV in the hotel room offered a choice between several discussion shows about her. Terms such as "Cuddle Cat" and "the Renault Scenic" were confidently discussed without gloss, just as "Cato the dog" and "the white Ford Bronco" became an effortless part of our television vocabulary 13 years ago.Even though Madeleine's parents to some degree invited this global nosiness - Washington was one of the stops on the publicity-raising trip - the international impact of this story still seems surprising. While much of the UK reporting has been over the top, there's the theoretical justification that witnesses and potential solutions may lie in Europe. For a US audience, the story is simply sensational gossip.It's noticeable that the US coverage of the McCanns tends to treat the story as a British case, ignoring Portuguese angles as far as possible. That's revealing. Just as the British journalism on this matter is often xenophobic - foreign cops are clueless - so American news shows are, I think, reacting to years in which UK news has gleefully presented the US as a violent asylum.The undertow of the McCann coverage there is that "Yerp", as many Americans pronounce it, is a dangerous place as well. But Marshall McLuhan, prophet of the modern media age, would be thrilled. The McCann case has shown that we truly are a global village.