A 13-year-old boy, who killed a woman by stamping on her face, has been given a life sentence.Petri Kurti knocked Glynis Bensley, 47, to the ground, before robbing her and stamping on her face with such force that his footprint was left on her cheek.She died later from a severe bleed in the brain, after the attack outside the Seven Stars pub in Smethwick, West Midlands, in September.Kurti was given a minimum tariff of 12 years, but will have to serve another 11 years and four months before he can be considered for parole due to time spent in custody awaiting trial. Kurti was ordered to be detained at her majesty’s pleasure – the equivalent of a minimum-term life sentence for a youth, by Judge John Warner at Wolverhampton crown court. A second defendant, Zoheb Majid, 20, was jailed for 10 years for her manslaughter. The pair were also both found guilty of robbing Bensley of her money, phone, jewellery and cigarettes before leaving her in the street.The boy reportedly handed himself in to the police several days after the attack, and Majid was arrested shortly afterwards.At the end of the trial, the judge lifted reporting restrictions that meant the schoolboy could be named. However, his picture can still not be published.Bensley’s sister, Dawn, said the murder had taken place just yards from where she had been born. “She didn’t deserve it – nobody deserves it,” she said. “They went out to do whatever. It was a needless act. They’ve still got their lives. “It doesn’t matter how long they serve, they still get to go and see their family. Their families still get to see their sons. But we won’t get our sister back. It’s our family who are serving the life sentence.”She said: “We are a very close and supportive family, and always look out for each other – to try and explain how Glynis’s murder has affected us is very hard to put into words. Glynis was my only sister and best friend – I would describe her as my right arm and I thought we would grow old together.”Warner said the schoolboy had initially been boastful about the murder, but had later cried, saying he had not meant to do it.The victim’s brother, John, said: “We couldn’t get over it, it didn’t sink in until the next morning. This is the kind of thing that always happens to other people.”At the time of the pair’s conviction, DCI Sam Ridding said: “It was clearly the joint intention of the pair to use violence on anyone they targeted: they were in it together as the CCTV showed – they arrived within seconds of each other.“Ms Bensley was tragically in the wrong place at the wrong time and was randomly picked out by the pair, believing that she was a man and that she was wearing a gold bracelet.”A spokesman for West Midlands Crown Prosecution Service said on Friday: “These two defendants had targeted Ms Bensley because she was a vulnerable female who was walking home on her own at night.“Our thoughts are today with the family and friends of Ms Bensley.”