It was, certainly, no fireside chat. No Diana or Louise Woodward in comfortable armchairs. Martin Bashir swung between interrupting interrogator and concerned interviewer. Five men, five interviews, and a hundred different opinions. Was it merely a platform for the killers? A legitimate television investigation into the death of a black teenager? A stunt? Or maybe just a useless attempt at getting at some truth that many think is now lost in a fog of lies and police incompetence. Television tried its best to be like a court. Mr Bashir had his notes laid in front of him. The inquisitor. It would never wholly succeed. And that is not a criticism, it is a statement. It was too short, Mr Bashir jumped in too often, desperate to show that he was being rigorous. You felt, sometimes, that the men might hang themselves. But Mr Bashir was not going to give them a chance. There were some clever tricks. As Neil Acourt said that, no, he didn't have a "a thing about knives", the programme was intercut with video surveillance which showed Acourt stabbing a chair, pretending to slash someone's face, stabbing a door. Just messing, Acourt said. The public was left to make up its own mind. And in the end that is all we can do. We can sit and shout "ask them this, why don't you bloody ask them this!" as the frustrations bubble over. But at least now we have seen them. Seen them look at the floor rather than in the eye of the questioner. And we can make up, a little at least, our own minds. This programme was no court hearing, there was no cross examination. Imperfect, yes, but better than nothing. They looked normal. Not the spitting beasts at the end of the inquiry. Norris was apologetic, he mentioned his mum. He called Mr Bashir "Martin" in a chummy kind of way. Jamie Acourt was anxious to call Michael Mansfield QC "Mr Mansfield". But, no, none of them had anything to do with the murder. Every now and again, a tightening of the lips. The constant repetition of that damning video. The cutting together of stories that so obviously did not tally. A ridiculous answer - asked about saying that "every fucking nigger should be chopped up and left with fucking stumps", Neil Acourt said it was "just banter". It was enough to leave the public thinking. Thinking about five men who said that this would be their chance to put the record straight. Well, the record has not been straightened. Granada found a few more twists and turns, and Mr Bashir did not ask them "how they felt" or "it must have been terrible". Mr Bashir, an Asian, asking the questions. Trevor McDonald, from the Caribbean, with the summing up. Asking five white men about a spring night in April. Coincidence and clanging irony wrapped into one. McDonald was insistent. "We confront the suspects with their shocking racism," he said. There is a point to this programme, honest, there is. At 11pm, as the credits rolled, what was the viewer left with? A glimpse of five men who have been a mystery, who did not answer the questions very well, and did not say very much that was very surprising. But that they said anything at all