While southerners braved freezing cold weather, driving rain and thick cloud to mark the Queen's Diamond Jubilee, Cumbrians wallowed in overcast but dry conditions. And they marked the jubilee in their own inimitable style.The Whitehaven Jubilee Festival saw all things British with funfairs, candy floss, hot dogs, fireworks and acts ranging from Katherine Jenkins to the Bay City Rollers. The culmination was that most British of icons: The Red Arrows performing a special jubilee display with plenty of red, white and blue smoke.Hundreds of thousands attended this annual event based around the harbour in Whitehaven. And while we didn't have a river pageant on the scale of the Thames event, we did have a marina crowded with yachts bedecked with union jacks, the tall ship Bessie Ellen and a couple of Royal Navy patrol boats.Music and food are two themes that figure strongly in the Whitehaven Festival and this year was no exception. Chefs such as Jean Christophe Novelli and Ainsley Harriott gave demonstrations on the end of the Sugar Tongue while Showaddywaddy, The Three Degrees and Steve Harley were among the acts performing on the harbourside stage.  Flowers at the taxi rank where Darren Rewcastle died, soon after the murders in 2010. Photograph: Andrew Milligan/PAThis was a time of nationalist celebration but there was also for many people at moment of sombre reflection. Saturday 2 June marked the second anniversary of the dreadful Cumbria shootings by Derrick Bird which led to 12 people being killed and 11 injured. Flowers were placed at the taxi rank on Duke Street where one of the victims, Darren Rewcastle, was gunned down.This was overall a time for families to celebrate life and to honour 60 years of the reign of Queen Elizabeth II; but Darren and the other victims and all those who had their lives changed that day will never be forgotten.Alan Cleaver is a freelance journalist and author living in Whitehaven.Humber flotilla todayMeanwhile, Hull, the East Riding and the Humber estuary have big Jubilee celebrations today, Monday 4 June, which looks a canny choice with brighter weather forecast and temperatures of up to 13C (55F). The big spectacular, recalling a Humber shindig at Queen Victoria's diamond jubilee in 1897, is the Humber Flotilla which will sail along the estuary this evening.It musters at St Andrew's Quay in Hull at 5pm and sails to Brough, North Ferriby and Hessle before crossing the estuary to Barton-upon-Humber where beacons will be lit on both banks at around 10pm as searchlights pick out the Humber Bridge. A whole lot of other Jubilee events take place in Hull, Beverley and along the Humber earlier in the day - details here. 