The twirling cursive on the envelope made her dispatches instantly recognisable. I began corresponding with Jane Andrews, who absconded from an open prison in Kent last Sunday, in the autumn of 2001, some months after her conviction for killing her partner Thomas Cressman. The story was a gift: a working-class girl from Grimsby who answered an anonymous advert for a personal dresser in the Lady magazine and rose to become one of Sarah Ferguson, Duchess of York's most trusted confidantes, before the loss of her job on the royal staff precipitated a decline into depression, romantic obsession and murder.At the time of her trial, the headlines were unequivocal. Dubbed the "Fatal Attraction killer", she was portrayed as an unstable and emotionally manipulative individual, who beat her boyfriend with a cricket bat then stabbed him through the chest with a kitchen knife in a vengeful rage after he refused to marry her. She was a gold-digger and a devious social climber, it was said, desperate to secure her position among the glamorous elite that represented the antithesis of her impoverished childhood. Furthermore, she attempted to destroy Cressman's reputation by claiming that, on the morning of the day he died, he had tied her up and anally raped her.This confection of the steely arriviste did not match remotely the fragile woman I first encountered in the rowdy visiting suite at HMP Bullwood Hall that October afternoon, the red prisoner sash hanging loose across her thin frame, working her hands nervously in her lap. But the truth is many-minded and rarely simple. Over the next two years, through letters, visits, and the audio cassette tapes she would record for me in the long hours after bang-up, I tried to piece together a more nuanced portrait of this tabloid-constructed harpy and heard far more detail about Andrews's early life and her relationship with Cressman than had been revealed at trial. In essence, she told me that she had been sexually abused by a close family member as a child, and that her boyfriend was a dominating individual whose sexual demands – including anal sex, bondage and role-play – she found degrading but acquiesced to.Our exchanges were never simple. A year after her incarceration, she was diagnosed as suffering from a borderline personality disorder, a condition characterised by extreme variation in mood, a chaotic sense of self and an "I hate you, don't leave me" approach to interpersonal relationships. She could be a neurotic, frustrating and unsympathetic witness. But every so often I would catch a glimpse of the stylish and outwardly confident young woman she used to be. "She was so good to know," one close friend told me. "You can't imagine how great it was to be with her. But she never believed that she was loved."It soon became clear to me that the abuse Andrews described could not be neatly compartmentalised. Domestic violence is not only about black eyes and split lips, and victims are not always nice. Andrews felt she was subject to more subtle forms of control. Colleagues would remark upon how sweet it was that her boyfriend picked her up from work each evening. For Andrews, such solicitous behaviour had a more sinister meaning – she claims it was to ensure that she was never alone with anyone else but him. And in their sexual encounters, a combination of learned shame from childhood and the pattern of submission for affection it had prompted in adulthood, left her particularly vulnerable.Why didn't she tell anybody? Another friend of hers suggested to me that secrecy was embedded in Andrews's psychology. "Don't forget she spent 10 years with the royal family. She was intensely loyal. She trusts no one." Why does any woman not tell? Fear, shame, a sense of failure: feelings that can only be compounded when the most intimate act of partnership becomes a site of violation.Last month, BBC1's estimable Criminal Justice strand told the story of a fictional victim of domestic sexual abuse who finally snapped, which I felt sure must have been inspired by the Andrews case. Juliet was a comfortably middle-class housewife, with a beautiful daughter and an attentive husband who brought her home white roses at the end of another high-earning day. He also took camera phone snaps of her makeup drawer morning and evening to check what she had used, and buggered her nightly.As a society, we have advanced hugely in our attitudes to domestic violence over the past few decades. But it remains the case that only specific types of abuse and specific types of victim are believed by juries. Andrews had no physical scars to parade. But she had scars nevertheless.Hounded by the press throughout her time in prison, there were more wilfully histrionic headlines this week, suggesting the Duchess of York and the Cressman family were in a state of "terror" and requiring police protection. Following another failed suicide bid, the only person Jane Andrews is a danger to is herself.· This article was amended on Tuesday 30 November 2010. The fifth paragraph of this article was amended to make clear the author was describing Jane Andrews' claims about her boyfriend's behaviour. The family of Thomas Cressman has asked us to point out that Andrews' allegation of abuse by Cressman were discounted by the jury at her trial.