The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday January 17 2007 Using material supplied by a correspondent, we quoted Sally Flooks, sister of the deceased teacher Sarah Flooks, in the article below saying that she and her family believed that her sister had been attacked. The family of Sarah Flooks has informed us that she was misquoted and that they do not hold that view.The body of a senior teacher who disappeared the day before an Ofsted inspection which she had been dreading has been found in woodland in Wanstead Park, east London, 10 months after she disappeared.A conservationist discovered the body of Sarah Flooks, 50. Her bag, containing schoolbooks, was found nearby. She had left home for the 15-minute drive to school after having been involved the night before in preparations for the Ofsted inspection at Monega primary, Newham. She had written in her diary about how much she was dreading it.Police are waiting to examine the remains to establish whether her death was caused by illness, murder or suicide. Within hours of the body being found, forensics and soil analysis specialists examined the undergrowth. The body - skeletal remains with clothing - was left overnight.But the discovery has raised fresh questions about what has been a baffling case. Wanstead Park is heavily used and it is understood that the body was found no more than 18 metres (60ft) from the path, and yet it had lain undetected until Thursday evening's find.Scotland Yard said the area of woodland had not been part of the extensive ground search but all of the remaining parkland, which stretches into Epping Forest, was covered by the Met's air support unit. One line of inquiry will be to establish whether the body had been there for eight months or had been moved there later.The site is cut off by the River Roding, making it inaccessible to vehicles. There is no indication how a body could have been taken there and police have not found any note to suggest suicide.Ms Flooks's sister Sally, 53, said: "We can now grieve for our sister and my mother can grieve for her daughter. My gut instinct was always that she was not coming back. I did not think she would have just gone off. I really feel that she was attacked and my family feel the same way. It was never in her character to have run away." Her sister-in-law, Christine Flooks, said the find was the family's "worst nightmare". Her partner, John Mouzouros, was unavailable for comment and said to be distressed.Ms Flooks appeared to be coping with the pressures of the Ofsted inspection but there was speculation following her disappearance about the extent to which it might have been affecting her. The questions intensified following the discovery of a diary in which she is said to have written of Ofsted "coming back for more" and said she was "fed up with everything".But in the Guardian last year, Mr Mouzouros complained that the police investigation also directed what he thought to be undue attention towards him. Their home was searched twice, once by a full forensics team aided by sniffer dogs.While police stressed he was not a suspect, he was asked to provide three statements. His discovery of the diary, after police had twice searched the property, was met with initial scepticism.