Police are deleting important intelligence records because they are worried about being disciplined for potential breaches of the Data Protection Act, representatives of rank and file officers said yesterday.The Police Federation of England and Wales has called for much clearer guidelines on the storing and sharing of information on potential criminal suspects after the murders of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman in Soham, Cambridgeshire, in August 2002. The federation is one of a number of police organisations, social service agencies and other bodies which have submitted written views to the government inquiry into the Soham case, chaired by Sir Michael Bichard. The first tranche of documents was released yesterday on the inquiry's official website, a move similar to the Hutton inquiry. Ian Huntley, the school caretaker convicted of the murders, had been suspected of numerous sex crimes while living in Humberside. Police there said they had not been able to keep the allegations on file and share them with the Cambridgeshire force because they had not led to convictions. The Bichard inquiry, set up by the home secretary, David Blunkett, will look at the lessons that can be learned from the Soham trial. Oral hearings will begin with a statement by counsel to the inquiry on February 26, and officers from Humberside and Cambridgeshire will give evidence from March 1, with national organisations due to appear on March 15-30. Sir Michael aims to report by June. The Police Federation, in its written submission, said it had had strong concerns about the ambiguity of the Data Protection Act since its inception in 1984. It said genuine fear of being subjected to disciplinary procedures meant officers treated sensitive data with caution. The federation cited the case of an officer who gave useful information from another force to a school which had asked for a suspicious individual to be checked. The officer was subjected to lengthy criminal and disciplinary investigations and, five years on, was still facing the possibility of civil action. The Soham tragedy had thrown the whole issue into sharp relief, the police officers' organisation said. "The sanctions in place to ensure the Data Protection Act is not breached can paradoxically lead to data mishandling. This can be explained due to the individual's proclivity to delete information if they are in any doubt as to where they stand vis a vis the DPA, regardless of whether they believe it is of significance," said the federation statement. "In the case of Humberside police, we believe the [Data Protection] Act was interpreted literally. "If officers were in any doubt as to whether they were breaching the act, information was to be deleted, as against believing it was questionable and therefore more prudent to be retained. "We believe procedures such as these are so important that any guidance issued should be strong enough that it cannot be misunderstood." The federation said there was scope for a wider debate on how to handle suspect data and how best to balance suspects' rights with protection of the vulnerable.