Britain's policing problems are now so critical that up to 70 per cent of beat patrols in some areas are being carried out by recruits still on probation.The problem is most extreme in major cities and the forces surrounding London. Official figures show that one in five of all officers in the Thames Valley and West Midlands forces has less than two years' experience. In parts of the capital where the crisis is most severe, more than two-thirds of officers on the streets are newcomers, according to the Police Federation, which represents beat officers.A federation spokesman accused the Government of 'boom-and-bust' recruitment. London was still more than 400 officers short of the 27,405 working in the capital when the Labour Party came to power in 1997. The union said that high numbers of experienced officers in London had been transferred to anti-terrorist and diplomatic protection units in response to the 11 September attacks. They have also been moved to armed units in order to fight the rise in gun crime. This meant everyday response to 999 calls from the public and street patrols was often left to constables on probation with less than two years' experience. Official figures for July showed that probationary officers now make up 20 per cent of all London police. But the union said that the figures were deceptive because they included specialist units such as Special Branch, the Fraud Squad and CID, where rookies are not able to work. A research project carried out by the federation over the past year found that, when it came to street policing, over half of officers were rookies with the figure rising to two beat officers in three in some boroughs. Senior officers in Bromley in Kent and Ealing in west London say that the level of probationers on the streets has reached 70 per cent during the last year. Ironically, the large number of rookies on the beat is partly due to a national Home Office recruitment drive to hire 6,000 new officers, the federation claims. Each recruit has to be accompanied by an experienced officer, which puts an unsustainable strain on resources, according to police representatives. Official Metropolitan Police figures seen by The Observer show that the number of rookies has doubled in some parts of London, with hotspots in such high-crime areas as Camden, Wandsworth and Newham. In the year to last month, the number of probationers in Westminster jumped from 99 to 232, more than 26 per cent of all police officers working there. The borough covers crime-ridden mugging and pickpocketing areas such as Soho and Leicester Square. 'In many cases these new officers are keen, fit and well-suited to the job, but we are concerned at the growing imbalance between probationers and longer-serving staff,' said the federation's Glen Smyth. 'We are worried that increasing numbers of inexperienced police will face dangerous situations that they are not qualified to deal with.' Such is the need for the new recruits that Scotland Yard is now considering allowing them to go straight into specialist child protection or fraud units if they have financial or childcare experience. Smyth added: 'The force is experiencing severe growing pains. It is great news that the Government has finally recognised there is a recruitment and retention crisis, but we are struggling to cope.' Staff at Hendon training college in north London are having to work early morning and late-night shifts to deal with the number of recruits. Insiders have raised concerns about the newcomers' academic standards. Many have been out of full-time education for some time. Elizabeth Howlett, a Conservative Greater London Assembly member, said: 'The campaign to recruit new police officers has been a success, but the inevitable consequence is that there are large numbers of inexperienced officers on the streets of London, which is a serious concern.' The Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir John Stevens, warned last October that the number of probationers in some boroughs could rise to between 30 and 40 per cent, but he said that the numbers would be closely monitored to ensure that the balance would not tip too far. The federation will demand immediate action from the Yard this week to tackle the crisis.