Spin is fine and dandy when the Guardian is given a nice advance story about how the government is going to save threatened post offices and create a new Universal bank. We were pleased and it was probably our turn. Yesterday, however, it was the Sun's turn. Downing Street decided to make the day of some Murdoch dirty raincoat. His story was branded "Exclusive" and headlined "Jail more yobs". Alongside a picture of the PM looking grimly manful, the piece read thus: "Tough-talking Tony Blair is to declare war on thugs - and order judges to lock up thousands more violent criminals. Mr Blair believes the courts are too soft on muggers and other street yobs - and is determined to see more of them behind bars. New figures show there are 4,000 "vacancies" in Britain's jails which the prime minister thinks should be filled with convicted thugs and hooligans. He will issue the "get tough" order during a special Downing Street crime summit on Monday."Downing Street got two for the price of one. Turn to page six in the Sun and there is a robust denunciation of a disgraceful CBS television report claiming that Britain is a more a dangerous place than the US (if you don't count murder and rape). The point about spin is that whoever gets the tip is duty-bound to speak well of their exclusive announcement. The Sun has not been noticeably kind to prime minister or government of late so the planting of a tasty "tough on crime" story was a good hit - a fine example of the spin-master's art.Not so. From day to day Downing Street manages the news with tips and sops, securing good publicity even in the most hostile organs. But where's the big picture? Where's the strategy? What are the core values this government wishes to project to the people? There is no coherent story to tell us who they really are and what they really stand for. Zig-zagging about, they haven't even got a plot to lose. They may imagine they can keep any number of plates up there on sticks but they can't. Spin a lot of loutish know-nothing nonsense to the forces of conservatism in the Sun and down crashes the Guardian plate. So here it comes. Where are Blair's 4,000 prison "vacancies"? There are no empty cells dangling "to let" signs, with en suite facilities. Prisons are full to bursting with 65,000 inmates, up from 45,000 a few years ago. Prison numbers are now Jack Straw's virility symbol. He boasts in a letter to the Telegraph that it was "ludicrous" of them to suggest he was "soft on crime" since he had locked up 4,500 extra since the election. Overcrowding means 12,000 prisoners are crammed two to a cell built for one, eating their meals in a tiny room with an open communal toilet. Blair's extra 4,000 will all be doubled up, making 20,000 overcrowded prisoners with no work or treatment. Due to lack of staff and facilities the prison service this year failed to hit its already low target for giving prisoners time spent purposefully - on learning, training, drug therapy, anger management or work. Despite research showing how much good treatment can do, purposeful time hasn't improved in a decade. In Holloway prisoners spent only 10.2 hours a week on useful activity, Brixton had just over an hour a day. Due to overcrowding, 11,000 prisoners are being kept more than 100 miles from home with no chance of family visits, one of the key ingredients that make reoffending less likely. Despite evidence showing intensive that treatments work and many work best in the community on tagging orders, 24 new prisons have been opened. It costs £16,000 a year to send a boy to Eton but £25,500 to send someone to prison for what Douglas Hurd this week denounced as "an expensive way of making bad people worse". Yesterday prison governors expressed their shock at the prime minister's words, fearing the pre-election year would herald more and worse. Mike Newell, governor of Durham, president of the Prison Governors' Association denied there was any spare capacity. "I've got 874 prisoners this morning, 560 doubled up, half with no work, not nearly enough education or workshops for them all. Despite too many prisoners and too little money, we were beginning to get a better strategy. I'm very, very disappointed."  National crime figures are out shortly, hence the flurry of agitation. They will show burglary and car theft down, but violent crime up again, by somewhere in the low teens. Reported crime figures are notoriously unreliable, depending on many variables. There's been a push to encourage more reporting of street robbery, up by an alarming 36% in London. A third of that, though, was schoolchildren robbing other schoolchildren, often grabbing each other's mobile phones with menaces. This is horrible, frightening bullying - I know a boy who's been shaken down twice this year in Lambeth, once reported, once not. But the figures don't distinguish between that and some drugged mugger sticking a knife in an old lady's face to steal her pension money. Homicide (always reported) is a good indicator of other violence (not always reported): London has five times less murder than New York, four times less than Amsterdam. Violence increases in good times when people have more money to spend on drink, while property crime gets worse when unemployment rises. But when it comes to politics, forget evidence, forget what works. Blair demands tougher sentences - and he will get them. The Home Office research department has a graph showing how judges adapt their sentencing habits to the prevailing political mood. Sentencing leapt up after Howard's "prison works" speech. Now it will happen again despite all the evidence showing criminals know little about the tariffs for their crimes: length of sentence doesn't deter them, but their estimate of the risk of being caught does. What does it matter? All that matters is what works in the Sun. Downing Street's focus groups show crime now tops the list of popular concerns, overtaking the NHS which has dominated the agenda for so long: the new mega-money for the NHS seems to have made an impression. But one problem only makes way for another. Fear of crime is the real enemy, says Number 10. If so, the politicians are reaping their own whirlwind. Every time they hurl thunder bolts they miss the chance to explain what works and calm irrational fears. Every time they call for more prisons, they squander public money without reducing crime or fear. So the prime minister is holding this "summit" on Monday. He is calling in five big-city chief constables to "discuss" the already announced £20m for street crime. It will last about an hour, maybe there'll be a photo opportunity. In reality it will be another of those events whose only airy substance is in the reporting of it. All this is an example of short-term spin creating disgraceful policy, while only confusing further whatever it is they really stand for. polly.toynbee@theguardian.com