Police have sealed off the area around the home of the grandmother of missing schoolgirl Tia Sharp, as the hunt for the child entered its second week.About 20 officers placed a cordon around the property where Tia's grandmother, Christine Sharp, lives at around 1pm on Friday. Scotland Yard said the area in Croydon, south London, had been sealed as part of a pre-planned search.It is understood the family has agreed to leave the house in order for the police to carry out a full forensic search. The house has been searched on twice, but a detailed forensic examination has not yet been carried out.A media briefing arranged with the area commander Neil Basu was postponed, a spokesman added.Senior police officers are also making a fresh appeal for any information about the disappearance of Tia . The police investigation into the disappearance is focusing on the immediate area around the New Addington estate, where it is understood she was last seen at her grandmother's house.The investigation is also examining other lines of inquiry and officers are keeping an open mind, it is understood.Officers will take into account that about 200 registered sex offenders live in the Croydon area where Tia went missing. Any inquiry into a missing child will as a matter of routine take into account the names of individual sex offenders in the area. There is no evidence as yet to suggest at this stage that any of those individuals has been involved in the disappearance.They are also examining around 800 hours of CCTV for any sign of the child.Detectives working on the investigation are also looking at data from phones belonging to everyone the 12-year-old girl knew, from schoolfriends to adults both within and outside of her family.It is a week since Tia went missing, apparently after telling her family she was going shopping at the Whitgift Centre in Croydon. Police say they are still establishing exactly where and when she was last seen.More than 80 officers were continuing searches in the New Addington area and handing out leaflets carrying her picture, as they renewed appeals for information about her whereabouts.Officers will also be going through the personal history of any adults in her circle, including investigating the criminal records of those close to her.Stuart Hazell, the partner of Tia's grandmother who also lived at the house, was questioned as a witness by police on Wednesday and later denied having anything to do with her disappearance. He has not been arrested.He is known to have a number of convictions, the most recent being for possession of an offensive weapon. He was given a 14-month custodial sentence in February 2010 at Croydon crown court and released on licence, which expired in February last year.The schoolgirl lived with her 30-year-old mother Natalie Sharp and her partner David Niles, 29, in Mitcham, south London. Tia's biological father Steve Carter lives in Northampton.Media speculation that officers on the Shannon Matthews investigation had been drafted in to help Scotland Yard have been dismissed by the Metropolitan police. Detectives rejected claims they have any evidence that the disappearance of Tia is similar to that of Shannon, whose family faked her abduction in a bizarre publicity stunt four years ago.The police said that such suggestions are "deeply unhelpful and potentially damaging" to the hunt for Tia. Senior officers were said to be angered by the claim, saying it could damage the investigation into her disappearance.Searches have covered a 500-metre radius around her grandmother's house, including woodland, garages, lock-ups and a school.Scotland Yard is liaising with several forces who have investigated the disappearance of children, but detectives say that is usual procedure. The local community has pulled together to search for the missing girl, and friends and family are walking the streets wearing "Find Tia" T-shirts and handing out leaflets to passing motorists.A candle was burning outside her grandmother's house. Candles and tealights have also been left at a makeshift vigil at a bus stop nearby, along with handwritten messages asking for the schoolgirl to be brought home.Phillip Wheatley, her headteacher at Raynes Park high school in Merton, described Tia as a friendly young person who is well liked by staff and students and who enjoyed a successful first year at the school.He said: "Our thoughts are with Tia and her family at this time. I would urge anyone who thinks they may have seen Tia, or who has any information on Tia's whereabouts, to contact the police immediately."