Detectives are questioning three men in connection with the alleged kidnap and rape of a three-year-old girl from Cardiff, police said today.The child was allegedly abducted from her home in the Rumney area of Cardiff on Monday evening. The car in which she was travelling crashed close to the Wiltshire/Berkshire border following a police pursuit early yesterday. The girl was airlifted to hospital in Swindon, where she was reunited with her family and is being treated for "significant" injuries, South Wales police said. A 26-year-old man was arrested around 1am after his vehicle was followed by police along the M4 and on to the A4 between Marlborough, Wiltshire, and Hungerford, Berkshire. Another two men, aged 34 and 47, were arrested in Wales.Officers began following a Ford Escort after it was spotted jumping a red light with its headlights turned off, police said. "Our attention was drawn to a grey Ford Escort travelling with no headlights," said Chief Inspector Charlie Dibble of Wiltshire police. "The vehicle passed through a red traffic light and did not stop. Officers followed the vehicle eastbound along the M4, then off at junction 15 heading south. "Mid-way between Marlborough and Hungerford on the A4, the driver of the Escort lost control of the vehicle which then crashed. The male was arrested by traffic officers and the child was taken by the police helicopter to Great Western hospital in Swindon for medical examination. "He [the man] has now been handed over to South Wales police, as the substantive offences took place there."Police described the girl's abduction as "shocking". Detectives have been carrying out house-to-house inquiries in the Rumney area and have appealed to anyone with information about the incident to contact them. "This is an extremely rare event which makes it all the more shocking," Superintendent Josh Jones said yesterday. "Rumney is a close-knit community and we ask the residents to work closely with us in providing any information that they can. We will continue to provide a very visible police presence in the area." The three-year-old's mother, who cannot be named for legal reasons, yesterday told the South Wales Echo newspaper: "I'm just in shock and want to take [the girl] home. She was on her way to bed. You don't expect this to happen to you. The police had everybody out looking for her. They were brilliant."