A general practitioner accused of murdering 15 women patients killed one of his victims while her friend was in the next room, a court heard yesterday.Harold Shipman, 53, is alleged to have injected his first victim Maria West with a fatal dose of diamorphine just minutes after she made her friend, Marion Hadfield, a cup of tea.The jury at Preston crown court heard how the doctor, of Mottram, near Hyde, Greater Manchester, had arrived at her home while Mrs Hadfield was in the upstairs bathroom. She returned to the kitchen and could hear Mrs West, 81, talking to Shipman. "After they had been talking for several minutes, everything went quiet and she assumed that the doctor was about to go," said Richard Henriques, QC, prosecuting. "However, after several more minutes the defendant walked into the kitchen where Mrs Hadfield was standing discreetly and quietly. Dr Shipman appeared surprised and said: 'Oh I didn't know anybody was here'." Shipman had then said: "She's collapsed on me." When asked if anything could be done, he replied: "No, she's gone." Mr Henriques said Shipman had plainly been taken by surprise. He made no attempt to resuscitate her or call emergency services. He opened one of her eyes and said "See, there's no life in there." Shipman stayed with Mrs West while the diamorphine took effect, the prosecution claims. Her body was cremated. Shipman - who denies the murder charges - is alleged to have killed another patient, Ivy Lomas, at his surgery in Market Street, Hyde. The 63-year-old was such a regular there he told a police sergeant who was called after her death he thought her a nuisance. He joked that part of the seating area should be reserved for her and a plaque put up. The court heard that Shipman disappeared into a treatment room with Mrs Lomas. Later, he emerged looking tired and flushed and told receptionist Carol Chapman: "I'm sorry about the wait, I've just had a problem with the ECG machine." Mr Henriques said: "He saw three more patients before calling Mrs Chapman into his consultation room. He then told her Mrs Lomas had died despite his attempts at resuscitation. Failure to attempt resuscitation or to call the emergency services is a feature which appears time and again in subsequent cases." Morphine was found in her body. Another alleged victim, Jean Lilley, had been visited by her neighbour Elizabeth Hunter on the morning of her death. Mrs Hunter said Shipman was in the house for 40 minutes. "She became increasingly concerned about the length of time that Dr Shipman had been with Mrs Lilley," said Mr Henriques. She found her friend motionless on her sofa. Mrs Hunter tried to recall the doctor, who had driven off. An ambulance crew said Mrs Lilley, 58, had been dead for some time. Mr Henriques said Mrs Hunter later confronted him, saying: "You must have known that she was dead". Shipman claimed another patient, 67-year-old Marie Quinn, had contacted him complaining of feeling unwell before her death. But her telephone bills showed no such call was made. Another alleged victim, Irene Turner, 67, was found fully clothed lying on her bed by her neighbour Sheila Ward, after Shipman had called at Mrs Turner's house. Earlier, he asked the neighbour if she could help pack Mrs Turner's belongings for hospital. "Strikingly, however, he asked her to delay going over to Irene's for a few minutes," said Mr Henriques. Morphine was later found in her body. Shipman failed to examine the body of Muriel Grimshaw, 76, when he was called to her home. He told her daughter: "It was a nice way to go." He said there was no need for a post mortem, and morphine was later found in her body. In the case of two other victims, Joan Melia, 73, and Lizzie Adams, 77, the GP claimed to have phoned an ambulance but did not, the Crown maintained. Shipman is also accused of the murders of Kathleen Wagstaff, 81, Norah Nuttall, 64, Pamela Hillier, 67, and Maureen Ward, 67, who were all cremated. The case continues.