The corridor walls boast student ceramics and paintings, and leaflets offering tuition in maths, pottery, English and art fill the noticeboard. Peer into one of the classrooms and you see a group of young men taking part in a discussion group, while further along the passageway another group are at terminals getting to grips with computer studies.It could be a further education college in a slightly down-at-heel neighbourhood. But it isn't: we are behind locked doors in the learning and skills centre in Brixton prison - the nicest part of the jail, if you ask the governor. John Podmore, who took over the post 18 months ago, has long been regarded in the prison service as a forward-thinking, innovative leader. But, though he has no doubts about the role education can play for prisoners, his overall feeling is that society expects far too much."What you find is people who think we're some kind of boarding school or college," he says. "The expectation seems to be that people who don't behave themselves get a sentence in here, and they come in and start being good as gold and we can teach them what they need to know and send them out to live useful lives."But I'd say to them, wake up and smell the coffee. Or to be more precise, wake up and smell the crack cocaine. Of the inmates here, around 80% are crack cocaine users and three-quarters have a history of mental illness. Around a third have literacy skills that are below entry level, and 60% would have been unemployed. The fact is, we've got to work with things how they are."What Podmore and his team are completely certain of is the difference education can make. What inmates need is the purpose, self-esteem and confidence to turn their backs on a life of crime - and if anything can give them that, it's education.But, while education is so vital, it is inevitably some way down the pecking order of priorities in a jail with so many basic problems. "There are 800 inmates here, around half on remand and half sentenced," says Podmore. "It's an ever-changing population. I'm juggling numbers all the time, having to move people in and move people out."Obviously, if I know a prisoner is settled into an education programme and getting something from it, or about to take an exam, I'd do my best to keep him here. But it's just not always possible."This is the reality behind last week's report, published by the all-party parliamentary group for further education and lifelong learning, which complained that overcrowding and the lack of a streamlined system were denying prisoners the chance to take part in educational opportunities. When prisoners are suddenly moved on to another jail, too often their records and assessments don't go with them. For some inmates, contact with the education centre can be a depressing and monotonous round of assessment after reassessment, with no joined-up record system to let staff at their new place know what they have studied or achieved in the past.And the difficulties continue when they leave prison. Financial constraints are a big problem for former prisoners - at a time when even middle-class teenagers worry about the financial costs of a degree course, how much worse is it for the 22-year-old ex-drug addict with a string of convictions?That conundrum has prompted the Longford Trust, set up in memory of the prison reformer Lord Longford, to establish a new scheme to give scholarships to ex-prisoners who want to continue their studies after release. The trust has just announced its first two awards. The recipient of one is 23-year-old Judith, who is about to embark on a psychology degree at a university in the north of England.Judith says she was one of the lucky ones in prison. She served two years of a four-year sentence for drug-related crime, but when she got through rehabilitation and decided she would like to go on to do A-levels, her governor took the rare step of allowing her to apply for a course at a college in the community."It was a brave thing for him to do, and he obviously had to make sure I wouldn't do a runner," she says. "But I'm so grateful for that opportunity. It honestly has made all the difference, not only to my life now but to my whole future."I did well in my exams and I was thrilled to get a place at university - it's a real dream come true for me. I'd have tried somehow to take up the place, but the money side of it was a real worry. The Longford scholarship has meant that, though I'll still have to scrimp and save, I won't feel on the edge the whole time."Last week's report also paid tribute to the dedication and hard work of the tutors and staff who try to do their best despite desperately difficult situations. That includes people like Katharine Hamilton, head of learning and skills at Brixton, who admits her task is no easy ride. Sometimes, though, she is rewarded with the knowledge that what her staff provide makes a difference. She has known men, she says, who have said the courses they have been on inside have given them the will to go on living, to start afresh, to pick up the pieces of a broken life and to move on.One of the biggest problems, says Hamilton, is how to advise prisoners about what to do on their release. If you have got someone who is keen on continuing to learn, they need an immediate opportunity, not the possibility of a course that starts several months hence, and for which they will need to enrol at the end of September when the new academic year begins."Our education here is roll on, roll off - it has to be," she says. "What we need is something similar on the outside. When they get out, they go to college and they're told they'll have to enrol. Well, my guys don't understand enrolment. They need some place they can walk into, at any point, and pick up a course as soon as they're out. What each prison needs is a local college offering an immediately accessible course that they can go straight along to and join."The investment in Judith's future being made by the Longford Trust is likely to reap huge benefits over the coming decades. As well as diminishing the likelihood that Judith will get into trouble again - last year's Social Exclusion Unit report on reoffending identified education as a key factor in the battle to keep former prisoners on the straight and narrow - she is committed to a future career in the criminal justice system."What I'd hope is that I can go on to do a master's degree and then I'd like to work as a criminal psychologist or maybe in the probation service," she says. "It's a world I've got to know a lot about, and it's a world in which I can see there's a lot of scope to make a difference."