Never have I heard quite so many people lamenting the unfairness of the legal aid system as when it transpired this week that public funding had been granted to the three Labour MPs charged with false accounting. Even those who have never shown the slightest interest in the topic have been whipped up into a fervour about the injustice of it all.It's natural to view the use of public money to defend such affluent and unpopular politicians as unfair. But, as Afua Hirsch reluctantly blogged yesterday, no matter how angry we are with MPs, the principle must never be shaken that those facing charges must be properly defended. And the best way of ensuring everyone gets a fair trial is to provide non-means-tested legal aid – then simply recoup public funds at the end of a trial from those who are convicted and could have afforded to pay themselves. This sensible and viable option is not widely publicised, perhaps because, as the government's attacks on legal aid have increased, so too have its efforts to portray its recipients as unworthy and sinister, its lawyers as devious and parasitic and its cost as unnecessarily burdensome. No wonder Cameron is rubbing his over-privileged hands in glee.But there is more to the legal aid debate than defending the unpopular. I don't practice criminal law, instead I predominantly act for bereaved families at inquests following deaths in police and prison custody. These are not your archetypal legal-aid clients and are often motivated by the need to find out why their loved one died – and, more importantly, the desire to ensure no other family has to suffer like they have. Without legal aid their simple search for truth would be virtually impossible.But the same arguments used to attack the grant of legal aid to these MPs trickle into a pool of unsubstantiated criticisms and misinformation that have allowed past governments, both Labour and Tory, to cull the legal aid system as a whole to the brink of extinction. It is right that these MPs are being prosecuted (assuming there is sufficient evidence against them) and, however uncomfortable it may feel, it is also right that they are granted legal aid. If convicted, they will have been publicly and properly held responsible for their wrongdoings. And this accountability is a central tenet in a democratic society.The importance of legal aid as a mechanism by which to hold state bodies to account is perhaps most apparent when representing victims of police violence, those who have been unlawfully deprived of their liberty or subjected to discrimination. Where the perpetrator of an offence is a serving police officer, a victim cannot just walk into a police station and report the officer as having committed a crime. Instead, there is a long and arduous complaints process, with investigations often conducted by other police officers. Appeals are taken to the Independent Police Complaints Commission, a third of whose investigators are former police officers, and even then complaints are rarely upheld. When complaints are substantiated it is almost unheard of that officers are prosecuted. In these circumstances the only means by which to hold the police to account is by bringing an action in the civil courts. Given these immense (and frequently bewildering) challenges, the provision of legal aid throughout the process is vital to victims.These cases, like so many publicly funded cases, have a wider significance beyond the immediate interests of the clients. And that is why a properly funded legal aid system is so important: not only does it protect the most vulnerable in society – it holds the most powerful to account. And in doing so it identifies systemic failings and inefficiencies in the daily operation of many public bodies. These causes of the need for legal aid, can be significantly reduced if not eradicated. The cost of failing to do this is a cost we must bear – and that cost is legal aid.