In the hands of our leaders, our DNA has turned us into suspects. The matter of the national DNA database is one of fundamental human rights: privacy and presumed innocence before the law. With the absurd, archaic electoral system creaking into gear, those rights are slipping further from our grasp.Lest we forget, the Criminal Justice Act in 2001 introduced the right of the state to take the DNA of anyone charged with an offence, even if they were subsequently acquitted, and place it on a permanent database. Two years later it crept back so that DNA could be taken on arrest, even if no charge was made. This wasn't so much an erosion of civil rights, but a jackhammer in its face.The government was forced to abandon its desire to create a permanent list of suspects for future crimes by a damning verdict by the European court of human rights. Its response was to propose that DNA could be kept for six years. The Tories' stance was marginally and arbitrarily better, arguing for three years. The Lib Dems' position is that innocent people should not have their DNA stored on a database for crimes not yet committed.Last year, I publicly debated the issue at St Albans Cathedral, sandwiched between Labour backbencher Emily Thornberry to my left and shadow justice minister Dominic Grieve to my right. On the issue of the DNA database, their positions were reversed. As I recall, Thornberry defended the concessionary six-year retention with a whipped fudge, but Grieve pointed out that the difference between three years and six years is nonsensical. He opined that this proposal, for which there was no evidential support in terms of increased convictions, engendered a culture of suspicion that was not in keeping with the English culture of civil liberties.I must confess, it's a bit odd for me to find myself in complete agreement with a proper old-school Tory: Oxford, side-parting and pinstripe. But he earned my respect by questioning the Tory whip and championing human rights.The value of expanding the database is to provide "cold hits", where unanticipated links between crime scenes and individuals can be made. By retaining the DNA on a database for any length of time, the chances of unanticipated matches increase, because the database serves as a suspect list for crimes not yet committed.Except it doesn't appear to work. Analysis in 2006 by GeneWatch UK, which monitors the application of genetic technology for public interest and human rights, showed that the rate of convictions using the DNA database actually fell after the introduction of retention of records at arrest (rather than charge) in 2004. Labour has stated that 23 previously arrested, but not convicted, people were convicted for rape, murder or manslaughter last year based on database entries. The election fact-checker service by the Times gives this a pork-pie rating of four out of five. The data is complex and insufficient.Labour wants a permanent database. That was ruled an infringement of human rights. So they went for six years, the Tories initially three, and now six. What a farce! The difference between six years, three years and in perpetuity is absurd: either the state keeps data on innocent people or it does not. One position inches towards a police state, one supports the liberty that is in our DNA.In the few remaining hours before parliament is dissolved, MPs devote a few minutes here and there to discussing outstanding bills to push them into legislation – the "wash-up", as it's become known. Bullied by Alan Johnson, the Tories backed down, despite what the man who would be justice minister said to me. Labour are tough on crime and weak on human rights. The Tories just look weak.But the real problem is the system. This is an important matter of human rights, and demands proper democratic scrutiny and public debate. Due to the parliamentary smoke-filled room that is the wash-up, instead after a few minutes of chat, we face a rolling list of suspects for all future crimes. It was briefly discussed in the Lords, where the wash-up was mocked, and the conclusion was "we've run out of time". How desperately we need electoral reform.