Is he plotting? If you tell people in Westminster that you've interviewed David Davis, that's what they want to know.Davis, who was beaten by David Cameron in the Conservative leadership contest in 2005 and has been a backbencher ever since his surprise decision to resign from the shadow cabinet and fight a byelection over civil liberties, is perceived as an inveterate schemer. In some quarters, it's assumed that he now spends his days masterminding the eventual downfall of the prime minister.Well, maybe I'm naive – or maybe Davis is so brilliantly devious that he took me in – but he certainly did not give the impression that he was masterminding a Tory right insurgency when I met him in his office in Portcullis House, overlooking the Thames.He is critical of the government on some issues, but also pleased about the "civilised" culture in the Conservative party that tolerates dissent and very warm about Cameron – although not averse to telling at least one "I told him so" anecdote, as you can see from a summary of the main points.• Davis said he warned Cameron that allowing Nick Clegg to take part in the leaders' debates at the election would be damaging for the Conservative party. (After the first debate, Lib Dem poll ratings soared, partly at the expense of the Tories.) Cameron was initially "not persuaded" by this argument, said Davis, who thinks the debates should have been structured "a little differently".• Davis said he did not know if the Tories would have done better or worse at the election if he had been leader instead of Cameron.• He dismissed the prospect of standing for the Conservative leadership again. "It's not going to happen," he said.• He said he was now in favour of Britain having a written constitution.• He criticised Kenneth Clarke's sentencing plans. The justice secretary should be building more psychiatric prisons, not putting his faith in community punishments, he said, adding: "I haven't seen a community punishment that works better than prison."• He said the government should be doing more to promote growth. In particular, he called for the 50% tax rate to be cut.• He predicted that Lords reform would fail.I was particularly interested in his remarks about a written constitution. Gordon Brown was the last senior politician to promote this idea, and eventually even he seemed to accept that this cause was doomed. Now Davis is in favour. That's certainly not something you would expect to hear from someone plotting to become the next Tory leader.Here's the interview in full. You can decide for yourself.Being in coalitionQ: Let's start with the Conservatives being in coalition. David Cameron and Nick Clegg have both said they see advantages to being in coalition, in terms of the policy-making process being better. Clegg specifically said that in the speech he made welcoming the changes to the health bill this week. Do you see any advantages to being in coalition?A: Let's be clear. Firstly, I would have much preferred to have a Conservative government. I think you'll find every Conservative, including the prime minister, would say that. There are some advantages – we haven't necessarily got all of them – and there are some disadvantages.The advantages ... I'm a bit partisan on this, because bear in mind of all the Tories, I'm the one who most approves of the freedom-based core of the coalition ... that emphasis is quite good. The truth is, of course, is that things like ID cards would have been cancelled and 28 days would have come down to 14 days under a single-party government. But the coalition gives it a bit more of a blush.In some ways I've thought that we've underplayed that. For example, the Liberals have not been as determined as I would have liked on control orders. We've got these TPIMS [terrorist prevention and investigation measures] now. They're still 'control orders-lite'.You can also see benefits in that it's a bit harder to present a necessary programme of cuts as 'hard-faced Tories', which is what naturally would be our opponents' attack.That being said, it's changing. The first year was different from what comes next. The struggle for credit isn't very constructive. We've seen it on the National Health Service. That's a bit of a zero-sum game. There's a risk in that.David Cameron has invested a huge amount of political capital, personal capital, emotional capital, when you consider what happened to his son, in the detoxification programme, if you like. And there are those in the leftwing press who are already arguing that what Clegg is doing is a retoxification of the Tories.Q: In a piece for the Mail on Sunday at the weekend, you said that Cameron wants to bolster Clegg's position and that "perhaps unusually for a backbench Tory", you supported that. Why's that?A: Partly because the coalition has got to stay together. In order to deliver the economic strategy, it's got to last five years. I don't think I'm breaking any confidences if I tell you Cameron talked to me on the Friday after the election.Q: I knew you had had a conversation. [It's mentioned in Rob Wilson's book, Five Days to Power]. I don't know what was said.A: We talked about the options, right through from the so-called 'confidence and supply' option to a full-blooded coalition. And I said to him that there are natural areas of overlap in terms of the freedom agenda. There are natural areas of overlap in the green agenda – I'm not so enthusiastic about the green agenda, but David is.And there are other areas where there may not be an absolute overlap, but that are some similarities, eg on low tax for the low paid. What I said to him, however, is that [make sure] whatever you do gives you time to deliver on the economic policy. Because if you just had a cuts programme and went to the electorate after two years, that's the way to say goodbye to the Tory party forever.Q: At that stage was coalition your preferred option?A: I don't think I argued either way. I was trying to be impartial in the arguments when I talked to him, but it probably came across that I thought the best option was coalition. But I didn't know at that stage whether or not Nick Clegg and the rest of the Liberal party would buy that. I thought it very, very, very likely they would, but who knows ... I remember actually saying to David, "Remember, the Lib Dems' policy is for a fixed-term parliament." So you could actually give that and that would be beneficial to the strategy in terms of economics. And that's what turned out to be.Economy and growthQ: Let's move on to economics. Are you confident that the government is doing enough to promote growth at the moment?A: No. I said this last year [in a speech to the Legatum Institute]. For the overall strategy to work, private sector growth has got to be something like 6%, higher than it normally is historically. You therefore have to do something to encourage that. And the only things we really know that work are supply-side things, lower taxes and deregulation. And it seemed to me at that time that there wasn't enough emphasis on either of those.Q: And since then?A: There's been a movement. I would still prefer more. For example, I would do away with the 50% tax rate, because I think it loses money. I can see an argument for the 50% rate if it raised money. But most of the specialists actually think it loses money. I take a similar view on capital gains. My view is that with these things you should go for the rate [that] gives you the biggest return.Q: What about the pace of spending cuts? Are you comfortable with that?A: I'm moderately comfortable with them. I sometimes think the rhetoric of spending cuts is harsher than the reality. Mostly, not individually, because individually there are some quite tough cuts.If I remember correctly, we are in essence still going up in cash terms. John Redwood made this point rather well. He said the last year of the government, when we get down to being in balance or a tiny surplus, the red book is forecasting £170bn more tax income. If that's right, that is the entire deficit that's come from tax increases. Not necessarily rate increases, but increases in take.So I think the rhetoric in aggregate terms in harsher. I suspect it had to be. George Osborne has pulled a blinder on that. He's delivered what appears to be a general consensus in favour of cuts. Even the Labour party is only arguing rate and speed, rather than necessity.CrimeQ: Lord Ashcroft recently published Project Blueprint (pdf), a report on the views of Conservative supporters and potential Conservative supporters, and it identifies crime as a problem are for the government. "Conservative voters were disappointed at the coalition's approach to crime," it says. Do you think Ashcroft has a point?A: Yes, I do think he has a point there. Remember, I said there some negatives with coalition. The Liberals have a different view on this. They always did. Even in opposition, when we were pretty much fighting shoulder to shoulder on 80% of things, in these areas we didn't agree.On prisons, there is problem. Largely because of overcrowding, and to some extent – and Ken [Clarke] has a point here – because the wrong people are in prison, whether it's foreign prisoners on the one hand, or people who should be in a secure psychiatric institution on the other. It is very difficult to deal with the fundamental problems of prisoners.A typical prisoner is a young man, normally in his 20s, who probably can't read, probably can't write, has probably got no job experience or skills and is probably on crack cocaine. You could do something about those things, but you need time and dedication to do it.What's been happening is that the detoxification courses, the literacy courses, the work experience courses, get disrupted because you go into a prison, you start a course, and then you have to move to another prison because they are shuffling around.That is why the recidivism rates have climbed from the low 50s, which they were about a decade or so ago, towards the 70s. That's a real problem with prisons and it has to be dealt with.Q: So what do you think Ken Clarke should be doing?A: What Ken has argued is that we should do this by community punishments. The presumption behind that is that community punishment works, in terms of rehabilitation. But I have not seen a community punishment that works better than prison.The ones I have seen, the ISSP, the intensive surveillance and supervision programme, and I'm now three years out of date on this, so be wary of the numbers ... when I looked at that, the recidivism rate was 92%. And that means nearly everybody, because they probably don't catch some of them.So you've neither got a punishment, nor a deterrent, nor taking someone out of circulation, nor rehabilitation. That's why I question it. I say you've got to be very, very careful about reducing the prison population if what it means is releasing people who are essentially career criminals.My argument to [Clarke] would be, "Look at building more psychiatric prisons so that people who have actually got psychiatric problems can be treated properly." Prison is the wrong place for them.Giving up the front benchQ: Talking about what you would like to do on this issue, do you ever regret standing down as shadow home secretary in 2008 so that you could fight your byelection?A: Never for a second.Q: As it found when I posted a blog asking readers to suggest questions, some people [eg angryeconomist] find that impossible to believe. People go into politics to exercise power. You could have been in the cabinet.A: Yes, so? Two things. One, when I did it, I assumed I was committing political suicide full stop.Q: To be fair, you said that at the timeA: And in that calculation, my question was: "Is this worth that?" I said what we have to do is change the public mind. Because if we don't change the public mind [Gordon] Brown will use the Parliament Act to bring this bloody thing back [42 day pre-charge detention] just before the election, even if we defeat him in the Lords (which we did), and we'll be scuppered.So the whole point of that was to move the public perception of this. And that worked. The support for 42 days was 70-odd percent [at the start of the byelection campaign]. And it was 70% against by the end of the byelection procedure. [These figures are contested - there are more details on this post at ConservativeHome]. That was necessary.Today, in the mindset about the debate on terrorism, an argument about freeedom, rule of law, proper process and jury trials is never absent. All those things are much more in the public eye than they were. So it was worth the killing of my career.Ironically, my career hasn't been killed, to my mild surprise. In fact, the first time I realised this, I had spend the summer after the byelection studying Afghanistan. I read 28 books, hundreds of papers and I went out to Afghanistan.At the time Afghanistan was seen as the "good war" and Iraq as the "bad war". I came back and the very next day I went on the Andrew Marr programme. I was waiting for the shitstorm because I said: "We are losing".Q: So you think that as a backbencher you have more scope for saying unpalatable things?A: The point about the story is that in the next three weeks the public view flipped around on this. It wasn't just me. I was just the catalyst. I was just the salt dropped in the fizzy water that makes it fizz. The fizz is there already. I was still able to do that. And I suddenly realised, all of a sudden, I'm still politically alive.What's unique at the moment, and what's very interesting about the new politics, and it's a direct outcome of the coalition, is that the coalition has to allow the Liberals to say what they want to say. As a result, it has to allow the Conservatives to say what they want to say. We now have, in my view, a more healthy debate.I was at lunch today. David Cameron came and sat next to me and we had a gossip about Libya, as it turned out. And I teased him about something else. It's accepted. And there is a civilised arrangement where people accept that we – people like me, anyway – say what we want to say.Not being Conservative leaderQ: That takes us on to another "how your career changed" question – the leadership. David Cameron beat you in 2005. Do you still wake up every morning thinking "I could do a better job"? Or do you get to a point where you think "Well, the party probably made the right decision"? Or does it veer from one to another?A: Bits of both. But I don't think about it every day at all. It's only when I get asked questions about it that I think about it. Look, I think Cameron is a very good prime minister. He looks the part, he acts the part, he is the part. That's the first thing.Of course, there are areas where I differ from him. But you'll know where they are, because I shall say so. There are areas, as well, where people assume there's a difference where there isn't. The Cameroons refer to themselves as modernisers.Sometimes I think their politics are a lot less modern then mine, whether it's on civil liberties, or in some areas of economic policy when it comes to encouraging things like broadband. I could pick you a dozen areas if I looked carefully. Or social mobility. So, the answer is it doesn't really bother me. It certainly dosen't rest in my mind.Q: Do you think the party would have won the election under your leadership? Done better or done worse?A: I've no idea. I've really no idea.Q: Would you have had the leaders' debates with Nick Clegg, which are blamed by some for the Tories not winning an overall majority?A: Well, I did warn David that Nick Clegg was going to be more dangerous than he thought he was. I think we might have structured it a little differently. But I don't think you can avoid the debates, I really don't.When David and I had the leadership debates in the Tory party, we both of us said this is now going to happen in every major contest in future. From that point forward, you couldn't really go back. And actually I approve of the debates. I actually think Clegg stole a march, but I knew he would.I had a conversation with David on ... it must have been the day they agreed it. I was seeing him about something else, Afghanistan. And I said: "Be careful, Nick's going to have this particular position."Remember, I'm a friend of Nick Clegg's. We were allies on God knows how many things. He's going to have this unique position. You're going to attack Brown, he's going to attack Brown. Brown will attack you, he will attack you. Nobody is going to bother to attack him. And, anyway, he hasn't really got a history to defend. And David at the time, I think, was not persuaded by the argument. But there you go.Relations with David CameronQ: How is your relationship with Cameron now?A: It's fine. It's infrequent. He's a busy man. I don't see very much of him.Q: My colleague Allegra Stratton wrote an article recently in which she quoted a "close observer" saying the Cameroons – not necessarily David Cameron – "detest [Davis] with a passion that is quite impressive". Do you recognise that?A: I don't really recognise that. It may well be true. Who knows? But it's not true of Cameron, or Osborne. Anyway, I wouldn't worry about it.Standing for the leadership againQ: Would you stand again for the leadership?A: I don't think that is ever likely to come up while I'm still on my feet, as it were, politically on my feet.Q: Alert – and not so alert – observers will note that that's not quite a no.A: When you breathe, you never write things off. But it's not going to happen.PrivacyQ: You're pushing for a vote on a backbench motion on privacy. What would your motion actually say?A: I can let you have a copy of it. The previous big bang exercise was the vote on prisoner votes. [Davis and Jack Straw tabled the motion that led to the Commons voting to defy the European court of human rights and insist on prisoners not being allowed to vote].It was plain as a pikestaff what we wanted to do there. We wanted to put the government in a position where it had to have an argument with the European court of human rights over this issue. This is very different. This is about getting a qualitative view out of the House of Commons about what the proper balance is [in relation to privacy and free speech].Here's the text of the motion:That this House requests the government to put legislation before the House within the next year to:1. Clarify the law with respect to the legal effect of super injunctions and other injunctions on parliamentary privilege, the right to report proceedings in parliament, and the right of constituents to seek advice from their Member of Parliament;2. Limit the ability of private corporations to apply for injunctions and/or bring libel cases without prima facie evidence that they have suffered significant commercial (rather than reputational) damage;3. Establish explicitly the limits of the use of super injunctions; and4. Reinforce in law the rights to free speech, particularly with respect to fair comment and comments on a matter of public interest in medical, scientific and other academic fields.Q: Are you going to get time for a debate?A: I'm almost certain we'll get the time. Whether we'll get it before the end of this term, I don't know.Q: And the government won't obstruct the motion that your tabling?A: No. The motion at the moment uses quite mild words. In a way, it's not the government it's targeted at. They are going to set up a joint committee [to consider privacy issues]. I want the joint committee [to know what the Commons thinks].Lords reformQ: Do you think Lords reform will get through?A: No, I don't. I don't think it will work. Peter Hennessy described Lords reform as the Bermuda Triangle of British politics. People go into it and never come out again.There's a core reason, and it should be very clear to Guardian readers, and it's this. If you look over the last couple of decades, you would see that the one institution that has stood up for the defence of freedom and our institutions and our judiciary and our judicial process has been the House of Lords. If you were trying to create an institution to do that, you would not have designed the House of Lords. But that's what it's done. So I would be very cautious about any changes.EuropeQ: Peter Oborne wrote an article recently saying Cameron was the most pro-European prime minister since Edward Heath. Are you concerned about the government being too pro-European?A: I don't think that's right. The problem about the comparison is that, firstly, Cameron hasn't entirely got a free hand. He's got the Liberals in the show.The other problem is that today Europe has got a forward gear, it's got a ratchet, particularly post-Lisbon. And so it's quite difficult to stop that. We saw this with the prisoner voters. Prisoner voters was about the ECHR [European court of human rights], not about the European Union, but it demonstrated a point which I have worried about since I was a Foreign Office minister.It's this. The legal advice that you get in Whitehall is always hyper-cautious, conservative with a small c. It's designed to avoid the government losing a court case, not necessarily designed to get the best outcome. I think this is one of the problems that accelerates the European ratchet when we don't want it to accelerate.So I don't agree with Oborne on that, partly because [Cameron's] hands are a bit tied, partly because there's a different mechanism in place, which would take quite a bit of skill to deal with. My preference would have been that he carried on with a referendum on [the Lisbon treaty] and then went back and kicked up a fuss about it, but there's not much prospect of that in a coalition with the Liberals.English parliamentQ: On the blog that I posted inviting readers to suggest questions, some people asked about an English parliament. Someone who may be a constituent of yours [tyke1] said that you made a speech in favour of one in 1997, but that you haven't spoken about it since.A: He's quite right. I did make a speech in 1997, and dear old William Hague has probably never forgiven me for it because it took over the Tory conference that year, virtually.What I was saying at the time is that we were going through all this process of creating Scottish and Welsh autonomy, the Irish have their level of autonomy, and the people forgotten in all this are the English.There is a real serious issue when you have got ministers – the home secretary, for example – in charge of policing in England whose actions do not have any impact in his own constituency. For example, retaining DNA. When John Reid was home secretary, this was done to English people, but not to Scots people. So I think there's a quirk there.Q: Do you still think there's a case for an English parliament?A: I'm moderately comfortable. This is a very difficult constitutional area because of the problems of federalism in a state when you've got a huge state and a number of smaller states. What happened immediately after that speech, and largely as a result of that speech, was a Tory policy on English votes, English votes for English business.Q: Which has now disappeared into the long grass ... [The government is setting up a commission on the West Lothian question later this year]A: I would certainly try that first. I'm not a radical when it comes to constitutional reform, with one exception. Generally I'm an incrementalist because it's so easy to get it wrong and get unintended consequences.Written constitutionQ: And what's the exception?A: The exception is the British constitution. When I arrived here, if you had asked me if I approved of a written constitution, I would have laughed at you. But having watched the erosions of all the conventions and the traditions, even in this place ... When I came in, the opposition, if it really objected to something, could keep the government up all night, and make a point. I think those sorts of balances were pretty much eradicated by the Blair government.The role of the House of Commons as the last bastion and defender of the liberties of the British has been pretty much weakened.So I would re-establish that and entrench it through a written constitution. But it's a bloody difficult thing to do. The Americans had the virtue of five or six geniuses to write [their constitution], and even then it took years. Today, a genius in Britain would not become a constituional lawyer. He would go and make his money in the City, win a Nobel prize or whatever.Phone hackingQ: Let's end with a civil liberties question. Tom Watson is very interesting on the threat to civil liberties posed by phone hacking at News International. He and various others have said that this is such a serious issue that it requires a public inquiry at some stage. Do you agree with that?A: What they are accused of is criminal. For that very reason, I wouldn't wander into it too lightly. It's something that the courts will resolve. And once the courts have resolved what the facts are, then parliament probably will have to have a think about it. But who knows?