How much can you tell about a person from their postcode? To celebrate the 40th anniversary of the allocation of postcodes to every town in Britain, a Royal Mail commissioned study published yesterday, has attempted to highlight which postcodes fare best and worst for a range of key indicators.The study, conducted by the Centre for Economic and Business Research (CEBR), focused on "five features of everyday life in 2014": health and wellbeing, cost of living, work, crime and security and marriage and birth rates. Using a variety of data sources at a local level including the 2011 Census, the Indices of Multiple Deprivation, lending data from the British Bankers Association and the Council for Mortgage Lenders and figures from the Office for National Statistics, the researchers found:Healthiest postcodesIf eating seven fruit and veg a day seems too much to get in shape, you could try moving to one of the healthiest postcodes in the land. The top five in England are all in central London, with SW1X (which encompasses Belgravia) leading the way. In Scotland DG13 in Langholm is the best for your health and in Wales it's SA66 in Clynderwen, Dyfed. Postcodes are ranked using the deprivation sub-indices of health, using a points system.Postcodes with the lowest unemploymentPerhaps surprisingly, central London isn’t the place where you’ll find the postcodes with the lowest unemployment. That title goes to Frome and Somerton in the West Country, where the rate of unemployment is a minescule 1.3%. In fact, all the top five are way below the national average of 6.9%.When it comes to qualifications, seven of the top ten postcodes are in the City of London. The CEBR measured this by the percentage of people with a degree or professional qualification.The level for the whole population was 27.2%, according to the 2011 census, but the top ranking postcodes were as high as 81%. B3, a Birmingham postcode, had the highest level of employment outside London.CrimeNo real surprises in the crime stakes: postcodes in rural Cumbria and Northumberland suffer fewer crimes than elsewhere.The real surprise however is that number five on the list is in London: EC2V, near St Paul’s Cathedral. Perhaps the sense of moral judgement emanating from the building has helped to keep would-be criminals honest.In Scotland, despite a (clearly unfair) reputation, Glasgow can boast three of the top five safest postcodes, behind only Shetland and Carluke.In Wales the five postcodes with the lowest crime rates are in Dyfed and in Northern Ireland Craigavon comes top.AgeOne of the aspects of the study that jumps out is the oldest and youngest postcodes. B4 in Birmingham has an average age of 22, and none of the ten youngest postcodes has an average age of more than 28. Leeds postcodes L1, L2 and L3 have average ages of 25, 25, and 27 respectively.At the other end of the spectrum it seems that the UK’s Isles are attractive to elder statespeople. The Isle of Wight has two postcodes in the top 10 and the Isle of Anglesey one.Cost of livingCost of living was measured by looking at the number of outstanding mortgages, and their sizes. You’d probably guess at London and Surrey, and… you’d be right.All of the top 10 are in London, with EC4A in the City having an average outstanding mortgage (AOM) of £100,000. The first non-London postcode is Virginia water, with an AOM of £50,000.The first postcode not in one of these two areas is B2 in Birmingham at £47,085.LovePerhaps you can’t directly measure love but you can be traditional and look at the number of married couples per postcode.Poole takes top honours, with the residents of BH18 big fans of contractual monogamy. Poole is famous as a retirement town, so perhaps this represents the more traditional values of older generations.And if the above hasn't fufilled your need for postcode stats here are some more:The postcode was first trialled in Norwich in 1954There are 1.8m of them across the UKOn average a postcode will cover only 17 addresses, so the data here is quite detailed. There are around 29m addresses in all. The Royal mail has alphanumeric numbers for another 18m.More open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianDevelopment and aid data• Search the world’s global development data with our gatewayCan you do more with this data?• Contact us at data@theguardian.com• Follow us on Twitter• Like us on Facebook