The home secretary, David Blunkett, said this morning that "most people would cheer" the tough new sentencing "principles" for murder he is due to announce later today.The principles are understood to include "life means life" prison terms for the worst child murders, 30-year sentences for those who have killed police officers and minimum terms for doctors involved in "mercy killings"."I think most people will cheer and say we want a framework where we have confidence, we have clarity, we have consistency."Judges had not proved capable of providing clear and consistent sentencing, Mr Blunkett claimed on BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "They challenged the right of home secretaries - not me in particular but home secretaries - to set the tariff, the time someone would serve before they became eligible for parole." Today's announcement comes after a House of Lords ruling that the current system, whereby the home secretary sets a "tariff" or minimum period a murderer must serve, is incompatible with the European convention on human rights."That has meant we have to decide how to proceed and I have decided I will ask parliament to lay down this framework of principles," Mr Blunkett added. "So it will be parliament that decides the structure. It will be judges that act within it."The new system Mr Blunkett is due to announce sets out "principles" rather than guidelines for sentencing by the judges, which they will be expected to follow. Those who decide that the minimum sentence recommended would be inappropriate in the particular case will have to set out their reasons in writing. Asked on Today if he was challenging judges' rights to set sentences, Mr Blunkett said: "They have been asked to challenge ours." "So I am putting the situation back to what most sensible people thought it should be, which is that parliament lays down the rules, the judges apply them, we have a circumstance where the signals are clear, where everyone knows where they stand, they can have confidence in the whole criminal justice and sentencing system." "Then we get a balance, we have this sensible balance rather than the hysteria that often surrounds this."The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said this morning that he backed the government's proposals."My starting point is that the home secretary is probably right," he told Today. "What he proposes is that parliament will set out, as I understand it, guidelines, or as he calls it, principles. I am very much in favour of parliament setting the framework." "It is reasonable parliament should take a view that the norm should be someone who has sadistically murdered a pile of children, they should spend their life behind bars. It is proper that in a democracy parliament should take a view about what the norm is." But legal representatives and human rights campaigners have opposed the measure. A spokesman for the bar council, which representing barristers in England and Wales, said it was "constitutionally a leap in the dark". "It looks politically smart when you hear of one or two bad cases, but I think politicians are storing up trouble for themselves because they will end up being responsible for an increasing number of cases and will realise that they will have to carry a certain burden with that." And Mark Littlewood, of the civil liberties and human rights organisation Liberty, said: "Longer prison sentences may help the home secretary appear "tough" but they will do nothing to reduce crime. Our prisons - which are already full to bursting - will become still more crowded." "The appropriate sentence for any crime needs to be set by a judge. It needs to be set on the basis of all the facts of the particular case. Sentences should not be determined by politicians who do not know the specifics of the case and may be more interested in securing good headlines than in securing good justice."