A probation service is to be visited for a second time by independent inspectors after they reported serious concerns about its assessment of offenders - particularly those who posed a high risk of re-offending.It is the first time that the inspectors have announced a reinvestigation since their programme of inspections began last June. The report into the Hertfordshire probation service, published yesterday, said that although a national tool for assessing offenders had been in place since last April, staff were not using it effectively. The report said this had "contributed to a number of worrying instances of poor practice, including the assessment of high-risk harm cases."At the same time there had been a number of senior management changes which had created instability and some key policies were not followed through adequately, the report said.Front-line staff were unsure of individual managerial responsibility and some middle managers felt out of their depth. This meant that staff supervision was not all that it should have been and lines of accountability were unclear.Andrew Bridges, the deputy chief inspector of the probation inspectorate commenting on the report, said: "Hertfordshire is the first area where we have decided to look at the whole service again. The standards there were not as high as they are in the other areas we have visited before."The national programme of inspection of the 42 probation service areas in England and Wales is expected to take three years. So far eight reports have been published and 13 inspections have taken place.The two-week inspection is based on a random sample of 100 offenders who have been under supervision for about nine or 10 months, 20 of whom have been identified as having a "high risk of harm." The inspection involves in-depth interviews with the case manager and, if possible, the offender, and others who are key to supervision. Meetings with managers and board members also take place as well as discussion with the police to assess the supervision of high-risk cases. Commenting on the national programme, Mr Bridges said the programme of inspections was deliberately designed to assess activity on the front line in the probation service. The reports, which are similar to a school's Ofsted report, are presented in a way that provides easy comparison between services in different parts of the country, he explained.He said: "The idea is to take a sample of service users on the front line and see what is happening to them, not what is supposed to be happening to them. And on the whole from the work we have done so far, I am more reassured from what I have seen than otherwise."John Hutchings, an assistant chief inspector for the probation service, agreed. He said he was impressed by the quality of the service. "There are several areas where we have seen very good practice," he said. "Even though people say they are pushed and stretched we are seeing good quality work against that background."The Home Office said that in response, Hertfordshire had drawn up an action plan to implement the report's recommendations and that priority was being given to high-risk offenders and to strengthening management. The county's chief officer, Richard Baldwin, said: "The report is helpful in reinforcing our commitment to focus our attention on improving our management of risk in Hertfordshire."