Lee is an intelligent, articulate and charming 30-year-old from south London. He has spent most of his life in and out of prison for petty drink and drug-related offences. He is also dyslexic - a fact which went unnoticed for the first 29 years of his life.Lee is one of the estimated 10% of the national population with dyslexia. However, a recent study revealed that one in two of London's offending population have the condition. Of these, Lee is one of the lucky ones: his condition was picked up. "I was given probation and somebody said: 'Have you ever been diagnosed for dyslexia?'" he recalls. "It hadn't occurred to me; I thought I was just a bit thick. After all, that's what I'd been told all my life."Lee was referred to Dyspel, a project dedicated to screening, tutoring and helping dyslexic offenders escape from the vicious circle of re-offending. The results of the test came as a revelation. "It was a weight off my mind that I'm not thick - I just think in a different way," he says.Dyspel was created in 1995 in an effort to reduce crime in the capital by helping the large number of repeat offenders who are dyslexic to become aware of, and overcome, their difficulties. So far, indications are that the approach is working. In a report to be published tomorrow, Dyspel says that 371 offenders have been helped by the project since June 1997. Of these, only 42% re-offended, as opposed to 52% not on the scheme.This might not seem much, but when compared with the government's stated target of reducing re-offending by just 5%, it can be seen as significant progress. Indeed, research done in the US has shown that re-offending can be reduced by up to 25% by tackling dyslexia and its associated personal and social problems.A comprehensive study of the Dyspel project, funded by a national lottery grant, is now under way and should give a much fuller picture of its effectiveness and perhaps pave the way for future government funding. But Christina Prestney-Archer, senior tutor at Dyspel, is aware that it is offering a social cure, rather than prevention."What we do is remedial; it's very useful and it's very important, but we are helping after the fact," she says. Problems for dyslexics, she believes, almost inevitably start in school; therefore, successful prevention must also start there.According to Prestney-Archer, the abnormally high number of offenders with language difficulties is largely due to the psychological effects of dyslexia not being spotted early in life. "There are kids in dire straits, not getting any support and help, and the schools are not acknowledging the difficulty," she says. "The kids then leave school because they are miserable."For a dyslexic child, school can be a miserable, humiliating experience, creating a sense of inadequacy that continues well beyond the classroom. Commonplace pressures are accentuated by the constant fear of being "discovered" as a bad reader. Rachel, a severely dyslexic woman, remembers how bullying was for her an everyday reality. "If you're dyslexic, you can be bullied just as easily by teachers and employers as by your peers," she says. "I felt so isolated, I basically felt I had nowhere and nobody to turn to."Lee's school life was no different. "I was quite disruptive. My attention span was low," he admits. "They'd ask me to read stuff out and I'd slam the work down and walk out." However, teachers still failed to notice his reading difficulties. "They thought I was just a stupid, disruptive child."Lee left school with no qualifications. The resentment and sense of alienation he had developed at school continued, however, when he tried to find employment. "When I was faced with a form, I'd start sweating, thinking I couldn't do it," he says. "I'd just say: 'I'm in a rush right now, do you think I could take it home and come back later?' Sometimes I wouldn't go back, either, because I was convinced they would know that I was thick."Perhaps inevitably, he slipped into alcoholism and petty crime. "I was full of self-loathing, low self-esteem and loneliness," he reflects. "I wouldn't talk to anybody, wouldn't express myself to anybody."With the help of his Dyspel tutor, Lee has overcome his fear of forms and job applications and is now learning French, is involved in a local drama group, and is considering taking up sports once more. More important from a societal point of view, he is adamant that his offending - and drinking - days are over.It is universally acknowledged among experts in the field that severe dyslexia requires individual, specialist tuition. However, the more teachers, judges and probation officers there are, who are trained to spot the signs of the condition early on, the fewer people will fall through the educational net.Shirley Cramer, from the Dyslexia Institute, accepts that while not all schools are bad, too few make adequate provision."There's a shortage of specialist teachers who know how to teach dyslexic kids; some areas [of the educational system] are fairly good, some are just horrendous and others almost have a 'wait and fail' policy."Cramer argues that there is overwhelming evidence that early diagnosis is helpful. "Kids who are left to fail and are only picked up later have a much more difficult time at school and elsewhere," she says. Neera Dhingra, speaking for offender rehabilitation charity Nacro, also recognises the link between learning difficulties and problems in later life. "With young offenders in particular, truancy, social exclusion and poor schooling can make them more likely to offend," she says. "We have to pay a lot more attention so that adequate screening, support and provision is made for dyslexic children as well as adults."Dyslexia is not, of course, a condition that inevitably leads to crime. But the abnormally high incidence of undiagnosed learning difficulties among the offending population is a clear signal that something must be done to spot and treat the condition as early as possible. As one ex-offender (who, since being helped by Dyspel, is now a drugs counsellor) puts it: "Tell me which label you would prefer: lazy, stupid, dumb, backward? Or dyslexic - and working on it?" What is perhaps most worrying is that this is not news. As long ago as 1970, academic Macdonald Critchley observed that "the ease with which dyslexic teenagers slip into crime demands serious attention".Thirty years on, that attention is still lacking. That this necessarily costs the country incalculable thousands of pounds a year is one thing. That it has cost Lee, and countless others, a significant part of their lives, is quite another.Dyspel is on 0207-251 6770.The National Schizophrenia Fellowship and Department of Health's leaflet on carers' rights, A Commitment to Carers, is available free on 020-8547 9221.