I emerged from Blakenhurst prison blinking into an unseasonably warm, sunny spring morning, discharge grant and travel warrant in hand, a guinea pig in a big brother-style, information-age experiment. As instructed, I made it home to Manchester by 3pm. An hour and a half later, fortified by a steak and half a bottle of champagne, I answered the door to the two Securicor employees sent to fit my tag.Home detention curfew (HDC), or electronic tagging, is the government's latest attempt to ease the pressure on the overburdened penal system. Having served 10 weeks of two concurrent nine month sentences for evasion of excise duty, I was considered an ideal candidate for the pilot scheme earlier this year. Think of the earliest digital watch - a cheap-looking piece of kit, circular and about two centimetres thick. That is the tag. It is secured to your ankle by a black plastic strap with a wire running through its centre which, if broken, sends an alarm call to the monitoring centre. Coupled with this is a black box, connected to the electricity supply and the phone line. The first task of the Securicor fitters was to send me to the extremities of the house in order to adjust the range of movement. I was allowed, in a nutshell, no further than the front door. They were affable enough chaps and did their job with a minimum of fuss. They gave me a brochure explaining my curfew hours and what to do if anything went wrong. They would visit again, in a month, for a routine check. For now I was flying solo, and relishing the thought of my first night in a decent bed in ages. You wouldn't believe the stifling effect this seemingly innocuous gadget had on my life over the next two months. I had been under the impression that outside the curfew (6.45pm to 6.45am) the tag would make little difference. On the first day I realised how wrong I was. I received a barrage of phone calls that first morning, from friends anxious to find out how I was, whether I had been raped in the showers etc. During the second call, I was rudely interrupted by a bored and detached-sounding female voice insisting I hang up the receiver. Assuming it was a problem with the cable telephone company I ignored it, as I could still hear my brother talking.However, the instruction persisted until it dawned on me that the voice was coming from the black box. But it was only 9am, and as far as I was concerned, the third hour of my time. I rang the monitoring centre to ask what the problem was. I was told that the box sends messages to them at regular intervals through the day, not simply during my curfew hours, so I would have to live with it for the next two months. It might not sound that bad, but there are certain people (posh relatives, for instance) whom I would prefer not to know that I had been in prison. This problem occurred several times. I think I managed to convince people that it was just a problem with the cable, but not without a great deal of bluster and embarrassment on my part. Before going to prison I was attending an Italian class at the adult education centre. I had continued my studies as best I could in prison and on release one of the first things I did was to visit the probation service and the college to get a variation on my tag hours for one night a week to resume my course. Both were very helpful but I was disappointed to discover that the prison governor held the opinion that I would probably be committing crimes instead of attending my class - this despite the fact that before my imprisonment my most heinous crime had been speeding on the M6. These weren't my only frustrations. I am not the world's biggest social butterfly and, in fact, hardly ever drink, but the presence of my tag meant I missed several parties, evenings out and concerts that I would have liked the option to attend. Socialising was restricted to daylight hours and when my friends saw me getting twitchy around six o'clock they would take great delight in threatening to tie me up and make me miss my curfew. Over the first few days of tagging, various awkward incidents helped me appreciate my hours of liberty. For example, a pre-paid card meter, located on the outside wall of the house six feet or so from the front door, supplies my gas. I had charged up the card one day, but forgotten to put it into the meter before 6.45pm. It was a bitterly cold evening and the gas ran out. My wife was visiting a friend. My solution was to contort myself into a banana shape on the floor, tag in the doorway, and blindly fumble the card into the meter at arm's length. Pleased with my efforts I stood up - to be greeted by howls of laughter from the occupants of the house opposite, who had witnessed the whole farcical event. I beat a shame-faced retreat, vowing to be better organised. So, for the remainder of my HDC I would get really annoyed if I overslept, or failed to do something productive during the day. So perhaps there was something positive to be gained from it. Tagging is an awkward halfway house. Ask any sneak thief his favourite time of day and he will tell you the morning and afternoon school runs: the curfew hours don't curtail that kind of crime. More involvement from the probation service - and psychologists for the recidivists - would help. Under HDC, it seems that you are essentially left to your own devices once the tag has been fitted. Now that the tag has been removed (one snap of a pair of shears) I have mixed feelings about the process. Of course it is preferable to imprisonment, but it is a strange kind of freedom. It is very difficult to shake off the feeling that someone is controlling your actions. At least inside you know where you stand.