The path to St Peter's Anglican church in Yoxall runs through a traditional graveyard with mown grass, yew trees, headstones ancient and modern. It's very English, the kind of place where Thomas Gray could have written his elegy.But then you see a notice on yellow paper pinned to a board in the church. It tells of an imminent service for which there can be few precedents: "All people from the community are invited as we pray for the return of sanctity and peace to this place."Tomorrow the churchyard and burial ground of this Staffordshire village will be rededicated as the rector, the Rev Jenny Lister, seeks to cleanse it of a horror that has appalled people of all faiths and none.Sometime last week, someone came to St Peter's at dead of night and dug up the coffin of 82-year-old Gladys Hammond, who died in 1997. Then this week Staffordshire police revealed that most of her remains had been stolen in the raid.One line of inquiry is whether animal rights extremists were to blame. Mrs Hammond is the mother-in-law of Chris Hall, who, with his brother John and father David, owns Darley Oaks Farm, just up the A515 in Newchurch. They breed guinea pigs for medical research, a trade that has led to five years of protests and a terror campaign aimed at anyone who has social or business contacts with the Halls."Everyone has been very supportive and we are very grateful for the messages we have received," said Chris Hall this week. "It is a barbarous, atrocious act and we are just trying to come to terms with it."Yesterday Staffordshire police were questioning two men, aged 41 and 34, whom they arrested in early morning raids at homes in Coventry and Wolverhampton. Searches and forensic science tests were being carried out at the two addresses.Inside St Peter's church, a small table with a white tablecloth has been placed in the chancel. A single candle burns to reinforce the message on a prayer card: "Circle me, Lord. Keep light near and darkness afar."In a new condolence book next to a colour photograph of the burial ground, someone has written: "May we find it in our hearts to forgive them for the terrible thing they have done."Outside, autumn sun shines on a wildflower garden as the path moves from the old churchyard to the newer burial ground. And there is Mrs Hammond's grave, covered with new turf, flowers and more sad messages: "May Gladys and all the faithful departed rest in peace."A Yoxall man, who has few doubts about who is to blame for the sacrilege, pauses nearby. "As I walk past here, it's difficult not to burst into tears, it really is," he says."The whole village is aghast, even people who did not know the family. And somewhere there are people who are proud of what they have done." Like almost everyone in this story, the man prefers not to be named. "People are frightened of coming in the [activists'] sights. You are a sitting duck against an anonymous army. When you drive past the protesters at the farm, the little old ladies who have sincerely held views stand at the front. Those with the brick ends are somewhere at the back."The road to the farm, a huddle of brick buildings and nondescript sheds, is quiet during the week, with shouting and blowing of whistles by protesters limited to between noon and 3pm on Sundays.Janet Tomlinson, from nearby Burton-on-Trent, has been a regular since the protests began five years ago."As soon as we got to the farm last Sunday, the police told us to go away or we would be arrested. You could see the hate in the eyes of the police officers. It was like the Nazis talking to the Jews."Ms Tomlinson is receiving treatment for breast cancer. "Some people might accuse me of hypocrisy but I have to take it because there is no alternative. You cannot take any medicine in this country that has not been tested on an animal."She had nothing to do with the attack on Mrs Hammond's grave and does not know anyone who would have anything to do with it. "I think it's awful. But I don't think it was done by animal rights [activists] and I think it's wrong of the media to suggest it is us."She will not attend tomorrow's service. "I couldn't go anywhere near the Halls and feel right. I'd feel a hypocrite if I went. But I do feel sorry for the poor woman who has been dug up."The Halls live in Newborough, three miles from their farm. There, everyone has learned to watch their step, keep themselves to themselves, check identities."We had months of maroons - like lifeboat shells - being let off every weekend," said one man who has no connection with the Hall family. "Twenty-five or 50 of them - every two minutes at two in the morning. They tried that for 18 months or two years. That didn't work and it has just escalated from there."We had a Christmas carol concert in the church and then a get-together outside the pub. [The protesters] all came down in their vans and marched through the people singing carols. The police chased after them but it ruined the night."There is always that fear at the back of your mind. Some of the older people have been here for up to 40 years and are very involved with village life. They put functions on in our hall but now are in fear of doing anything like that because they are friends of the Halls."