The case against Dr Harold Shipman is based on unreliable scientific evidence, his murder trial jury was told today.In her closing speech, defence counsel Nicola Davies QC told Preston crown court that the prosecution had failed to provide the motive.Mrs Davies said Dr Shipman, who denies murdering 15 patients and forging the will of one of his alleged victims, had been a caring general medical practitioner since the 1970s.She said that before his arrest in 1998 he had a patient list of 3,100. "No patient had to register with Dr Shipman, but the fact that so many did must mean some inferences can be drawn," she said. "With a list size of 3,100, well above the national average, Dr Shipman must have been doing something right."Miss Davies said the fact that the doctor was so caring he cold-called on his patients and visited them at home so they did not have to come to the surgery had been "turned on its head and that caring evidence used against him".The fact that Dr Shipman avoided the need to put relatives through the distress of a post mortem examination was just another example of his caring ways. She said: "You may have formed the view that keeping records was not his forte. Within the scale of things what is really more important ... that patients are seen and cared for, or that immaculate records are kept?"Miss Davies said that during the weeks and months of evidence one thing the prosecution had failed to raise was a motive. "Why should this doctor murder 15 of his patients?" she asked."In the opening of his case for the crown Mr Henriques suggested there was a power motive behind the actions of Dr Shipman. Where is the evidence? No psychiatrist has been called. We are not here to consider psychological theories. What we are here to consider is proof."Miss Davies added: "The prosecution case is built on one foundation stone and that is toxicology. Without it there would be no case. Toxicology is a new science and untested by proven scientific methods."Miss Davies said: "We contend that it is inherently unreliable and therefore unsafe, and without that toxicological evidence, all that flows from it, that you are asked to draw inferences, fail."She said there needed to be clear unequivocal proof that the doctor administered "a specific and identifiable substance to each of the 15 women which wholly or substantially causes their death" and not novel, unreliable scientific evidence.