An enlightened approach to criminal justice begins with the possibility of redemption. That prospect points to punishments aimed at rehabilitation, and requires that offenders who have paid their penalty should be free to get on with their lives. Taking redemption seriously also means welcoming the Conservative party's appointment of former minister Jonathan Aitken as an adviser on penal reform. Despite the crimes he was jailed for - crimes which the Guardian exposed - there should be no bar on him making a contribution for the future. In his early remarks on prison literacy programmes and post-release mentoring he has already identified some fruitful ideas to explore.After years of public contrition, Mr Aitken deserves the benefit of the doubt on the question of whether he has changed. What is more doubtful, however, is whether the Conservatives as a whole have reformed in relation to crime. The party, rightly, points to rising reoffending rates for people being released from jail. But this problem reflects the pressures caused by the near-doubling of the prison population since the early 1990s - an increase that stretches resources and so makes delivering rehabilitation more difficult. And the Conservatives' immediate proposals would only accelerate the upward trend in the numbers.Their first big idea is "honesty in sentencing" - so that full sentences handed down by a judge would always be served. The Tories claim the aim is transparency, not longer jail terms, but scrapping early release for good behaviour would be bound to extend sentences. Mr Aitken is well-placed to advise his colleagues on the difference crudely inflexible sentences could make - he received two 18-month terms but did not serve them in full, but instead only seven months. Another promise is to double from six to 12 months the terms that magistrates can impose. The stated aim is reducing recourse to the crown court, but the upshot would be even more petty criminals ending up inside. A final idea is scrapping the early release scheme, which would also have this effect. The Conservatives claim they would manage the pressures by building more prisons, but that is an extraordinarily expensive option.After a decade and a half in which rising imprisonment has gone hand-in-hand with increased reoffending, the Conservatives could do better than offer more of the same. The shadow home secretary's personal support for the death penalty is not official policy, but it is a reminder of the retributive instinct that much of the party retains. But there are Conservatives who no longer believe the stale insistence that prison works. Mr Aitken's appointment should encourage them to make their voices heard.