Aim"To make provision in connection with antisocial behaviour."Main provisions• Widens the use of antisocial behaviour orders (asbos) to allow local authorities, registered social landlords and the British Transport police to apply for asbos.• Allows police and community support officers to issue dispersal orders to any group of two or more people, within a designated area, whose behaviour they believe is likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress to members of the public. Refusing to leave or returning to the area constitutes a criminal offence.• Grants police officers the power to order young people under the age of 16 to return home after 9pm.• Creates on-the-spot fines for noise, graffiti and truancy.• Creates closure orders. Quickly nicknamed the "crack house closure order" this provision enables the police to shutter premises used for the supply, use or production of class A drugs for a period of up to six months. • Amends the definition of "public assembly" in Section 16 of the Public Order Act 1986 so that instead of 20 people being required to constitute an "assembly", only two are needed. BackgroundIn March 2003 the government published a white paper that outlined its proposals for tackling antisocial behaviour. The report, Respect and Responsibility – taking a stand against antisocial behaviour recommended the government provide local authorities and the police with a wider, more flexible range of powers to tackle nuisance crime and low-level criminality. The bill was designed to target what the home secretary, David Blunkett, described as "a yobbish minority" who could make "the lives of hard-working citizens a living hell" and includes a wide range of sanctions such as parenting orders and contracts, curfews, and fixed penalty notices. The act also strengthened and extended the application of antisocial behaviour orders first introduced in England, Scotland and Wales by the Crime and Disorder Act 1998. CriticismEarly debate revisited the argument about whether asbos mark an unacceptable blurring of criminal and civil law. Asbos are issued on a civil burden of proof ("on the balance of probabilities"), but incur a criminal penalty if breached. Children's charities claimed police already had sufficient powers to deal with so-called "nuisance" crime. Cathy Evans, from the Children's Society, said: "We are very concerned at the prospect of creating more ways, more reasons to punish children and to demonise children." This concern has been echoed by critics including Professor Rod Morgan, the government's chief adviser on youth crime. Morgan warns that asbos can lead to children to be demonised because the orders criminalise otherwise legal behaviour.Liberty expressed disquiet over the new police powers to disperse groups of two or more individuals. They described the protections written into the act as insufficient to ensure the protection of rights granted under article 11 of the European convention of human rights (freedom of assembly). Liberty also expressed concern over the change to the definition of "public assembly" from 20 people to two. Under section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986, a senior police officer has wide-ranging powers to impose conditions on public assemblies. Liberty said: "Any situation where the police are able to self-authorise restrictions on the right to protest should be treated with great caution ...The fact that over 20 people were required to trigger the powers was at least a concession to the fact that it would only be appropriate for them to be used when there were a substantial number of people involved...It is now the case that if a senior police officer decides that two people could cause disorder he could order that a third person could not join them and if an extra person did appear the 'organiser' (if two people can have an organiser) will commit an offence punishable by up to three months imprisonment."