My goodness. It isn't often that common sense scores a victory. But in delivering a verdict of not guilty, the jury in the trial of sisters Elisabetta and Francesca Grillo has done just what juries are supposed to do. The verdict is sensational, but not, perhaps, surprising. The moral of the tale is this: "Don't give people credit cards, fail ever to check the statements before paying up, then become outraged when it turns out that the credit cards have been used."The fact that this is a lesson that few people other than Charles Saatchi are likely ever to need to learn is, of course, the essence of his problem in court. Why would a jury have sympathy for, or feel indignation on behalf of, two people who arranged their financial affairs in a way that is absolutely inconceivable to nearly every other person on the planet?Of course, the women fought dirty. Frankly, it didn't seem like much of a defence, the "It wasn't fraud, it was gentle, unspoken blackmail" line. The Grillo sisters contended that Nigella Lawson let them use their household credit cards as they wished, because she wanted to hide drug use from her husband. Lawson denies this vehemently. But, actually, the reasons why the sisters felt they were justified in spending so lavishly are far more complex than any they put before the court.In one respect, the case is simple. The fact is that Saatchi paid the sisters' bills when they passed through his hands, without question. Every time he did so, he validated their spending as legitimate not fraudulent. Caveat emptor. Buyer beware. The sisters' contention doesn't have the ring of truth. It's likely that they didn't understand themselves why they felt their behaviour was justified. Certainly, they were unable to communicate those feelings of justification to Saatchi or Lawson. But the jury understood.The jury was told that the Grillo sisters, after the break-up of the Saatchi-Lawson marriage, became part of a battleground where hurt could be expressed, and vengeance exacted. One of the sisters was likened to a child caught in an acrimonious divorce. But servants, or assistants as the modern parlance puts it, aren't like children, however much both parties in this case spoke of being "like family". There's a whiff of paternalism in characterising two adult women in that way, and anyway, that explanation is again too glib and too simplistic.It's more useful, instead, to look in the unlikely direction of the German philosopher, GWF Hegel and his master/slave dialectic, to understand the household dynamics. Put crudely, Hegel's assertion was that since a master was as dependent on his slave as the slave was on his master, there was a sense in which the roles were reversed and the slave had much of the psychological power, if not all of it. The Grillos understood that they had psychological power, but maybe didn't quite understand where that knowledge sprung from. Citing Lawson's alleged drug use may have involved a more subtle feeling of having the upper hand. Today, therapists would call Hegel's master/slave pattern a "co-dependent relationship".  The Grillo sisters became part of the battleground in the Lawson-Saatchi break-up … Elisabetta Grillo, foreground, and Francesca. Photograph: Sang Tan/APFor sure, the relationship between master and servant is at the heart of this case. At least, the fact that in today's world, no one wishes to be seen as a "master" and no one wishes to be seen as a "servant", is at its heart. Lawson preferred to say that she and her assistants were all on "Team cupcake". Very sickly. When it was suggested to the sisters that they might pay off their giant debt, month by month, the two suggested that they were being treated "worse than Filipino slaves". Rent-free accommodation in central London, plus a salary, is hardly the acme of slavehood. But the observation is crucial to understanding the mindset of the Grillos.They did not see themselves as servants, and were not expected to see themselves that way, any more than Saatchi and Lawson wished to see themselves, or be seen, as the master and the mistress. Saatchi and Lawson, in keeping with Hegel's ideas, handed the Grillos psychological power over them, on a silver salver, like butlers in an aristocratic household.Few people speak of being "in service" any more, as my grandmother was, and as the fictitious servants of Downton Abbey are. All that crushing hierarchy is part of a deferential, class-ridden past, in which everyone was expected to know their highly circumscribed and orchestrated place. This arrangement, of course, was entirely in the interests of the wealthy, not those they employed. Looking at the mess Saatchi and Lawson made of things, it's easy to see how that worked.  Charles Saatchi … every time he paid the sisters' bills, he legitimised their spending, says Orr. Photograph: Toby Melville/ReutersIt's safe to assume that neither Lawson nor Saatchi wanted to see themselves as old-fashioned or high-handed. Not for them the stuffy pre-modernism of having a staff – butler, housekeeper, cook, chambermaids and what-not – all of them responsible for maintaining their own strict discipline, all in order to save those they served from thinking about them as individual people, but simply as a machine of duty. Seeing your servants as people, after all, would leave the bosses vulnerable to a Hegelian transfer of psychological power.Instead, the couple opted to have messy, personal relationships with all of their staff; familiar, sentimental, patronising. In general, this arrangement is adopted out of respect for employees no more than the old ways of going about things were. It's about the employer's self-image – not as people who are dependent in their everyday lives on the others they employ to look after them, but as people who are sharing their largesse with people they pay but also like and respect, and who like and respect them in return. It's flattering to the wealthy, the idea that their servants are there out of personal regard and affection for them, flattering to their idea of themselves as generous, modern, unsnobbish, laid-back, egalitarian.Defenders of the more feudal, aristocratic way of running a large staff tend to argue that it is beneficial to the employees; that it gives them clarity about what is expected of them and what is not. In fact, as the Saatchi/Lawson debacle shows so neatly, that set-up is mainly constructed for the benefit of the paymasters, who can rest assured that the staff are all policing each other, so that they don't have to do it themselves. If Saatchi and Lawson had wanted to be good employers, they should have been responsible ones, who made the duties of their staff and the remuneration they could expect for those duties clear to both parties. Instead, the couple preferred to keep things fluid, taking no more responsibility than they would have in the days when they employed a servant to run the servants. They made it all up as they went along.The Grillos made it all up as they went along, too, taking their cue from their employers. They were not encouraged to see themselves as employees, but as "part of the family". The fact that they behaved as if they were part of the family, and therefore entitled to the trappings of the family lifestyle, is testament only to the fact that they literally did as they were bid. You cannot insist that someone is in your family, then cry fraud when they behave as if they are.After this verdict, if not before it, Saatchi and Lawson will certainly regret that things came to this. Both have damaged their reputations. But I'd like to think that they can see that the sisters being sent to prison as a result of this trial would have been the most awful outcome of all. I doubt that many people will be clamouring to take the sisters on now, as nannies or assistants. They are innocent but notorious. Maybe they'll do the media rounds, and enjoy their moment of triumph. Maybe they'll be good at it, and make themselves into reality TV stars. Stranger things have happened. Maybe their famous former bosses will sit watching them on the gogglebox. One person would have enjoyed that outcome – Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.