A flatbed lorry stolen by thieves to hoist up and drive away a £3m Henry Moore bronze from a sculpture park was found abandoned on an Essex housing estate yesterday. Hertfordshire detectives hunting for the statue fear it may be melted down for its estimated £5,000 scrap value. A substantial although undisclosed sum has been offered as a reward for the masterpiece's safe return.The two-tonne casting, catalogued as Reclining Figure LH608 and completed by the artist in 1970, was last seen being driven through Harlow on Thursday night at 10.45pm, strapped on the back of the Mercedes lorry.The Metropolitan police arts and antiques squad has been informed in case there is evidence suggesting it was stolen to order by a private collector with criminal connections. Officers across the region are inspecting smelting furnaces to see if there is any trace of the work, which is three metres long and two metres high (10ft by 6.5ft). The hijack began shortly after 9pm on Thursday when the Mercedes flatbed, fitted with a mechanical lifting arm, was stolen from a building site in Roydon, Essex.Reclining Figure, one of the artists's many abstract variations on the female form, normally rests on a concrete plinth in a field at the Henry Moore Foundation in Perry Green, Much Hadham, Hertfordshire. Last week it was moved into a yard in preparation for repositioning elsewhere within the park.Shortly after 10pm, CCTV cameras recorded two vehicles, a Daihatsu four-wheel drive with a spotlight and the flatbed truck, arriving. Three men were filmed; one of the suspects wore a hooded jacket and another a baseball cap. The indistinct images have been released in the hope that someone may recognise them.The gang swiftly loaded the statue on to the lorry and drove off. Detective sergeant Graeme Smith, one of the investigating officers, said yesterday: "A member of the public reported seeing the lorry with the sculpture on the back at 10.45pm on Thursday night ... [at the] Southern Way junction with Parkington Road, Harlow. The vehicle was discovered on a housing estate in Coopersale, near Epping. We are carrying out forensic tests. Our major concern is the safe recovery of the sculpture. This is a national treasure and the foundation is offering a far more substantial reward than any value the thieves might gather from disposing of the bronze as scrap metal."Gareth Spence, a spokesman at the foundation, said it was the first such crime on the estate. "We also depend on something of this weight - it is 2,100kg - [staying] there in the grounds. We don't imagine this type of thing happening. A combination of the gates and the location would seem to negate them being lifted out of the grounds and stolen."Henry Moore was the son of a mining engineer from Castleford, West Yorkshire. His style was first shaped by studying ancient Mayan figures. Regarded by many critics as the foremost British sculptor of the last century, Moore left London in 1940 when his studio in Hampstead was damaged by German air raids. He moved to the Hertfordshire village of Much Hadham and stayed on, gradually expanding his modest cottage and garden into a 70-acre holding. After his death at the age of 88 in 1986, the estate was handed over to a foundation charged with conserving the work and reputation of the artist and the setting in which his work was created. In 1992, the collection consisted of 666 sculptures, 3,000 drawings and 8,000 prints ,valued at a total of £130m.Henry Moore's work has been targeted before. In 1995, his sculpture King and Queen was damaged at a site overlooking the Glenkiln reservoir near Dumfries. Two years later, a 10in tall sculpture, worth £52,000, was stolen from the Waddington Gallery in London. It was found in a taxi.The foundation's catalogue describes the missing sculpture as exhibiting "the organic themes of sex and fertility [united] with an architectural structure epitomised by the mechnical strength of the curve". The foundation's online library says six other editions of the casting were originally produced. Two years ago a similar Reclining Figure sculpture by Henry Moore was sold at auction for $7m (£3.95m).