PC David Inglis, 51, is retiring next month after nearly a decade patrolling Rhiconich in the northwest Highlands. His beat, covering 900 square miles, is Europe's largest, and poses plenty of challenges. Crime is not one of them. "It's a huge, beautiful area," he says from his house attached to the police station of an area populated by just 1,100. "There's not a lot of crime, but there are lots of jobs to do."Inglis proceeds to list a few of his many tasks. He is on hand at all hours for tourists who tap on his window asking for directions or begging for petrol (Inglis keeps a can in his police van to supply stranded motorists). He checks plenty of crofters' firearms licences. He contributes to searches for missing persons. Poaching, however, - "It's very much one for the pot and hard to spot" - is not so big because "the youngsters growing up nowadays would rather play computer games".In a busy year, Inglis would send 15 people to court. In nine years, he has never had to issue a speeding ticket (despite regular radar patrols) and has investigated just one break-in. The burglar was "not keen on coming with me", he says, so three locals drove seven miles to help him out."It is policing by consent in its oldest form," he says of his job. "It's not a question of letting people off, but sometimes there are other ways of dealing with things than reporting it. In my experience, delivering a warning is usually sufficient to nip things in the bud. The community don't deserve heavy-handed policing because there is still that respect for the police. People don't take the mickey."One of his busiest days - we'll call it a spree - was when a motorcyclist had three accidents in two hours. After falling off his bike and being hit by a car, he drove off from the police station, "failed to navigate a corner, and hit a rock face". Thankfully, the hapless (sober) biker was not seriously hurt.While no rowdy crowds spill out of the area's eight pubs and hotels, drinking can still be a problem. "There is not a lot for people to do at night. Many of the emergency incidents are drink-related. If there is a dance in any of the village halls it would be naive to say there is no underage drinking. But there's no large-scale drinking disorder. When you work in some areas and enter the pub, there are catcalls and drunk women wanting to try your hat on or asking, 'Is that a truncheon or are you just pleased to see me?' Fortunately, I get nothing like that here."The rest of Britain may wring its hands over rising violent crime and overcrowded prisons, but PC Inglis's patrols prove there remain rural corners where the police and policed work together. "The local people are very friendly and supportive. It's not Shangri-La, but in my 30 years' service this is the nicest area I've worked in," he says. In fact, PC Inglis likes it so much, he is building a home beside the police station for his retirement.