The government is to move quickly in setting up a supreme court and an independent judicial appointments commission to select judges, Lord Falconer, the minister for constitutional affairs, announced yesterday.Consultation papers on both issues will be published on July 14 and legislation is expected to follow in the new year. A paper on the future of the elite rank of Queen's Counsel will be issued on the same day, he said, to be followed in the autumn by a document on who will take over the other duties of the 1,400-year-old post of lord chancellor when it is ultimately abolished. "These reforms, once effected, will allow the abolition of the post of lord chancellor, we think within about 18 months," said Lord Falconer, who will hold the post until it disappears. Work would begin on finding a home for the supreme court, which he confirmed would not, like those of the US and Canada, be able to strike down statutes. He would give no details on the composition of the judicial appointments body or who would appoint its members, but said a statement attributed last week to a government spokesman that the home secretary would be consulted on the appointment of the chairman was "not government policy". He insisted that the new body, intended "to insulate more the appointment of judges from politicians" would automatically lead to a more diverse judiciary, without the need to compromise on merit, simply because the appointments would not be in the hands of the lord chancellor. "I believe that if we have an independent appointments commission appointing judges or having a much more critical role rather than it being done by one person who has always been above 50 years old with a background in the bar, that will inevitably diversify the people appointed as judges." He told a news conference in London that he disagreed with comments made by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, on Monday that it made little sense for the home secretary to announce a new panel to give guidelines on sentencing while putting his own rules on minimum terms for murderers in the criminal justice bill. "What the sentencing guidelines council will do is to set guidelines for sentencing in all cases save murder," Lord Falconer said. "I believe that murder is a special category and it is right that the guidelines for that should be set by parliament." He said an aim for the department was to make the criminal justice system more effective in convicting the guilty and acquitting the innocent by cooperation between agencies, but without compromising the independence of judges and magistrates. Nearly one in four crown court cases and 31% of magistrates' cases failed to go ahead on the day scheduled. Next week the junior minister Christopher Leslie will announce moves to improve the collection of court fines in England and Wales. In some areas only 40% of fines are paid, while others achieve 80% payment.