As Tottenham burned on 6 August, two miles away in neighbouring Wood Green things were also kicking off. Wood Green lies between Tottenham to the east, and Muswell Hill and Crouch End to the west. Its raison d'être is shopping and it is Haringey's commercial centre, awash with mobile phone and sportswear shops, low-end chains and discount stores.That Saturday night, after hearing about the riots from friends in Tottenham, young people gathered to protest in Wood Green. No one was surprised that things had got ugly in Tottenham. As Aaron said: "If you're protesting peacefully and no one's listening, it's gonna escalate." The Wood Green protest was soon hijacked by looters, however, which the young people described as "blatant opportunism". But they all recognised that there were longer term problems behind the riots, and as Marie argued, "it was a way for individuals to be heard". Asked why he wasn't tempted to join in looting, Aaron, a 20-year-old with a 9-to-5, explained: "I got too much pride for that ... how can you risk your freedom for rice and water?"Some of the people involved in looting Wood Green, however, were graduates who have been unemployed since last summer, burdened with debt with nothing to lose. They bought into the lie of higher education: aspire and ye shall receive. But of course, it's more complicated than that. Which university you attend matters; who you know matters; and some people's lives (graduate or not) are blighted by everyday prejudices and racism, frequently at the hands of the police.As in Tottenham, Sarah explained, there was a lot of anger towards the police in Wood Green. She said the looting "was an opportunity to stick two fingers up at the police". Sarah said: "People have no respect [for the police] because the police have no respect ... they abuse the badge," particularly in relation towards young black people. Marie suggested that "people had been pushed into a corner" and Mark Duggan's death provided an opportunity for people across England to vent their anger.Everyone had personal experiences of being stopped and searched, (some were as young as eleven the first time), encounters characterised by rudeness, arrogance and racism. Mark explained: "When I got arrested I wasn't English, I was African Caribbean." Aaron added: "They need to stop discriminating ...saying offensive stuff. Who's going to listen to you over the police? They'll do stuff under the belt, under the table, that nobody knows about."There was visceral anger at Duggan's death, exacerbated by the way the police treated his family afterwards – "For his girlfriend, his mother, his brothers, his cousins, imagine how they must have been feeling."More generally, Mark explained, "Everyone's upset because there are no jobs, some of them are upset because of university fees, some people are upset because they think people are taking their jobs from them ... the whole country's upset." Marie argued that these riots occurred "because this is the only voice [the working classes] have got."There was a feeling that in the run up to Olympics, places like Wood Green and Tottenham would be left behind. Some felt that nobody cared about these areas and that the police let the riots go on longer than necessary thinking, as one interviewee put it, "Let it burn. It's mash-up already so who cares?" There was also a suspicion that the slow police response had more sinister purposes; it was rumoured that a hands-off approach allowed the looting to go on unchecked and that this paved the way for police swoops on particular estates.In the post-riot aftermath, there was little faith in politicians. "They've got their careers, their money, their big houses ... they don't live here, they don't know what's going on," said Sarah. Aaron was equally pessimistic: "They're never going to understand." Marie thought that Cameron's characterisation of society as 'sick' was unacceptable. She said: "How can you run the country when you have no idea?" Tottenham MP, David Lammy came under particular fire. Sarah said: "He doesn't really care either, it's his job at the end of the day, he came down with his sad face and tried to act like he cares." And Mark was surprised to see Lammy in a local café in Tottenham just after the riots, "I've never seen him there once, but he was in there at 8.30am trying to show he was a local."Cameron is right. Britain is broken, just not in the way he thinks. It is not an issue of moral decline. Instead there is a fault line between the haves and the have-nots which he would do well to keep in mind. As Zena, a recent graduate and Wood Green resident said: "People need to know society's unfair and they need to believe it's unfair."Sarah felt that the police needed to learn how to communicate with young people, and thought that "a lot of things would fizzle out if their attitude just changed". She added that politicians needed to be careful about how they talked about young people saying that "if someone keeps calling you a mindless thug, you're gonna start thinking that's what you are".Marie was concerned that the main focus of attention was on punishment rather than understanding the causes. The moralising and disproportionately heavy sentencing means that, as Aaron says "the kids, they're just going to be doing time now, it's just causing a bigger gap. I hope the government finds a way to close that gap, but I couldn't tell you how."• Interviews by Zara Paul, all names have been changed; Naaz Rashid is a PhD researcher at the London School of Economics, Zara Paul is a sociology undergraduate also at LSEThis article was amended on 5 September 2011, to remove a reference to the death of Mark Duggan. The Independent Police Complaints Commission is still investigating this incident, and there have been no charges of any kind so far. This has been corrected.