Sally Dowler, motherWe are relieved to have this verdict returned and would like to thank the jury for their decision. At last the man responsible for the cruel murder or our darling daughter so many years ago has been found guilty.However for us, the trial has been an awful experience. We have felt that our family, who have already suffered so much, has been on trial as much as Bellfield. We have had to hear Milly's name defamed in court. She has been portrayed as an unhappy, depressed young girl. Ordinary details that any mother would recognise have been magnified into major problems.The Milly we knew was a happy, vivacious, fun-loving girl. Our family life has been scrutinised and laid open for everyone to inspect and comment upon. We have had to lose our right to privacy and sit through day after harrowing day of the trial in order to get a man convicted of a brutal murder.To actually see that man in court, a man capable of such a vile and inhuman crime, has been grotesque and distressing for us. The length the system goes to protect his human rights seems so unfair compared to what we as a family have had to endure.I hope whilst he is in prison he is treated with the same brutality he dealt out to his victims and that his life is a living hell.For a mother to bury her child in any circumstances is truly agonising but to bury your child when you know she died in such an appalling way is unutterably awful.The pain and grief, the damage he has done to our family and friends, will never go away we have just had to learn to live alongside it. A day does not pass when we do not think of her and the life that she might have had.We would like to make a special mention of our FLOs Alice and Jon who have been with us from day one. Their incredible support for our family has gone well beyond the bounds of normal duty. Also after DCI Maria Woodall took charge of the investigation we at last felt that progress was being made and Maria made every attempt to correct some of the mistakes of her predecessors. For this we are very grateful.Bob Dowler, fatherWe are pleased that a guilty verdict has been delivered by the jury and that Levi Bellfield has been convicted of the murder of our daughter. However, we do not see this as true justice for Milly, merely a criminal conviction. My family has had to pay too high a price for this conviction.The pain and agony that we have endured as a family since 21st March 2002 has been compounded by the devastating effects of this trial.Prior to this trial my family and I had only an ordinary person's understanding of the legal process. However, during the past seven weeks our eyes have been well and truly opened. The trial has been a truly mentally scarring experience on an unimaginable scale – you would have to have been there to truly understand. Things that you would not believe could ever happen, did in fact happen.During the past nine years there have been many occasions when the police investigation has left us in despair. The trial has been a truly horrifying ordeal for my family. We have had to relive all the emotions and thoughts of nine years ago when Milly first went missing and was then found murdered.During our questioning my wife and I both felt as if we were on trial. The questioning of my wife was particularly cruel and inhuman, resulting in her collapse after leaving the stand. We despair of a justice system that is so loaded in favour of the perpetrator of the crime!! It has often appeared almost incidental that this is a trial concerning the murder of our daughter.We would like to pay tribute to all the witnesses who so courageously gave evidence for the prosecution. This is in stark contrast to the cowardly behaviour of Levi Bellfield who was able to decline to give evidence and chose instead to hide behind his defence QC, to challenge the testimony of every witness – where is the fairness in a system which allows such behaviour. The defence inferences about myself and my wife were hugely distressing. And yet again Bellfield has been spineless and gutless for not attending his sentencing today.Thank goodness that we have so many close and wider family members and friends who have supported us through the past nine years.Saturday 25th June would have been Milly's 23rd birthday, and as always we will remember the happy, fun loving and talented girl that she was, But who was never allowed to fulfil her potential. This is a gap in our lives that can never be filled.We would ask now to be left alone to try and put the pieces of our life back together and try and look to the future.Thank you.Gemma Dowler, sisterThe past few months have been some of the toughest times for the whole family. I can honestly say that the day my mother and father were questioned by the defence QC, was the worst day of my life. It is hard to believe but it was worse than when I heard the news that the remains were that of my sister Milly.The way my parents were questioned can only be described as mental torture. Have they not suffered enough? I will remember that day for the rest of my life. Seeing my mum collapse in court and having to be carried out by my father and our family liaison officer. I was waiting to give evidence, so couldn't even comfort my own mother.The way they can portray my lovely sister as a depressed teenager has shocked me terribly, the worst part being that she isn't here to defend herself. To have to listen to that was emotionally scarring. The scales seem to be tipped so much towards the defendant rather than us; the family who have suffered an almighty loss. It feels like we are the criminals and our family has been on trial.She was the best sister anyone could ask for she was a shoulder for me to cry on, a fashion guru, a person who could make you laugh even when you felt sad and she would light up a room as soon as she entered. She really was a star, and on dark nights I look out at the sky and there almost seems to be a star shining brighter than the rest I am sure this is Milly watching over me.When this all happened nine years ago I was only 16. I had no other choice but to grow up. I feel I missed out on some wonderful teenage years. I waved goodbye to the happy family we were and I realised life would never be the same again. The past nine years have tested our relationship as a family; there have been extremely bad days but we still manage some good days. Sadly it is those good days when we realise that there is somebody missing and then I will spend the next day feeling guilty for enjoying myself.It had taken me a long time to get to some kind of normal life for a 25 year old but I felt I was getting there; however now I feel like all my hard work has been undone. I have not been able to go to work for the past couple of weeks as it takes far too much concentration, which I lack as I am under so much stress.Once DCI Maria Woodall joined the investigation she has pushed and pushed and got the conviction. Without her we wouldn't be here today.I often asked why, why us, why our family, and most of all why Milly? I now know the answer and that is simply Milly was in the wrong place at the wrong time and there is nothing I can do to change that.With regard to the question of justice, in my eyes justice is an eye for an eye. You brutally murder someone then you pay the ultimate price ... a life for a life. So in my eyes no real justice has been done, he took away my beautiful sister and he will now spend the rest of his time living off of taxpayers' money!