Detectives hunting the serial rapist who has attacked 10 girls and women in south-east England, are investigating a list of possible suspects named by the public.The offices stressed that they still wanted people to call if they thought they knew the offender's identity or suspected they have seen him near a crime scene. One hundred officers from five forces are working on Operation Orb, the largest linked inquiry since the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper and the biggest search for a rapist. "What encourages us is that names are coming forward," said a spokesman for Kent police, the force leading the inquiry. "We have had quite a number of names, but obviously it takes a lot of work to see whether we can take this information further or not. "We've had names appearing more than once, and that obviously interests us. There's also been a lot of interest in the north-east, and good feedback from there, since victims talked about him possibly having a north-eastern accent." Assistant Chief Constable, David Kelly, the officer leading the investigation, renewed his appeal for information on Wednesday, after it emerged that the rapist was almost certainly responsible for an attack on a 14-year-old girl in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, last Friday. The offender, who attacks in wooded or parkland areas, has raped girls as young as 10 as well as awoman aged 52. He has often dragged them off paths, after grabbing them from behind with no warning and showing them a knife. He has punched them in the face. Police believe he is white, aged between 30 and 50 with short, dark hair which is greying in places. He is between 5ft 5in and 5ft 10in, of medium to stocky build with tanned, leathery skin and a deep or gruff voice. Several women said he smelt of cigarettes or alcohol, and one mentioned scars or blemishes just above or below one eye. His latest victim said that he had a large nose, green-blue eyes, and stubble. "The response has been extremely good, but we still want people to come forward with names," said the Kent police spokesman. "We know that someone out there knows who this person is. If this man has shown violence in the attacks, he may well have shown it in other parts of his life. "Additionally, the circumstances surrounding the attacks are so unusual. The offences are all in the week, which suggests that something fundamental changes in his life at the weekend. He also has a degree of freedom to move around during the day which most people don't have." The spokesman added: "We're also looking at people such as released prisoners and people who have had psychological treatment for certain conditions." ·Anyone with information should ring the Operation Orb incident room on 0845 601 8109. Callers who wish to remain anonymous should call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.