The Map of Gaps, a study of specialised services for women who've experienced violence across the UK, published today, confirms what those of us working within this sector have known for some time: that provision is patchy and that many women who've experienced violence are re-victimised by their subjection to a "postcode lottery" when it comes to accessing appropriate support. As well as this, it shows that specialised sexual violence provision is lagging behind the provision of domestic violence services, a fact which is highlighted by the situation within the rape crisis sector. In 1984, there were 64 Rape Crisis centres across England and Wales. By 2008, there were just 38.Unsurprisingly too, those areas that the report finds have the best level of provision, such as Bradford, are those where specialised services benefit from a matrix of statutory funding. Sadly, such areas are few and far between, particularly in England and Wales. For example, despite the World Health Organisation's estimate that 60% of women using UK mental health services have experienced sexual violence in their lifetimes and a survey suggesting that 93% of women would need additional physical or mental health interventions if they were not being supported through rape crisis, these services rarely benefit from health funding. At the same time, national and regional government increasingly plough resources that might otherwise sustain specialised voluntary services into new statutory initiatives such as Sexual Assault Referral Centres (SARCs). While SARCs undoubtedly perform an important function, their geographical spread often makes it difficult for victims to access them and their close association with statutory authorities can make them unappealing to those who don't want to report. Importantly too, SARCs are of little or no use to those who experienced sexual violence some time ago, including the large numbers of adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse. Plus, few SARCs offer long-term support or therapeutic services. Yet women repeatedly put their trust in Rape Crisis when they are reluctant to go elsewhere, largely thanks to its unique ethos. When a woman approaches a Rape Crisis centre, she can expect to be believed, to have her emotions validated and to be supported in her journey to regain the control over her life and body that she feels was stolen from her by her abuser or attacker. The services offered to her will also be free, accessible and independent, and she knows she won't be pressurised into taking particular decisions or action. But perhaps most significantly, she will receive women-centred services within a women-only space. It is now recognised on a national and international level, by the United Nations' Committee for the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women and by the government's own Gender Equality Duty, that gender-neutral services continually fail to meet the needs of women. Sexual violence, which is inextricable from violence against women, is both a cause and a consequence of persistent gender inequality and we cannot hope to achieve substantive equality for women until we address these issues in a gender-specific way.If we look to Scotland, we see an integrated Violence Against Women strategy and £50,000 of core funding for each individual Rape Crisis centre per year. And if the gaps in our map are to be filled, it's time we recognised that the women of England and Wales deserve no less.