A former member of a notorious west London street gang who murdered seven-year-old Toni-Ann Byfield and the crack cocaine dealer she knew as her father, was sentenced to life imprisonment yesterday with a minimum of 40 years.Joel Smith listened to the guilty verdicts at the Old Bailey, and the sentence an hour later, with no sign of emotion. But as he was led from the dock, the muscular and tattooed 32-year-old gave a middle finger gesture of abuse at the detective who first questioned him.Mr Justice Goss told him he had shot Toni-Ann - "a lively seven-year-old full of hope and excitement" - in the back at close range in a "cold-blooded, cynical and callous" fashion. She had been killed in a drug-related crime - either a robbery or an assassination - in order to silence her as a witness to the slaying of Bertram Byfield, 42. They were killed three years ago in Byfield's west London bedsit when Toni-Ann was formally under the care of Birmingham social services.After the hearing Detective Superintendent Neil Basu of Operation Trident, Scotland Yard's specialist squad dealing with gun crime, thanked members of the black community who were brave enough to help the police.Smith robbed crack houses, sometimes at the point of a gun. He hung out with members of the Mus Luv Crew who had a reputation for pulling their guns at the slightest provocation. Shortly after midnight in September 2003 he and, police believe, an accomplice, blagged their way into the ground floor bedsit on Harrow Road, Brent. Byfield, a Jamaican, was found on the floor tangled in a bicycle. Toni-Ann, cowering in her nightdress, was murdered with a single shot.Byfield, born Anthony Pinnock in Jamaica, had moved to England to deal drugs after buying a British passport in the name of Bertram Byfield. He had had a 10-year relationship with Toni-Ann's mother, who bore him two sons. The little girl believed him to be her father. DNA tests showed they were not related.In January 2000, while Byfield was serving a nine-year sentence in London for trafficking cocaine, Toni-Ann was brought to the UK for what was supposed to be a holiday. At first she stayed in Birmingham with Byfield's ex-partner and one of her half-sisters.But concerns about physical abuse were raised by her teachers. Birmingham social services intervened and she was placed with a foster family. Byfield had been out of prison for a year and for the summer holidays of 2003 it was agreed that she could stay with an "aunt" in Brent and occasionally see her father.An independent report found that Birmingham social services was "seriously inadequate" in the handling of her care.At first, the police targeted Byfield's drug associates for the murders. Although Smith had a string of offences going back to his teens, he was not on Trident's radar for heavy-duty gang crime. But he nevertheless panicked, leaving a trail of incriminating conversations with friends and associates. He headed north and ended up in Liverpool.The public revulsion at Toni-Ann's murder meant intelligence began to filter through to Trident detectives that Smith could have been involved. On Merseyside he was known as "Cane" or "Caney" - short for cocaine.The breakthrough came a year later, last September, when police went on Crimewatch. "We aimed this directly at him," said a senior officer. The suspect, the programme was told, was a black British male, in his 30s, formerly living in Brent but now in Liverpool and still involved in crime. Smith watched the show with mounting dread. He was on B wing of Liverpool's Walton prison serving a three-year sentence for a wounding.A day later, on September 16 last year, Smith phoned his girlfriend, Toni Blackett, about the programme. This was damning evidence. "I feel like I'm a dying man ... Toni, I will never see the day again."Toni Blackett began crying and asked: "What do you mean. What are you trying to say?"Smith: "The watch thing, did you watch it yesterday?"Blackett: "No, I didn't."Smith: "Deep shit ... they've got everything. The clock is ticking."Smith was arrested a few days later before he was due to be released. He claimed that he had visited Byfield's home to buy cannabis at a time when Byfield and Toni-Ann were shopping for her school uniform. In court, he claimed a friend in the Mus Luv Crew - serving 30 years for another killing - had carried out the actual shooting.