Police launched a murder investigation today after a 16-year-old boy was shot while fleeing from a gang of youths on bicycles.Officers were called after reports of shots fired outside Cassell House, on the Stockwell Gardens estate in south London, shortly after midnight.They found the boy with a gunshot wound. He was declared dead by ambulance crews at the scene."Whilst the investigation is at an early stage, it would appear that the victim was pursued within the Stockwell Gardens estate by a group of between five and seven black males riding pedal cycles," said Detective Inspector Geoff Whitehouse from the Metropolitan police's Operation Trident, which investigates gang and gun crime."Witnesses have described the suspects as wearing bandanas in an attempt to conceal their faces. A number of shots were fired towards the victim outside Cassell House, resulting in him being fatally wounded."The suspects, who we now believe to have been carrying two firearms, then made off into the alleyway next to Packington House."A postmortem examination was being carried out today at Greenwich mortuary. Police said they believed they knew the identity of the deceased, but were awaiting formal identification. Next of kin have been informed.The car park outside Cassell House was cordoned off with police tape and forensic officers in white suits could be seen carrying out searches.A witness said he heard a series of shots just after midnight, and saw a group of around five young men on bikes casually cycle away from the estate.All of the men, who were in their late teens or early 20s, had their faces covered and were wearing hooded tops.The witness, who told the Press Association his name was Tony, said he saw a shadow on the floor but did not realise it was a body until police and paramedics arrived.He said tension on the estate had been building over the past five years, with drug and gang-related problems on the rise."They have got a name for this place, it's Hot Spot. If you want something like drugs you go to Hot Spot, as the kids call it," he said.He said the area was mentioned on the internet as a place to buy drugs, and young men wore hooded tops with Hot Spot and SW9 printed on them.Tony said there had been CCTV in the area but one camera, attached to a lamppost, had recently been taken down."What they do is smash the lights so no one can see what they are doing," he told PA."I have a 16-year-old son and a 13-year-old daughter and I am terrified for them. It's a frightening atmosphere for kids to grow up in."A 16-year-old girl who did not want to be named said she had heard that the shooting was linked to an argument that broke out at a fair in Brockwell Park, south London, last weekend. She said there was rivalry between Herne Hill and Stockwell gangs.Another local said he saw a group of four or five men chasing the victim."I saw them running after him. He tried to hide behind a tree. There were four or five of them and they all looked about 20. There were two shots, he didn't scream at all," he said.A resident, Francis Gonzalez, said she heard what sounded like shots being fired shortly after midnight.She looked outside and saw police and ambulances in the car park below her third-floor flat."We heard two shots but thought it was kids playing around, but then we saw police taping off the area," she said. "There is a problem in this area with a big group of teenagers who hang around outside and in the stairwell smoking and causing trouble."It's very intimidating and can be frightening. When I go shopping, I normally go with two or three people. I have lived here for 10 years. We didn't used to have problems, but now trouble is more regular."Earlier this year the commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir Ian Blair, launched a new taskforce after a series of fatal shootings of teenage boys in south London.