The same energy Louise Casey brought to cutting rough sleeping is now to be deployed against perpetrators of antisocial behaviour. On the back of a Home Office action plan, launched next week, the director of the antisocial behaviour unit plans to stump around England's run-down estates, preaching intense casework and tough sanctions against "nightmare" families. She says her mission is nothing less than the rescue of communities from those who have made them feel unsafe. She will tell councils, youth offending teams and the police to be firm and consistent. "When we say we are going to do something" - for example to evict tenants who persistently annoy their neighbours - "we bloody do it," she says. Perhaps anticipating disapproval from the readers of Society Guardian, she argues for the civic necessity of the programme. It will target an estimated 25,000 households, mostly tenants of councils and housing associations, which behave offensively. Greater use of child safety orders will be part of the package. Public authorities will be urged to use the powers available when the antisocial behaviour bill becomes law in January, including child curfews, fixed penalty notices to teenagers, and removal of reporting restrictions on youth court proceedings. "But we don't have to wait," she says. She wants more visits to problem families by housing officers, social workers and police - offenders would be told their actions would "have consequences". However, Casey is cagey about what there might be beyond eviction. She is not advising Blunkett to cut the benefits of recalcitrants. Nor is she keen on the deployment of written behaviour contracts between such families and public authorities. Yet Casey has a sense of urgency. "The problem is on everyone's radar; we just have to be more open," she says. "Instead of saying we are evicting a family for rent arrears, if it is antisocial behaviour, let's call it that." There is no financial barrier to action. "We're putting shedloads of money into crime reduction partnerships," she insists.