The family of Ben Kinsella, the 16-year-old stabbed to death on a London street on Sunday morning, described him as "a true angel" yesterday as they made an emotional appeal for young people to put down their weapons.Ben's sister, Brooke Kinsella, a former EastEnders actor, read a statement paying tribute to "one of the kindest, gentlest and talented boys God has ever created". She added: "Ben was the 17th teenager to be killed in London this year and our hearts go out to every family who has also suffered this awful tragedy. Now truly is the time to stand up and put an end to this. "Please, please, let us learn from Ben and every other child that has been stolen from us. We always knew Ben would make a special mark in this world, and although this is in the worst possible circumstances, hopefully he will be the one that finally puts an end to this."The 24-year-old said that she, her parents, Deborah and George, and her sisters, Jade and Georgia, were determined to ensure the streets were made safe again. "Please, boys and girls, put down your knives and weapons and think about the pain and suffering they will cause. Parents, please talk to your children and encourage them to stop all this violence."The detective in charge of the case expressed disappointment at the small number of witnesses who have so far come forward. Detective Superintendent Vic Rae said that at least 50 people had been near Ben just before he was attacked, but far fewer had been in touch.Rae said he believed that four black teenagers were involved in the stabbing, which happened outside a club in Islington, north London, at 2am on Sunday.Police recovered two knives from the area close to where Ben was killed yesterday afternoon, but Scotland Yard would not say whether they were connected with the attack. A spokesman for the Metropolitan police also confirmed that two search warrants had been executed in Islington in connection with the murder investigation. Two 16-year-old boys who were arrested earlier were released on police bail yesterday.Ben and his friends, who had recently finished their GCSEs, had gone to Shillibeers bar in Carpenters Mews, North Road, Islington, for a drink on Saturday night when trouble broke out and some customers were told to leave. The teenager was believed to have been stabbed "several times" in the body in York Way, near the junction with North Road. A postmortem examination gave the cause of his death as multiple stab wounds.Rae said there was no evidence to suggest the attack was racially motivated or that Ben had been the victim of some kind of gang initiation ceremony. He said he appeared simply to have been "in the wrong place at the wrong time".He described his murder as a "useless waste of life", adding: "We know there were witnesses in the club and we know that a number of witnesses saw the incident as it continued outside the club and down the road. We have got a number of witnesses ... but we know there are a number of [others] we would like to come forward." Asked whether the recent Lords ruling that witnesses should not be allowed to give evidence anonymously might have made people more reluctant to give information, he said: "This obviously causes us concern in offering anonymity to witnesses."Rae confirmed that his officers were checking the club's CCTV feed for evidence and examining Ben's mobile phone to see if it could help them in their investigation. It emerged yesterday that the son of Birds of a Feather actor Linda Robson was a friend of the dead boy, and cradled him as he lay dying.Robson told ITV's London Tonight that her teenage son Louis tried to keep Ben alive by talking to him and stemming the flow of blood from his gaping wound with his top. She said Ben and his friends were in the "wrong place at the wrong time" and expressed horror at the dangers facing young people."Every time our kids walk out of the door I can't breathe, I've got butterflies, I picture all this happening. When our kids leave the house now we're petrified - are they going to come back?" she said. "And the kids don't think it can happen to them, but it can. And there's the proof." Many of Ben's friends visited the scene of the murder yesterday. His best friend, Sophie Roberts, 16, who had gone to light candles, said she was still struggling to accept what had happened. "He was easygoing and he believed in life. He had high hopes and dreams. He was the most amazing person I know - we did everything together. He was my best friend at school. He used to share his Twix bars with me at lunchtime. He always forgave people and gave them a second chance." Anyone with information is asked to call 020 8345 3985 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.