There is something remarkable about a serving policemen publishing damaging revelations about life inside the force, as chief superintendent Ali Dizaei is doing in a new book he is publicising this week. His story of being unfairly hounded for corruption is more striking because he is a senior officer, a man of a rank which - in many walks of life - would only be reached by those enjoying happy relationships with their employer. Among the handful of black and Asian people who have reached the top of the Metropolitan police, however, his experience is far from unique.It is now eight years since Sir William Macpherson's inquiry damned the police for institutional racism, yet tensions between the Met and its top ethnic minority officers remain widespread. Like Mr Dizaei, the former chair of the National Black Police Association, Superintendent Leroy Logan, was subjected to a disproportionately heavy fraud probe; it was dropped without wrongdoing being shown. Dal Babu, now a superintendent, won damages in 2003 after being passed over for promotion on grounds of his race. Even more senior are Shabir Hussain, a commander who has filed three discrimination claims, and Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, who has failed to get the top job in several urban forces despite repeated applications. These numerous cases suggest a worrisome pattern, and more systematic analysis - including from Cambridge University - confirms that internal police procedures fall short in race and diversity terms.Troubles at the top reflect deeper issues. The drive to increase minority recruitment has not been a total failure - one in three community support officers in London are now non-white - but move up from this lowest of ranks and things look much worse. Fewer than one officers in 10 in the capital is from a minority, which is why Peter Fahy, of the Association of Chief Police Officers, told MPs this week that at the current rate it would take another 17 years to achieve a representative service.Speeding that up will not be not easy. When many officers serve 30-year careers natural turnover is not fast; and experience in Northern Ireland, where Polish Catholics are now being recruited to fill religious quotas, shows how badly designed positive action can produce weird results. But it is important to try and do better. The issue is not just one of fairness, but increasingly one of effective policing too. A forthcoming report from the police inspectorate is likely to argue that an essential precondition to successfully fighting terrorism is healthier community relations. That is impossible while the force continues to look so different from the community it represents.