A conviction for the murder of a cinema manager, that sent a young Liverpool labourer to the gallows 53 years ago, was yesterday overturned by the court of appeal.George Kelly was executed at Walton jail on Merseyside in March 1950, following what was then the longest criminal trial in English legal history. His plea for clemency had been rejected by the home secretary of the day, James Chuter Ede. Announcing their decision yesterday, three appeal judges, Lord Justice Rix, Mr Justice Douglas Brown and Mr Justice Davis, concluded the original verdict was "unsafe". The case was the oldest referred to the criminal cases review commission, the statutory body that investigates alleged miscarriages of justice. The crown did not attempt to uphold the conviction. During the appeal, the judges heard that a statement given by a prosecution witness, claiming a man called Donald Johnson had confessed to committing the crime, had not been disclosed at the original trial. The crime for which Kelly was hanged shocked postwar Britain. Leonard Thomas, 44, manager of the Cameo Cinema in Wavertree, Liverpool, and his assistant, John Catterall, 30, were killed during a bungled burglary in March 1949. While the audience watched a thriller, a man in a brown coat, trilby hat and mask burst into the manager's first-floor office as the night's takings were being counted. Thomas was shot in the chest; Catterall, who arrived moments later, was hit in the hand, chest and back. The gunman panicked and fled, leaving the cash untouched. Pressure on the police for arrests mounted and as many as 65,000 people were questioned. An anonymous letter eventually led detectives to Kelly, a petty criminal nicknamed the "little Caesar of Lime Street", and Charles Connolly, then 26, who allegedly acted as lookout. In the first trial, which lasted 13 days, the jury failed to reach a verdict. The two men were then tried separately. Connolly pleaded guilty in February 1950 to robbery and conspiracy and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. He died in 1997, protesting his innocence. The court of appeal overturned both convictions, even though the crown opposed the application on behalf of Connolly. "However much the Cameo murders remain a mystery, we regard the circumstances of Kelly and Connolly's trials as a miscarriage of justice which must be deeply regretted," Lord Justice Rix said yesterday. During the hearing Orlando Pownall QC, for the crown, said Donald Johnson had told a man called Robert Graham, a serving prisoner, that he had been responsible for the shootings. Graham made a second statement to police several months later incriminating Kelly and Connolly and was later granted immediate release. But Graham's September 1949 statement implicating Johnson was not discovered until 1991 when a member of the public with an interest in the case was given access to Merseyside police files. The prosecution accepted that the document was genuine and in the absence of evidence to the contrary conceded that Graham must have spoken to Chief Inspector Herbert Balmer, one of the officers involved in the inquiry. Mr Pownall told the judges: "It is not proposed by the crown to dwell on any conspiracy theories... If there had been a conspiracy it seems unlikely anyone involved would have left that original document in a box to be found years later." Ch Insp Balmer, he said, like most of those involved in the case, had long since died. Kelly's daughter, Kathleen Hughes, left the courtroom in tears, refusing to comment. She had previously stated: "I have waited a long, long time for this day. I hope now I can give him a decent Christian burial, which I have previously been thwarted from doing." Robin Makin, the Kelly family's lawyer, said it was a "deplorable" situation. "George Kelly's brothers made efforts on his behalf from the time of the conviction in 1950 and there was nothing that could be done. There is tremendous concern about the way in which matters were handled at that time." Connolly's brother, Eddie, said afterwards: "A lot of doubters at the time will have been proven wrong today. We've known all along that they were innocent." 