At precisely 2pm, Andrew Leppard settled into a now familiar role. Kent's Assistant Chief Constable is now famous. Famous as the public face of Britain's biggest ever robbery.Yesterday, hosting yet another press conference on day four of the police investigation into the whereabouts of the £50m taken from a Securitas warehouse, he gave more details. Details of the feelings of Colin Dixon, the warehouse manager kidnapped and bundled into the back of a fake police car. Details about further arrests as the police hope that the noose is tightening against 'the firm' behind the Tonbridge Heist. Details of the burnt-out cars, the van and the discarded money that might lead to a breakthrough.It could have been worse. Although how much worse will not be known for several days, not until forensic scientists have finished combing the cash storage depot for clues. Banking sources have told The Observer that the gang that pulled off the heist did not take all the cash in the Securitas depot and that millions of pounds were left behind. 'It would be wrong to assume they took all the money. But how much they took will be known only when the depot's staff are allowed back in,' the source said.That the gang left some of the cash should be a concern to the detectives hunting them. The history of audacious robberies confirms that greed often undoes a criminal gang. But, worryingly, the Tonbridge gang appears different. Their subsequent decision to dump anything between £1m and £15m in new, traceable, bank notes stored in the depot on behalf of the Bank of England, shows an unnerving awareness that, in terms of a successful robbery, less is sometimes more.Yesterday police continued to search the van in which the traceable cash was found. The van was discovered at Ashford International Hotel, after a tip-off from a member of the public, opening up the possibility that the gang fled abroad on the Eurostar. Last night police were checking the train's passenger records in the hope of spotting a familiar name.Of greater concern to the police is the whereabouts of the cash that wasn't owned by the Bank of England: the loose, used notes that were being sorted by the depot staff on behalf of banks and supermarkets in the Kent area. The 14-strong Securitas sorting team on duty on Tuesday night were sifting through the piles to see which notes were no longer fit for circulation. It is this money, which may total anything between £20m to £30m, that is the problem for police. It is virtually untraceable.For Leppard tracing the untraceable will be a career-defining task. A broad-shouldered, square-jawed police veteran of 22 years, Leppard cuts an imposing figure. He made his name in 2000 after leading an investigation which resulted in three people being jailed at the Old Bailey for a contract killing. He moved to the Kent force just over a year ago where he was given responsibility for tackling serious and organised crime, a job he clearly relishes.Yesterday in his seventh press briefing since the heist, Leppard remained confident that the criminals would be brought to book. 'We have had more than 800 calls from the public,' he said.During the conference a statement was read out on behalf of Mr Dixon, the Securitas manager who, along with his wife, Lynn, and nine-year-old son, Craig, was taken hostage by the gang. 'It was the worst night of my life,' Mr Dixon said, adding his family had been placed in 'unimaginable danger'. Craig, who turned nine yesterday, was still in 'deep shock'. 'The terror of what happened and the horror of what might have happened is with us in every waking moment,' Mr Dixon said. 'We are a normal law-abiding family, and no one should have to suffer as we have done.'Leppard's hopes of catching the gang were raised by a series of quick breakthroughs last week. A number of vehicles linked to the gang were found scattered across locations in Kent. Then came two arrests. Michelle Hogg and Michael Demetris, make-up artists who specialise in false wigs and beards, were questioned on Friday. At least one member of the gang is thought to have worn a false beard when impersonating a police officer. Hogg and Demetris have been released on police bail without charge.A Salvation Army nurse, Dawn Bailey, was arrested trying to deposit £6,000 of cash in a wrapper clearly marked 'Tonbridge' into a building society in Bromley. But it soon emerged Bailey had drawn the money out of another bank account and has said she will sue police for 'the most distressing experience of my life'. Then, yesterday, two men, aged 33 and 55, were arrested in Maidstone, Kent under conspiracy to commit robbery.Helped by regular news conferences which have slow-dripped developments in the investigation to the media, Leppard has given the impression the net is closing in. 'This investigation is moving at a fast pace,' Leppard has said on several occasions. The truth is, though, Leppard knows his best chance of a quick result is to play on what motivated the gang in the first place: greed. He has consistently dangled the £2m reward on offer to anyone willing to turn supergrass. For those fearful about retribution from the underworld, he has made an unequivocal promise: 'We will look after you'.Hadleigh Gardens, a cul-de-sac in Herne Bay with views over the Thames estuary, was unusually congested on Tuesday evening. At No 6, five-year-old Cameron Reeve's birthday party was drawing to a close and the road was filled with the cars of 20 parents picking up their children. As the guests spilled out of the house, filling the air with excited chatter about the magician and the party games, few noticed a car pulling up at the £250,000 three-bedroom detached house five doors away or the two fake policeman knocking on the door.Possibly no one noticed an ashen-faced Lynn Dixon, a 45-year-old mother of three, with her son Craig walking up the steep path and getting into the car. It was just after 6.30pm and Lynn had been had told her husband of 26 years, Colin, had been in a car crash. Within minutes of getting into the car, the 'policemen' dropped their act, blindfolding Lynn and Craig and driving them to a remote farm building now thought to have been in west Kent. They were held at gunpoint for six hours during which time they were transferred to a red van that had a fake ParcelForce logo stencilled on the side, allowing the robbers to drive around the Faversham area without arousing suspicion.En route, the gang members called their accomplices who had earlier abducted Lynn's husband, Colin. His kidnappers held the mobile phone to his ear so he could hear the terrified screams of his wife and son, a macabre confirmation that the robbers weren't bluffing.Colin Dixon's own ordeal had begun around an hour earlier. He had left the Securitas depot in Tonbridge just after 5.30pm as usual and headed for home in his silver Nissan Almera. The 90-minute journey takes him along the A26 that winds through the villages of Hadlow and Waterinbury. It is a pleasant drive after the soulless surroundings of the Securitas depot, an anonymous brown, single storey building on an industrial estate peppered with security cameras and surrounded by 10ft spiked metal gates.Once through Maidstone, he turned onto the A249. It was here, after he had been driving for around 50 minutes and just before the remote Three Squirrels pub near Stockbury, that he was flagged down by two men wearing police-style hats and fluorescent jackets who got out of a Volvo with blue lights in the radiator grille. Colin got into their car - it is not clear precisely why - where he was handcuffed and warned that if he did not co-operate his wife and son would be shot dead.He was taken to the same farm building as Lynn and Craig. At some stage during the evening Lynn and Colin were allowed to talk before being separated and driven in different vehicles to the Securitas depot where Dixon gained entry for the robbers. The Dixons were tied up along with the 14 Securitas employees as the gang loaded millions of pounds into a white 7.5-tonne Renault truck. 'They were prepared to shoot my wife and my son on the spot,' Dixon told police. 'I was terrified. I knew that if I did not co-operate I would die and so would they.'It is thought the gang had kept the family under surveillance for months. According to neighbours in the street where they have lived for 18 years, the Dixons enjoyed an 'ordinary' lifestyle. Lynn is a part-time civil servant. Colin Dixon used to leave for work at 6.30am, returning home at 7pm. He was deliberately vague, even with friends and family, about what he did for a living.'They are a lovely family,' said a neighbour Jim Brown. 'They've got no airs and graces about them. I often see them taking their little boy out at the weekends, him on his bike with them walking behind him. Colin is a well-built man, you'd think twice before taking him on. I didn't know what job he did, he never said.'The Dixons met at work in a branch of Barclays bank and married at 18. They have two other sons - Daniel, 23, and Dominic, 21. Daniel followed his father into banking after leaving university and Dominic, a former hospital porter, is now a builder. Dominic Dixon is outraged at his parents' ordeal. He told the Sun yesterday that the robbers were 'scum'. 'They should be made to suffer. They should have guns held to their heads and see how they like it. I'd like to see them banged up for life and never let out.' Whether his wish comes true is now down to Leppard and his 50 detectives.On 30 January this year a group of representatives of the British Security Industry Association (BSIA) and GMB union met with the Home Office minister Hazel Blears. They were incensed. The number of attacks on security staff involved in transporting money around the country had increased by 10 per cent in the past year, the representatives said, a rise they blamed, in part, on the growth in gun culture.Drivers and staff had been shot, attacked with iron bars and machetes, stabbed and beaten in assaults that had resulted in long-term physical and mental injury. The representatives produced troubling statistics which showed there were 836 attacks in 2005, up from 763 in 2004 and 697 in 2003. In 447 of the attacks over the past three years staff were injured, 58 of them seriously.One security guard, Colin Baker, was left permanently disabled when he was shot in the leg by robbers in West Bromwich in 2004. The father-of-four was ambushed as he filled a cashpoint machine at a service station. In the aftermath, he suffered severe flashbacks. He said: 'I used to love playing football with the boys, and riding my mountain bike. All that has gone now, and I don't know what the future holds for me.''The growth in gun culture among young people in some of the urban areas has a lot to do with the rise in this kind of crime,' said Gary Smith, of the GMB union. 'Some police forces haven't treated the issue as seriously as others, if they did I'm sure there would be a decline.'The union and the BSI are angry with the way the Tonbridge robbery has been portrayed in some parts of the media, as if it was an Ealing comedy in which good old-fashioned cops and East End villains are locked in a series of comic capers that will inevitably find their way onto celluloid.They point to figures that show a robbery from a cash in transit vehicle can result directly in up to 15 other crimes being committed before or after the attack. In addition much of the money is used to commit further robberies. 'Now imagine by how much that figure can be multiplied if you're talking about a £50m robbery,' said one representative in the security industry. 'This is not a blag. This is a major crime with serious consequences.'The Tonbridge heist is the most outrageous example yet of the increasing number of violent incidents plaguing the security industry, although it has surprised some ex-criminals who say many big gangs turned their backs on armed robbery in favour of the drug trade or smaller targets. Instead of looking for 'El Dorado' - the one big job that would set him up for life - Steve Roberts, a member of the notorious Bradish gang, went after smaller, softer targets. 'The problem with the big gangs is that they almost always get caught within a few days,' said Roberts, who is now living under a new identity having turned supergrass. 'There are too many people involved and the planning has gone on for so long that there are too many opportunities to leave loose ends.'Of all the things that have been said about the Tonbridge robbery over the past four days the most troubling was the one that has so far been left unexamined. At a press conference on Wednesday afternoon, Paul Fullicks the security director at Securitas, conceded: 'Our staff were the weakest link.'It was an admission that will take on more resonance in the days to come. Inevitably questions have been asked about whether Tonbridge was an inside job. Fullicks, too, must have been asking himself how could the gang could have entered the depot so easily. Staff are taught to check if they are being followed. They are given code words to signal to colleagues if they are being forced to return to buildings under duress. All cash depots have extensive CCTV networks which should be constantly monitored. The depot should have been split into several compartments, each with locked doors to prevent easy access through the whole of the building.There is a litany of unanswered questions as to how Tonbridge could have happened without anyone raising the alarm before it was too late. Fullicks, though, was adamant staff had been given sufficient training. 'We are aware of the risks our managers face,' Fullicks said. 'The training we give them is comprehensive and covers lots of scenarios.'But 'tiger kidnapping' - as the Tonbridge gang's method of operation is known in police circles because of the way the robbers stalk their prey - is a relatively new phenomenon in Britain. Once Dixon had been seized and was made aware his family were also held he had no choice but to comply with the robbers' demands.The practice is a regular occurrence in Northern Ireland. The robbery of the Northern Bank's Belfast headquarters in 2004, in which £26.5m was stolen, was a classic example. Kent police have confirmed they are liaising with their counterparts in Belfast to see if any clues can be unearthed. They will also want to monitor the usual places where stolen cash can be quickly and safely laundered.'You have to have a contact with a cash economy of some kind otherwise it's impossible,' said Laurence Glynn who was released last year after serving eight years for laundering millions in drugs money. 'Banks have to report any suspicious transaction, but there is no law saying you cannot go to your bank and pay in a million pounds in cash, just so long as it is in the normal course of your business. Otherwise half the businesses in the high street would be getting reported every Friday afternoon when they took their takings down to their local branch of Nat West.'According to Glynn, common methods for laundering cash include buying plant and machinery at auction for the cash and then selling it on at a small loss. There is also the diamond business, one of the few industries which still relies almost entirely on cash transactions.Whatever method they choose, Glynn believes the gang will ultimately come away with a far smaller sum than they have stolen. 'They're not going to realise the full value,' Glynn said. 'Launderers normally charge anywhere between 10 and 20 per cent but with a job like this, where the stakes are higher, the fee could easily be as high as 75 or 80 percent. It's a huge loss but for a lot of people in this situation, that's completely acceptable.'Filtering the money back into the banking system will be easier if the gang can get the cash abroad. At least £1bn a year is smuggled out of Britain, much of it to Spain and Turkey where it is used to pay for drug shipments ultimately destined for the UK.'Lots of the robbers I've worked with think that once the job is done, that's the end of it,' said Terry Smith who, in the mid-Eighties, was briefly Britain's most wanted man, after a string of raids on cash-in-transit vans. 'But that's just not true - in many ways it's the most important time. You have to go back and clear up everything, make sure there are no loose ends. You have to go out and live exactly the same life you were living before. You can't do anything differently, otherwise you give yourself away.'But then there are people on the edge of the gang who might have helped out. They get very antsy when they don't get paid. Especially when they see in the papers how much money has been taken. That means the gang will be under pressure to send money out to some of the underlings to keep them happy, and those kind of people often turn out to be the weak links.'It was a combination of failing to keep a low profile and a weak link that led to the capture of the gang behind the £26m gold bullion Brinks Mat in 1983. Tracking down those responsible presented few problems for detectives: the fact the robbers knew their way around the security system pointed to an inside job. When detectives discovered one of the guards, Anthony Black, had arrived late for work, missing the robbery, they pulled him in for questioning and he cracked.Police then found that the two main players had done little to disguise their new-found wealth. Within weeks of the robbery both had left their council houses for enormous homes in Kent paid for for with cash. One of the pair, Mickey McAvoy, even had two Rottweiler guard dogs named Brinks and Mat.Given their meticulous performance so far, it's unlikely the Tonbridge gang will make such an ostentatious mistake. They won't be bothering Costa Brava estate agents anytime soon. And until they are found, Leppard will not rest easy.How to get rid of £50mStep 1: GetawayDrive lorry and van to discreet lock-up, ridding yourself of any traceable notes (sequentially numbered or new) on the way, park and start to break up what money is left into manageable chunks. Plan to launder £1 million at a time.Step 2: Buy plant and machineryJCBs, diggers and earth-movers can cost hundreds of thousands of pounds. Many nearly new models are traded at auctions for cash. Equipment is bought, stored for a few weeks then resold at a loss. Instead of cash, the seller receives a cheque. Step 3: Buy diamondsOne of the few industries in the world where cash is the preferred method of payment. Diamonds also have the advantage of being small and easily smuggled. Stones can be bought in one country, taken elsewhere, repolished to remove distinguishing marks and resold. Step 4: Set up a bureau de changeMany gangs set up their own 'legitimate' bureau. The money is fed through the accounts alongside other takings. Step 5: HawalaAn ancient Indian system increasingly used by gangs. Cash is deposited at an office in one country and can be collected in local currency in another. The system relies on trust. The person making the deposit is given a password or token to enable them to collect at the other end. It leaves no electronic or paper trail.