  Trevor Kavanagh writing in today's Sun: 'justice delayed is justice denied'Trevor Kavanagh, associate editor of The Sun, has devoted his column today to the plight of the 57,000 people who are believed to be on police bail in Britain.*Of course, he has in mind several colleagues and ex-colleagues who are among the worst cases because they have spent more than six months - and some up to 30 months - on bail without being charged.His argument against the iniquitous use of police bail stretches beyond arrested journalists to encompass all who are "living in limbo". Kavanagh writes: "These men and women have had their lives, careers and ambitions at best put on hold and at worst irreparably damaged.They are ALL innocent until proven guilty. Yet they are already serving a sentence, unable to make plans, move home, take holidays or change jobs. Who would hire someone who might suddenly need three months off to appear at the Old Bailey?"Delays also enable police to arrest people and then "go fishing for evidence," he argues. Even once charged, there is often a long wait for justice. Trials are at the Old Bailey are in gridlock. Kavanagh offers a solution for "a growing crisis": a statute of limitations, a fixed limit of three months between arrest and charge, and a clear-out of "the overly political and grotesquely inefficient Crown Prosecution Service."Comment: Kavanagh may be accused of special pleading on behalf of Sun staffers and other arrested journalists. But I am in touch with several of them and I am also sympathetic to their plight.The UK system of arrests without charge baffles Americans. The system of "police bail" is also extraordinary when measured against custom and practice in many other jurisdictions.It may be said that this has long been the situation and that journalists didn't worry about it until they experienced this unjust procedure. Now it has become something of a cause célèbre.Well, there may be something to that. But so what? The substantive point is that it is manifestly unfair for people to live for months on end with an axe swinging over them.*According to a BBC report in May 2013, there were 57,428 people on police bail in England, Wales and Northern Ireland at that time. This was itself a partial figure because it covered only 34 of 44 police forces that responded to freedom of information requests.