A man who believed he was God was sentenced to indefinite detention yesterday after he admitted stabbing a priest to death outside his vicarage.Geraint Evans, 24, diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, attacked Father Paul Bennett last March at St Fagan's Church, in Trecynon, south Wales.Evans, who lived locally, admitted manslaughter at Cardiff crown court. Father Bennett lived at the vicarage with his wife Georgina, children Emma and Nigel, and grandson John. His family have called for an inquiry into his death.John Jenkins QC, prosecuting, told the court that the priest was stabbed repeatedly after stepping outside to put the rubbish out."It is apparent he immediately ran away from the direction of the front door in the direction of the gate that leads to the churchyard. He probably did that to protect his family," he said."His son Nigel, who was in the living room, saw his father running that way with the defendant in pursuit. The defendant stabbed him in the back while he was trying to run away. He had six stab wounds in his back."Mr Jenkins said three psychiatric reports on Evans all said he was suffering from mental illness. Toxicology reports revealed Evans had traces of alcohol, cannabis and byproducts from butane gas in his body. The murder weapon was a seven-inch combat-style knife that Evans bought from an army surplus shop.Evans told police: "I tried to preach to him. He had it coming. I am here because I came with the intent to kill and I executed it." He added: "My job is justice. Sometimes just ice-cold revenge."In computer disks found at the scene Evans claimed Father Bennett, a vicar of the Church in Wales, had tried to have him sectioned under the Mental Heath Act and referred to "making him pay". The disks revealed Evans believed he was God, and that any clergyman was a false prophet.Outside court Julie Hanchet, Georgina Bennett's cousin, said: "Someone must have known how disturbed this man was and could have intervened. Where were the mental health services? We ask that an inquiry is called and persons be held accountable."