A man accused of raping eight women and girls across south-east England today said that he had been gay for "most of" his life and had been in relationships with men before meeting his current wife.Giving evidence for the first time, Antoni Imiela, 49, insisted that he got on well with women and told the court that his longest relationship with a man had lasted for around two years, between 1979 and 1981. "I've been gay most of my life," he told Maidstone crown court.Mr Imiela, a railway worker, said: "I get on well with women. I've probably had a lot of girls who were friends. There are probably only three or four women that I've actually stopped with."Earlier, as he stepped into the witness box to begin giving evidence, his voice broke with emotion and he had to pause several times as he took the oath before leaning forward in the stand and giving his name. At one point, his counsel, Rebecca Poulet QC, asked whether he was "all right" as he appeared to cry briefly before wiping his face with a tissue. He replied: "Yes, it is just nerves." Mr Imiela, of Appledore, near Ashford, Kent, denies nine counts of rape relating to eight attacks allegedly carried out between November 2001 and October 2002 in Kent, London, Surrey and Hertfordshire. He also denies the kidnap, indecent assault and attempted rape of a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham on November 21 2002. After composing himself in the witness box, he leaned forward and rested on his elbows as he began to answer questions about his childhood. He said that he had been born in West Germany in 1954 to a Polish father and German mother, both of whom had been refugees.Becoming tearful again, he added that he had come to the UK in 1961. He said his family had moved to Worthing, west Sussex, before relocating to County Durham several years later. Asked by Ms Poulet whether something had happened to his family in 1968, the defendant began sobbing and said: "You said you would not mention that." Ms Poulet then said she that would move on to other issues, asking him about his relationships before he met his current wife, Christine, in 1996. Imiela then told the court that he was gay. Earlier, Ms Poulet had opened the defence case by reminding the jury that the defendant was innocent until proven guilty. She said the jury had to give him "the same time" and "consideration" given every other witness who had given evidence in the trial. The trial continues.