So here's how the game works. You're the plastic surgeon and Barbie is your patient, her medical notes helpfully provided in the app's blurb. "This unfortunate girl has so much extra weight that no diet can help her," it begins. "In our clinic she can go through a surgery called liposuction that will make her slim and beautiful. We'll need to make small cuts on problem areas and suck out the extra fat. Will you operate [on] her, doctor??"You can see why the makers of that app reckon it's "suitable for children aged nine and over". It's bright, colourful and very simple: just wield the little virtual scalpel to sculpt a perfect body. Better still, it was free from Apple's iTunes store.I say "was" because on Tuesday the game was removed from iTunes, after it became the target of a viral Twitter campaign. Fast work in what was a busy week for feminism. Word came of as many as 4,700 "lost girls", the estimated number of female foetuses aborted by parents who'd been hoping for a boy, a phenomenon apparent in communities with roots in the Indian subcontinent. Meanwhile, in what looked like a repeat of the soul-sapping Rochdale case, a court convicted a Peterborough gang of five men, some teenagers themselves, of multiple counts of rape and sexual abuse of young girls. Elsewhere, the Coronation Street actor Bill Roache and DJ Dave Lee Travis face sex-related charges of their own.Meanwhile, female Liberal Democrats were warning that their party could become a no-go zone for women if Chris Rennard, whom they accuse of sexual harassment, goes unpunished. This week an inquiry set up by the party found that while the peer may have caused women distress and violated their personal space, there was no evidence he had acted in a sexually inappropriate way – even as more women went public to say that's what he had done to them.In all the coverage of these alleged multiple and various episodes – some, it should be stressed, radically different in both kind and degree from others – one sentence leaps out. "We are already witnessing the sexist divide on Twitter," began Linda Jack of the Liberal Left group, campaigning for Rennard to face punishment for his actions: "women who are outraged and men who question what all the fuss is about."That's certainly how these arguments always used to be seen, ever since the days when James Thurber could write a short story (later a film) called The War Between Men and Women. For many, it doesn't look much different now, women on one side of the barricade, facing a vast horde of men – some violent, some intrusive, some merely insensitive – on the other.Yet that view hardly survives scrutiny. Too many women have fathers, brothers, sons and husbands whom they love for them to take seriously the old "all men are rapists" slogan. More than that, Thurber's polarity was too simplistic at both ends – for while it remains true that the overwhelming number of attacks on women are perpetrated by men, women are not always on their own side.Note that the creator of that unofficial Barbie app is a woman, Corina Rodriguez. Note too that when the BBC Asian Network covered those sex-selection abortions this week, one man recalled how he had telephoned his mother to announce the safe arrival of a healthy baby girl. "Oh never mind," she said. Reporting on the practice of female genital mutilation in this country has painted a similar picture: women colluding in, and even insisting upon, an illegal practice that seems predicated on loathing of women and their bodies.The glum truth is that when women are under attack, you can sometimes find a woman near or even among attackers. Feminists united in support of Caroline Criado-Perez last year, when her campaign to put Jane Austen on the £10 note triggered a deluge of misogynistic Twitter abuse, some of it threatening rape. This month two people were convicted – one a 23-year-old woman. Readers of women's magazines will not need to be told that often the harshest words, judging women chiefly by their bodies, come from other women. Over the course of a light piece in the Sunday Times recently, the female performers on Strictly were likened to three different animals: a donkey, a cougar and a cow. The writer was a woman.Some would seize on this evidence gleefully, to say women are to blame for sexism along with everything else routinely laid at their door. That's adamantly not my point here. Rather, just as ethnic minorities can internalise the very worst things said about them over many centuries, so some women have imbibed so much misogyny, it's eventually got under their skin and found a home there.Viewed like this, the battle for equality no longer resembles the war between men and women of old. But there is a war going on. It's a war against femaleness itself – one that is, to stress again, prosecuted chiefly by men, but all too often with the collaboration of women.In this war, it's no longer obvious whose side you're on. For if a woman can sometimes be on the wrong side, that means men can sometimes be on the right side. I've written before of the obstacles that lie in the path of a man who wants to take a stand against misogyny, an awkwardness laid bare just this week as Russell Brand proclaimed he had formally renounced sexism – having been saved by "the love of a good woman."But getting it wrong is no reason not to try to get it right. Later this month Jon Snow and others will gather for the Being a Man festival, to explore some of these vexed questions. If they're looking for a role model, they might want to consider the former director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer. He's committed now to exploring how the justice system might be reformed to improve conviction rates for rape, becoming more hospitable to women in the process. He questions whether there isn't a better approach than the current adversarial model, which can inflict on female victims a second ordeal.Starmer's efforts suggest there is a way for men to play their part, fighting back against the war on femaleness. No striking of poses, just concrete, practical action, especially from those men who occupy positions of power. Or, as one of those Lib Dem women put it to Nick Clegg, it's time for men to man up.Twitter: @Freedland