The naked rambler Stephen Gough enthuses some people and bores others; but I think it's of wider interest than usual that he has just been arrested (again) on the approach to Hebden Bridge.Although the Pennine town gets justifiably fed up with teasing about its alternative image, local people themselves are expressing surprise that the persistently lightweight traveller should be run in on their patch. Witness current comments on the community website, the Hebweb, which is one of the best of its kind in the country. No, world.Two days ago, the Hebweb carried the headline:Naked Rambler approaches Hebden Bridge.above a story which continued:It is understood that he may drop into the town centre near the old pack horse bridge. Spokesman for Stephen Gough, George Cavanagh told the HebWeb that he is travelling without a map and it would be much appreciated if someone from the town was able to meet and greet him and point him in the right direction south.  Gough in HMP Perth in March: 'People often have to go to prison for many years before others see the light.' Photograph: Murdo MacLeod for the Guardian/Murdo MacleodIt's actually pretty difficult to lose yourself on lowland sections of this stretch of the Pennine Way, which Gough is following, as part of one of his marathon and largely nude journeys. The former Royal Marine and father of two children has not actually walked all that far since taking up the practice in 2003; he has been convicted 18 times and spent much of his time since 2006 in prison for persisting, to the extent of appearing in court unclothed.There is no doubting his sincerity, and as you can read in this interesting Guardian interview in Perth prison in March with Neil Forsyth, he is considered likeable by most people who meet him. More from the Hebweb:The Book Case tweeted that he was walking into Hebden Bridge from Keighley Road and "They can't arrest the naked rambler in Hebden Bridge!". Another tweet read, "There's a naked man walking around Hebden. Why does this not surprise me?"The Northerner's own Jill Robinson has her say from home in HB:  Nothing new in the north. The Full Monty. Photograph: Ronald Grant ArchiveGiven the fact that nudity in various forms has been celebrated here in the north for the past 15 years (think The Full Monty, Calendar Girls and the various art installations of Spencer Tunick, including the one in Salford to commemorate 10 years since the opening of the Lowry; also the naked skinny-dip for MIND (video here) held earlier this year in Northumberland, the Northerner wonders if Gough might do better to re-style himself "the naked art installation" or the "naked charity fund-raiser".Anyway, from the photos which have appeared on Twitter, it appears that he is not entirely naked but sporting a large rucksack. And now the weather forecast is for the temperature to drop significantly this weekend, so all anyone can do (apart of course from joining in - although this outpost of the Northerner definitely looks better with her clothes on), is wish him good luck.The Hebweb's busy forum is full of it too. Take a look here, and meanwhile here's what H.Gregg has to say, kicking off the discussion: He's obviously passionate about his mission to walk naked from Lands End to John o' Groats, and I see nothing wrong with what he's doing. Any objections must surely be based on prudery.It might be a good idea to offer him support from the town, I suspect he has received little elsewhere.I suggest that a fitting gesture would be for a few hundred people get naked on and around the Old Bridge, have a photo taken and pass it to the national press. Do we really think the police could arrest us all? (yes I include myself).If there are not enough takers for doing this on public land – maybe the town hall outdoor area would be a good place for the shot.Any thoughts?Over to you.