A corrupt civil servant behind one of the biggest frauds in Whitehall history has managed to avoid paying anything towards a £1.5m confiscation order because the Crown Prosecution Service delayed enforcing it for 11 years, the Guardian has learned.Gordon Foxley, who was head of defence procurement at the Ministry of Defence from 1981 to 1984, was given a four-year jail sentence in 1994 for taking bribes from foreign arms manufacturers. The trial judge ordered him to hand back £1.5m that had been used to buy his family eight properties. But the high court has now struck out a legal attempt by the CPS to enforce the order because the judge ruled a fair trial of the issues was impossible after such a long delay.Jack Straw said he would be demanding to know why prosecutors had left it so long.After preliminary proceedings in the three years after Foxley's conviction, the CPS took no further action until 2005, when a taskforce rang up the magistrates court accounts office to ask how much had been paid under the Foxley order."They learnt that nothing had been recovered," said Mr Justice McCombe, striking out the CPS claim and a related civil action by the MoD on grounds of delay. "It seems to me surprising that after 11 years the CPS did not seem to know that fact from their own resources."In 1993, Foxley, who was earning £25,000 a year, was convicted of taking bribes totalling £1.3m. However, £3.5m was found in his bank accounts. His role in diverting work from the Royal Ordnance Factory, Blackburn, to companies in Germany, Italy and Norway was blamed for the loss of hundreds of British jobs.Straw spearheaded a campaign to trace the missing millions and said the results of the official's corruption had been "devastating" for Blackburn. Straw said last night: "As Blackburn's member of parliament I'm very concerned about the fact that the confiscation order has not been enforced and now may never be, and I'm making inquiries about why this is so."Straw said in 1995: "I have always maintained he was charged only in respect of a small number of the bribes he took."Foxley served only two years and returned to his Oxfordshire mansion, with its own swimming pool in Henley-on-Thames. Although his sentence included a further three years in jail if he failed to hand over £1.5m within 18 months, he was never sent back to prison.The £1.5m million confiscation order did not include his home at the time, which Foxley had transferred into his wife's name before he was charged. The MoD started a separate civil action against Foxley and his son Paul, who were made bankrupt. This action included a freezing order to stop Foxley's son disposing of assets which, they claimed in court papers, were the proceeds of his father's crime.Later the trustee in bankruptcy got £453,000 for the MoD from Foxley's wife for her husband's share of the house. The MoD also collected £85,000 from a flat in Switzerland, £35,000 from a joint bank account with his wife and £17,000 from the sale of a property in the name of one of Foxley's daughters and her husband.The MoD also took civil action against the three foreign arms companies, which paid £3.39m in an out of court settlement.The judge said that from 1997, when the civil action against the foreign companies was settled, until 2005, "nothing whatsoever" had been done to try to make Foxley pay up.Lawyers for the CPS and MoD argued that proceedings to enforce the confiscation order and to try to collect more money from the family under the bankruptcy should be allowed to go ahead "in the public interest". But the judge said he took this "with a pinch of salt" when "those charged with guarding that interest have shown as little enthusiasm in their duties in that regard as the CPS and MoD have done in this case".He said it was clear that the crown had lost interest in the case after 1997. The issue was whether the assets held by family members were the proceeds of crime. He had not seen any material to show that this was a foregone conclusion.The real target of "these ancient proceedings" was not Foxley, but other members of his family who were protesting their innocence, added the judge.The family claim their assets are not the proceeds of Foxley's crime.Foxley, 82, declined to comment. "I'm partially aware of this," he said. "My son in London has been dealing with this," he added. "I can't remember a lot of facts and the other thing is that this has been going on for so long. One day, I should write a story [about this]. It would be nice to say things.