The family of Jermaine Baker, the man who was shot dead during a police operation last week, have said people who knew and loved him “will keep him in their hearts and minds”. They spoke as feelings continued to run high over the shooting, which took place during an alleged attempt by a gang to free two men who were being driven to court for sentencing over firearms offences. There has been a lot of speculation and misinformation in the media about Jermaine’s backgroundJermaine Baker's family Baker, 28, from Tottenham, north London, died from a single gunshot wound during the operation near Wood Green crown court last Friday. The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) has said an officer has been arrested and interviewed under caution as part of its investigation into the incident. Baker’s family issued a statement through Bhatt Murphy solicitors, saying: “There has been a lot of speculation and misinformation in the media about Jermaine’s background. There has also been considerable intrusion into our family homes and personal lives.“As a family, we have found this insensitive and distressing. We would ask that in the future respect is shown to us and to Jermaine’s memory.Wood Green shooting: 'no evidence Jermaine Baker had gang links' “Those who knew and loved Jermaine will keep him in their hearts and minds as they remember him. Many of those people have already contacted us and shared their memories; we are grateful for their support and kind words.“There has also been much speculation about the events leading to Jermaine’s death. As his family, we are of course anxious to find out the truth and we look to the IPCC to carry out a full, thorough and prompt investigation. We would ask anyone with any information to contact the IPCC.“At this time, we as a family are still processing the passing of a much loved son, father, brother, grandson, cousin, nephew, uncle, partner and friend. Please give us the time and privacy to grieve.”The IPCC has launched a criminal homicide investigation into Baker’s death. The officer was suspended from duty on Monday and arrested on Thursday.Cindy Butts , an IPCC commissioner, told a public meeting in Tottenham town hall: “The evidence we have at this stage does not mean that the officer definitively committed a criminal act and nor does it mean he will necessarily be charged with a criminal offence.”No relevant CCTV footage has been identified and no body-worn police cameras filmed the incident.Police marksman arrested after shooting suspect dead in Wood Green Butts said the evidence was that Baker was in a black Audi when he was shot.Ch Supt Victor Olisa, the borough commander for Haringey, said there had been reports that Baker was a gang member, but police research did not indicate that was the case.A close friend of Baker told the meeting: “He was not a gangster whatsoever. I’ve been told that he was sleeping in his car. Police officers had information that was not 100% that he was going to do it – you took an innocent man away.”Butts said: “We do not know whether he was or was not asleep.”Olisa said later: “We are doing everything we can to listen to and understand the concerns raised by the local community.”