What can be wrong, in this internet age of harsh and ready opinion, with venting one's view of the world in 140 characters online? When footballer Ched Evans was convicted of raping a 19-year-old earlier this year a motley bunch of supporters – a teenage cousin, some drunken fans and even an unrelated biology teacher – shared their opinion that a woman too drunk to give consent but was raped anyway was a "money-grabbing slut" and a "dirty slapper". Apparently, they didn't even know that in shaming and, specifically, naming her, they were breaking the law.After pleading guilty nine people must each pay £624 to the victim – a total of £5,616, which awards her less than a pound for each of the 6,000 times her name was dragged through the mud on Twitter. And who said the internet was free? In passing his verdict, judge Andrew Shaw said: "For reasons that I had thought were within the common knowledge of most intelligent people in this country we offer further protection for the victims of rape by prohibiting the publication of their names and personal details."This case, in which a woman who teaches teenagers the facts of life can retweet the name of a rape victim unknowingly, suggests that the lifelong anonymity awarded to rape victims by the sexual offences amendment of 1992 is not "common knowledge" at all.And the speed and ease with which a young woman could be victimised virtually, as well as physically, raises more questions about anonymity itself – all at a time when rape crisis helplines are reporting a 20% increase in calls from victims of historic as well as current abuse, traumatised by the daily dose of horrors about Jimmy Savile.There are two main arguments about anonymity when applied to sexual offences that are increasingly entering the public debate. The first is that it's not really possible to protect or prosecute it in our wired world, nor is it feasible to expect authorities with limited resources to police the internet; the second that it is an outdated notion anyway, and that it is a freedom of speech issue to deny anyone the right to criticise or demean another person. Witness Naomi Wolf calling for the women who have accused Julian Assange to be named: he's famous, so why shouldn't they be, seems to be the argument. It isn't a huge leap from this to those who question why Evans is damned as a rapist (although currently appealing against his six-year sentence) while a woman too drunk to give consent remains anonymous.These are new and complicated issues, but that is no excuse for the surprising amount of wrongheadedness they have prompted. And this isn't just an argument down the pub – the government itself tried to extend anonymity to the accused in sexual offence cases and has shown no desire to do anything about how authorities could go about policing the internet. Fortunately, Keir Starmer, the director of public prosecutions, believes this is possible and recently issued guidelines on prosecuting offences online, hoping to bring about a step change in the perception that online bullying or victimisation isn't really bullying at all.As for anonymity, there are specific reasons why it is awarded to sexual offence victims, and why it should be protected. Almost 90% of people who experience a serious sexual offence don't report it to the police. These statistics are from the British Crime Survey, which doesn't even count those without an address (the homeless, or those in mental health institutions, for instance). Victims fail to report for many reasons – but chief among them, according to many working at the front line in rape crisis centres, is the sense of shame and violation and the fear of stigma that will attach itself even if they have done no wrong. Rosa Knight, helpline co-ordinator at Rape Crisis, says: "The main reason women don't go to the police is the shame. Anonymity when they do is absolutely crucial."Given the low rates of conviction in a world where his word against hers is usually all a jury has to go on, the hand towel of dignity awarded by anonymity should not be allowed to be thrown away by the combination of celebrity and technology. There is a misconception that women use the protection to falsely report rape, but the widest study  found that just 8% of reported rapes are classified by police as false accusations and this percentage is more than halved when classifications deemed uncertain, primarily because they are not based on an admission by the complainant or strong evidential grounds, are not included.It's time the outrage provoked by the Savile scandal changed the way our media understands and reports sexual abuse. Perhaps the way that the Daily Mail splashed on the "£624 insult to a rape victim" is a sign of changing times. The web has brought welcome light to much of our daily lives. But let's not hide behind the argument that anonymity is just not possible on the web. Let's embrace the few times we as a civilised society decide that it does some good.• This article was amended on 17 December 2012 to clarify statistics on false accusations of rape.