The London offices of the African National Congress were wrecked by a 10-pound bomb which exploded against the rear wall at nine o'clock yesterday morning. Windows up to 400 yards away were shattered.Mr Vernet Mbatha, an ANC voluntary worker, who was sleeping in a flat above the offices was slightly injured. The explosion provoked accusations of South African "dirty tricks," and reports of plots involving rightwing groups and disgruntled former Rhodesian servicemen in London.Police kept the area cordoned off for much of the day after reports that there might be a second device in the offices, in Penton Street, Islington. A police helicopter circled overhead while sniffer dogs were led through the debris. Nothing was found.The ANC is banned in South Africa, where it has been stepping up its military fight against the regime. Anti-apartheid activists in London yesterday blamed the South Africans.Mr Mike Terry, secretary of the Anti-Apartheid Movement. said: "Either directly or indirectly the finger must point to South Africa. We hope this will outrage people in this country and bring home the message that nobody can escape from what is happening in South Africa."Mr Sam Ramsamy, of the South African non-Racial Olympic Committee, which has organised sports boycotts of South Africa, said : "We always anticipate something like this from their dirty tricksters over here. I don't think right-wingers are responsible for this."But the Borough of Islington has been a focus for Right-wing para-military groups in the last year. The National Front's local paper published a "hit list" of 16 local organisations, one of which was subsequently fire-bombed.The Islington Law Centre received a threatening letter from a group calling itself the New English Clan for White Rights. It spoke of mugging and rioting and said the recipient's days were numbered, as were his family's. "You will soon find out what white revenge is all about."In the 1960s, London was be headquarters of the ANC as exiled nationalists fled to Britain. Recently, it has been centred in sympathetic southern African states, and the London office has been devoted to spreading ANC information through Western Europe.[Nine former South African security policemen admitted to the attackat an amnesty hearing of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission held in Pretoria]