The television presenter, Chris Tarrant, has been arrested over an alleged assault in an Indian restaurant in Nottingham, dismissing the claim later as "utter nonsense".Nottinghamshire police refused to name Mr Tarrant, but said a 60-year-old man had been arrested following an incident last night at the MemSaab restaurant in Maid Marian Way in the city. The complaint came after Mr Tarrant threw some cutlery onto another diner's table in "a Tiswas moment", his spokesman said, referring to the anarchic Saturday morning children's TV series the popular radio DJ and long-standing host of TV quiz, Who Wants to be a Millionaire?, presented early in his career.The alleged victim said he was cut on the arm by the piece of cutlery, the spokesman added, but that Mr Tarrant knew nothing of this before four police officers arrived at his hotel later that evening. A police spokeswoman said that shortly after 10pm on Sunday, officers responded to a 999 call from a man in the restaurant who said he had been injured following "an incident with another diner". "Police officers attended and a short time afterwards, a 60-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of assault and taken into custody for questioning. The man has been bailed to a date in June pending further enquiries," she added. Mr Tarrant, speaking later to Sky News, said he had "lobbed, and I stress lobbed" either a napkin or a piece of cutlery onto the table after exchanging good natured banter with a man, who was dining with a woman. While he said he had thrown the item after becoming briefly annoyed at having his meal repeatedly interrupted, Mr Tarrant said he had chatted again with the man afterwards and was completely mystified at the assault allegation. "He was a very nice guy. What his motives are I don't know," he said. "There was no malice at all, just a bit of horseplay, mucking about with a fan." He added: "I've had people come up to me and pour beer over my head, but I don't turn around and smack them. It's part of your life and I accept it, but this one was kind of weird."Mr Tarrant said he only learned of the assault claim when two policemen and two policewomen arrived at his hotel and took him to a police station for questioning. The presenter said he had told the officers the allegation was "nonsense, complete nonsense" and had declined the offer of a solicitor. "I think it [the allegation] will go away quite quickly as there is no substance to it," he added. Mr Tarrant's spokesman said the presenter was at the restaurant with his producer and scriptwriter following three days of filming a show for disabled children and had spent up to 20 minutes chatting with the man before the alleged assault. The spokesman explained: "He [Mr Tarrant] gets to the buffet, picks up his food and cutlery and as he walks back, in a Tiswas moment, he literally lobs his cutlery in the middle of their table for a laugh - because the relationship had evolved. "The man laughs and he goes back and eats his curry." Mr Tarrant said he had drunk one beer and shared a bottle of wine with his dining companions, and denied he had been under particular stress following his recent divorce. The owner of Memsaab, named in the Observer Food Monthly last year as one of the top five curry restaurants in Britain, said he was also puzzled by the allegation."I wasn't here last night. I have spoken to my staff and they told me they didn't notice anything suspicious, nasty or horrible in any way, shape or form," he said.Mr Tarrant separated from his wife, Ingrid, late last year following claims of adultery on his part, and the couple divorced in February. Earlier this month, he was banned from driving for six months after a speeding offence took him over the penalty point limit.