Police are trawling internet traffic and social networking sites in the search for Laura Stainforth, 15, who has been missing for four days with a middle-aged man known to befriend teenagers on MSN Messenger and Facebook.Laura was seen with Rob Williams, 49, at Dover on Thursday, according to a tip-off to police. Interpol is co-ordinating a watch on trains and motorways across Europe.  Laura Stainforth. Photograph: Humberside police/PALaura was reported missing on Wednesday, six hours after she failed to return home from school. She is described as white, and of medium build with dark brown shoulder-length hair in a pony tail.Their last confirmed sighting was on CCTV at Grimsby station on Wednesday, close to Laura's home in Cleethorpes, where she is in her last year at Whitgift comprehensive, which has 740 pupils aged between 11 and 16. Parents there were warned before Christmas that an older man had been targeting girl pupils via MSN before Christmas.Police are examining Laura's computer, which has been taken from her home. They know Williams chatted to her through Facebook for several months.Williams is not thought to have a criminal record but police have traced a wide range of his contacts covering the north of England and Scotland. He is known to use the name Ingram regularly but detectives are not sure why.In the Grimsby video, Laura was wearing a fawn and cream zip-up jacket with light blue jeans and black trainers.Websites are hosting the CCTV video of Laura and Williams at Grimsby station, where they are thought to have boarded a train for Doncaster, changing there for a fast train to London on the east coast mainline.Detective Chief Inspector Sharon Fielding of Humberside police said: "This disappearance is out of character for Laura and her family are worried about her. We are urging anyone who has seen Laura or Mr Williams to contact us and I would like to appeal to them directly to get in touch."Websites based in Cleethorpes and Grimsby are filling with messages backing Laura's parents' appeal for her to get in touch and say where she is. A group called Find Laura Stainforth has recruited more than 110 members on Facebook, where Laura's profile lists Rob Williams among her social networking friends.Her family are too distressed to comment but one of her cousins, Kirsty Williams from Bath, has posted messages on a range of websites saying: "Laura, please get in contact with one of us. We are all very worried about you. No one is angry – we just want you home."Kirsty said yesterday: "I just hope my message does some good. We are all hoping that she will return safely. It is awful but all we can do is think positive and hope for a good outcome." Kirsty's mother, Chrissie Williams, said: "Just come here if you want. Mum and dad won't mind as long as you're safe."We need to know you're okay, we won't get mad or ask questions, just call or text us. We all love you, love." Kirsty's father, Tom Williams, said: "We are all worried about you. Even if you just text one of us to say you are okay. We all miss you."