The mother of a boy accused of assisting the alleged murderer of the schoolboy Rhys Jones broke down in tears today as she told Liverpool crown court how her son had been bullied by gangsters.The mother of Boy M, who cannot be named, said Sean Mercer, 18, had not been to her house for about four months when he arrived after 11-year-old Rhys was shot dead in a pub car park in August last year. The woman told the jury Mercer was joined at the house about 20 minutes later by James Yates, 20, and Nathan Quinn, who turned 18 today and therefore can be named publicly. Boy M, now 16, who at the age of 11 was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, used to "tag along" with Mercer and his gang "like a little lost sheep", Richard Pratt, the boy's barrister, told the court. His mother said: "I told him to stay away from them but he didn't take any notice." Starting to cry, she added: "He would say things without thinking and do things without thinking." The jury was told her son "was afraid of being called a grass", having been beaten up in 2006 for naming members of Mercer's gang, the Croxteth Crew, to police after a shooting incident. Windows of the family home were also smashed at the time.The woman said her son had become reclusive after he was beaten up and had not left the house for two years.He also stopped taking medication for his condition, and was nearly 20 kilos lighter than his normal weight. Her son's memory had worsened and he would become frustrated, angry and unpleasant, she said. The woman told the court Mercer had phoned her son on September 3, when the police were at the house to take her statement. He had also arrived at the family home after his arrest with Dan Forshaw – who, it was "common knowledge", had beaten him up in 2006, she said.Boy M refused to join his six co-defendants in the dock today because he did not want to see his mother give evidence, the jury was told. He denies three counts of assisting an offender - namely, dumping the murder weapon, the bicycle and clothes used during the shooting. Mercer denies murder; his co-accused - James Yates, 20, Gary Kays and Melvin Coy, both 25, Nathan Quinn, 18, and a 17-year-old - deny assisting an offender.