The chief suspect in a murder investigation was found hanged 20 minutes before detectives discovered evidence which would have allowed them to arrest him, police admitted yesterday.Officers had already held Ian Cortis in custody for 78 hours in connection with the disappearance of Amanda Edwards, a childcare assistant. They released him and kept him under surveillance as they began digging at a building site in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, where they believed the body of Ms Edwards, 21, to be buried. But he was found hanging by four dressing gown cords from loft beams at a relative's home a few hours after he was freed. The details emerged after a double inquest into the cases of Cortis, 42, and Ms Edwards, in which a coroner ruled that Cortis had committed suicide after unlawfully killing Ms Edwards. Police revealed that Cortis had been jailed for eight years in 1988 in his native Cornwall. After moving to Wiltshire on his release he was arrested in 1999 for an alleged rape but there was insufficient evidence to prosecute him. In November 2003 - five months before he killed Miss Edwards - he was accused of indecent assault at the nightclub where he worked as a bouncer, but again there was considered to be insufficient evidence to charge him. Ms Edwards, who was a friend of Cortis's wife, Villette, went missing on April 8 last year. Police discovered that she had agreed to meet Cortis to help him with work on his computer on the day she vanished, and he was arrested on April 12. On the late afternoon of April 15, while Cortis remained in custody, tracker dogs drew officers' attention to a spot on a building site where Cortis had worked as a plasterer. A tent was set up over the area and police intended to come back the next day to dig. The maximum period for which police can keep a person in custody is 96 hours, but Cortis was released after 78 hours in the early morning of April 16 as they did not consider they had enough evidence to charge him. He was found hanging at 1.25pm by his mother-in-law, Theresa Tavener. Twenty minutes later at the building site police found a plastic sheet which had contained a new mattress which Cortis bought after the murder. Later when the plastic sheet was removed it was found to contain Miss Edwards' body, her wrists and ankes bound with tape. The body was too decomposed for the cause of death to be established. But pathologist Bruce Purdue told the inquest in Devizes that the fact that the body was naked and the small bruise on Miss Edwards' inner thigh indicated that there might have been a sexual element to her death. Speaking after the inquest Detective Chief Superintendent Paul Howlett, head of Wiltshire CID, said: "Amanda's family will never know what happened to their daughter." But he added: "With hindsight I'm happy I made the right decisions." The case puts Wiltshire police back in the spotlight a week after they admitted making mistakes in the investigation of the murder of Hayley Richards in Trowbridge. But a review by the police watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Commission, cleared the force of any wrongdoing.