Detectives are investigating claims that a boy the same age as Damilola Taylor may have been responsible for the 10-year-old's murder in an attempt to win 'ratings' - points scored for the number of wounds inflicted on other children.The disclosure, which will heighten concerns about the violent youth culture in Britain's sink estates, comes as an Observer investigation reveals the staggering scale of the use of knives among young Britons, many of whom believe they must arm themselves to survive. In inner-city housing estates where childhoods are scarred by parental abuse and neglect, drugs, crime, failing schools and under-resourced social services, youths are arming themselves with a remarkable array of knives. In Peckham, where Damilola was found dying from stab wounds to his leg 10 days ago, knives are so common that youngsters hide blades behind brickwork or in liftshafts - within easy reach should unforeseen circumstances arise. Police searching the immediate area where Damilola was stabbed found four knives, none of which is thought to be the murder weapon. In the Metropolitan area crimes involving the use of knives leapt from 13,184 in 1998/99 to 15,527 in 1999/00. For 18-year-old Robbie, a father-of-one living in Peckham, knives and knife fights are a part of everyday life. 'You carry a weapon even if you don't want to use it. You get a tool just in case,' said Robbie, whose personal 'ratings' made him a VIP, a leader among youths and a veteran of many stabbings. Robbie took The Observer for a tour of north Peckham, ending at Hordle West, the ugly concrete block where Damilola tried to escape his attackers, crawling up a decaying stairwell where he was found, bleeding to death, by demolition workers. Robbie shook his head as he stared down the stairwell to the recently scrubbed dusty concrete landing. He has his own theory about who killed the schoolboy. 'I know it's a young, young kid,' said Robbie. 'It makes me sick. Ten-year-olds stabbing 10-year-olds. Man, that's too young. When you're 13, 14, you maybe make a little kid like that run, a little kid who do his schoolwork and be nice to his mum, but stabbing him will get you no respect. 'But younger boys want to see what the older boys doing. The people be saying "we smashed up a youth" then the little ones want to have a go. 'When the young ones start stabbing, they stab in the leg, most famous as a safe place to stab. When I started stabbing, I stab in the leg. You're young, you're frightened at what you're doing, you don't really want to do it. 'Older, you stab in throat, belly. I wanted a name. I knew I had to start stabbing when I was 13, 14.' Robbie, whose single mother 'tried to work to take care of me', was excluded from school at 12 for swearing at a teacher. He had not learnt to read or write and carved a living through extortion and cannabis dealing. 'Mostly all you want is to chill, smoke some weed, see some girls. Some robbing up west. Maybe 40 of us crash into a shop take what we get and run again, maybe one gets caught, so what? 'But there is always someone with a stinking attitude and then you have to sort it out. And girls call out they want the bad boys and the young ones want to impress.' He also dismisses theories that Damilola interrupted a crack deal or that racism was a motive. 'Most of the crack dealers around here don't smoke it, they just deal it. They not off their heads, they are not going to be standing out here. Class A drugs are not smart with the kids round here, you know. 'Even the Yardies that sell drugs in Peckham, they tell little kids to run on home. Racism is not a fighting thing in Peckham. I've got African brethren and you might be saying "stupid African, stupid rice and peas Jamaican" but we all mix. You'd be surprised how many white boys mingling,' he said. But it's not just in south London that children are picking up the violent culture of the knife. In the North End estates of Birkenhead, gangs of youths, many still in their teens, have reduced other residents to prisoners in their homes. Many of the young boys carry knives and often engage in fights on the streets in this slum area of Merseyside, dubbed 'Birkenhell'. Between stretches of wasteland, stand isolated groups of houses, most with boarded up windows, some burnt out by the youths that prowl the streets at night. 'You don't dare go out at night. They are so young but they are not afraid of anything,' said Doris Jones, 60, who was recently threatened by a gang of young boys ransacking a delivery van outside her home in broad daylight. The child gangs are so vicious that workmen on the estate laying a sewage pipe earlier this year had to build special escape tunnels if they came under attack. Some youths even poured lighter fuel into their diggings and tried to set them on fire. In another attack they rammed a stolen car into the base of a crane and tried to set it ablaze even though there were terrified labourers still working on it. Eventually the workers had to hire private security and put up signs saying 'Danger! Beware of children in this area.' On one of the walls a mis-spelt graffito seems to sum up the despair. 'Merry Exmas?,' it reads. In Manchester's infamous Moss Side district, youths have become so enamoured of the drugs culture that when Martin Bennett, a convicted drugs trafficker with strong links to the local crime scene, was shot dead in a street, they turned the spot into a makeshift shrine. In Newcastle's roughest estates, the arson of cars and buildings by youngsters is now so common that local police and the fire brigade have set up a task force to tackle the problem in an area with one of the highest arson rates in Europe. In Peckham the problems are not so visual. No one is rioting. The damaged and desperate children who stab each other under cover of darkness could long have gone unnoticed had not a 10-year-old Nigerian boy from a decent family died on a lonely stairwell.