Police have charged a second man after a vicious burglary in Wimbledon left a 55-year-old university lecturer requiring surgery for a fractured eye socket.The 23-year-old was charged with grievous bodily harm and aggravated burglary and was due to appear at Wimbledon magistrates court on Thursday morning. A 32-year-old man appeared in court on Wednesday facing the same charges.Police are still looking for two men who fled when police arrived as the burglary was taking place on Monday night. Both are believed to be aged between 20 and 30.The four men who carried out the burglary are all thought to be Polish.Police said they would like to speak to anyone who saw a silver Volkswagen two-door cabriolet style car that is thought to have been used by the suspects.The violent assault in the upmarket neighbourhood near South Park Gardens took place just before 10pm when Paul Kohler, a prominent legal academic and senior lecturer at Soas, University of London, answered the door. Four smartly dressed men wearing balaclavas forced their way into the house repeatedly shouting: "Where's the money?"His 50-year-old wife was threatened by two men who attempted to tape her down to a chair. Their son and daughter, who are in their 20s, were upstairs at the time and managed to lock themselves in before dialling 999. Officers arrived within minutes and arrested two men, one in the house and one in a street nearby. The two others ran off, one towards Wimbledon town centre. It is not known where the fourth man went.A number of stolen items were recovered after being discarded by the suspects. A large kitchen knife was also recovered close to the scene. Police said the family were "distraught" and could not understand why they had been targeted."The level of violence used was extreme and has left a victim seriously injured and traumatised," said DI Dan O'Sullivan of Merton burglary squad. "The fast response to the 999 call ensured that two suspects were apprehended and the victim could receive immediate first aid. I must stress that this appears to be an isolated incident, and such cases are thankfully rare."Kohler underwent surgery to his eye and treatment for facial injuries, as well as bruising to the body and limbs.Professor Richard Black, acting director of Soas, University of London, said: "The entire Soas community is extremely shocked by these events. Our thoughts and best wishes are with Paul and his family after this appalling incident."Anyone with information is urged to call the incident room on 020 8649 3159; Or if you wish to remain anonymous call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.