The imposing red-brick home, in an exclusive cul-de-sac in the Leicestershire village of Rothley, lies empty now. The grass is kept cut by neighbours. The kitchen table is piled high with unread letters from wellwishers around the world. One of them is addressed simply: 'To Madeleine, the little girl missing.'The window shades in 'The Orchard' - home to four-year-old Madeleine McCann, her two-year-old twin siblings Sean and Amelie, and parents Gerry and Kate - are drawn. All but one. It reveals a ground-floor windowsill brimming with cuddly toys, awaiting the return of a little beaming, blonde girl snatched from her bed on a family holiday in Portugal 100 days ago on Saturday.With the approach next weekend of that latest painful milestone, Kate has spoken for the first time of the final few hours before her daughter's kidnapping on the evening of 3 May in the holiday resort of Praia da Luz. 'Mummy,' she recalled Madeleine's bedtime words in a choked near-whisper, 'I've had the best day ever! I'm having lots and lots of fun!' Barely two hours later, Kate returned from dinner with friends at a tapas restaurant about 100 yards from their holiday flat to discover that Madeleine was gone. 'I was screaming her name,' Kate recalled. It was just total fear... panic and fear.'The initial jolt may have passed. But in two very different villages, one a few miles outside Leicester in the Midlands and the other on the sun-scorched Algarve coast, the painful sense of Madeleine's absence was powerfully in evidence last week.Rothley's main square, centring on a gated war memorial, seemed strangely quiet - and empty. In the days following Madeleine's disappearance, the landlady at the pub opposite, the Royal Oak, caught the villagers' mood perfectly and organised a display of dozens of yellow ribbons around the five tall trees which encircle the tiny park.In the weeks that followed, the dozens grew to hundreds. Wellwishers - first from the village, then from Leicester and London, and finally from all over the world - descended to add their handwritten messages of support. Dozens of cuddly toys soon covered the pavement and the benches.Yet the weeks have since stretched on without any sign of Madeleine's return. Heavy recent rains left the toys limp and waterlogged. And some villagers became increasingly alarmed over what last Friday's Leicester Mercury, the local newspaper, dubbed 'grief tourists'.With Gerry signalling his support, a decision was taken to find a more low-key way of demonstrating Rothley's shared sadness over the McCanns' ordeal. The toys have been washed, packaged and donated to children's charities.A single symbolic yellow-and-green ribbon now adorns each of the trees around the park. A small candle in Madeleine's honour burns in front of the memorial.Still, in The Crescent, the quiet road a mile away which has been home to the McCanns for the past year and a half, the sense of private loss still clearly runs deep. 'We so miss the hoots and hollers of joy from the kids and Kate and Gerry when the weather was nice,' remarked Brian Davinson, a retired local businessman who with his wife Jane are the family's nearest neighbours. 'I still remember,' he said smiling, 'Gerry, with his commanding voice, assembling the big swing-set that is in the back garden. It feels so strange without them here.'More than 1,100 miles away, on the Portuguese coast, Kate confided last week: 'I'm not sure if I'll ever be able to go back into our family home. I can't bear the thought of it... We have so many happy memories in that house.' Then, after a pause, she added: 'Madeleine's room is shocking pink! She chose the colour.' It seemed a rare admission - away from the relentlessly 'positive' focus that she and Gerry have sought to bring to the worldwide campaign to bring Madeleine home - that the worst may have happened to her daughter. 'I still have moments of panic and fear,' Kate said, holding back tears. 'It's not as intense and unrelenting as the first five days. Now, obviously, we have hope - and it's important to hold on to that.' Doing so cannot have been easy. In the weeks since Madeleine's disappearance, Portugal's largest-ever police investigation - backed by forces throughout Europe, North Africa and beyond - has thrown up repeated leads that have turned into dead-ends, 'sightings' that were later dismissed, hopes raised and then dashed. The most recent, last week, came in Belgium. A children's therapist told police she was '100 per cent sure' she had seen the missing girl sitting at a restaurant table with an English-speaking woman and a Dutch man in a small town near Maastricht. Local police have said that they are treating the sighting 'very seriously'. In Portugal, the response was more circumspect. One senior detective working on the case said: 'Of course, we hope it is for real. But there have been so many reports like this.' The man in charge of the investigation, Inspector Olegario Sousa, was non-committal, but slightly more upbeat. The key, he said, would be in the DNA tests Belgian labs were doing on a bottle from which the little girl was sipping a soft drink - expected in the next few days. There has been only one public sign of a possible breakthrough. It came less than two weeks after Madeleine went missing, and it involved the 33-year-old son of one of the leading lights in Praia da Luz's closely knit British expatriate community. Robert Murat lives with his mother, Jenny, barely 50 yards down the road from the McCanns' holiday flat and had been pitching in as a translator in the Portuguese police's questioning of witnesses. On 15 May, he was formally declared an arguido, or formal suspect - a status he retains under Portuguese law throughout the investigation until he is either released or charged. Though he has been questioned several times since, detectives said privately last week there was still no forensic evidence linking him to Madeleine's disappearance and no 'imminent' sign of whether he would eventually be charged. Kate and Gerry, meanwhile, have signalled their determination to continue to keep their daughter's plight in the public eye. They travelled to Spain last week to help distribute a new series of posters in the hope that local residents and the summer influx of tourists might provide what Gerry recently called the 'one phone call' that might bring their daughter back home safely. For Kate, who has made only a few brief trips away from Praia da Luz since Madeleine's disappearance, the main focus has been on caring for the twins. 'They know she's not there, and they do miss her,' Kate said, confiding last week that at times a passing comment from Sean or Amelie about their missing sister 'catches me in the throat'. Recalling her first visit back to Britain since the kidnapping, for a family christening in mid-July, she recalled boarding the plane with the twins. 'There was an empty seat on the plane and Sean said: "That's Madeleine's seat."' Amelie, she added, will occasionally make a sudden reference to Cuddle Cat - the pink soft toy, Madeleine's favourite, which Kate now keeps almost constantly at her side. 'Amelie will point at Cuddle Cat and say: "Madeleine. Her Cuddle Cat. Looking after it." She's probably heard me saying that.' Gerry, for his part, has been concentrating on explaining and expanding awareness of the 'Madeleine campaign' worldwide - most recently at the White House, where he met aides of the First Lady, Laura Bush. 'Gerry's way of coping is to keep busy and focused,' Kate reflected. 'He's a very optimistic, positive person.' Alan Pike, brought in by Mark Warner from the Yorkshire-based Centre for Crisis Psychology to help the McCanns within days of Madeleine's disappearance, said last week that he was heartened by how well both Gerry and Kate were coping. Yet even Gerry, he said, 'like most people who go through an abduction, find that positive thinking is something very, very difficult to sustain 24/7.' The forthcoming 100-day 'anniversary,' he added, would be particularly difficult for both parents. Any such milestone 'gives rise to a lot of the physical reactions associated with the early days - the shock, the feelings of anger and the helplessness and, in this case, a lot of the feelings of guilt'. He said: 'The hope is what keeps them going... But there are still those bad days - what Gerry has referred to as the dark places - and they are not pleasant.'The search3 May: Madeleine McCann disappears just days short of her fourth birthday11 May: Businessman Stephen Winyard offers a £1m reward for information15 May: Briton Robert Murat is named as an arguido, or formal suspect30 May: Gerry and Kate McCann travel to the Vatican to meet the Pope12 June: The McCanns visit Morocco following a possible sighting15 June: Police search a field nine miles from Praia da Luz but find nothing29 June: A couple are arrested for trying to extort money from the McCanns, falsely claiming to know where she is.