Boy George faces a possible jail term after being convicted of falsely imprisoning a male escort.The jury returned a guilty verdict today after two days of deliberations.During the trial, Snaresbrook crown court heard that the 46-year-old admitted to police he handcuffed Audun Carlsen, 29, to the wall at his flat in Shoreditch, east London, on April 28 last year while he investigated alleged tampering with his computer.The singer, who was tried under his real name, George O'Dowd, accused Carlsen of taking photos from the laptop that were shot by O'Dowd three months earlier when the pair first met.He denied punching or assaulting Carlsen, a Norwegian, or swinging a metal chain at the escort as he fled the flat after a naked photo shoot. He suggested to police that the bruises Carlsen had sustained could have been due to HIV.The court was shown photographs of deep red welts on Carlsen's head and injuries to his arm, all of which he said had been inflicted by O'Dowd.O'Dowd said in his interview with police that he could not account for the injuries. He did not give evidence during the trial and denied one count of false imprisonment.He looked grim as the foreman of the jury delivered the verdict. He spoke only to confirm that he understood the new condition of his bail – that he live and sleep at an address that was tendered on a piece of paper.The judge, David Radford, called for a pre-sentence report. He said: "This is a case where custody is the more likely option."He told O'Dowd: "The fact that your bail is being continued does not imply that this will be dealt with by a non-custodial sentence. I don't want any false expectations created."The judge was told O'Dowd had previous convictions for going equipped for theft as a juvenile in 1977, and for a class B drugs arrest 10 years later. He had been accused of wasting police time in New York recently.The singer is due to be sentenced on January 16. He left the court without speaking to waiting reporters.During the trial, his defence barrister, Adrian Waterman QC, told the jury in his closing statement that the argument was whether Carlsen had stolen photographs and "in doing that, messed up George O'Dowd's computer".He said the suggestion that the singer had concocted the story about computer tampering because Carlsen refused to have sex with O'Dowd during their first meeting was "entire fantasy or a lie".Carlsen told the jury that O'Dowd performed unprotected oral sex on him for five seconds at their first meeting while the escort sat naked in a chair.O'Dowd told police he was annoyed about that claim, saying: "I'd never have slept with someone who is HIV-positive."The pair made contact on Gaydar, a social networking website primarily for gay and bisexual men.The prosecuting barrister, Heather Norton, said the men's first meeting seemed to be going well until the singer began to suspect Carlsen of hacking into his computer.They parted on good terms and the singer paid Carlsen £300 of the £400 they had agreed.In the weeks that followed they exchanged emails in which the singer accused Carlsen of breaking into his computer system.In later emails the singer said he would be "perfectly happy to see you naked asap". He referred to Carlsen's "heavenly butt" and eventually they agreed to meet for a second time.Carlsen said that during their second meeting things took a violent turn. After calling Carlsen into his bedroom, O'Dowd and another man leapt on him, wrestled him to the floor and started beating him.He told the court that during the attack O'Dowd screamed: "Fucking whore! Now you're going to get what you deserve."He told the court that he was dragged along the floor towards the bed and a manacle was put on his right hand and attached to a hook drilled into the wall.After the second man left, Carlsen told the court, O'Dowd brought out a plastic box containing chains, sex toys and leather straps.Carlsen said he used the handcuffs as a tool to unscrew the hook from the wall. He ran to the door with O'Dowd lashing out at him with a metal chain.He managed to escape and ran out on to the street wearing only underwear screaming for help.O'Dowd told police: "I asked him to come [back to my flat] because I wanted to find out if this guy had borrowed my stuff."I got a friend there because I wanted to make sure he didn't leave so I could check the computer and his phone. The friend was just there in case he tried to stab me or take a hammer to me."He said Carlsen "struggled a bit" when he was handcuffing him "because he realised I wasn't messing around"."I didn't tell him the reason I was doing what I was doing. I said I just wanted to check something. He was saying 'let me go'."He denied to police he had called Carlsen a whore, saying: "My boyfriend is an escort. Why would I call him a whore?"If I was going to beat him up, I would have got my friend to beat him up with me, if I was going to do anything that vile."