The embattled chief constable of Humberside, David Westwood, was suspended last night after the home secretary won the high court battle over his future.The decision followed a high court injunction granted by Mr Justice Stanley Burnton which ended the Humberside police authority's 10 days of defiance of David Blunkett's instruction to suspend Mr Westwood. The ruling resolved the clash between the government and local police authorities triggered by the Bichard report into the Soham murders, by confirming that power over the police remains firmly at the centre.The report identified "shocking failings" by Humberside police, including their failure to identify Ian Huntley as a serial sex attacker. The local police authority battled to keep the chief constable in office until the last possible moment. An emergency meeting of the authority in Hull yesterday morning confirmed its refusal to obey Mr Blunkett's instruction and renewed its backing for Mr Westwood to keep his job. But the high court injunction ordering his suspension was granted after Home Office lawyers accused the police authority of "flouting the law" and making an unedifying spectacle of itself for refusing to comply with its express legal duty. The high court judge agreed: "In my judgment it is clear the secretary of state validly exercised his power. It follows the police authority has been in default of its statutory duty in either refusing to suspend the chief constable or deferring any action." Mr Westwood's suspension will trigger an independent inquiry into his future after which Mr Blunkett will decide whether or not he should be dismissed. It will take evidence from Mr Westwood and Humberside police authority. His suspension will be reviewed every month by Mr Blunkett and in the meantime the deputy chief constable, Steve Love, will take over his duties. In court the police authority's lawyers argued that Mr Blunkett should have based his judgment on the level of public confidence in Mr Westwood in Humberside alone, and public opinion of the force elsewhere was irrelevant. "The local people are on the spot and know far more about whether it is an effective and efficient force for the people of Humberside," said Elizabeth Appleby QC. But the judge dismissed that argument, saying that especially in the case of the Soham murders, which happened in Cambridgeshire, it would be wrong only to consider the impact of an ineffective police force on public confidence in its own area. Outside the court Mr Westwood's solicitor, Stephen Parkinson, accepted the chief constable had been suspended. "The authority has no option but to comply. Mr Westwood is grateful for the confidence shown in him by the Humberside police authority but as a result of the home secretary's action he is suspended with immediate effect," he said. The presence of Mr Blunkett's political adviser in court indicated how high the stakes had become and the home secretary was jubilant at the outcome. "I am very pleased the court has established that our interpretation of the law was absolutely correct and that Humberside police authority should have abided by my requirement for suspension from the beginning." He now wanted a "proper and full response" from Humberside police authority on the issues raised in the Bichard report on the force's serious failings during the Soham inquiry that "should have begun 10 days ago". But the Liberal Democrats said the ruling had changed forever the relationship between police authorities and the home secretary over who runs policing in Britain. "Mr Blunkett should not see this as a green light to take more power to the centre. He should now focus on addressing the very serious complaints made about the Home Office," said the Lib Dems' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten.