Two men "in the thrall" of triple-murderer Joanna Dennehy who were her "willing accomplices" have been convicted of offences related to her killing spree.Gary Stretch and Leslie Layton were "manipulated" by Dennehy, described as a "sadistic serial killer with a fearsome personality" who murdered warehouse worker Lukasz Slaboszewski, 31, her landlord and boss Kevin Lee, 48, and her housemate John Chapman, 56, in and around Peterborough over a 10-day period.Dennehy, 31, one of the UK's most high-profile killers, had previously pleaded guilty to the murders as well as admitting the attempted murders of two dog-walkers, John Rogers and Robin Bereza, who were strangers to her, and preventing the lawful and decent burial of her victims.Stretch, 47, was found guilty on Wednesday at Cambridge crown court of the attempted murder of Bereza, while Layton, 36, was convicted of preventing the lawful burial of two murder victims. Prosecutors said the men, who had already been found guilty of other offences relating to Dennehy's attacks, "revelled in bringing suffering and misery upon their victims and showed no remorse for their atrocious acts".All three await sentencing along with Robert Moore, 55, from Peterborough, who previously admitted assisting an offender. DCI Martin Brunning, who led the investigation, said after the hearing: "Three men were brutally murdered in Peterborough and two men were stabbed in West Mercia. Today their killer and her willing accomplices have now been brought to justice."Joanna Dennehy is a sadistic 'serial killer' with a fearsome personality. She manipulated these men into doing things she wanted. I am relieved she is facing a substantial period of time behind bars."Chris McCann, from the Crown Prosecution Service, said: "Stretch, Layton and Moore were in the thrall of triple-murderer Joanna Dennehy. They revelled in bringing suffering and misery upon their victims and showed no remorse for their atrocious acts. The fact that Leslie Layton photographed one of the deceased victims is testament to the warped nature of these crimes and those that committed them."  Joanna Dennehy posing with a knife shortly after some of the murders. Though slight, she had a reputation as someone not to cross. Photograph: Cambridgeshire Police/PADuring the trial of her accomplices Dennehy, from Peterborough, was compared to a character in a Shakespearean tragedy in which an evil deed – her first killing – triggers a series of other violent crimes.She was said to have revelled in the violence and enjoyed the notoriety of being Britain's most wanted person. While on the run, she compared herself and Stretch to the US robbers Bonnie and Clyde.Raised in Harpenden, Hertfordshire, she was a bright and capable schoolgirl whose parents Kevin, a security guard, and Kathleen, a shop worker, hoped would go to university and become a lawyer. But she came off the rails, had two children in her teens and became estranged from her family. A long-term user of drugs and alcohol, who sometimes turned to prostitution to fund her habit, she drifted around East Anglia, served time in prison and received some treatment for mental-health problems. She has been diagnosed as suffering from paraphilia sadomasochism, a condition in which sexual excitement is derived from pain and humiliation.Prosecutors said she "cast a spell" over her accomplices and some of her victims as she killed "for fun".Shortly before his death, Lee likened her to "Uma Thurman from Kill Bill and the woman from the Terminator". Chapman, another victim, had called her the "man woman" because of her intimidating nature. All of the murder victims died from multiple stab injuries.After the Peterborough killings, Dennehy and Stretch drove 140 miles across the country to Hereford, where the diagnosed psychopath randomly selected and repeatedly stabbed dog-walkers Bereza and Rogers in the street. Both survived despite suffering critical injuries.  Dennehy's victims: Lukasz Slaboszewski, Kevin Lee and John Chapman. Photograph: PA/SWNSOn Monday, jurors at Cambridge crown court found Stretch guilty of three counts of preventing the lawful burial of a body and another count of attempted murder on Rogers in Hereford on 2 April.Layton was also found guilty of perverting the course of justice.A statement on behalf of Lee's widow, Christina, and family said: "This tragedy has shaken our lives to the core and we are devastated about how Kevin's life came to an end." Chapman's family thanked Cambridgeshire police, "in particular DCI Martin Brunning and his team for their resolve, dedication and long hours of hard work in bringing this sad case to a close."