On Wednesday at PMQs Theresa May claimed that this government has a “very good record on domestic violence”. I’m not certain what record she is referring to, but it’s not one that I recognise.In the United Kingdom, on average, two women are killed by their current partner or a former partner every week. Children lose their mother, a sibling loses their sister, a woman loses her life, at the hands of (in the main) male violence every three or so days.Violent crimes against women in England and Wales reach record high Domestic violence and violence against women have increased rapidly between 2009 and 2014, pushing up overall levels of violent crime. Analysis of ONS crime statistics in England and Wales from 2009 onwards shows an increase in domestic violence and violence against women perpetrated by their acquaintances. Violence against women by strangers remains level, and violence against men continues to fall.Simply put, women are bearing the brunt of violent crime in England and Wales, and it is being carried out against them by the people who are closest to them. This doesn’t sound like a record the prime minister should be proud of.As well as making baseless claims of success, this government has chosen to pull the safety net from beneath the feet of women escaping violence. While Theresa May was home secretary, women’s services saw their funding shrink rapidly. Between 2010 and 2012, a third of local authority funding to domestic and sexual violence services was cut. The result? A third of all referrals to refuges are turned away.Since 2010, we have lost 17% of specialist refuges in England. These safe havens are often run by survivors of domestic violence, who understand the dynamics of abuse in the different communities they work in. The impact on refuges for black and minority ethnic women in particular has been devastating. Specialist refuges simply cannot compete with the local authority tendering processes, which are forced to value cost-per-bed over all other criteria.This government may believe that the free market is everything, but women’s services can’t be run in competition; they are a basic human right, a vital safety net and a literal lifeline for every woman who uses them.Not all men commit abuse against women. But all must condemn it | Owen Jones The government could intervene to support refuges, but they chose not to. Refuges rely on housing benefit to cover a large proportion of their housing costs – in some cases, over 90% of rent and other eligible service charges. But Conservative ministers last year announced that this housing benefit would be capped, and for months have refused to exclude refuges from this cap, despite the fact they take just a tiny fraction of the funding.Yesterday, Theresa May signalled they might finally back down on this, but people will ask why it has taken so many months for this to happen – months in which the uncertainty over funding has already caused big problems for refuges and those who rely on them.If the government does go ahead with this cut, we will see more refuges closed, more lifesaving services decimated and more women left without hope of safety. Theresa May oversaw the launch of the government’s much-lauded violence against women strategy in her time as home secretary. But promises made, such as a National Statement of Expectations in which local authorities provide domestic violence refuges, are yet to materialise.The prime minister’s rhetoric might sound good, but words don’t offer safety to a woman fleeing an abusive partner – and they certainly don’t prevent the murders of two women a week. On that record, Theresa May is failing.