So porridge is no longer on the menu in British prisons. A sad day for old lags for sure. How we loved to queue on cold winter mornings in anticipation of a large steaming ladle of the stuff. And on warm summer mornings too, of course.In fact every single day of the year the one thing that could be guaranteed in an often bleak and uncertain existence was that porridge would be served for breakfast. "No matter what happens, lads, at least we've got porridge!"A friend of mine working in the prison kitchen told us once that the bags the porridge came in were stamped Canadian Pig Meal, Grade 3. It didn't put anybody off. I'm not saying it was the most delicious foodstuff I've ever tasted. But I can attest to a sense of satisfaction as the slop eased its way slowly down the throat like a portion of warm lava.It was prison comfort food, reassuring and heartening. And it was nutritious. An interesting combination of carbohydrates and fibre made it a healthy option long before such notions became fashionable. It provided energy and helped keep cholesterol levels in check. And practical uses included being the perfect substance for sticking up posters of glamour models or photos of loved ones on cell walls.Superstitious cons would always insist on eating a full bowl on their last morning. "If you don't you'll be back for it," went the old saying. "Doing porridge" was as familiar a slang term for doing time as "doing bird" (I can't see "doing cornflakes" catching on.)But there is a serious side to the demise of the prison staple. One of the reasons given is that "society" no longer eats a hot breakfast. Is that true? Has there been a demographic study?The fact is, porridge has been replaced with a small bag of cereals and a third of a pint of milk. This feast is issued the evening before the morning it is meant for. It means the prisoner has to be strong-willed enough not to look upon the breakfast as supper during the 12-hour bang-up at night. Eating a treat can provide a little light relief from the pain of a night's confinement; easy then to understand why many succumb.If the Prison Service is arguing that it is following a social trend by serving a cold breakfast, how can it countenance serving breakfast in the evening?Porridge is now big in the outside world. I didn't think I'd ever eat it out here. But I do. Made with skimmed milk, a teaspoon of honey and topped with pine nuts, it makes for an ideal start to the day.I say give the prisoners back their porridge, and give them pine nuts and honey. And give it to them in the morning.· Erwin James is a former life sentence prisoner and Guardian columnist