Three appeal court judges are to view BBC television news coverage of the summer riots before they decide whether any of the sentences handed down were excessive.Their decision to review the broadcasts was announced as they began considering the first cases to come before the court since the August disturbances.Nine men and one woman are appealing against what their lawyers allege was the "manifestly excessive" length of their custodial sentences. None are challenging their convictions.Only three of the appellants, Lorriane McGrane, Enrico Vanasco and Hassan Koyuncu, appeared in court.Two of the men, Jordan Blackshaw from Northwich and Perry Sutcliffe from Warrington, had posted notices on Facebook inviting people to participate in riots in their home towns. Both received four years in prison.Gareth Roberts, representing Blackshaw, said the judge imposing the sentence "had failed to consider the leading authorities in relation to riot sentences [set] following the Bradford riots [in 2001] where sentences of four years were given to those carrying crossbows and wielding scaffolding poles."But the lord chief justice, Lord Judge, implied that the appeal court viewed this summer's disturbances as more serious because they were far more widespread."[The Bradford cases] are not guideline cases," he said. "The Bradford riots were confined to Bradford. One of our concerns is that these were nationwide. At the moment we are inclined to consider that we should take that into consideration."On reviewing television news, Judge explained that the judges said that they were planning only to watch material that had already been broadcast. Because they have not yet seen it, they would not be able to return any judgments on Tuesday.Among the ten cases before them is that of Stephen Carter who received 16 months in prison for picking up a bag of clothes hidden in bushes during Manchester's riots. The clothes had been looted from nearby shops.He had committed the offence, his counsel, Helen Richardson said, within the sight of police officers. Sentencing for offences of dishonesty were "disproportionately enhanced," she told the court. "The premium added for offences of dishonesty [as opposed to violence] was too high in the circumstances."Another appellant, David Beswick, is appealing against his sentence arguing that it was too high. He had been caught with a TV in his car. He told the police at the time that if his vehicle had not run out of petrol, it "might have been a different story".The hearing continues.