No real motive ever emerged during the trial of Harold Shipman as to why a respected family doctor, with 3,100 patients, would systematically kill 15 of his patients and then claim they had each died a natural death.In all but one of the cases the murders seemed so pointless. None of the victims was wealthy. Shipman had nothing to gain from killing them. The only exception was when he clumsily forged the will of wealthy former mayoress Kathleen Grundy, making himself the only beneficiary of her £386,000 fortune. In all the other cases, there was no obvious reason why he killed his patients.The only clue to his murderous behaviour emerged at the opening of the trial, when prosecuting counsel Richard Henriques QC suggested that Shipman killed the 15 women because he enjoyed doing so."He was exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death," he told Preston crown court. "He repeated it so often that he must have found the drama of taking life to his taste."Shipman, a married father of four, had practised in the Hyde area since 1977 and he had run a solo practice there since 1992.He had been stockpiling diamorphine for eight years from patients for whom he prescribed the drug. Then he injected lethal doses of diamorphine into the arms of 15 of his patients, killing them almost instantly.His first victim was Maria West, whom he murdered in 1995. He struck once in 1996, before murdering seven patients in 1997 and six more in the first six months of 1998.During police interviews, Shipman was consistent in the lies he told. In three cases, he claimed that the women had phoned the surgery in Market Street, Hyde, complaining of chest pains. Telephone records showed that no such calls had been made.He told relatives that he had called ambulances, but further checks of phone records showed this to be false. Shipman altered his patients' medical records so it would appear that the women had chronic health problems, to support the false cause of death he printed on death certificates.In police interviews, he denied stockpiling diamorphine and said that he did not keep the drug or carry it. Yet again he was tripped up when a carrier bag full of the drug was found in his house.Lie after lie was exposed by the prosecution, but in court Shipman continued to protest his innocence.The court heard how Shipman killed his first victim, Maria West, minutes after she had made a cup of tea for her friend Marion Hadfield. He seemed surprised when he walked into the kitchen and found Mrs Hadfield standing there quietly.He took another risk when he murdered Ivy Lomas in his surgery and proceeded to treat three more patients before announcing that she had died. He later joked with a police sergeant who was called to the surgery that he considered Mrs Lomas such a nuisance that part of the seating should be reserved for her.In the end he was exposed by his sheer arrogance. But why he changed from caring doctor to cold-hearted serial killer is an enduring mystery.