Three days after the man Tracy Shelvey had accused of rape was cleared, the 41-year-old former fitness instructor stepped off the roof of a central Manchester shopping centre and fell to her death. She had testified twice against her alleged attacker during protracted court hearings and friends said she had been distraught when she heard news of his acquittal.One of her closest friends revealed that Shelvey had found the experience of court alarming and traumatising and had complained that she had not been well supported by the police either initially or when the first trial collapsed and a retrial was ordered. Police said she had been "angry and upset" after the verdict. Officers tried to talk her down from the shopping centre roof, but were unsuccessful.Her death in February crystallised for many a growing sense that the criminal justice system offers a dismal service to those who go through it as apparent victims. One of those with reservations was the former director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer.The tragic episode came as Starmer began work on how to improve a criminal justice system he believes is "barely fit for purpose for victims". In the past few weeks he has started drafting a "victim's law", working in conjunction with Lady Lawrence, Stephen Lawrence's mother, which Labour has promised to pass if elected.Starmer's work feels timely as a spate of trials involving historic abuse cases come to court, including the conviction of the presenter Stuart Hall and the acquittal of the actor William Roache. His determination to improve the system was inspired by the cases he came into contact with during five years as director of public prosecutions, when he became increasingly concerned about the way victims were treated by the courts and convinced that the system was not working for them. It is an initiative that follows on from work done by Labour's victims' commissioner, Louise Casey, and the current government's publication of a Victims' Code, but Starmer describes these earlier improvements as "bolt-ons" to a faltering system and is aiming for a more comprehensive approach. Victims, or their friends and families, who have recently had scarring experiences as they pushed cases through the criminal justice system, have welcomed the campaign for reform.Starmer isn't at the stage of making recommendations yet, and will hold his first victims' taskforce seminar on 7 April, but he has a clear analysis of the key problems.He is troubled by how few victims of sexual crimes come forward and hopes to make changes to the system that will make reporting a crime less onerous. He is particularly struck by the tiny percentage of people who came forward to make allegations of abuse against Jimmy Savile during his lifetime.The Yewtree team (working to investigate Savile's crimes) reported that after interviewing 600 people in two months, 450 made allegations about Savile, and officers decided there were 224 recordable offences, Starmer says. "None of the people that they interviewed had ever come forward to the police. As far as I know only four people did come forward during Jimmy Savile's lifetime. That is a remarkable statistic – less than 2% of all the women who subsequently made reports," he says."The overwhelming majority didn't. The Yewtree team asked them why they didn't come forward, and they said, two things. First: they didn't think they would be believed; second: they didn't think that the criminal justice system could cope with them."He is also concerned about the difficulties victims face once they decide to report a crime, particularly if they do not resemble a model victim, according to age-old preconceptions about how victims should behave."What happens if you do come forward? Historically in these cases you have been subject to a number of assumptions about how real victims behave," he says.A series of recent so-called grooming cases, incidents of gang-based sexual violence, including most notoriously the 2012 Rochdale case, have taken years to get to successful prosecutions. In a lot of those cases there had been a previous decision not to prosecute, despite victims having come forward to make complaints.Starmer called up the files to study why a decision not to prosecute had been taken. "What I unearthed was that both the police and prosecutors were assessing a victim's credibility according to a number of tests which I thought were questionable."There were rules of thumb such as: did the victim come forward straight away? If yes: more credible; if no: less credible. Did the victim give a coherent account first time? If yes: more credible; if no: less credible. Did the victim go back to the perpetrator? Was the victim affected by drink or drugs? Was the victim herself involved in crime?"Using those tests, the conclusion in many of the cases, was that the victim wasn't credible enough to put forward. The more we study the group of individuals who are victims, particularly in grooming cases, the more it becomes obvious that they have the characteristics which would fail those tests. Therefore, almost the more vulnerable you are, the less likely you are to be considered credible," he says.He doesn't blame the police for not pursuing the cases. "I think they were trying to do their best, but genuinely thought: 'We are not going to win this case, because of all these factors.' That's because these issues are always probed at trial, and still are. These will classically be the lines of cross-examination." He concluded that the criminal justice system "has been set up for the model victim but not real victims"."The model victim is someone who immediately goes to the police station, gives a coherent account straight away, never goes back to the perpetrator, is completely squeaky clean," he explains. "Those assumptions are very deeply entrenched. If you go to a police station to report a burglary, the first question is not usually 'are you telling the truth?' And yet that is very often the starting place when it is a sexual offence."  Penny and John Clough, parents of murdered Jane: 'The system is very biased towards the defendant.' Photograph: ITVAnother key problem he has already identified is the adversarial nature of the legal system, which often allows multiple cross-examinations of witnesses, and which can be so brutal in its treatment of victims that many afterwards say they would never voluntarily go through it again (making further prosecutions in gang-related cases, for example, impossible to pursue). He argues that the 200-year-old system might have served its time."The big question here is whether the adversarial system is suitable for these kind of cases," he says, although he will not be drawn on what an alternative system might involve. "When you put that altogether there is a problem. Most people don't have the confidence to come forward. If you do come forward, there's the risk that assumptions will be applied that don't hold water. Then if you get through charge, and go to trial, you have victims who say they would never repeat that."While our criminal justice system is very good in a number of respects, it is barely fit for purpose for victims. If this is the best we can do for victims, then it is a pretty poor state of affairs."When Frances Andrade was cross-examined over indecent assault allegations made against her former music teacher, Michael Brewer, last year, she was so dismayed by the aggressive questioning she endured that she texted a friend, Jackie Shave, to tell her it felt as she had been "raped all over again".The cross-examination involved her testimony being relentlessly questioned by the defence barrister, who stated: "That is simply not true … ", "You are indulging in the realms of fantasy … " "This is a lie … " A few days after her court appearance she killed herself.Shave welcomes the idea of reforming the system to give greater support to victims. "The most shocking at the time was that Mike Brewer had prepared his case for a long time, and Fran wasn't told anything – wasn't told what was going to happen – that seemed utterly appalling," she says.It would help "if they could somehow find a way of preparing victims, telling them what is going to happen, preparing them for having to relive the whole experience, being publicly humiliated", she added.She doesn't blame the defence lawyer. "I feel sorry for her. I think she was trying to do her job, which was to try to protect this guy; she was doing what she was allowed to do," she says."I know that was the thing Fran found hardest – was being called a liar, being publicly humiliated again, having to go through things in public – being told you're lying, you must be kidding. It seemed utterly harsh – but that is the law. It's almost abuse again. I do think the whole process of going through being that victim again was much, much more than she had imagined and I think she literally couldn't cope with it."But changes to the system as it stands would need to do more than simply employ victims' support officers to sustain the morale of victims as they go through the legal process, Shave adds. "She was a very independent person. She didn't suffer fools gladly so I'm sure [she wouldn't have had time for] some nice person looking after her – she would have probably told them to go away. I don't know what legislation could be put in place."Andrade was aware during her trial that the intensity of the cross-examination was a factor that would discourage other women from stepping forward to report crimes of this nature. "This is why cases don't come forward," she told the court from the witness box. "I am not in the realms of fantasy and I really understand why so many cases have not come to court."Tina Renton, a rape victim who describes her campaign to get justice in her book You Can't Hide, published last year, says giving evidence against her stepfather, whom she accused of raping and assaulting her multiple times during her childhood, was "the most difficult thing I have ever done".She chose to train as a lawyer and took him to court decades after the abuse, but despite her knowledge of the legal system she was dismayed by the brutality of the court experience."Reporting figures show that national action is desperately needed. The reports of rape are up but the conviction rate is still so, so low. The fact is that victims don't have confidence in the system. Even if they do go to the police, they drop out because they are not brave enough to go through the courts system because it is so well-known how victims of sexual crimes suffer at the hands of the barristers in the court. Defendants have a statutory right of protection but victims don't. A victims' law would give statutory guidance and support as well," she says."You can't ever make it easy for a victim but there are ways of offering a lot more support than they get now."Starmer met John and Penny Clough, the parents of Jane Clough, a nurse who was stabbed to death by her ex-partner while he was on bail, charged with raping her. While he was director of public prosecutions, he helped amend bail legislation so that the victim gained the right to object to bail being given."The system is very biased towards the defendant. We have never tried to take anything away from the rights of the defendant but what we are trying to argue is that the victims should have a balancing up of rights. As it stands, defendants have a bill of rights, they have laws to protect them, whereas victims have a code of conduct, a set of guidelines, so wishy-washy that they are worthless," John Clough says."Once the victim gets into the system, all the victim is is a witness, because the case is the crown versus the defendant. The victim seems to cease to exist, to have any opinions or rights or concerns. Once the CPS has taken the case, surely they should have a duty to protect the witness, they should have a duty of care to protect the witness, because without the witness, their case crumbles anyway," he says."If they listened to some of the victims, some of the campaigners, they would come up with a much better system. We just want to change it for the better. It isn't working. It is weighted in favour of the defendant. The victim comes nowhere. Look at the Ministry of Justice spending – of the entire budget, only 1% is spent on victims' services."