Here is a quiz. A bomb explodes killing 29 people and maiming hundreds. Detectives trying to identify the killers don't have a single name to go on. Yet Britain's electronic eavesdropping centre, GCHQ, has intercepted the mobile phones used on the bomb run. The mobiles have registered owners with addresses.What would you expect GCHQ to do: a) give the numbers to the detectives; b) not give them; c) wait to be asked?Evidently, the government thinks c is the right answer, even though to this day not a single person has been successfully convicted for the mass murder at Omagh in August 1998. Or does it?When asked if the protocols governing the sharing of GCHQ intelligence during the investigation were unsuitable, the Northern Ireland secretary told MPs: "No." Then again, Shaun Woodward also said the protocols had since been "dramatically" changed for the better.The government is evidently determined to protect the intelligence services from shouldering any responsibility for the catastrophic failure of the Omagh bomb inquiry. Yesterday the Northern Ireland affairs committee delivered a blistering verdict on the circumlocution deployed in evading the central question raised by our Panorama programme of September 2008 that disclosed the existence of the intercepts: why were neither they nor the mobile numbers ever shared with detectives even though GCHQ, MI5 and special branch all knew detectives were trawling through 6.4m billing records, having worked out that mobiles must have been used?The prime minister asked Sir Peter Gibson, the intelligence services commissioner, to investigate. He appears to have investigated only whether the bombing could have been stopped. He concluded that it could not, criticising the BBC for making "harmful allegations". He did not investigate why the withholding of these numbers "sabotaged" the hunt for the bombers, as one senior officer put it. It turns out that was not his remit from No 10. Yet the Cabinet Office statement announcing his inquiry had suggested otherwise.Woodward insisted that Baroness O'Loan, when Northern Ireland police ombudsman, had investigated why intelligence had not been passed to detectives. And indeed she had – but not specifically why the intercepts were not shared with detectives.So very highly circumscribed was the evidence of Woodward and Gibson to MPs that neither would even concede that there had been intercepts or telephone numbers. The committee found their "repeated failure to confirm or clarify … exasperating". As it says, the outstanding "substantial" question remains: what possible public interest justification could there have been for withholding this intelligence?Gibson's only shaft of light is a highlighted reference to special branch not asking GCHQ for authority to disseminate "any GCHQ material" to the CID. Implicit is the suggestion that, but for the asking, authority would have been granted. This seems disingenuous.When it came to intercepts I have yet to find any special branch officer who thinks that GCHQ would ever have authorised either the sharing of the intercepts or the numbers.Sir Patrick Cormack, the Northern Ireland affairs committee chairman, said it was "reprehensible" that the prime minister had not allowed him to see Gibson's classified report – unlike Kim Howells, chair of the intelligence and security committee, who had wholeheartedly endorsed it without making a single comment on the failure to exploit the intercepts. Cormack now seeks Howells' help in getting a new inquiry off the ground. I wish him luck. Unlike Cormack, who reports to parliament, Howells chairs the only committee that reports direct to the prime minister.