The grandmother of missing schoolgirl Tia Sharp has been arrested on suspicion of murder.Christine Sharp, 46, was detained following the discovery of a body at her home in New Addington, near Croydon, south London, on Friday. Her partner Stuart Hazell, 37, was arrested in Merton, south-west London, on Friday night on suspicion of murder.Sharp's next-door neighbour Paul Meehan, 39, was later taken into custody on suspicion of assisting an offender.In the wake of Hazell's arrest, Scotland Yard announced on Saturday that a 46-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man had been arrested on Friday. Sources later identified the two further suspects as Sharp and Meehan.As Hazell was being arrested, a senior Metropolitan police officer acknowledged there would be many questions asked about why the body, which is believed to be Tia's, was not found until the fourth search of Sharp's house.No identification has taken place yet but there is little doubt that it is that of the schoolgirl who was on holiday from Raynes Park high school when she went missing on Friday 3 August.Hazell was arrested in a public place – believed to be a park – at about 8.25pm on Friday. According to Sky News, he was identified by schoolgirl Chloe Bird, 11, shortly after he bought alcohol in an off-licence. Her stepfather, Nick Keeley, 40, said she came home and told him she had spotted Hazell."The police were here within five minutes," he said. "I hadn't even finished telling them where he was, and they were here. There were, like, five cars within five minutes and then the whole area was swarmed with police."It was only on Friday afternoon, after a full search of the house was carried out, that the body was found. It is understood it was found in the confines of the house, not outside or in any outbuilding. Tia's mother, Natalie, with whom Tia lived about seven miles from Christine Sharp's house, was informed of the discovery on Friday afternoon."A number of searches took place at the address," said Commander Neil Basu. "When Tia was first reported missing, officers searched her bedroom as is normal practice … A further search of the house took place in the early hours of Sunday morning by a specialist team. This was followed by another search of the house by specialist dogs on Wednesday lunchtime."Police were also following up two sightings of Tia which suggested that she might have left the house. Examining hundreds of hours of CCTV footage earlier in the investigation, police failed to find any trace of Tia in the town, and their focus returned to the house in New Addington.By Friday, a decision was made to search the house again more thoroughly and Sharp was asked to leave the property. Police interviewed Hazell as a witness on Wednesday but released him without further action.Basu said the family had been kept up to date with developments: "Our priority is to support the family of Tia at this distressing time and identify the body."