He was a violent criminal who once left a man for dead after stabbing him in the groin outside a nightclub.But to the hundreds who turned up to pay their respects to Paul Massey on Friday, he was a “Salford legend” — the words spelled out in a floral tribute on the horse-drawn carriage carrying his coffin, the horses wearing flags of the security boss’s beloved Manchester United.Dubbed Salford’s “Mr Big” by a local councillor following civil disturbances in the city in the 1990s, 55-year-old Massey retained a fearsome reputation among Salford’s underworld until he was shot dead by a masked assassin in an apparent gangland hit last month.Having outwardly “gone straight”, he tried and failed to run for mayor of Salford, and had gone into the security business when he was shot dead as he stepped out of a silver BMW car outside his home in the Clifton area of Salford on 26 July.He was blasted four times by an assassin wearing military-style clothing in an apparent gangland hit. No one has been arrested for the murder.Armed police were on standby on Friday as mourners lined the streets for Massey’s funeral in Salford as an Irish pipe band led his funeral carriage, which was pulled by four white horses, followed by eight black limousines.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Mourners attending the funeral procession in Salford gathered outside a pub displaying homemade banners. Photograph: Peter Byrne/PAA pub near St Paul the Apostle Paddington church had homemade banners on display, saying ‘RIP Paul Massey, Respect’. One sheet had been spraypainted in huge red letters reading “Simply The Best P.M.” Many mourners wore white shirts and jeans, as requested by Massey’s family, for a man who was said to have never worn a suit. Small boys wore Man Utd shirts, while young women in 12-inch glittery heels and tight bright dresses picked their way gingerly towards the service.A strong smell of marijuana hung in the air as the crowd applauded the cortege. One floral tribute, sent by Massey’s friends in Wales, was in the shape of a marijuana leaf, accessorised with a packet of Rizlas.  A floral tribute in the shape of a cannabis leaf and packet of Rizla papers at Paul Massey’s funeral. Photograph: Daily Post WalesThe father of five was a well-known figure in Salford, and had been involved in security firms operating in Manchester and beyond. His reputation grew during the drug-fuelled 1990s rave scene in Manchester, which proved lucrative for those providing security for the city’s clubs and pubs.As Salford buries its Mr Big, his gang want revenge and the turf wars grow His cortege left the street in which his late mother and father once lived, in the Ordsall area of inner-city Salford, where Massey made his name, before travelling the short distance to the high-rise Salford shopping centre, for the service at St Paul’s church.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A wreath in the shape of a cigarette at Paul Massey’s funeral. Photograph: UGC/Daily Post WalesMourners arrived in a variety of cars, including a chauffeur-driven black Rolls-Royce. Hundreds of people had gathered at the entrance and applause rang out as Massey’s coffin was carried from the carriage into the church for the start of the service. Charles Bronson, said to be Britain’s most violent prisoner, is believed to have sent a wreath after the pair became friends in jail. His tribute read: “A great man. A good man. A friend. Never forgotten. Max respect.” It was signed Charles Salvador, alias Bronson. Bronson changed his name in prison after growing a Salvador Dali-style moustache.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The funeral cortege was led by a Irish pipe band. Photograph: Peter Byrne/PAMassey had first been dubbed “Mr Big” by a local councillor in Salford following civil disturbances in the city in the 1990s. He was later jailed for 14 years after stabbing a man in the groin, severing an artery, and apparently leaving him for dead outside a club in Manchester. After the attack, Massey fled to Amsterdam but was extradited. Since his release from Frankland prison in County Durham, he is believed to have been involved in the security business and to have invested in property. Police have increased patrols in Salford following his murder amid fears that already-simmering gun violence in the city could spill over. Detectives are investigating whether the shooting of a 33-year-old man on 12 August in the city is linked to Massey’s death but have yet to receive any intelligence into either incident in an area they say has a “no grass” culture.