Two brothers murdered a cash-and-carry manager by pressing a tea towel soaked with chloroform over her mouth and administering a “bizarre” combination of toxic chemicals including arsenic and mercury.Roger and David Cooper used code words and phrases inspired by the Star Wars films as they hatched and carried out the plot to kill 34-year-old cash-and-carry marketing manager Sameena Imam and bury her at an allotment. Imam, who was having an affair with work colleague Roger Cooper, thought he was taking her for a romantic Christmas break at a Malmaison boutique hotel. Instead, she was driven to former reservist soldier David Cooper’s home in Leicester where she was murdered and her body hidden close to his allotment shed – which featured a sign reading: “Don’t wind me up … I’m running out of places to hide the bodies.” Police believe Roger Cooper wanted to kill Imam to stop his long-term partner finding out about his affair with her and a third woman. Detectives said it was also possible that he was motivated by the desire to make sure he did not lose his own job as a manager of a Costco store because he believed relationships between staff were frowned on. The victim, who worked at Costco stores in Cardiff, Southampton, Bristol and Coventry, was reported missing by family members in Essex after failing to return home for Christmas, sparking a major police inquiry.Roger Cooper, 41, from Coventry, and his 39-year-old brother were arrested on suspicion of murder on 7 January – a week before Imam’s body was found buried on an allotment in Leicester. Postmortem tests established that Imam, who lived in Cardiff, was killed using chloroform. A “bizarre” combination of elements, including antimony, cadmium, tin, mercury and arsenic is thought to have been administered to her in a liquid, a jury at Birmingham crown court heard. Imam, who was 1.57m tall (5ft 2ins), is believed to have been overpowered on a sofa at David Cooper’s home in Leicester on Christmas Eve.Police found a series of Star Wars-related phrases on a mobile phone linked to David Cooper. Roger admitted in court that, in one, “Darth Vader” referred to Imam. Outside court, senior investigating officer DCI Caroline Marsh said: “I would say this is the most callous offence I have ever investigated. Most murders that occur are spontaneous events driven by anger or jealousy, whereas, in this case, what we uncovered was weeks and weeks of planning to kill Sameena and a really unusual cause of death. We very rarely see chloroform homicides.” Officers remain puzzled as to why David, who ran a cafe in Loughborough and also worked as a doorman, agreed to help kill a woman he had met only briefly. Marsh said: “It’s a mystery to the investigation why David Cooper would do something like this for his brother, an extreme act, to kill a woman that he hardly knew.” Both Roger and David Cooper – who are 1.95m (6ft 5ins) and 2m (6ft 7ins) tall – remained calm and did not look at each other as they were unanimously convicted by the jury. They will be sentenced on Wednesday. 