The giant concrete cooling towers of the Drax power station dominate the landscape, looming over Camblesforth village, just off the M62 in North Yorkshire. In the background, one of the few sounds is the drone of motorway traffic.At first glance, it appears to epitomise a rural backwater, with mothers pushing prams, children walking home from school in small groups and pensioners mowing their lawns in the sunshine. But appearances disguise the fact that the village is in trauma. Early on Sunday, the bodies of 27-year-old twins Claire and Diane Sanderson were found by their father in a flat in a quiet cul-de-sac. Several hours later, the bodies of pensioners James and Joan Britton were discovered 25 miles away in the village of Strensall, near York. North Yorkshire police confirmed yesterday that they were looking for Mark Hobson, a 34-year-old former bouncer, and it was possible the two incidents may well be linked. Weapons have been found in both properties and police say there were similarities in the injuries inflicted on the twins and the pensioners. Mr Hobson is the boyfriend of Claire Sanderson and he has been seen twice in the York area early on Sunday, once at 2am. There was another possible sighting seven hours later in Strensall. The village of Camblesforth is a mixture of terraced cottages, modern houses in cul-de-sacs and a smattering of farm buildings, with a population of just 4,000. Its small park was busy yesterday afternoon with groups of teenagers and toddlers using the play area. A Wesleyan chapel, erected in 1894, dominates the village, with its large stained glass window of a white dove and a large blue cross. "I do not know whether to let my daughters out to play or to keep them in the house; the whole village is just very frightened because we are just a quiet, close-knit place," said Gillian Durham, a mother of two. She lives around the corner from the murder scene. "We woke up on Sunday morning and there were police, CID and ambulance crews everywhere. "It is a weird feeling, to be honest. I didn't even know that he lived there and hadn't seen him. It is upsetting to think that this sort of thing has happened on our doorstep." She said most people in the village also work locally, either at Drax power station or English Village Salads, where Ms Durham herself works. "My eldest daughter is 12 and I am not sure whether to let her out to play in the park." A pathologist said Mr Britton, 80, a second world war Spitfire pilot, died from stab wounds. He had been severely beaten. His 82-year-old wife had suffered a sustained attack and also had stab wounds. It is thought they had been killed as they tried to protect their home from being burgled. The couple had been married for 58 years and had two daughters. Mr Britton was the former chairman of a local Neighbourhood Watch group. At Jacqui's hairdressers, which was empty of customers yesterday afternoon, one of the workers said: "It feels a bit weird around here now. I won't let my kids play out in the park because of this. A lot of people are feeling very frightened as it has happened close to their homes. You do not expect to hear about this sort of thing on your doorstep." Her colleague said she had heard that Mark Hobson had been in trouble before. He had also had a fight with Claire Sanderson outside her house. In February, at Selby magistrates court, he admitted stealing wedding and engagement rings from his sister and pawning them to pay for his alcohol addiction. He was given 50 hours' community service. Roger Baker, North Yorkshire's deputy chief constable, said: "Murders are very rare in North Yorkshire and to have two double murders is unheard of." He said it was imperative they find Mr Hobson. A friend of the missing man said he could change for the worse after drinking alcohol. He was seen reading an SAS survival book days before the murders. Mr Hobson's friend Jourjina Leckie, 21, said he would drink up to 20 cans of lager a day. Her 46-year-old mother, Cheryl, had been in a relationship with Mr Hobson for a month and she had never had any reason to worry about his character. "I thought he was sound," she said. "He worked as a bouncer for a time and then went to work for a refuse company. "Mark was always great, I can't believe that he might be involved in something like this. He was never a violent man, apart from having fights with Claire when they had been drinking." Claire worked at a paper factory. Her sister lived with her parents in East Cowick, near Selby, and worked as an assistant manager at Rosebys home furnishing shop in Selby. "We would all go to the pub together to watch football on television," added Ms Leckie. "They were both great when they were sober but it was a different story after they had been drinking." She said it was clear that Ms Sanderson's parents did not approve of the relationship and on occasions she would go back to them, bearing bruises from her fights with her boyfriend. Every police officer in Britain has been given a description of Mr Hobson, but detectives admitted he could be anywhere. Postmortem examinations showed that Diane Sanderson had been strangled, but they were unable to establish a cause of death for her sister, although it was clear she had suffered a violent assault. Detective Superintendent Javad Ali, who is leading the police inquiry, said police wanted to speak to Mr Hobson as a matter of urgency. He said the killings were a horrific and cowardly act against honest and law abiding people, and described Mr Hobson as a bit of a loner. "He is clearly dangerous and we need to find him," he said. "He should not be approached by members of the public under any circumstances."