A former Essex County cricketer has become the first English player to be involved in on-field corruption.Mervyn Westfield, 23, admitted corruption at the Old Bailey and was warned by the judge he could face jail.The court heard the fast bowler was paid £6,000 to give away runs during a NatWest Pro40 one-day game between Essex and Durham in September 2009. Adjourning sentence until 10 February, Judge Anthony Morris told him: "I hold out no promises to you as to the eventual outcome of the case. It is open to the court in this case to pass an immediate custodial sentence."Cricket authorities and the Crown Prosecution Service will not comment on the case until after sentencing but the conviction is likely to cause much soul-searching in the domestic game, coming so soon after the international corruption scandal involving three Pakistani players at a Lord's Test match with England in 2010.The three were last year jailed and given playing bans after an exposé by the now closed News of the World. A businessman was also jailed.The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has set up its own anti-corruption unit and its head, Chris Watts, told the BBC in December it would be "naive" to think that county cricket had not been affected by corruption. "That's possibly where the threat may lie at the moment," he said.Earlier this week, the MCC – still widely regarded as the game's guardian – recommended to the International Cricket Council's anti-corruption and security unit that life playing bans be imposed for the worst corruption cases.The Old Bailey heard that Westfield agreed to bowl the first over so that 12 runs could be scored, but only 10 were achieved. His barrister, Mark Milliken-Smith QC, said: "A certain amount of runs were supposed to be given away in the first over that was bowled. They were not." But Westfield had confessed to a team-mate, the court heard. Westfield admitted receiving "numerous approaches" to concede runs and fix games in return for money.Nigel Peters QC, prosecuting, told a prior hearing: "The first approach was before the Pro40 game with Somerset in 2009. He was approached to fix a game."Police arrested the Pakistan leg-spinner Danish Kaneria, who also played for Essex, at the same time as Westfield. He was cleared and released from police bail without any charge in September 2010..Westfield, who no longer plays for Essex, was accused of breaking the Prevention of Corruption Act 1906 by being paid to "bowl in a manner calculated and intended to allow the scoring of runs".He denied another charge of breaking the Gambling Act 2005 by "assisting another to cheat" and this was allowed to lie on the file. This means there was no verdict on the charge but proceedings have not been formally terminated.Westfield is the first professional cricketer in England to face prosecution for involvement in spot fixing in a county cricket match, Essex police said. The case also involved the first use of the prevention of corruption legislation within the context of a sporting event.Det Sgt Paul Lopez said: "We hope that this sends a strong message to professional sportsmen and women around the country – if they intend to get involved in spot fixing, or think that match fixing is not a crime, then they need to think again."Angus Porter, chief executive of the Professional Cricketers' Association, said: "I am not sure that court cases necessarily are very helpful but the fact that he has admitted to the crime can only act as a signal to others that sport needs to be treated with respect and played properly."Former England captain turned commentator Nasser Hussein told Sky Sports News: "[The ECB should] use him [Westfield], take him around to counties, do a video with him … use him as an example for future generations of cricketers … instead of just parking him away somewhere to be forgotten, try to use the lad to make sure future generations don't make the same mistakes he has made."