Police yesterday released a picture of a pregnant teenager who was brutally stabbed to death in her own home.Sana Ali, 17, was discovered by her sister-in-law with serious stab wounds at her home in Bury on Friday afternoon. She was taken to a nearby hospital where she later died. Police believe she was two months' pregnant at the time of her death.The teenager, who moved to the UK from Pakistan several years ago, lived at the property with her 24-year-old husband, who has not been named, and several other members of his family, including his parents and brother.Greater Manchester police confirmed that several members of her family had been questioned, but no arrests have been made and no charges have been brought. It is understood Mr Ali's parents, who were on holiday, have returned.Mrs Ali was found at around 4.15pm collapsed in an upstairs bedroom with serious injuries to her abdomen and slash marks to her arms, which suggested she had been the victim of a sustained knife attack.Yesterday, there were high visibility police patrols in the area to reassure residents.Her family had moved to England five years ago when she was 12. She married her husband six months ago, in December 2006. She had begun a childcare course in Cheadle Hulme in September 2006, but left a short time later.It is understood she intended to resume her studies after the birth of her baby.Officers are continuing to appeal for information.Detective Chief Inspector Keith Dillon of Greater Manchester police, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "Sana sustained a number of injuries in what appears to have been a very violent attack. When Sana was found she was in the house alone. There does not appear to have been any forced entry, but we are still carrying out a thorough forensic investigation of the whole house."We are keeping an open mind as to the motive behind Sana's murder and are asking people to come forward with any information about the movements around the house on the afternoon Sana was killed."This is a nice, quiet residential area and I realise that it will have been a shock for those living here. I'd like to take this opportunity to reassure them that we are leaving no stone unturned in our search for whoever killed Sana."Asked whether it appeared to be an "honour killing", he refused to speculate: "I haven't got any thoughts on that," he said. "We are interviewing the family to find out all the background."A woman who lives opposite said: "We heard a woman screaming, 'She's dead' and we rushed outside."An ambulance arrived and one of them was shouting: 'Keep her alive.' We saw members of the family being taken away in police cars and we saw something that we believe was a large knife being removed from the house."