Families of 55 victims of the serial killer Harold Shipman yesterday won their high court battle for a public inquiry into how the GP got away for so long with murdering so many patients.In a landmark decision, two judges in London ruled that Alan Milburn, the health secretary, breached article 10 of the European convention on human rights, the right to freedom of expression, when he decided that the inquiry should be held in private. The ruling will have far-reaching implications for official inquiries into matters of public concern and could significantly limit the scope for ministers to hold inquiries behind closed doors. Lord Justice Kennedy, sitting with Mr Justice Jackson, said Mr Milburn's decision contravened article 10 because "it constitutes unjustified governmental interference with the reception of information that others wish or may be willing to impart". The high court challenge was brought by 113 relatives of 55 victims known or believed to have been murdered by Shipman, 54, of Mottram in Longdendale, Greater Manchester. The GP is serving a life sentence after his conviction at Preston crown court of murdering 15 middle-aged and elderly female patients, but police suspect the real toll is nearer 200. The families were supported by eight national newspaper groups and the BBC in their bid for an open inquiry. The ruling means that Mr Milburn will have to reconsider his decision. The judges have delivered a more resounding defeat in his case than the education secretary, David Blunkett, suffered last week over teachers' pay. Unless the judgment is overturned on appeal, it will be virtually impossible for Mr Milburn to deny the families what they want: an entirely open inquiry in the full glare of publicity "to restore faith and confidence in GPs and the NHS". Mr Milburn was given permission to appeal against today's ruling, but the judge said he was "not encouraging" an appeal. Mr Milburn must decide by Wednesday whether to appeal and, if so, the appeal must be heard by the end of September, said the judge. A spokesman for the Department of Health said the judgment would be considered and added: "From the outset, we have wanted to make sure we learn the lessons from the Shipman case as quickly and effectively as possible so that we can take all the necessary measures to protect patients."Peter Wagstaff, 52, of Hyde, Greater Manchester, whose mother Kathleen, 81, was a victim, said he was pleased with the result but added: "We had to go through the ordeal of the trial and this is a secondary ordeal when, on the face of it, it was common sense to have a public inquiry." Ann Alexander, the families' solicitor, said: "The families are hopeful there will be an announcement in the next 24 hours in the House of Commons, having waited for so long." Lord Justice Kennedy said there were "many powerful considerations in favour of an open inquiry" when Mr Milburn made his final decision in favour of a private hearing in April. Among them were "the scale of the tragedy and the normal governmental reaction to tragedy on such a scale". Other considerations were "the uncertainty as to who were the victims, and the worry about why the murderer was not detected sooner and why checks and controls on stockpiling drugs and on unusual deaths did not work". Other advantages of public hearings were "witnesses being less tempted to exaggerate or pass on blame, publicity tending to lead to disclosure of valuable information, openness breeding confidence, and there being less risk of inaccurate and damaging reporting". Lord Justice Kennedy said Mr Milburn had decided on a closed inquiry because it would be quicker and witnesses would speak more freely. But those reasons were insufficient to justify the decision.