India Gary-Martin is worried. And that's not her way in normal circumstances. A black woman who reaches the heights in business doesn't scare easily. But then, these are not normal circumstances. What's eating her? It's a court case and a whole bunch of concerns around Santre Sanchez Gayle, the west London teenager now beginning life imprisonment after conviction a fortnight ago.He faced "challenges", as they say. Both a close friend and a cousin had been involved in brutal, high-profile murders. Still it was never a given that he would go down. Through her community work, India knows people who tried to pull him out of the quicksand. "I hear he was a good kid in many ways," she says. He had been in trouble, sure. His nickname was Riot. But he wasn't obviously "the sort to be involved in something as terrible as this".Santre shot a woman in the face, a Turkish woman he'd never seen before. No one knows why for sure, but the police believe Turkish gangsters, knowing he was vulnerable and open to an offer, paid the 15-year-old £200 to do their dirty work. Death for her, deniability for them, £200 and a life in jail for him. He is the most public but, police say, not the first. Part of a cynical, murderous cross-community initiative.Santre was big news for 24 hours; the same sullen mug shot, reproduced throughout the media. Then nothing. India, a native of New York, can't understand it. "Where's the fuss? Where's the outrage?" she says passionately. "If this happened this way in New York, Al Sharpton would have been on to it immediately, people would be marching. For one community to prey on another like this just wouldn't be tolerated.""Leveraging", she calls it. Not using the normal financial definition – the ratio of assets to liabilities – but a form of social leveraging. We have assets enough to ensure that you assume all of the risk. The core problem is poverty, says India, chair of the charity Leap, which works to help people out of poverty. "These are two disadvantaged, vulnerable groups, one leveraging the other. But the issue is deprivation. That £200 to him was same as £2m to someone else."We all work to get paid; all play the numbers game in our own way.