The Yorkshire Ripper case 1979The hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper was a disaster. The police were fooled by a hoaxer and hampered by their view of "good" and "bad" women. Detective Jim Hobson said: "[The Ripper] has made it clear he hates prostitutes. . . But the Ripper is now killing innocent girls." George Oldfield (left), who led the investigation, addressed the murderer on TV in 1979: "There may be more pawns in this war before I catch you, but I will catch you." .Peter Sutcliffe was questioned nine times before being caught by chance in 1981. Oldfield died in 1985.An Allegation of Rape 1982The brutality of three male detectives filmed interrogating a woman who reported being raped caused a sensation when it was broadcast in 1982 in Roger Graef's fly-on-the-wall BBC series about Thames Valley police. As the officers bullied and belittled the woman, one said: "This is the biggest bollocks I've ever heard." The detectives were vilified but their technique was then standard procedure. The documentary changed the way police treated female victims of alleged sexual abuse. But the conviction rate for rape is today at an all-time low.Joy Gardner 1993A 40-year-old mother from Jamaica who had overstayed a temporary visitor's permit, Gardner was seized in 1993 at her home in north London by five policemen and an immigration official. She was handcuffed and restrained with leg and body belts, and gagged with tape wrapped seven times around her head, while her five-year-old son looked on. She suffocated and died four days later of brain damage. Three members of Scotland Yard's specialist Aliens Deportation Group were prosecuted for manslaughter, but acquitted in June 1995 after claiming she was "very, very strong".Cynthia Jarrett 1985When Floyd Jarrett was arrested on suspicion of driving a stolen car, police searched the north London home of his mother, Cynthia, 49. During the raid, she collapsed and died. At the inquest, her daughter, Patricia, claimed that one of the police officers had shouldered her mother to the floor, causing her to collapse. The police denied any physical contact but the inquest jury's verdict of accidental death was seen by the family as vindicating their claim that the police lied about the raid. No criminal charges were brought against the four officers involved. The death, on October 5 1985, triggered the Broadwater Farm riot, in which PC Keith Blakelock was stabbed to death.Undercover Copper 2006Twenty-five years after Graef's expose, Nina Hobson rejoined the Leicestershire police force she'd left, disillusioned, five years previously, to film undercover for four months for Dispatches. Broadcast last year, the film showed that sexist attitudes lingered and the investigation of reports of sexual assault and rape were still not always taken seriously. A female PC told Hobson that if she were ever raped, she'd rather kill herself than trust her case to be tackled by the police and the British justice system.Toni Comer 2006CCTV footage outside the Niche nightclub in Sheffield showed Toni Comer being hit six times by PC Anthony Mulhall as another officer and two nightclub staff pinned her down. The teenager was later dragged across a yard with her trousers around her ankles. The incident happened in July last year but only came to light when footage was obtained by the Guardian. Mulhall admitted he hit her "as hard as I was physically able" and used "brute force" but argued he was acting in self-defence. The IPPC yesterday announced it would investigate the incident "to determine whether the force used by the officer when making the arrest was justified and proportionate".