Claims that a blond girl in a photograph taken by a Spanish holidaymaker was Madeleine McCann were dismissed yesterday when a group of British reporters said they had spoken to the family of the girl in the picture.The photograph, taken on August 31, caused a media frenzy, with reporters rushing to the Rif mountains in northern Morocco to try to track her down. She was named yesterday as Bushra Binhisa, a five-year-old local girl from a family who have lived on a farm in the region for generations.Clarence Mitchell, the McCanns' family spokesman, said: "Clearly, if these reports that the girl in the photograph isn't Madeleine are true, it is disappointing news."This is why Gerry and Kate refused to comment on individual sightings and why I was advising caution overnight."Doubts over the photograph had been expressed throughout yesterday despite claims by Clara Torres, who took the picture, that "either it's her [Madeleine], or she's got a twin sister".Ms Torres was on holiday with her fiance and family when she shot the photograph, nearly four months after Madeleine went missing. She gave a round of radio and television interviews yesterday, insisting that the girl was Madeleine. After learning last night that it was not, she said: "I did what I had to do. It was not my intention to raise false hopes."Mr Mitchell had urged caution following a series of previous sightings, all of which have proved to be inaccurate. The latest Moroccan sighting - the fourth in the country - had initially been given greater credibility because it was the first to be accompanied by a photograph.The picture soon appeared in newspapers and on websites around the world and sparked a hunt that led to Bushra's family home yesterday.Hamid Binhisa, an olive farmer, told the London Evening Standard: "Bushra is my little girl. She is not Madeleine. I do feel sorry for her parents, I hope they find Madeleine. But Bushra is definitely my daughter."Hafida, the girl's mother, said: "Even in this remote backwater people have heard of Madeleine McCann."Family friend Mustafa Hadid said: "We are all shocked that people could think that Bushra was Madeleine. She does have a resemblance but blond and red-haired children are not that rare in this part of Morocco. The people are Berbers and they come from a different stock than people in the south of the country. Bushra's father is just a farmer, so he would not have read the newspapers."Portuguese police have received thousands of phone calls since Madeleine disappeared on May 3. Reported sightings have come from Morocco, Spain, France, Switzerland, Belgium, and even Argentina and Guatemala.Portuguese police are understood to be working on the assumption that Madeleine is dead.In June two people were arrested in south-west Spain after what was reported to be an attempt to extract money from the McCanns in return for information about their missing daughter. In the same month, the McCanns were delayed from taking a flight from Berlin to Amsterdam, as part of their hunt across Europe, after a man called claiming to know the whereabouts of Madeleine.In a separate development yesterday, the board of the Find Madeleine campaign approved an extensive advertising campaign appealing once again for information about the missing girl. Esther McVeigh, one of the directors, told the Guardian that the £80,000 spent on the billboard and newspaper advertisement campaign represented the single biggest expenditure of the fund to date.She said that it was likely that the campaign, originally targeted at Spain and Portugal, would be extended to include Morocco, even though the latest sighting appeared not to be Madeleine.