Police today welcomed a high court ruling that will help ensure they gain effective access to emails in their search for evidence to fight serious crime.Lord Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, ruled that internet service providers can lawfully intercept emails at the request of the police once they have received notification that a special production order is being sought from the courts. Lord Woolf, sitting with Mr Justice Curtis, said if the providers could not act then specific powers given to the police under the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE) would be "almost totally worthless" and "wholly unhelpful" in the bid to detect serious crime. Safeguards lay in the fact that the police had to justify their applications in court to obtain the special production orders under PACE. The judges were giving their backing to an Ipswich crown court decision last September that the interceptions were lawful. Suffolk police had served notice on telecoms company ntl Group Ltd that they were applying for access to all electronic information stored on its computers and electronic data retrieval systems relating to a particular email address over a 10-day period. The court had heard that ntl maintained a server for Virgin ISP. The company was warned that it must not "conceal, destroy, alter or dispose of" the material being sought, except with the permission of a judge or written permission of a police officer. But ntl Group lawyers argued the company would be committing an offence under section 1 of the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 if it complied with the notice. The company said its system automatically destroyed emails once the user had accessed them. To prevent that from happening it would have to intercept the emails in a way that amounted to an offence. Last September, ntl applied to Ipswich crown court for permission to destroy or dispose of the electronic information being sought. Refusing the application, Judge Devaux ruled ntl would not be committing an offence by intercepting and retaining emails once they had received notification that the police were applying for a special production order under the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act. The judge said the notification gave the company "lawful authority" to make interceptions under the Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act. Making a special production order, he refused to limit it to material only in existence at the time the order was actually made.