Police today arrested a man with a history of mental illness after a knifeman went on the rampage in north London, killing one person and critically injuring five others.A 58-year-old man, who was married with children, died and four men and a woman were being treated at London hospitals after the apparently random stabbings, which happened around the Green Lanes area.Police said there had been six separate incidents in an hour-long series of attacks, during which the killer roamed the streets by car and stopped to stab his victims, often in the back. A 29-year-old Turkish man was arrested in connection with the stabbings after phone calls flooded in to police.Chief Superintendent Simon O'Brien told reporters: "It looks like the attacks were carried out at random, and present information suggests it was just one person. We responded very quickly and made an arrest within an hour of the first stabbing." He said the arrest had come after police received details of the car which was traced to an address in nearby Tottenham. Officers arrived on the scene as the man pulled up, and he was arrested without a struggle, the chief superintendent said. There was blood on the man's clothing and in his car, and a knife was recovered. Chief Superintendent O'Brien added that the arrested man was known to medical authorities and had a history of mental illness, but had not escaped from any institution. The victims were of different ages and different ethnic origin, and most were attacked with one or two stabs to the body. He said there was no obvious motive, but that a "major line of inquiry" would be to establish whether there was any connection between today's attacks and the killing of a Turkish-Cypriot shopkeeper in Wood Green, north London, on Tuesday.The first of today's stabbings happened shortly before 8.20am, outside Edmonton Green railway station. Police arrived at the scene to find a seriously injured 31-year-old man in the street. He was taken to hospital by ambulance with serious injuries, officers said. Half an hour later, police said they received reports of another stabbing in Gladstone Avenue, Wood Green. A man - believed to be 49 - who had been attacked there was taken to hospital. At 9.07am in Compton Crescent, Tottenham, a 20-year-old woman was found with a stab wound and taken to hospital. At 9.11am in Ecclesbourne Gardens, Green Lanes, a man aged 50 was found to have been stabbed and was also taken to hospital. At 9.27am in Advent Way, Edmonton, a man was found with stab wounds and taken to hospital. He later died from his injuries at Whipps Cross hospital, Leytonstone. The final victim to be discovered was a 76-year-old man who walked into hospital with stab wounds at 10.45am. Police believe he was attacked in Empire Avenue, north Tottenham."The first victim was a man who was walking to the station to go to work," Chief Superintendent O'Brien said. "He had just left his girlfriend when he was stabbed a couple of times in the back. He thought he had been punched and carried on. "The calls then started coming in thick and fast, and we realised we were probably dealing with the same guy stabbing people. He was coming out of the vehicle, picking people at random - male and female, some were cycling, some were walking - and he stabbed them before getting back into his car."A police helicopter and dog team were brought into the area to assist in the search for the knifeman, with hundred of officers from three different boroughs taking part. Dr Yasmin Drabu, the medical director of North Middlesex hospital, said the five patients were admitted to the hospital at around 9am. The woman was transferred to the London Heart hospital, while three people underwent surgery and another was under observation in a high dependency unit. After surgery, two people were transferred to wards and one to the high dependency unit."We are hoping that they all will make a full recovery, but it is early days," Dr Drabu said. "All of them have had very severe injuries, but we are pleased with their progress today." She said the victims had multiple stab wounds across various parts of their bodies, including the stomach and abdomen. "All of them suffered multiple wounds which were potentially life threatening," she said. When asked how long she thought the four patients would remain in hospital, she said: "We are not talking about a couple of days." The stabbings come a two days after shopkeeper Mahmut Fahri was knifed to death as he chased two thieves who stole bottles of spirits from his Wood Green grocery store.