For many decades policemen and politicians became angry, fretful and impatient when asked how they intended to tackle the endemic racism inside the police force. It was only one rotten apple, we were always told. The rest of the barrel was healthy. Very few people in the black and Asian communities believed this nonsense. This was not simply because the police often seemed reluctant to pursue white racists, but because of the routine harassment on the streets and violence in prison that was inflicted on many young blacks and Asians. There were black deaths in custody in London, Birmingham and Liverpool. There were systematic assaults on blacks in police vans. If someone was foolish enough to complain he was usually charged with some offence. I remember a Jamaican friend of mine in the Seventies describing to me how four policemen assaulted him in a Birmingham prison cell after he was arrested on a picket-line. My friend was a karate expert. What he had found really difficult was controlling his natural impulse to defend himself. He feared that he might not have left the prison alive. I am reminded of all this because the conclusions of the report will not surprise anyone who has been monitoring the growth of random and institutional violence against racial minorities over the past two decades. The education of Sir William Macpherson marks an important step forward. He was genuinely shocked by what he saw and heard because he could not have believed much of it possible. This is good. There are many others like him and one hopes that they too will learn, not least those who have made any thoughtful or ongoing coverage of this in the media virtually impossible. It should not require a death or rather a public inquiry into its causes to alert TV executives and newspaper editors of the seriousness of the situation. A vigilant media can help to reduce outrages of the sort highlighted by the inquiry. It has been obvious for, at least, three decades that two concurrent though unrelated cancers were at work inside the police force. Racial prejudice was one and corruption the other. This case appeared to suggest that both may have been involved in the failure of the police to arrest the Stephen Lawrence's killers. One of the five youths suspected of the crime is the son of Clifford Norris, a leading criminal, currently in prison. Sergeant David Coles, the police officer assigned to look after the only witness to the murder, Duwane Brooks, was the same person who was filmed by surveillance videos exchanging packages with Norris in a London pub. Attempts by Michael Mansfield to explore this connection further were discouraged by the inquiry. Why? Curiously, the report criticises police investigations of this aspect of the affair: 'Even with the knowledge that the evil influence of Clifford Norris was at work the investigation team failed to seek him out . . . It is inexplicable that more was not done until the summer of 1994 to arrest Clifford Norris.' Its conclusion, however, is that: 'The problems in seeking to establish that there was collusion or corruption by inference are obvious. No collusion or corruption is proved to have infected the investigation of Stephen Lawrence's murder. It would be wrong and unfair to conclude otherwise.' Could it be that the reason it is not proved is because the inquiry, too, did not pursue the question of corruption with the same zeal that it employed to lay bare the racism? And if so, why? Clifford Norris is in prison. Why did the Inquiry fail to seek him out and question him in public view? The young white skinhead, who walked into the police station and in the course of naming the killers, mentioned the Norris connection, was also ignored. Perhaps it was genuinely felt that there was no real connection. Perhaps some invisible hand steered the inquiry in another direction, fearful that the racism charge was doing enough damage and that corruption should be saved for another day. Whatever the reason, one is left with an uneasy feeling that we have not yet uncovered the whole truth. In these circumstances, the demand for Paul Condon's scalp is a slight diversion. It would, at best, be a symbolic victory for the campaigners. In reality it would be the rotten apples in the barrel who would be wriggling with delight.