Richard Sennett welcomes the end of the antisocial behaviour order (May the asbo rest in peace, 31 July). He says that if asbos are breached, "the asbo holder automatically becomes a criminal … of the 17,000 asbos issued from 2000 to 2008, 55% have been breached, so the new government is looking for something else".In fact, asbos prevent people carrying out specified actions – antisocial but not necessarily criminal – and are issued because the person targeted has been identified as previously causing harm and distress to others. Breach of an asbo says nothing about its success or failure, it depends on the circumstances. Asbos are used to tackle a problem – usually where the behaviour of an individual or group of individuals is disturbing or threatening to others but it is difficult to secure a criminal conviction.Like many critics of asbos, Sennett suggests that they were a tool to reform offending individuals. And in a burst of moralising he tells us that "good social behaviour among adolescents is all about family countering peer pressure", and that "working-class children spend more time watching television … than their middle-class peers". Clearly asbos have been an abject failure as an instrument for improving our childrens' lives. But asbos are not and never have been an instrument of moral reform – for society or the individual – but a tool to help make communities more liveable.Decades of poverty and an explosion of drug-related crime under the previous Tory government left scars on communities and families, some with three generations of drug addiction, where no pressure for good social behaviour would come from within the home. Scrapping asbos removes a useful weapon communities have to deal with antisocial behaviour; and their abolition, alongside cuts in police numbers, threatens to hand back control of the street to drug dealers and gangsters in some poor communities.It can be very difficult to secure convictions against young criminal gangs targeting vulnerable residents, often as a front for local dealers. Twenty years ago, gangsters controlled the streets in the Toxteth and Croxteth areas of Liverpool, and parts of many other cities across the UK. Under New Labour life got a lot better in many of these communities, as public investment and partnership helped residents, police and councils to reclaim control of public space.Asbos have been a key tool in that battle. They allow police officers or councillors to front the battle against crime where residents face threats and intimidation if they give evidence. So when I went to court with our local police sergeant to give evidence for a crasbo (criminal asbo) to get a local crack house closed down, it gave local residents the confidence to come forward and give evidence.As unprecedented cuts in public spending threaten to plunge communities back into crisis, sociologists might find better subjects for their skills than attacking one of the more useful tools we have at our disposal.