The wife of a "perfect neighbour" who is fighting for his life after an attack by stone-throwing youths appealed yesterday for frightened locals to give information anonymously to the police.Jean Carroll, 44, begged parents or friends of the teenage gang to "just go to a phone box, say a name to police and put the phone down - that is all we are asking." She appealed to people in Salford, Greater Manchester, where her 48-year-old husband, Phil, was born, to defy threats of retaliation if they informed on the attackers. "Phil would always go out of his way help anyone," she said, holding the hand of her 17-year-old son, Alan, one of the couple's four children who are taking turns to sit with their father at Salford's Hope hospital. "Now people need to extend that same help to him." "It's horrific. Phil was just lying there. I am in a daze. I just get up every day and come to the hospital. "There is nothing I could say that is polite about those that did this. The attack on Mr Carroll drew national attention earlier this week when the police officer leading the inquiry, Chief Superintendent David Baines, blamed "feral youths". He said: "They are feral, have no parental control or respect for anybody and are often fuelled by alcohol. "They don't give a damn about the police or the criminal justice system." Their victim was punched to the ground, striking his head on the pavement, after he tried to tackle a gang who had thrown stones at his Range Rover. Mrs Carroll, speaking at a media briefing organised with Greater Manchester police, said: "Where we live, people are really nice. Phil has lived in Salford all his life and it wasn't like him to let people smash things up that he had worked for and to terrorise the place. "It's the others that come in from outside of this area and cause trouble. We have had so many cars stolen and smashed and homes burgled. "You go out and move them on and they throw stones, but you never think this will happen. "But if we drive them away from where we are, they will only go and torment someone else. Something needs to be done before someone else ends up like Phil." The couple had been hoping to buy a rundown holiday house in France later this year to do up, but their plans are now on hold. As well as Alan, they have daughters Lisa, 23, and Samantha, 12, and another son, Wes, 21, who had left for Australia the day before the attack but flew straight back to be at his father's bedside. Alan told the media briefing that he liked the area as his father did. He said: "I only feel danger when I'm walking around at night. You are cautious then as to who is hanging around."