Gavin Renaldo Grant had potential. An aspiring professional footballer, he was never going to give Cristiano Ronaldo competition, but he possessed, in the words of one fan site, "lightning pace and tricky wing play".A journeyman footballer who could play as a striker or winger, Grant started his career in 2005 with his local non-league club, Tooting and Mitcham in south London, scoring 10 goals in 16 matches – an impressive haul that attracted interest from clubs in higher divisions. Between 2005 and 2010, he had spells with Millwall, Wycombe Wanderers, Gillingham and, at the end of last season, was turning out for Bradford in League Two."He's got bags of potential and he's a good finisher," said Peter Taylor, who managed Grant at Wycombe and Bradford. "He's got an eye for goal, he's quick, he's an athlete and he will get better."Taylor's words, spoken in 2008, sound hollow now. Grant's attempt to escape the drug-fuelled violence of the London estate where he grew up for the glamorous world of professional football ended last week when he was jailed at the Old Bailey for a minimum of 25 years, convicted with two others for the murder of his former friend, Leon "Playboy" Labastide, in May 2004.The trial, the culmination of a six-year investigation by Operation Trident, the Metropolitan police unit that investigates black-on-black killings, heard how Grant, now 26, Gareth Downie, 25, and Damian Williams, 32, had orchestrated an execution-style killing, one of a series of tit-for-tat shootings in the Stonebridge Park estate in Brent, north-west London, in the 1990s.Once an intimidating fortress of tower blocks, Stonebridge supplied the labour to a giant industrial estate, home to employers including Wall's, the ice-cream maker. But as the firms moved out, unemployment soared. Stonebridge became home to large migrant populations and assumed a reputation among Trident officers as a "hot spot".Stonebridge looms large in the story of Grant's descent from promising athlete to killer. A lawless, no-go area of poorly lit alleyways and concrete walls, it was the perfect breeding ground for crime. The estate became enmeshed in a turf war fought between gangs battling to control the supply and distribution of crack cocaine. The violence was so bad that in 1995 John Major, then prime minister, cancelled a speech he was due to give there over fears of being shot."There were always problems between Stonebridge and the [nearby] Church End estate," said Detective Inspector Steve Horsley, who led the investigation into Labastide's murder. "You couldn't go from one estate to the other because different gangs ran it." Gangs from neighbouring Kensal Green and Wembley were also vying for control, while Jamaican Yardie gangsters overseeing the importation of the crack into the UK were never far away.In August 2005, Rohan "Chunky" Chung, a Yardie drugs importer, tied up a stepfather and two sisters in their flat on the estate and shot them in the head. Chung was furious that the sisters' brother, one of his "mules", had disappeared with 4kg of his cocaine.Today Stonebridge's towers are gone, replaced by award-winning low-rise housing, interspersed with communal areas, trees and street lights – a committed attempt to "design out" crime. A Stirling prize-nominated children's centre is a visual testimony to the area's £225m renaissance. Crime is down dramatically. Prostitutes, junkies and guns are no longer ubiquitous. Much is down to the success of Trident working in conjunction with local police and the community. When Grant and those involved in the revenge attacks were arrested, shootings on the estate plunged by 50%, according to some reports. These days Stonebridge is regularly held up around the world as a success story when it comes to transforming problem estates."The area is transformed beyond belief," said Chinyere Ugwu, who has lived on the estate for 13 years and is managing director of Hillside Housing Trust, which runs Stonebridge. "The residents are actively involved in the community and are running things for themselves."But Grant's trial shone a light on the days when Stonebridge was notorious. As the prosecution suggested at the start of the trial, it was "more the law of the jungle than the law of civilised England". Grant, though, had a better chance than some of avoiding being sucked into its gang culture. An impressive athlete in his early teens, he signed schoolboy terms with Watford when he was 14. Money, fame and girls beckoned. He could earn more in a week than his friends could in a year if he made it big.But, like thousands of other hopefuls, Grant was let go by his club at 16. With no qualifications, he took a job at Tesco. But, as his trial was told, Grant was impressionable and revelled in the kinship of gang culture. It was suggested that Williams's "larger personality" had been a huge influence on him. It was Williams, the Old Bailey jury heard, who convinced the other two that Labastide must have been involved in a burglary at the flat of his cousin, Romain Whyte, Grant's best friend and someone he looked up to.Days before he was shot, Labastide, a member of a rival gang, had seen Whyte crash his motorcycle outside his house.Sensing an opportunity while Whyte was incapacitated, a gang, rumoured to be led by Labastide, raided his house and stole £20,000 of what the court heard was suspected drug money. As the gang piled into Whyte's flat, its three occupants – Whyte's girlfriend, Sabrina Edwards, his sister Melika, and a 16-year-old girl – jumped out of a first-floor window, fearing for their lives. Two of the women broke legs in the fall.Williams was incensed. Grant, who was best friends with Whyte, was similarly furious. In the warped world of Stonebridge, they considered the fact the burglars had carried guns "disrespectful". Labastide had often eaten at Williams's mother's house. "How could he do that?" the three accomplices raged.Urged on by Williams, Grant and Downie, armed and wearing motorcycle helmets, went looking for Labastide. They found him outside his mother's house talking on the phone to a friend and shot him six times. Grant was heard boasting about the shooting hours later.The killing unleashed a wave of violence. Typewritten letters accused Whyte and others of killing Labastide. "YOU WILL NOT GET AWAY THE PAST WILL HAUNT YOU," they proclaimed.Sean "Fusey" Cephinis, a friend of Labastide, was suspected of writing the letters. In a case of mistaken identity, gunmen looking to silence Cephinis killed Jahmall Moore in January 2005. Two years later Whyte and Grant were tried and acquitted of the shooting.After the acquittal, Grant must have been hoping to turn his back on his murderous lifestyle. Stonebridge was being transformed and Grant had a fresh opportunity, too. By the time Moore died in a hail of bullets, ambushed by four gunmen while in his car, Grant had been signed by Gillingham. As the defence at last week's trial observed: "Whatever he did in the past, he had turned his life around by the time it [the murder case] was resurrected."But the Trident officers had a theory. They had noticed the burglary at Whyte's flat and were aware that the day before it occurred Whyte had come off his motorbike in front of Labastide's house. Were the incidents connected? "We got an indication things were not quite right," Horsley recalled after questioning the three young women who had jumped from the window. He suspected they might be holding something back.Then, in 2008, new intelligence prompted the Trident officers to reopen their files and track one of the women to the south-west of England where she admitted hearing the three men plot the murder. "She was almost relieved that someone wanted to ask her," Horsley said. "She had held it in since she was a girl of 16."Appearing under a pseudonym, "Susan Norwich" supplied the testimony at a first trial and then a retrial in which Grant's conviction was secured. "She was a brave little girl to have done it twice," Horsley said. Her decision to testify was startling. Criminologists say it is rare for the police to receive such co-operation. Horsley agrees. "You can imagine you're a witness to a gun crime and the people who have done it are seriously bad guys. You have got to worry about your own safety, especially if you are from that community. We have to disclose names to defence and names will come out [in court], but we do our best to protect people."Grant's conviction was a stunning success for Trident officers. In two earlier related trials they had relied on evidence from Britain's first black-on-black supergrass, Darren Mathurin, a drug dealer, whose testimonies failed to convince the juries.As he was sent down last week Grant was seen to weep. Only months before he had been playing professional football, trying to resurrect a career that had stalled when he was 16."Because he hadn't made it with Watford he went back to Stonebridge and hung around with friends and family there and got into the wrong things," Horsley said. "Then after the shootings he tried to sort himself out."But it was too late. Far too late.