The mother of Maisie Copland, the four-year-old girl shot dead by her estranged father during a confrontation at the former family home in Aldershot yesterday, has also now died, Hampshire police have confirmed.Julie Harrison, 40, had suffered head wounds in the attack and was described by police overnight as being in a critical, but stable, condition. She was airlifted to hospital in London, but never regained consciousness.Her former partner, named locally as builder and decorator Andy Copland, 56, also died in the incident. It is believed that he shot his daughter and mother during a row over custody and access arrangements when Harrison arrived to drop Maisie off for a visit yesterday morning, and then turned the gun on himself.Hampshire police were called to the terrace house near the town centre after neighbours reported hearing a violent dispute and found carnage inside the house when they broke in. The little girl died in a police officer's arms after being discovered with extensive wounds to her head.Speaking outside the house last night, Detective Inspector Darren Rawlings said officers had met with a "very traumatic" scene. They attempted to resuscitate the girl, but she was pronounced dead a short while later.The couple had split up four weeks ago, and investigators were not looking for anyone else.The property, part of a residential development, was still sealed off while forensic examinations continued. Harrison's red Renault was taken away for tests.Sally Denny, 35, whose four-year-old son Noah was in the same reception class as Maisie, described her as a "happy, cheeky girl".She said: "Maisie was so full of life – a happy, funny and cheeky girl who knew how to bring a smile to people's faces. My last memory of her was seeing her perform in the school nativity. She was dressed as a star, but she will always be an angel."Harrison's ex-husband said today she had a bubbly personality and had lots of friends. Kevin Moody, 47, said he only found out about the tragedy when he got up this morning.Moody, a print production manager from Farnborough, Hants, was married to Harrison from 1992 to 1996, when they split amicably."She was a good laugh and we had an awful lot of fun when we were together. She was a bubbly personality and had a lot of friends," he said.Moody said: "We met about 18 months before we married in 1992 at a house we both rented rooms in. We didn't have any children and basically we split because she wanted to do the things that a single woman wanted to do and I didn't."I'm really in shock. It was all a long time ago for me now. At the end of the day she was a woman I loved."Liz Mathias, the head teacher of Maisie's school, St Michael's Infants in Aldershot, said: "We were devastated to hear about the tragic incident involving Maisie. She was a lovely little girl and a daughter that anyone could be proud of."Although she had not been at our school for very long, Maisie was an involved member of the our school community and she will be sadly missed."