A trio of disgraced British bankers known as the NatWest Three have each been sentenced to 37 months' jail by an American judge for stealing $7.3m (£3.7m) in a complex Enron-related fraud which sparked an international political row over Britain's extradition policy.But their dealings with Enron went far deeper than a single transaction – and the men have used their wealth to invest in ventures ranging from engineering to movie production, pubs and Scottish property.David Bermingham, Gary Mulgrew and Giles Darby's sentences, in line with the terms of a plea agreement, will close the book on a prosecution that sparked cries of injustice and complaints of judicial overreach by the US. The Texan court's no-nonsense judge, Ewing Werlein, will offer them the opportunity to speak – and experts say they would be wise to eat humble pie."Judges like to hear from defendants and I think it's important for each of the three to express remorse for what they've done," says Douglas McNabb, a US lawyer specialising in white-collar federal crime. "They've got to be particularly careful they don't start backtracking."The trio became something of a cause celebre when they were extradited to America two years ago. Their crime was to recommend that their employer, NatWest, sold a stake in an Enron venture, LJM Cayman, for just $1m – far less than its true value. Unbeknown to NatWest, they had a personal interest in the buyer of the stake, which sold it on at a huge profit.Since the Enron deal, Darby, 45, the senior banker of the three, has exhibited the most modest business ambition. A father of five girls, he left the financial world to become managing director of a small Wiltshire business, Bohan Engineering, which makes bespoke industrial machines for drilling, pinning and assembling manufactured products.His colleagues have branched out into colourful fields. Bermingham, 45, became immersed in film finance, at one stage, through a company called Grosvenor Park Productions. He won credits as executive producer on movies including Things to do Before You're 30, Trauma and The Libertine – a 17th-century romp starring John Malkovich.Mulgrew, a Glaswegian former nightclub bouncer, also dabbled in the movie world by investing in Trieste Film Partners – a film leasing entity set up by the entertainment entrepreneur Patrick McKenna's Ingenious Media group. But the world of property proved more of a draw for the Scot, according to documents obtained by the Guardian. In the years following his controversial dealings with Enron, he entered correspondence about a number of deals including purchasing an Islington gastropub, a Highlands hotel, and Hewan Wood, a beauty spot near Roslin on the outskirts of Edinburgh.Mulgrew, 46, snapped up a flat in Glasgow's affluent Hyndland suburb for £120,000 in April 2001 – eight months after receiving the proceeds of the Cayman deal. A month earlier, in March 2001, Mulgrew paid £245,000 for a new apartment on Edinburgh's Holyrood Road, beside the newly built Scottish Parliament. He signed agreements to rent this property out to his mother Trish Godman, who is a Labour MSP and the parliament's deputy presiding officer for £1,000 per month. She appears not to have used the flat, however, as over this period she was claiming regular hotel expenses in Edinburgh. She declined to discuss this with the Guardian.This flat, which is on the site of a former Scottish & Newcastle brewery beside the Queen's official residence, Holyrood House, does not appear to have appreciated much in value. Godman and her husband Norman Godman, a former Labour MP for Greenock, bought it from Mulgrew for £250,000 in November 2006. She has not had to record it in the parliament's register of members' interests because it is a personal residence. She has not claimed hotel expenses since buying the flat.Shareholders who lost millions in the collapse of Enron have suggested that the NatWest Three's gains from the corrupt energy trading company went well beyond the $7.3m deal to which they have admitted guilt. After leaving NatWest in 2000, the trio were hired by Royal Bank of Canada to set up a London-based trading team. Running this desk, they worked at the Canadian bank for just over a year – and over this period, 30% of their dealings were with Enron. Their role was to help Enron create complex offshore entitites with names such as Bob West Treasure, Jedi and Hawaii which kept losses off the energy firm's balance sheet.An internal email seen by the Guardian reveals just how lucrative this business was. In a message dated November 15, 2001, Mulgrew told his colleagues that his team had generated C$64.9m (£33m) of revenue in 12 months, of which C$48.3m was taken "straight to the P&L [profit and loss account]"."With a headcount totalling 47, we are naturally delighted that we were able to contribute new business revenue in excess of C$1m per head," wrote Mulgrew. Presciently, he added: "Obviously the year hasn't been without its trials and tribulations, most recently the Enron situation which has been trying for a number of us."When Enron went bust, the US bankruptcy courts appointed an "examiner", Harrison Goldin, to look into these deals. He concluded that the RBC team used improper techniques to help the energy trading firm conceal its financial problems."The ENA [Enron North America] examiner has determined that the evidence is sufficient for a fact finder to conclude that RBC aided and abetted certain Enron officers in breaching their fiduciary duty," says Goldin's report.Goldin reveals that the trio were fired by RBC in 2001 amid suspicions that, once again, that had "secretly invested" in an Enron off-shore partnership behind their employer's back.Even after their sentencing, the NatWest Three's legal difficulties will not end. A group of Enron shareholders led by the University of California, which lost $144m in Enron's collapse, has sued RBC and has subpoeaned the British trio to give depositions."After [the] arrival of the bankers from NatWest, RBC structured, financed and executed several deceptive transactions with Enron," says the university's writ.At the height of their success, Bermingham, Darby and Mulgrew wooed Enron's top brass diligently. They forged close relationships with Enron's chief financial officer Andrew Fastow and his second-in-command Michael Kopper, both of whom are now in prison.The British trio hosted a weekend for the energy company's executives at Scotland's Skibo Castle – the venue of Madonna's wedding. They went on an Enron skiing trip to Chamonix and cavorted with influential Enron staff at a Houston lapdancing club, Treasures.The walls of an American prison cell will give them plenty of time for reflection.