The new attempt by David Blunkett to curb the alarming rise in street crime is all the more difficult for the home secretary because the jails are already full to bursting.The Downing Street launch of the robbery reduction programme on Wednesday is likely to be followed on Thursday by a package of measures to reduce the number of non-violent minor offenders in jail. This is needed urgently to clear space in the prisons for street robbers and carjackers who are fuelling fear of crime - even though the crime rate overall has been falling for some time. The next set of crime figures is expected to show street robberies up by about 30% overall in the last 12 months. As Mr Blunkett conceded yesterday, that is undermining the "feelgood factor" expected as a result of spectacular falls in domestic burglary and car crime. The robbery initiative, which has yet to win full treasury funding, follows a £20m attempt 18 months ago to deal with robbery in the five worst hotspots, the results of which, ministers admitted, were "deeply unimpressive". So what will be different this time? They say some 5,000 officers will be involved in the 10 forces this time. They also hope to deal with the complaint voiced by Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan police commissioner, that too often young robbers are being bailed eight or nine times before being dealt with. Mr Blunkett says he can meet that problem by bringing in teatime and weekend courts. He wants more imaginative use of tagging to ensure offenders are not out robbing again as soon as they leave court. He also wants to use ideas such as secure fostering which would see the less violent teenagers sent to foster parents away from the areas they have been robbing. But with the prison population over 70,000 and growing at about 400 to 500 a month, Mr Blunkett will have to announce a fairly dramatic early release programme this week for non-violent offenders if he is to make much of an impact. Mr Blunkett is already discussing with the chancellor, Gordon Brown, the option of spending millions on expanding the number of prisons .