A landmark court case will challenge the Government this week to give young prisoners the same protection from abuse as other children. The legal move will question the use of segregation and physical restraint on young offenders and argue that the neglectful regime in Britain's brutal youth prisons has contributed to the high level of self-harm and suicide. The judicial review is being brought by the Howard League for Penal Reform, which believes detained children are at risk of significant physical and mental abuse. Lawyers for the charity will argue at the High Court that the Children Act 1989 should be amended to include children in prison. At present, the responsibility for young offenders lies with the Prison Service, which is not trained to deal with children. The legal challenge will force social services and health authorities to provide the care they would give for children at risk in the community or in children's homes. The challenge is backed by former Chief Inspector of Prisons Sir David Ramsbotham, who was horrified by the conditions he found in the worst youth prisons. He will say: 'It has been a huge disappointment to me that the Home Office has failed to ensure the Prison Service is bound by the Children Act. Without that legal duty, the treatment of children in prison will continue to be sub-standard.' The Howard League case was adjourned in July to allow the Department of Health to make further submissions in the case. The DoH has said it believes the Children Act already applies in practice to children in prison, despite the specific exemption. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League, said: 'The Department of Health is talking nonsense. The Children Act cannot be applied in secret. In order to protect children the law has to be known about and seen to be so. This act was designed to protect the vulnerable: children in prison are the most challenging and vulnerable children in the country.' Ramsbotham will also launch a report on conditions in youth prisons this week in conjunction with a coalition of children's charities. The report from the Children's Rights Alliance for England calls on the Government to honour its international obligations. During his time as Chief Inspector, Ramsbotham indicated that many young offender institutions were so inhumane that they should be closed immediately. The report identifies institutions where conditions of neglect were brought to the attention of Ministers at the time and still no action has been taken. Last month the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child criticised the UK's record on the treatment of children in the criminal justice system. It called on Home Secretary David Blunkett to raise the age of criminal responsibility from 10, one of the lowest in Europe. The Alliance also backs The Observer's Children Behind Bars campaign, launched earlier this year to improve the treatment of children in prison.