Detectives yesterday continued to question six teenagers following the death of a pub landlord in a hit-and-run attack at the weekend.Bob Todd, who had a son, daughter and three grandchildren, died after he was struck by a car in Pucklechurch, Gloucestershire, when he confronted young people who had launched an unprovoked attack on a group drinking on the village green.Avon and Somerset police, who yesterday recovered the car which they believe was involved in the crash, appealed for witnesses."Police are keen to speak to anyone who witnessed the incident or has any information about the movements of a blue Mazda 323 during Friday night or the early hours of Saturday," said a spokesman.Officers are interviewing a 16-year-old girl, two men aged 18 and three 17-year-old youths about Mr Todd's death and the assault on a man who suffered a broken jaw. The six were arrested on suspicion of murder, grievous bodily harm and violent disorder.Mr Todd, landlord of the Star Inn, is thought to have tried to intervene after violence erupted on the green. He made his way across to the community centre where the gang had parked their car.One witness then described seeing a blue sports car swerve deliberately towards Mr Todd as he approached. The car, which is thought to have contained three people, then sped off and left the victim for dead.Mr Todd's widow, Diane, said she had been "overwhelmed" by the support she had received from residents in the village. "They've been very kind," she said. "We've had literally hundreds of messages of support. It's wonderful. But I knew that would happen because they all loved Bob so much. He was very much the heart and soul of the village."Mrs Todd said her husband had gone to help a group of local people after hearing they had been attacked by a gang in a car."The trouble happened just outside the pub. It was the local 20-somethings who were having a drink outside. They were as good as gold. Then these people in a car just stopped and started on them. Bob went out to help." The pub was closed yesterday as floral tributes were laid outside.Malcolm Flook said his 22-year-old son Kevin, whose jaw was broken in the attack, had been drinking in the Star Inn with three or four friends when the group launched a vicious attack. "It was totally unprovoked. It came totally out of the blue," he said. "Kevin isn't the kind to get in trouble."