Derrick Bird, who shot dead 12 people in Cumbria, had become paranoid, had suicidal thoughts and was convinced his twin brother had "stitched him up", his best friend has told a hearing.Neil Jacques, 52, told the jury inquest in Lillyhall, near Whitehaven, that Bird was obsessing about his tax problems and had resigned himself to being jailed, after not declaring his real income for 15 years.In the three days leading up to the killings, Bird's behaviour became increasingly erratic, Jacques said. He appeared "shaking and petrified" the day before the shootings, telling Jacques: "I might as well top myself."Jacques said Bird visited his home three times that day. Bird kept repeating that his twin brother, David, and solicitor Kevin Commons, 60, were "in cahoots" against him.Jacques said he had known Bird since secondary school and lived a few doors from his terraced house in Rowrah, Cumbria. He described himself as Bird's best friend.Bird made his first visit at lunchtime. He handed Jacques a Winchester 12-bore shotgun and asked him to look after it. Jacques said he thought this was a "good idea because of Bird's state of mind".The coroner, David Roberts, asked him: "What do you mean by that?""Well, he mentioned he was going to top himself, so he might harm himself," Jacques replied.Bird killed his brother, shooting him 11 times, and his solicitor on 2 June last year and went on to kill another 10 people and injure 11 more, before turning the gun on himself in woodland at Boot. During his journey through west Cumbria, he took potshots at walkers, tourists, cyclists, motorists and a 15-year-old girl.A senior police officer told the inquest Bird was worried about a tax investigation into undeclared income.Jacques said Bird's behaviour began to change after the tax inquiry began in May."He said he received a form and he was bothered because he had too much savings and he had to declare it," Jacques said, describing Bird's attitude as "bothered and concerned". He went on: "He had not paid any tax for 15 years and they were going to find out if he filled the form in."He just kept repeating, he thought he was going to go to prison."Bird also told his friend that he had been to see his solicitor and "it wasn't looking good".Bird did not think his brother and solicitor were trying to help him, but were against him, Jacques said. "He said … they were stitching him up." When Bird expressed an intention to take his life, Jacques did not take it seriously and told Bird: "Don't be so daft."During the lunchtime visit, Bird seemed "very distressed, not himself", Jacques said. "He was shaking, petrified, sort of thing. He says, 'I think I'm going to get locked up tomorrow so you might as well have my gun.'"At around 6pm, Bird returned to see his friend. He was still shaking and worried, Jacques said, and kept repeating to himself that the solicitor and his brother had "stitched him up".Another friend, Graeme Curnow, arrived and both men tried to tell Bird not to worry so much. He appeared to be listening to their advice, but before the meeting broke up at 8pm, Bird said to Jacques: "You think I'm paranoid don't you?""I just told him he was being paranoid," Jacques said.Bird called again at 10pm and stayed for two and a half hours, appearing glum and repeating himself, Jacques said. Bird claimed his brother had taped him over the phone.Jacques advised him to go to a meeting with his solicitor to "sort it out" and promised to phone the next day to see what had happened.It was the last time saw Bird.The inquest, which could last up to four weeks, continues.