Madeleine Bunting spotlights the failure of today's society to create communities that gangs could find fulfilling (Yes, we have failed Rhys Jones but we have also failed his killer, August 27).One vivid difference between society 50 years ago and today's troubled neighbourhoods is the almost complete absence of a middle class in "rough" areas. Redevelopment, insensitive planning of residential estates and the divisiveness of an educational system that overemphasises examination success as a means of escape have all contributed to resentment and to the philosophy of the outlaw among those stuck in "oneclass, one tenure" council estates and similarly deprived areas.How many teachers, solicitors, social workers, politicians and police officers live in such neighbourhoods even when their work closely involves them there? All too often they commute from the suburbs and reinforce the picture of success meaning a chance to get out. Unless there are financial and housing incentives to live and work in one and the same community it will be very difficult to dislodge the feeling of bitterness among those who do not have a choice.Michael MeadowcroftLeedsMadeleine Bunting is quite right that while Dave Cameron and others reach for the hype in reacting to the tragic death of Rhys Jones, the circumstances which produced his killer or killers remain a key issue. But Bunting is too abstract about it. Inequality and lack of employment prospects from school against a background of quite easily available drugs conspire to frustrate the most determined parenting. But actually it is not necessary, even if desirable, to overthrow capitalism to address the fundamental issues. A rather more modest reform - putting money into youth facilities and reopening some of the many youth clubs that have closed during the Thatcher and Blair years - would be a huge step forward in stopping more deaths like that of Rhys Jones.Keith FlettLondonYour front-page interview (The Nogzy, the Crocky and the bizzies - a teen 'soldier' speaks, August 25) can surely only serve to endorse and encourage the idea in young minds that membership of a street "gang" gives you some sort of bad-boy cachet within your community. The piece basically allowed a kid to brag about how bad a gangster he was; these kids aren't "soldiers", they're knobheads (foolish persons) lacking the wit, imagination or education to realise that they're actually being taken for mugs by the criminals who really run things on these forgotten estates.Name and address suppliedI am wondering who will have the greater influence on British society: the "Nogzy soldier" who gave his account of the disturbing and adrenalin-fuelled life of a violent gang member, or the overprivileged and decadently inert spawnings of the author of Living with Teenagers (Family, August 25), one of whom flatly rejected his mother's offer of a surfing holiday in favour of staying in bed beyond two o'clock in the afternoon and smoking in his bedroom.Helen SavageYorkThere is much concern about "gangs" and their contribution to antisocial behaviour, leading to the idea that the growth of gangs in our adolescent society is to be deplored. This is missing the point. It is the nature of these gangs, not their existence or number, that is the problem. We should encourage gangs, particularly in a society where alienation is a risk and parental support is sometimes lacking for causes that cannot be easily removed. But gangs should have aims, objectives and constitutions that are admirable, built on ideas of social cohesion, of care for the environment and support for those in need. They can have local projects. The energies that are now wasted can be put to good effect. I am not suggesting vigilantes but rather constructive initiatives which nevertheless make use of the gang structure and its spontaneous, rather than imposed, formation. Working with nature is always more effective than ignoring or opposing it.James BaringPassenham, Northamptonshire