We meet outside the gate of a women's prison in the north of England. Sharon is carrying her worldly goods in a small plastic bag; it isn't carrying much to show for the six months she's just spent inside. She is on her way to Liverpool, her home town, and I am taking her as far as the station.She has just turned 20, but looks much younger. She cannot remember how many jail sentences she's served, but thinks it's "more than 14". Though she knows that her longest spell of freedom, in the last three years, was one month exactly.Sharon has been a heroin addict since the age of 14, when she met a lad who "was grafting to support his habit". She started grafting with him – in her case, mainly shoplifting – and sharing the smack that their crimes earned them.She had received a couple of cautions, followed by three spells in a secure children's home before graduating to jail, a young offender institution. Now she thinks of prison as home and, astonishingly, tells me that she plans to be back inside within two days at most.She has come out on a shopping expedition. Armed with a list of mobile phone numbers and addresses, she is "on a mission". Her brief is to collect "parcels" for her many friends inside. These will be "put in the safe" (hidden internally); then she will commit a crime, probably shoplifting, to make certain that she will be caught. It's not always easy. "Sometimes, I've had to go back into a shop and nick something else, even though I'd done it so blatantly before," she says.Ideally, she would like to be arrested before noon today, with a chance of being in court in the afternoon and back in the prison by tonight, but her shopping list is long and it will more likely be the next day before her task is complete.She will spend her discharge grant, £46, on heroin for herself but says that she will not "use" once she is back inside. Behind bars, she manages on the prescription methadone that the prison's pharmacy hands out to known addicts. That, she says, is another reason for getting back to jail as soon as possible."On the out, I might get a habit again," she says, adding that she "doesn't like it out here. It's cold [she's not referring to the weather] and I don't feel safe."I see her to her train and she gives me a phone number to call the next evening to find out if her mission has been accomplished.The number is that of a friend, who Sharon will contact using the free call that the reception staff will allow her. I make the call around 8pm the next day, to be told that the 20-year-old is, indeed, back "home".I hope she's feeling warm and safe.