Academic experts on violence against women have criticised safety advice issued by police after the murder of Joanna Yeates as "unhelpful" and "impractical".Avon and Somerset police have advised women not to walk alone in Bristol after dark, despite saying they have no "specific intelligence" to suggest there was any increased risk in the city.Members of the University of Bristol's centre for gender and violence research said such advice meant at this time of year women could go out alone between about 8.30am and 4.30pm, which would make life "impossible".Lois Bibbings, a senior law lecturer, and Tanya Palmer, who is researching sexual violence, dismissed the stance as "well meaning" but "impractical".In an article on the case, published in the Bristol Evening Post, they wrote: "This is simply impossible for most ordinary women who have jobs, social lives and children to take to and from school. This type of guidance is still routinely offered by the police in circumstances such as the present mystery surrounding Ms Yeates's homicide. Unfortunately such advice, while well-meaning, can be unhelpful."Without information about any specific threat to women's safety, telling women not to go out alone after dark distracts from what is known about the contexts in which women and men are likely to experience violence. Women are most at risk of violence committed by someone they know, often in the home."Bibbings and Palmer said it about two women a week die as a result of domestic violence. "The reality is distorted when attention is focused on the danger of violence from strangers. Men are in fact more likely than women to be victims of violence in public places," they added. "Warnings to stay indoors are impractical for everyone. And there is a danger that such warnings distract us from the huge problem of violence against both women and men."The centre said advice given by the university to staff and the thousands of students returning to the city after the Christmas break was more helpful. "The advice given by Bristol University encourages all students and staff to take precautions, such as sticking to well-lit and busy areas and being aware of their surroundings. In doing so it acknowledges that people do need to walk around the city after dark and sometimes alone."Avon and Somerset police also advised householders to keep premises secure and take care when answering the door to strangers.Meanwhile, police sources have said the investigation into the murder of Yeates, who went missing on 17 December, is progressing steadily. The officer leading the investigation has not given a press conference for a week, but sources say this is not because the inquiry lacks direction but because the team is working through more than 1,000 leads.Figures presented to Avon and Somerset police authority show improvements by the force's detectives in recent years. A third of recorded crimes are being detected, the authority's performance and audit committee was told – a doubling of the rate in 2004.