Weekend jail sentences, introduced to ease the prison overcrowding crisis, are being ignored by the courts as the death toll among women prisoners continues to soar.The sentences were aimed at allowing women to remain in contact with their families and people to keep their jobs. Trials began at one male and one female jail, but it has emerged that the 40-bed 'intermittent custody unit' in Morton Hall, a women's prison in Lincolnshire, has only received 13 inmates since it opened in January. The male unit, at Kirkham, Lancs, has received 30 offenders. The news comes after two more women were found dead over the past week; both deaths appeared to be self-inflicted. Marie Lucy Walsh was found hanging in her cell at New Hall prison, Wakefield, on Thursday, 36 hours after 22-year-old Rebecca Turner was found hanging in Low Newton, Durham. Turner had been in prison a matter of days. The deaths bring the total suicides of women in prison to 11 this year. If it continues at this rate, the overall level will overtake last year's record of 14 deaths. Intermittent custody was introduced at the end of January and allowed offenders to be given sentences where they would be locked up for a few days a week but be free to work and live with their family the rest of the time. Home Office research showed that prisoners on short-term sentences who still had a family and job to go back to after their time in custody were less likely to reoffend. Two-thirds of women in jail are mothers, and 17,700 children are separated from their mothers by imprisonment. Nearly a third of women in prisons lose their homes while inside. Campaigners also fear that Safer Custody Group, the Home Office unit dedicated to protecting vulnerable prisoners, is threatened by plans to merge the Prison and Probation services into a single National Offender Management Service. Prisons minister Paul Goggins has refused to guarantee that the unit would not be disbanded. Frances Crook, Director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: 'If we lost that unit, suicide rates could rocket. The situation is bad, but it could be worse.' Women make up 20 per cent of the 55 suicides in prisons so far this year, despite being only 6 per cent of the prison population. A third of all women in prison were reported to have harmed themselves in 2003, compared with only one in 16 men. On average, every woman prisoner who self-harmed did so five times compared with twice for the men. Nearly half of all self-harm incidents in prison involve women. 'The courts keep sending too many women to prison,' Crook said. 'Someone has to hold the mirror up to the courts and say, "You are sending women to their deaths. Stop it." It started with a very nasty onslaught against single mothers in the early 90s, and has got worse ever since.' Pauline Campbell, whose daughter Sarah took her own life in Styal prison last year, is to travel to Low Newton and New Hall to protest. 'There have been 23 more deaths since my daughter died,' she said. 'It is a disgrace.'