The revelations over the stabbing of Stephen Timms MP are shocking. This was a horrific criminal act that must be unequivocally condemned. In its wake, we are left to try to make sense of what it says about "radicalisation". According to the transcripts published in the Guardian, Roshonara Choudhry carried out the stabbing because she held Timms personally accountable for voting in favour of the Iraq war. Her concern over the war drove her to seek out a website such as RevolutionMuslim and to subsequently download the Anwar al-Awlaki lectures.Segments of the media and thinktank land have proclaimed that this was 'radicalisation through the internet', that Choudhry acted because radical preaching on the internet told her to. This is an oversimplified explanation that offers more populist hot air than meaningful insight.To claim that the lectures 'radicalised' her into committing violence makes no sense. She was going down this path to begin with – at most we can say that these resources "buttressed her resolve", enabled her to continue to thinking along these disastrous lines. If the lectures alone have the power to radicalise, why is it that more people aren't committing violence after listening to them?I am not arguing that Awlaki's lectures should not have been taken down from YouTube – it's just that this is the kind of political sop meant to make people feel better, rather than an action that actually addresses the problem. There's a growth industry in "experts" who pontificate about "internet radicalisation" – and fingers will point to this case, along with others such as Nicky Reilly and the Exeter bombing – but this superficial analysis really doesn't properly capture what's going on here.So what are the substantial lessons from this case?First, we can definitively put to rest Tony Blair's claims that foreign policy isn't linked to terrorism at home. We can't say that Blair's analysis caused Timms to be stabbed, but we can say that this wishful thinking has been proven inaccurate.Second, the transcripts elucidate the dangers of internalised political-religious outlooks. It is quite telling that Choudhry said that she only prayed at home, and talked to no one about what she was thinking or planning. For groups that I work with in my research into this area, this is the No 1 danger sign – being political but not participating in politics; not attending large scale gatherings of Muslims with groups that may (or may not) be Islamically inspired in character, but withdrawing from all forms of political engagement.This contradicts many of the claims of those who brand organisations like the MCB and mosques such as East London and North London Central Mosque as dangerous. It is exactly these entities which have been proven to help to channel anger about foreign policy away from this internalised, isolating and potentially dangerous way of thinking about issues into heated, heartfelt, and challenging but ultimately constructive wider political debates. If you cut off these constructive release valves, these problems will only get worse. This was exactly the kind of thinking that sat at the heart of Prevent thinking and the Home Office Channel project when they were first conceived. At the start, Prevent wasn't about surreptitious traffic cameras in Muslim neighbourhoods. The precursors to Prevent, in activities such as the Muslim Contact Unit, were about empowering, through shared agendas and partnership, Muslim communities to address and tackle exactly these kinds of isolated individuals. Yet many in Muslim communities now doubt the government's commitment to real and equal partnership. Potential partners are also under the threat of political harassment from those who put about unproven and emotional ideas ahead of realities such as those outlined above.Lastly, because these individuals are so isolated, it is almost impossible to predict and prevent this kind of incident from happening. Let's be honest, if it wasn't Awlaki's YouTube lectures, it would have been something else. Ultimately, blaming one set of lectures, or modelling from one specific experience, misses the wider question – how do we understand the context in which someone feels that this heinous crime is the right course of action? Unless this point is actually addressed, we can expect occasional lone wolf attacks like this in the future. To this extent, claims of "radicalisation via video" offer little insight but merely act as an easy crutch for those who don't really deal with the issues at hand.