The government adviserLord Mackenzie was the president of the Superintendent's Association for three years and from 1997 to 2001 he was special adviser to the home secretary, Jack Straw."I won't be on the march tomorrow as I'm unfortunately not in the country but if I was around I would. You can't escape the conclusion that the police are being short changed. I have been involved in pay arbitration for 30 years and have never known an arbitration not be honoured in full. Especially as it is only over £30m - if you can bail out Northern Rock this is a drop in the ocean. I understand the government is concerned about inflation but if that was the position then they shouldn't have gone to arbitration. I don't think this would happen under Tony Blair. He'd have realised it was the wrong fight at the wrong time."We've been here before, in the '90s, when Ken Clarke was Home Secretary trying to push through the Sheehy proposals: this was the application of business models to the police force and tried to bring in paying police by results. 20,000 policemen turned up at London arena to protest. Tony Blair spoke at it. It was only when [Michael] Howard became home secretary that he realised he was being outflanked by Blair. Same with [former prime minister James] Callaghan. It took Thatcher to come in and table a pay deal they accepted. It's clearly something about which politicians have instinctive feelings. [Home secretary Jacqui] Smith has been given some very bad advice. [Tory leader David] Cameron will be positioning himself on the police's side."The organiserPaul Tonks is the representative for West Midlands police force. Today he was expected to set off at 5am to bring 43 coaches down to London. That's some 1700 officers of an 8003 strong force, who have all booked a leave day to attend the march."This is far more serious than anything that has come before. Gordon Brown has misjudged us and, if you ask me, this has his fingerprints all over it. A leaked letter came out recently in which Smith was bragging to Brown about how she'd managed to keep our pay down. I'd have had more respect for her if she'd just said it straight from the beginning."The whole reform process is getting the police down. There is incessant change and continual reform to the point where we are always reforming. This never allows the service to take stock. Now we don't trust the government. The pay issue should be binding by arbitration. But the trouble is that we've become a political pawn... we've now got to the point where policing has become about politics. But we are servants of the crown after all. Not government."There will be no striking. Hope it doesn't come to that. We need to keep the moral high ground - that's one of the reasons, for instance, we're not an armed police. But I tell you, there is an age balance. I think the older ones are probably gearing up not to strike: the idea of a strike fills most people with terror. But the younger ones are a bit more militant."We've frighteningly heard nothing from the Conservatives. On Monday [the shadow home secretary] David Davis came out and said that if it were a Conservative administration then they don't think the home secretary should be able to over rule the arbitration as she has done. I am astounded that David Cameron hasn't spoken out for us. [The shadow home secretary] Liam Fox talking about the issue on question time was just lame. A disgrace. Woeful. We have had more support from Labour backbenchers than from Tories."The bloggerEllie Bloggs, not her real name, is a policewoman working in Blandshire, not its real name. Her book is Diary of an On Call Girl: True stories from the front line."I can't make it to the march and I'd imagine a lot of frontline staff around and about are the same. The frontline response teams are often the most affected. We are now down to the minimum we can possibly have. They have gradually reduced the necessary staff numbers over the years. So if my team is six, then our minimum numbers are five. The trouble is, if I went, then the town would only be covered by the bare minimum and I'm not prepared to do that. None of us are willing to pull sickies or do drastic measures. I expect many of the 15,000 predicted will end up being non-frontline."I can't see us striking but I do think we should have the right to strike. You see, the problem is that gone are the days when people thought the police should have special status. Now, and I have to say it is because of government pressure, there's now a lot of anti-police sentiment. Ever since the Home Office have made us go round recording statistics we have started lodging crimes like the throwing of cream buns at buses... and of course the public start to lose respect for you when you log crimes like that."In the event I couldn't strike. Deep down ... if I hear on the radio there is no one at an incident then I know that there is someone who has been beaten up or been in a car crash that I can't get to. I think the government know that we are motivated by this.