Steve Wright lived in a world that centred around his local pub and golf club, where regulars knew him as a quiet, unassuming guy, who dressed well, a "good bloke, someone you could talk to". But in truth, no one really knew him at all. Certainly not the 49-year-old's partner of six years, Pamela Wright, 61. She had no idea that, after dropping her at the IT call centre where she worked the night shift, the shy man she lived with would trawl Ipswich's red-light district for prostitutes to take back to their flat for sex, let alone that his desires were rapidly to turn more sinister.Nor did the police. In December 2006, when the naked bodies of missing young women began appearing at remote spots around the Suffolk town, detectives did not have Wright's name on their radar. He had no relevant previous convictions to alert them to the possibility that he might be the serial killer they sought. It was only when samples of DNA found on three of the women matched his — his DNA was placed on the database after a conviction for the theft of cash from a pub till five years ago — that they first heard of him. According to one police source, he "came out of nowhere".Even members of his family describe the former publican as the sort of man who "wouldn't say boo to a goose". They say he is not nearly clever enough to have committed the crimes.But the evidence that linked him to the murdered women, all of whom he admitted picking up shortly before they went missing, was damning.His DNA was the "common denominator", the only type found on all three of the women discovered on dry land, while fibres found from his clothing, car and home were discovered on all five. A forensic expert told the court the fibres suggested he had been in contact with them shortly before their naked bodies were dumped. He had no explanation for why blood from two of the women was found on the outside of his reflective jacket, and in his car. There was no explanation for why his semen was found on one woman's ankle, or on another's breast. He admitted having sex with four out of the five women, but insisted it was simply an unfortunate coincidence that they five were later killed in the same order in which he had picked them up.Today, after a six-week trial, the jury did not believe Wright's defence and found him guilty of murdering all five women by smothering them or compressing their necks, before stripping and dumping their bodies.Each of the women had turned to prostitution in order to fund their drug addiction and each were on drugs when they died, a factor that may have rendered them incapable of putting up a fight. Little is know about where or how Tania Nicol, 19, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, 24, Annette Nicholls, 29 and Paula Clennell, 24, met their deaths, other than that they each died fighting for breath.What drove Wright to his six-week killing spree will probably never be known.Bought sex for £20 In the witness box for three days, he gave a controlled performance, never losing his temper and only occasionally raising his voice, to deny he had anything to do with the murders. He was accused of tailoring his story to match the evidence and his elaborate attempts to explain away some of the forensic evidence – he insisted that he found the fluid on the outside of a condom so repulsive that he always used a glove to remove it after having sex with prostitutes — was dismissed as a "nonsense' by the prosecution.A frequenter of massage parlours for 25 years, Wright told the court he only turned to street prostitutes a couple of weeks after he moved into a flat in the red-light district on October 1 2006, at a time when his sexual relations with his partner, who was then working nights, had dwindled to virtually nothing.When he realised he could buy sex for as little as £20, his use of them increased dramatically. He was "blinkered" by his desire for sex, he said, and picked them up in his car yards from his own house, despite the risk of detection by his partner.He would always haggle. They would ask for £40 to £50, but, he told the court, he would tell them "no way" and argue them down to "whatever I had to spend". Desperate for money for drugs, they rarely argued.Two weeks after he began picking up prostitutes from Ipswich's red light district, they started to go missing. The first was Nicol, on October 30. Wright told the court he had probably picked her up in his car on the night she vanished but changed his mind and dropped her off again after he noticed she had acne.In a case that served to highlight the desperate lives of these most vulnerable of women, there are many unanswered questions. On the second day of the trial, the prosecution acknowledged that "we may never know" Wright's motivation. Did he kill Nicol by accident and then discover a lust for killing that drove him on? Or did he target these women in "campaign of killing" that only ended with his arrest? Would he have killed more if he hadn't been stopped?However, the way in which the body of the last woman he killed, Clennell, was disposed of so close to the main road, suggests he either did it in haste or had become sloppy and gave no thought to properly hiding it.