The partner of a teenager who was jailed for skipping jury service by pretending to be ill and instead going to see a West End show has criticised the sentence for being unduly harsh.Christian Orr's boyfriend, Matthew Banks, was jailed on Monday for 14 days at Manchester crown court after he missed jury service and went to see Chicago in London. He will spend Christmas behind bars as a result of the contempt of court.His mother has visited him at Forest Bank young offenders institution and she said the 19-year-old Manchester University languages student was doing better than expected and was coping.Orr, 23, said: "His mother was surprised that he seemed to be coping OK. They're still hoping that he'll be released before Christmas Day. I still worry about him. I know there'll be a lot of people who think he's been careless – but he's just naive and behaved without thinking."Banks had sat through four days of the case of a man accused of driving into his girlfriend, who was later convicted in his absence.On the last day of his jury duty, Banks rang court saying he had been throwing up all night. The trial was delayed as a result.When court officials phoned his home to check how he was doing, his partner answered and told them he had gone to London to the theatre.Hours later, the police turned up to take a statement from Orr, who said he had no idea that his partner was expected in court for the fifth day of the trial last Friday. He was assured that Banks would get a severe ticking-off, but was unlikely to be jailed.However, when Banks returned to court on Monday to apologise, the judge said the offence was too serious for a suspended sentence and jailed him for 14 days.Orr said: "He should have been punished at the end of the day because he lied and it was contempt of court. But there is a grey area with the court system in terms of the scale of the offence. I don't feel he has the life experience or maturity to be a juror."I know people who are in their 40s or 50s who've never done jury service, it is a big responsibility. While I feel he should be punished, there seems to be an unfairness in the sentence and the crime. The sentence feels unduly severe."Orr says Banks is worried about the impact of having a criminal record for the rest of his life and how it will affect his career. So, too, the media coverage of the case. "He thinks I'm going to leave him because he's got a criminal record," Orr added.His partner, he admits, is very bright – sailing through A-levels with three A grades – but Orr feels he doesn't have the same emotional maturity as a 21-year-old, which he thinks should be the minimum age for jury service.