Here's another valuable exposure by the Guardian of some shocking figures (Revealed: 10,000 people living at risk of domestic violence, 27 February). However, through its coy choice of words, this article pitches the story towards an acute awareness of women's victimhood while shying away from an account of men's criminality. The words "woman" and "women" occur 13 times in the article, which reports that 10,952 are deemed to be at "high risk of violent death in the home, or of suffering serious violence". What category of person carries out these vicious attacks? The "perpetrators" are their "partners" (12 uses of these words). Lesbian women, perhaps? No, actually: men. (There is a hint: the word "men" slips into the story once; also one "husband" features.)We make this point not to pick nits but to question policy choices. So long as the spotlight is on the female (and juvenile) victims of sexual and gender-based violence, while the masculinity of the attacker is veiled in gender-neutral words, the thrust of policy will continue to be toward protection. What about prevention? We need to face and question the fact that the most dangerous creatures on earth for women and children are not big cats or intrusive parasites but their husbands, fathers, male lovers and sons. Your article could have, but did not, prompt a useful Guardian editorial on the urgent need for conscious social policy to reshape masculinity – for men's sake as well as women's.Professor Cynthia Cockburn University of Warwick, Professor Ann Oakley Institute of Education, London• I read with weary horror and disbelief the catalogue of preventable errors the police made in "protecting" Cassie Hasanovic from her husband's violence (Report, 27 February). Surely the time has come to remove responsibility for this vital work and that associated with rape from the police and establish an entirely new national force competent and committed to and capable of investigating and protecting women at risk of and being subjected to domestic violence and rape. To read that the PCC adjudged the officers had acted appropriately suggests that the PCC too has lost the plot.Richard StockfordHolmfirth, West Yorkshire• That domestic violence places 10,000 women and children at high risk of death or serious injury is a major concern. The number is indeed likely to be higher due to under-reporting. There are concerns that, in some instances, children may replicate the actions of a domestically abusive parent. Over a two-year period, of 83,469 contacts made to the charity, 27% of callers were seeking advice regarding their children's aggressive behaviour. Of total calls relating to child behaviour, 88% of calls concerned a child's aggressive behaviour within the home. While aggressive outbursts can be a normal part of a child's development, many of the families we are in contact with are dealing with more serious and entrenched problems. Families who find themselves unable to manage their child's physical or verbally aggressive behaviour need a range of advice and support. The stigma attached to abuse can prevent families from seeking help early, thereby preventing the problem from spiralling out of control.We urge all parents and families facing serious behavioural challenges to seek support, for the sake of their children and their own wellbeing. We are concerned that there is a significant unmet need in terms of statutory support in this area. Children with, or at risk of developing, more serious problems such as conduct disorders, need the right intervention at the earliest available opportunity, otherwise the cost to the child and the family is a grave and tragic one, but it is one that is avoidable if the right support is made available.Jeremy ToddChief executive, Family Lives