The prisoner is on the phone to his sister. He is due in court soon and he is hoping for a short sentence. She doesn't see it that way: "You don't want to come out. You'll get right back on it. Lola's on it, Tedda's on it.""I can't afford to go back on it. I can't stay in here, just 'coz of them. I'll be with Julie. She's all right." "Mum's like an insect. She's that thin. She's staying at T's. Gary grabbed hold of her face 'cos she wouldn't get him two sugars when they wuz waiting at court. He says 'Yeah. You fuckin' crackhead.' " "I'm going to knock him out. I swear it. And I asked fuckin' Lola to bring me a bit of dope and she's only shown Julie the letter, right, to try and get us split up. I'm going to knock her out an' all." "The flat's full of 'em. Lola's here, Tedda, Bullets, Gary. Bloody Derek. He hit me with a garden spade, the little prick." "I don't know where I'm going to go." "You're mad if you come out." A week in a prison is a week in a looking-glass world, as if those high walls had been covered in mirrors and the politicians on the outside could see only their own postures and the cheering of the angry crowd around them, so they carry on talking tough and cranking up the prison numbers in the cause of punishment, while within the walls something very different is going on. Here, in Exeter prison, you listen to the governor grades and none of them tells the politicians' tale of punishment. "We contain them. This place is more like a refuge, where they can escape the stresses of their lives outside. You see them relaxing. And then it's a bit like sugar: we can refine them." But who knows? Maybe that's just for the benefit for the Guardian. So you listen to the prison officers, and they're reading from the same script - even this hard-assed veteran who mourns the passing of respect and discipline in society. He goes on to complain that the public like their prisons to be warehouses, just storing people to keep the streets clean, but he's had a grown lad crying on his shoulder about being sexually abused by his own father and another bursting with pride about how his dad used to take him on burglaries when he was only so small, and he says he used to be cynical about sorting out the problems of offenders but now he can see the usefulness of it. Apart from anything else, it means the offender's got no excuse any more. But maybe that too is just PR. So then you listen to the prison. You can do that quite literally. Every wing in the prison has phones on the walls and, next to every phone, is a sign which says every call will be recorded and may be listened to. And so, over in the security block, where they monitor the calls in search of smuggled drugs or signs of violence, all day long, you can hear the prison talking. It's the sound of the looking-glass world. The prisoner: "Hallo, mate, how are you, buddy?" The mate explains that he has been on a drug treatment and testing order, but he's had enough of it. The prisoner: "Well, you know what to do. Get your arse filled up with drugs and come back in here!" The mate: "Yeah. That's what I usually do." There's that looking-glass again: prison as a refuge, prison as a market to penetrate. Prison as home too - there are plenty of stories of men who come in here and find food and a bed, which are denied them outside. At its most benign, there is the man I watched getting ready for his release who tried and failed to buckle up the trousers he had been wearing when he was convicted a couple of months earlier: three meals a day had changed his size. At its most damaging, there is the man who was due for release who slashed his wrist to ribbons for fear of "freedom". (They took him to the hospital, patched him up and put him on the streets just the same.) Prison is still punishment. In the voices on the phones, you can hear the sheer loss of human contact: the yearning of the man for his little daughter ("Did you go to ballet? ... Did you do pom-pom dancing? ... You having school dinner or packed lunch?"); the unspoken anxiety of the absent husband ("Called you last night. You didn't answer". She says the baby must have been playing with the phone. They talk for a minute and she says she's got to go and change the baby's nappy, and he says "I'll call you tonight then. Or are you going out?"); the helplessness when a man phones his girlfriend and hears her voice so stoned that she can scarcely speak, and then she mumbles: "I'm coughing up blood." "Skunk?" "Dunno. All I can taste is blood." "Everything all right then?" Pause. "No, I'm out of it." "I got a legal visit later." No answer. "Don't go dying on me." No answer. "Love ya." The line goes dead. He spends the morning calling her back, never getting through. Prison works - to the precise and limited extent that it takes offenders out of circulation. Beyond that - when you go beyond mere incarceration and ask about changing the behaviour of offenders - it is soon clear that, regardless of the rhetoric of the politicians and the angry crowd, just about everybody inside these walls now recognises that prison works best when it does not work as a prison. The prison service is in the process of huge change - from punishment towards rehabilitation. If the outside world does not recognise it, that is partly because of the continuing rhetoric of deterrence, but it is also because the change itself is mired in difficulty. Change means that prisons like Exeter have had to fight their own past. Five years ago, as officers and prisoners agree, this was a penal dump of the worst kind - ancient Victorian building, three men in a cell, some of them slopping out, routinely banged up for 23 hours a day, and the whole place run by a hardline and endlessly obstructive local branch of the Prison Officers' Association, the POA. The older staff talk about "the dark ages" and the dinosaurs who used to rule the place. The dinosaurs lost their power, partly because the leadership of the prison service at the centre started to insist on decency and to challenge the POA; and partly because a new governor, Ian Mulholland, came in and forced change. Everybody remembers the showdown day when Mulholland wanted to move the vulnerable prisoners - mostly sex offenders - on to D wing, a separate block where they could be managed more easily and safely. The local POA had been blocking that for years. It just didn't suit them, so they wouldn't let it happen. Mulholland insisted. The new director general, Phil Wheatley, who used to be a prison officer, issued an "operational override" to back him. The local POA committee grumbled and threatened but, when the day came, the officers moved the prisoners: they no longer supported the old guard. Soon afterwards, the chairman went off sick and then retired. Now, this is a far calmer place. An influx of civilians and women officers has changed the tone of staff, and the POA no longer tries to run the place. The provision of televisions in the cells has dealt with some of the boredom and frustration of prisoners. Officers still stand under the covered walkways, just in case anybody decides to drop spit or boiling water on them through the gaping stairwells, but there is a striking lack of aggression in the place. The soundtrack is more like a school playground: "Please, miss, is there education today?" ... "Turn down that radio" ... "No you can't." Finding homesNow, this is a prison which attempts to sort people out; a prison where more than 60 men last year got bail simply because the prison's legal office helped them; where routinely, they are offered advice on finding homes and jobs; where a 30-year-old scouser who has spent 14 of the last 17 years behind bars, says the best thing that has ever happened to him is an offender behaviour course he has just finished; where a man with a history of violence goes on a "family man" course and tells his wife on the phone "It's actually sunk in, what mistakes I've made." But the prison is working on an obstacle course. In some ways, this prison is still fighting its past - the crap building and the shortage of resources and still some slopping out - but, more important than that, the whole prison system is fighting the outside world, including other government departments without whom they cannot succeed. To put it another way: the defining effort by the prison service to rehabilitate offenders - to make itself genuinely useful in fighting crime - is hemmed in by the same two problems which we have found bedevilling every level of the criminal justice system: political populism and sheer cack-handed mismanagement from parts of Whitehall. Five years ago, heroin addicts turned up in Exeter prison and suffered agonies of withdrawal, spent their sentence in useless containment and were pushed back out into the world without any means of avoiding illicit drugs and the crime that goes with them. Now, just about all of them get a detox with lofexidine for the craving, nitrazapam to help them sleep, and special access to the gym to work the lactic acid out of their muscles; and some of them go through a four-week thera peutic course which has been devised by the drugs unit at Prisons HQ and which is proving remarkably successful. But governors generally complain of a complete absence of Home Office strategy on drugs. Ministers are proud of the fact that 50,000 prisoners last year went through a Carat (Counselling, assessment, referral, advice and throughcare) drugs course in prison, but they don't explain that this is less than half of the estimated 104,000 men and women with drug and alcohol problems who pass through our prisons each year; that Carat usually means nothing more than an assessment and no kind of treatment; that only 4,703 went on to treatment; and that only 2,418 completed the treatment. That is 2.3% of those in need. Those who complete the treatment are then left in prison normally with no aftercare, no relapse prevention and, on release, a one in 10 chance of getting an appointment with somebody who may help them avoid slipping back into the drugs blackmarket. There are no needle exchanges in prison (even though prisoners smuggle syringes in their backsides and then share them) and only very limited methadone maintenance, both policies apparently shaped by fear of the tabloids. The Home Office do not even make best use of their 50,000 Carat assessments: they make no attempt to collate the detailed data to find out more about the problem they are dealing with. One result is that money for drugs work in prisons is distributed in a chaotic fashion, passed through area drugs coordinators who pass it on to prisons through a bidding war and notoriously not according to need. (Distribution in London has been so chaotic that the prison service's internal audit unit was called in.) Exeter prison has been clever at bouncing money out of the system and has £272,540 this year to spend on drug work but the money does not nearly meet the need:£70,000 goes on sniffer dogs and their handlers in a vain attempt to stop smuggling; more goes on drug tests for prisoners, which are highly unreliable and frequently fiddled. The rest leaves the prison's Carat team processing only 70% of prisoners within the required five days of arrival; prisoners on detox spending 23 hours a day in their cells; and the four-week treatment course struggling to handle 240 prisoners in a year, when more than 2,000 prisoners need it. Drugs are still a big part of prison life. Friends chuck them over the wall inside oranges. New prisoners arrive with them stuffed up inside them (more than 80 grammes of heroin and two syringes in one case) and then, when they run out, they lean on their families to bring in more on visits ("You gonna do what I told you about? ... Don't bother coming if you don't.") Security officers think one prisoner was orchestrating sick cell mates to go to outside hospitals to pick up drugs stashed in waste bins there. Work and education also struggle to make their mark. Five years ago, at Exeter, both had run into a ditch. All the workshop instructors had been laid off to save money, and when Ian Mulholland's predecessor managed to save £70,000 to hire new ones, the then area manager swiped it to balance his own budget. One of the workshops was permanently closed and being used as a visitors' room. Very few prisoners were given any education and, if it did happen, staff say, that often meant no more than sitting in a classroom watching a video. Now, on an average morning, 200 prisoners will be taken from their cells to workshops or classrooms. Yet, the progress is obstructed. Nationally, there is more money now for prison education, there are more qualifications, but the Adult Learning Inspectorate reports that more than 60% of prisons are failing to provide adequate education and training, and Ofsted agrees that too many prisoners are failing to receive the education they need to prepare them for release. Even long-term prisoners in stable regimes are not getting five hours' education a week in basic skills. The Commons education select committee this year heard evidence that prisons are short of teachers; that many of those who do teach in prison are underqualified; that facilities are poor (Portakabins up to 40 years old; only 31 prisoners in the whole country with access to the internet); that prisoners are frequently late for classes, because officers are dealing with security problems; that they are frequently shunted off to other prisons in the middle of courses (in one prison, only 7% of prisoners were able to finish their courses). The committee heard too of governors who simply dismiss education and who push inmates through low-level classes, regardless of their real needs, in order to hit their key performance targets. One witness described a prison where education was known as "KPT classes".  Bureaucratic turmoil The background to all this, the select committee heard, was a picture of bureaucratic turmoil. Prison education is contracted out to colleges, which may be hundreds of miles away and which are judged simply on the hours they teach, not the quality of their teaching. Funding is short-term and uncertain with particular uncertainty at the moment, as the Learning and Skills Council takes over, leaving prisons with no idea who will be supplying their education, for how long or on what contract. Workshops are run by the prisons themselves with no link to education; Whitehall launched a nationwide project to merge prison workshops with prison education - and then suddenly cancelled the whole scheme. "Current provision of prison education is unacceptable," the select committee concluded. Prison workshops are in an even worse state than the classrooms. Figures collected by the home affairs select committee suggest that out of 76,000 prisoners in the system, only 32,000 have any work. Of those 22,000 are involved in menial prison work, cleaning cells and making tea for officers; 4,000 do menial labour in workshops, putting teabags into boxes or peeling used stamps off envelopes; only 6,000 are involved in constructive work which could yield some skill, such as woodwork, engineering or textiles. That is less than 8% of prisoners. The prison service has hit its target for "purposeful activity" for prisoners only once in the last eight years. The 2003 Prison Industries Review said this was "indefensible". The prison service responded by quietly abandoning the target. Exeter prison has come a long way. It is the only local prison visited last year by the Adult Learning Inspectorate and deemed not to need a reinspection. And yet, the reality is that when 200 prisoners go off to workshops and classrooms, another 200 remain locked in cells. There are not enough staff and not enough classrooms - and the workshop that was being used for visitors five years ago, is still being used that way for lack of funds from the Home Office. The activity in the workshops is unskilled - packing shower pipes into boxes, for example - and staff are frustrated to be able to offer no more (and have fiddled the figures by claiming every inmate in the prison spent 10 hours every week in purposeful activity - cleaning their own cells.) Education classes are hemmed in by targets, which mean they have to aim at the lowest level of attainment, even though some prisoners may need more. Down the road at Channings Wood prison, where men serve longer sentences, they have one of the best track records in the country for getting prisoners into further education. There are several prisoners studying for masters, 20 prisoners studying for degrees. The education select committee heard that the tutor who has been coordinating that programme is being made redundant to make way for a brick-laying instructor because there are no performance targets for that level of education. There is no doubt that there are men in here who are being helped. That is new and important. You can hear it on the phones. "Some fella in class was tapping his pen and I ripped it out of his hand. Teacher said 'That's not the way to resolve a situation'. And, you know - fair enough." But you can also hear the dull grind of prison life, crushing expectation. "It's just bang-up, sleep and eat in here. But I got a couple of valium." "I was up till three wanking and watching TV, gonna the workshop later, crushing cardboard." "I just kicked the fuck out of my pad mate ... Nah, he's not going to say anything." The prison staff can see the change struggling to survive - the change in their prison, and the change in individual men. And, over and over again, the enemy is the outside world, the world which infuriates officers by insisting on seeing them all as turnkeys and bullies (they all hate TV prison drama like Bad Girls); which fails to provide the support they need (their staffing levels are so low that sometimes they can't even search cells when they hear there are drugs in there); and, worst of all, the outside world of poverty and prohibited drugs and decaying estates which grabs hold of these men and drags them down as soon as they walk out of the gate. They know that prisoners need housing - but all too often, imprisonment robs men of their homes. Here is a man on the phone, who has just been arrested a few days ago: "I told 'em I'd be back to work Wednesday, said I'd hurt my shoulder. But now they say no bail. So that's the job gone. And the flat too. I can't do the rent. That's gone and all." They work hard to give them advice on how to find housing when they leave. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister has just agreed to join the prison service in funding a pilot scheme to help released prisoners in the south- west find a stable home - and yet the same ODPM has consistently refused to instruct local authorities to treat more prisoners as "vulnerable" to give them better access to housing. Home Office research published in February suggests that more than 60% of prisoners who are given advice on housing nevertheless have no housing to go to when they are released. They know that prisoners need work but most local employers, who may be the first to call for crackdowns on crime, do not want to hire them. Some are released with licence conditions that they must not go out without an escort or even that they must not attend college. Short of staff The prison service has installed Jobcentre Plus staff in prisons across the country, but they are so short of staff that two workers in Exeter have to handle some 130 cases a week and end up spending 90% of their time trying to sort out benefits, not jobs, knowing all the while that released prisoners with only £46 in their pocket, may wait two or even three weeks before their paperwork is processed and many weeks more before they get any cash. They know that prisoners need drugs treatment when they are released. But there are queues, although Exeter is much better than Plymouth where, prison staff say, some men have waited a year for help with drugs. Without help, some of them simply don't cope ("I'm frightened of being out there and not being on drugs.") Or worse. There was a young man in Exeter who did particularly well on the four-week drugs course. He finished it on a Thursday, standing up and telling the rest of the class that they could do better with their lives. On the Friday, he went out, straight back to the world of drugs. That weekend, he died of an accidental overdose. (Home Officer research suggests that, with their tolerance lowered, prisoners are 40 times more likely to die in their first week of freedom than the rest of the population.) There are several staff here who have gone beyond the call of duty and left the prison with men on release, so that at least they could get them as far as the railway station without their running into more trouble. But they work for a system in which, as the chief inspector of prisons says, "resettlement in prisons can still best be described as patchy" and where government is betting on both sides - desperately trying to cut the prison population and desperately driving more offenders into prison. Early each morning, those who are about to be released are processed through the reception area. Some are light-hearted, like the lad who is going back to his family: his main worry over the last few days was that his mates were going to put jam in his bed to give him a send-off. Some are full of hope, like the man who, after years of trouble, has a job as a baker and somewhere to live, just because this prison worked so hard for him. And many have nothing. Two high-priority repeat offenders were due to go out with nowhere to live, despite all the official attention they received. A shy middle-aged man who was living in his car when he was arrested, had lost that because it wasn't taxed, and was heading out to sleep rough round St Austell. One man was officially deemed a danger to the public. He (and apparently the prison staff) believe he has matured, but his licence demands that he live in a hostel and be escorted if ever he goes out, and so he has no chance of home or work. He struggles to find a way of capturing his frustration and finally quotes Britney Spears - "Why don't they let me live?" · Additional research, Roxanne Escobales