Four police officers condemned by a judge three years ago as "vicious cowardly racists" are to face disciplinary proceedings following an intervention by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.Charges were served on the officers yesterday relating to their involvement in the false imprisonment and malicious prosecution of three black men in 1995.One of the victims. Sylbert Farquharson, was awarded £250,000 in 2003 after a court was told how he was assaulted and how one officer said of him: "He's a fucking coon, let's give him a fucking tail."Following the confrontation, which caused outrage among black communities in Brixton, south London, out-of-court settlements of about £80,000 were also paid to the two other abused men.The IPCC was obliged to direct the Metropolitan police to conduct the disciplinary proceedings. Two officers were suspended soon after the settlement with Mr Farquharson but have since returned to work. Three others were temporarily removed from frontline policing but they too returned to normal duties. One has since resigned. A sixth officer was given "words of advice".Greater Manchester police conducted a criminal investigation into the officers' conduct under the supervision of the Police Complaints Authority (PCA) and its successor, the IPCC, but no prosecution followed. The Crown Prosecution Service ruled that it would have proceeded against the officers save for the passage of time.Mr Farquharson, who suffered partial paralysis to his arm after being abused by up to five officers, declined to comment yesterday. But his solicitor, Tony Murphy of Bindman and Partners, said: "Mr Farquharson welcomes this decision and hopes that the disciplinary process will be conducted with a fairness that he was denied when maliciously prosecuted.During the civil action, the court heard the men were confronted by police, handcuffed and arrested outside a cafe in Stockwell, south London. The handcuffs forced on Mr Farquharson, who was 50 at the time, cut into his wrists, causing permanent damage and preventing him from ever working as a delivery driver again.The judge found that police officers later fabricated a version of events, which led to Mr Farquharson and Mr Smith being prosecuted. A magistrate threw out the charges. The hearing was also told that after the arrests a group of unidentified police officers drove around the area shouting and making monkey noises at black motorists. The arrests were witnessed by passers-by, including a college lecturer and probation officer both of whom complained to the PCA.The Met said the officers faced allegations relating to "fairness and impartiality", "politeness and tolerance", "use of force and abuse of authority". Also "performance of duties and general conduct". A misconduct board hearing would occur "in due course".