Jack Straw breached the human rights of a convicted murderer by keeping him in jail longer than recommended by his parole board, the European court of human rights ruled today.Mr Straw, then home secretary, decided in 1997 to extend the prison term of Dennis Stafford, from Durham, under the 1991 Criminal Justice Act.The European court ruling, overturning an earlier Strasbourg judgment, strips the home secretary of his right to decide when murderers are set free and could clear the way for the release of the Moors murderer, Myra Hindley.The current home secretary, David Blunkett, said he was "disappointed" with the judgment, which has the effect of removing the home secretary's power to extend the jail term of adult murderers who have served their minimum term, or tariff, as set by the trial judge or the lord chief justice."Policy on the protection of the public and punishment of the guilty must always be the domain of the elected parliament," Mr Blunkett said. Mr Blunkett added that he would fight any attempts to exploit the ruling by murderers given "whole life" tariffs by home secretaries - such as the Moors murderer, Myra Hindley. "If this judgment were used to support a legal process to achieve this, I would seek to use domestic legislation to enshrine the power of parliament to provide adequate punishment for the guilty - including life meaning life," he said.In 1985, 20 years after she was convicted, Hindley was given a 25-year tariff by Lord Lane, then lord chief justice. But successive home secretaries, influenced by the very raw and lasting pain of her victims' families, have overruled him; first increasing that sentence, then giving her a "whole life" tariff.She has now served 37 years in prison, although five years ago the parole board assessed her as low risk and recommended that she be moved to an open prison. Despite Mr Blunkett's defiant words, today's ruling is crucial to Hindley's bid for freedom. She, like Stafford, is a "mandatory lifer" (convicted murderers are automatically given life sentences) who has served the tariff recommended by a judge. Although her parole board has not yet recommended her release, they now believe she poses only a low risk to society.Stafford, now 68, and his friend Michael Luvaglio were jailed for life in 1967 for the Newcastle clubland killing that inspired a book and the film Get Carter, starring Michael Caine.He was released on licence in 1979 but was jailed again in 1989 for breaching the terms of his release. He was then freed again in 1990. Then in 1994 he was convicted of forgery and given a six-year jail term. The parole board recommended his release in 1997, stating that he had previously made the transition from jail to the community without violent reoffending. But Mr Straw rejected the recommendation, and the House of Lords rejected a challenge to his decision. Mr Stafford was eventually released in 1998, but he claimed at the European court of human rights that his detention beyond 1997 - the expiry time for his six-year sentence - was "arbitrary", and that he was kept inside not on the basis of his potential for violence, but because he might commit another offence of dishonesty. This, he claimed, breached his right to liberty, guaranteed by the European convention on human rights.