An elderly Italian couple found dead in their home on Good Friday died in a "sustained and ferocious" hammer and knife attack, police said on Tuesday as family members spoke of their grief.Giuseppe and Caterina Massaro died from multiple injuries after the assault last Thursday night in Wolverhampton.The couple's granddaughter, Lindsey Booth, 23, discovered the bodies of 80-year-old Giuseppe and his 77-year-old wife when she called on them the following evening.After calling their names and climbing the stairs of their terrace home hoping they were asleep, she found them lying dead in their bed. Their house had been ransacked, and two televisions and their car had been stolen."Our family and friends, both here in England and Italy, can't even begin to describe the devastation and trauma that has hit us, knowing they were hurt by the hands of somebody else," Booth told a press conference, appealing for witnesses."We can't even begin to grasp the evil that took place in their house and how frightened they would have been," she added. "An entire generation has just been taken away from us and we can't comprehend how something could even go this far to lead to their deaths."Police said an extension had been granted until Wednesday to question two men arrested over the attack. A third man remained in custody pending further questioning.A postmortem into the couple's death showed they were subjected to a sustained assault by hammer and knife, police said. Superintendent Keith Wilson told the press conference that Giuseppe Massaro had sustained defensive wounds.Booth paid tribute to the "beautiful, caring and loving" grandparents who moved to Britain in the 1960s "to make a better life for themselves". Neighbours said the couple originally came from the village of Sant'Angelo d'Alife, near Naples.Grandson Richard Booth, 22, said the pair had worked hard to raise two daughters and seven grandchildren, and were due to become great-grandparents to twins in the summer."My grandfather and grandmother were loved by the many lives they touched. They were often described as a charismatic and charming couple," he said. "My nanny Caterina was a genuine and honest woman. She made the best home cooked lasagna and pizza."My grandad Pepe was a honourable and down-to-earth man. Down the local pub he was the first one to take his wallet out and buy the rounds. The home which brought so much warmth and comfort to us has been so abruptly destroyed."Superintendent Mark Payne described the couple's death as "a one-off, isolated, tragic incident".