The first person to face a murder retrial following the discovery of new forensic evidence was convicted today.Mark Weston, 35, was originally cleared of battering Vikki Thompson near her home in the Cotswolds village of Ascott-under-Wychwood, Oxfordshire, in 1995. But after the so-called "double jeopardy" rule was removed in 2005, Weston was found guilty in a second trial at Reading crown court today.Thompson, 30, was found bludgeoned near a railway line after her dog returned home alone from a country walk. She died in hospital six days later.Small amounts of her blood, missed during the initial investigation, were discovered on a pair of Weston's boots when Thames Valley police reopened the case.Pete Beirne, a retired detective recruited by police to investigate unsolved crimes, said after the trial: "This is the first time using double jeopardy legislation that new forensic evidence has been used to secure a conviction, so it's very significant."Detectives believe Weston chased Thompson because she caught him watching her and masturbating while she was walking her dog on 12 August 1995 .Police found a plastic bag near the scene containing two bras stained with semen matching the DNA profile of Weston. Forensic scientists said it had been deposited days before the bras were seized on 14 August. This key piece of evidence was not allowed by the judge in the first trial, but was put before the jury this time.  Vikki Thompson was attacked while walking the family dog, Daisy. Photograph: Thames Valley police/PAThompson lived with her husband and two young children. At 4pm on a Saturday night she decided to go for a walk with the family dog, a collie called Daisy. A farmer and three local residents heard screams lasting up to 45 seconds coming from near where Thompson was found.Her husband first knew something was wrong when the dog returned home alone. He went looking for her with his children and neighbours, and a local couple found her at about 7.15pm.John Price QC, prosecuting, told the jury that Thompson was found lying on rocks on a railway embankment.He said: "There was a lot of blood. She moved, and in the minutes that followed, her husband having arrived at the scene and before Mrs Thompson could be taken away by air ambulance, she was able to speak, though not in any coherent fashion. She was not able to say what had happened to her, nor was she able to say who was responsible."She was taken to the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford suffering skull fractures and a severe brain injury. She had received three heavy blows to the back of the head and two to her face. Six days later her life support machine was switched off.Price said evidence gathered at the postmortem examination and at the scene of the crime suggested that after the initial attack Weston lifted her over a fence and dragged her across a field by her arms before dumping her. Detectives think she may have been moved to make it appear that she had been struck by a passing train.Weston faced trial at Oxford crown court in 1996, where the jury found him not guilty after 50 minutes of deliberation. The foreman of the jury wrote to Weston after the trial wishing him luck and urged him to pursue the police for compensation."I hope you are all getting on well now and hope you go ahead and get big compensation from the police as they had no evidence of any sort whatsoever," the foreman wrote.In 2005, on the 10th anniversary of the murder, Thames Valley police reopened the case and evidence was submitted for further examination. Weston was arrested again at his home in Ascott-under-Wychwood on 21 October last year.There were gasps and sobs from the public gallery as the jury returned their unanimous guilty verdict. Weston, dressed in a white shirt and blue and black tie, showed no emotion. The jury of seven men and five women had taken just under four hours to reach their decision.