Lianne Smith, the British woman suspected of murdering two of her children in a Spanish hotel room, returned to the family flat in Barcelona today with police searching for clues as to why she may have killed them.A police spokesman explained that investigators were looking for links between the killings and the extradition to Britain on sexual abuse and child rape charges of her husband, Martin Smith.Police also said they had now established that Martin Smith was the father to only one of the two children she had reportedly confessed to murdering. "I can confirm that only one of the children is his," the spokesman said.He did not say who the father of the other child was, nor whether Martin Smith was the father of five-year-old Rebecca or 11-month-old Daniel.Police draped a beige jacket across Lianne Smith's head as she was taken in handcuffs into the apartment block near Barcelona's famous Sagrada Familia temple. "She was perfectly calm," the spokesman said.They searched the apartment for an hour, taking away a blue binliner full of material. Lianne Smith was then driven back to the police station at Blanes, where she will be held until a judge decides tomorrow whether to send her to prison, release her or send her to a psychiatric unit while the investigation continues.The spokesman refused to confirm that a third man had been helping police with their inquiries and said he had heard no report of Lianne Smith trying to kill herself. He also could not confirm whether a letter from Martin Smith to his wife had been discovered in the post box where the family received their mail.Lianne Smith, wearing blue jeans and white top, was taken from a police car into the apartment building, where the family had lived for the past six months."Investigators have come here to try to establish what links there are between this man and woman, the events of Lloret and this apartment in Barcelona," the spokesman said. "They didn't come here looking for anything concrete, but to see what we could find. Legally the search had to be carried out in front of her and a court official."He added that police wanted to establish whether there had been any abuse of the children in Spain and to what extent Lianne Smith had been aware of Martin Smith's alleged past as a child abuser."We are investigating whether he was part of a wide paedophile ring, but there are no indications of that at present," the spokesman said.Lianne Smith would also be asked about whether she was aware of her husband's alleged paedophilia. "We have to find out the degree to which she may have known about those things," the spokesman said.Forensic scientists were today conducting autopsies on the children whom Lianne Smith reportedly suffocated with plastic bags at the Miramar hotel in Lloret de Mar on Tuesday. The spokesman said he could not say whether she had confessed to the crime and no charges have yet been brought.Spanish media outlets reported that the autopsy would look for signs of sexual abuse of the children. "There are reports that one of these children may have been abused," the spokesman said.He was unable to say whether Spanish authorities had been studying the possibility of taking the children away from their mother. Lianne Smith has reportedly told police that this was one of her worries.