Women are receiving rough justice from a "man-made" criminal justice system which penalises female victims, offenders and workers, according to a report to be launched by Cherie Booth QC, the prime minister's wife, today.The year-long Fawcett Society's commission on women and the criminal justice system finds that women who have been attacked face a "postcode lottery" of services when coming forward, with just 5% of recorded cases of domestic violence and less than 6% of reported rapes ending in convictions. Women prisoners are "shoehorned into a man-made system", with the number escalating by 194% in the past 10 years, despite the majority being convicted of non-violent offences, and 70% receiving less than year-long sentences. Women working in the criminal justice system face a "glass ceiling", ensuring decisions and policies are "man-made" and undermining the system's credibility. Only one of the 12 law lords is a woman; five of the 43 chief constables and seven of the 42 chief crown prosecutors. The commission, chaired by the Labour MP and QC Vera Baird, makes a series of recommendations, including: · A network of sexual assault referral systems should be established for every police area, with a 24-hour rape helpline linked to this; · Training on rape and sexual offences should be given to all frontline police staff; · Barristers should benefit from rent-free periods during maternity and paternity leave, to prevent young women leaving the profession; · The Probation Service should develop gender-specific community programmes for women offenders; and· The alternatives to prison for women offenders should be reviewed urgently. It finds that the single most effective way of redressing the poor experiences of women would be to introduce a law obliging public bodies to promote sex equality. The Race Relations Act places a positive duty on statutory bodies to promote race equality, and a similar amendment to the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 would promote sex equality. Ms Baird said: "The commissioners were unanimous in recommending that the government changes its approach to sex discrimination legislation and adopt a positive approach, similar to that already in place for race. If all public bodies were obliged to promote sex equality, services would have to take into account the different needs of women and men." At the weekend Ms Booth questioned the rise in the number of women in prison, and called "for us all to stop and consider how we treat the most damaged women in our society".