Eleven football hooligans who ran riot at the Uefa cup final causing the worst destruction in Manchester "since the blitz" were today jailed for their part in the violence.The men were among hundreds of Rangers fans who caused havoc in the city after the 2008 final.Two police officers, Mick Regan and John Goodwin, were also surrounded and attacked by a mob during hours of violence in the city centre. Property was badly damaged during the mayhem. Police said they encountered a disorder of "ferocity and intensity" after the estimated 125,000 fans went on the rampage. Most did not have tickets for the game against Zenit St Petersburg but descended on the pubs, with trouble erupting after a giant television screen in the city centre failed close to kick-off time.Twelve men were charged with offences including violent disorder and assault and all but one were jailed.Sitting in Manchester crown court, judge Andrew Blake said: "The riot police were deployed in full riot gear and struggled to contain the trouble and restore order. What followed was the worst night of violence and destruction suffered by Manchester city centre since the blitz. What came afterwards, the damage, the filth and litter was apparent to all who arrived in Manchester the following day. Many more than these 12 were involved. It had nothing to do with football rivalries but everything to do with drink." He added: "The anger of the mob was directed at the police doing their best to restore order."After delivering his judgment, a number of defendants gave a thumbs-up sign to relatives in the public gallery as they were led down to the cells. Among those convicted was Scott McSeveney, 22, who was jailed for three and a half years for violent disorder and assault on Goodwin, who was stamped and kicked on by tens of fans but defended by another Rangers fan, Sharon Gibson, who lay across him while her boyfriend shouted to the mob: "You are letting the team down!"Mark Stoddart, 27, from Glasgow was also among those jailed, receiving two and a half years for violent disorder and assault.The men were arrested after they were identified on CCTV footage taken during the riots.