A cash-strapped builder tortured a talented Oxford academic to force her to hand over her bank details before leaving her to die, a court was told yesterday.Michael Humphries got to know Dr Barbara Johnston, a respected medical researcher who had worked all over the world, when he did odd jobs for her.But a jury at Oxford crown court was told that Mr Humphries made her hand over her pin number, then went to a bank machine and withdrew £200, which he used to pay off a debt and buy alcohol. Mr Humphries denies a charge of murder.Dr Johnston's body was found by police in January after her parents expressed their concern at not hearing from her. She had been stabbed 49 times, beaten and strangled, the court heard.Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, said a postmortem examination revealed that a number of the stab wounds had been serious enough to have caused death. But there were also other injuries which were not life-threatening and which he suggested had been inflicted to force her to reveal her pin number.He said: "One way to get from someone a sensitive piece of information like that, if they are stubborn, don't want to give it out, are outraged about what is happening, is to stick someone with a knife, having tied something around their neck."Mr Latham told the jury that Dr Johnston, 55, was a "very talented woman" who held a doctorate from Oxford University. She had worked in medical research across the world, including Holland, New Zealand, Canada, Hong Kong, Australia, Germany and the US.Mr Humphries, an Elvis fanatic from Farringdon, Oxfordshire, had briefly lived in America, where he had been married, the court heard.He returned to the UK in November last year and worked temporarily as a window fitter. He was part of a team of four who installed replacement windows at Dr Johnston's block of flats in December last year, a month before she died. After the glazing work had been carried out, Mr Humphries, 43, did odd jobs around Dr Johnston's flat, including putting up some shelves in her study.The jury was told of the horrific scene which greeted detectives after they broke into Dr Johnston's flat off Woodstock Road, Oxford.Mr Latham said: "She had been stabbed numerous times and there was a knitted jumper knotted around her neck. There was another garment tied around her right wrist and there was evidence that something had been around her mouth. There was a significant area of bloodstain on the carpet and some bloodstains on the duvet. She was fully clothed and there was no sign of any sexual assault."The jury heard that minutes after the attack Dr Johnston's bank card was used to withdraw £200. Mr Latham said Mr Humphries' hire van was caught on CCTV at the BP garage where the transaction was made. Within an hour, the builder had used the £200 to pay off a debt and buy drink.Mr Latham told the jury he believed the victim had been forced to divulge her pin number."Her pin number was extracted from her. Three transactions were made as she was dead or in the process of dying. He had to kill her because he had already hurt her to extract that pin number."Mr Latham said Mr Humphries was familiar with Dr Johnston's flat as he had worked there. "Whoever it was who did what they did to her must have had a key and, having done what they did, closed the door and took the key away," he said.The trial continues.