A woman who wore a body suit and used a fake penis when having sex with a woman she met online has avoided jail.Fiona Manson, 25, now known as Kyran Lee, used the alias Joey G-Star Crislow when she started seeing the woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons. Lee, who is awaiting gender reassignment surgery, and the woman sent each other frequent text messages and had telephone sex.As their relationship developed, the pair ended up in bed together. The defendant stayed fully clothed and used a sex toy on the victim, Lincoln crown court heard. Jurors were told that Lee started sleeping at the woman’s house and remained dressed whenever they were in bed together.The pair had sex once, and the victim described it as normal. Sarah Knight, prosecuting, told the court Lee “told her all the things she wanted to hear: how much he loved her and how good she was with her [son].”The victim complained to police after Lee’s true identity was revealed when he was found to be working at a McDonald’s restaurant under his birth name. Lee, from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire, was charged and admitted assault by penetration.Reading a statement to the court, the victim said: “I was weak and vulnerable. Finding out that Kyran Lee was a female shocked me to my core.” She said she would struggle to be intimate with men again.David Stanton, mitigating, said the victim had wanted to consummate the relationship and had given Lee an ultimatum. Stanton said: “The option was no relationship or obtain a prosthetic.“The act of sexual intimacy was not motivated by an attempt to gain pleasure but to avoid rejection and relationship breakdown.”He told the court that Lee had been “tormented within herself” for years about gender and had always had a “tomboyish streak”.Sentencing Lee to two years in prison, suspended for two years, the judge, Michael Heath, said it was an unusual case. “The defendant sent pictures of a good-looking, muscular, young man, he sent toys to her children, said he loved her and understandably she wanted to meet him.”Addressing the assault, the judge said the victim had sustained “immeasurable emotional harm” from Lee’s deceit. “She only had that intimacy with him because she thought that he was a man.” Heath also said: “I accept the whole motivation – however selfish, … dreadful and deceitful – was to have a relationship. Not a physical one, but a relationship with a woman as a man. The defendant did not enter subterfuge to gain sexual gratification or activity with a woman.”He added that if that had been the motive, he would have imposed an immediate prison sentence.Last month, Gayle Newland was jailed for eight years after impersonating a man to trick a female friend into sex in a “complex” and “bizarre” two-year deception. Newland, 25, of Willaston, Cheshire, claimed her victim knew she was a man.However, the judge at Chester crown court, Roger Dutton, told Newland she acted “entirely for your own sexual satisfaction and choosing to ignore the devastating impact that the eventual discovery of the truth would have on her”.