The decapitated remains of a British woman have been recovered by Indian police who claim she was murdered after a bungled attempt to extort money from her children in the UK.The head and body of Surjit Kaur, who is believed to have been in her 60s, were found separately this week. Two local men, one a relative of the victim, have been arrested and police said they had confessed to the killing. The two arrested men, named by police as Harbhaghan Singh and Gurwinder Singh, visited the home of a close relative of Kaur after her disappearance to express their concern, according to reports.Kaur, who is said by police to have been a widow with three children, arrived in Punjab from Britain in early February. She disappeared 10 days ago and was reported missing by the caretaker at her home in the village of Shekhwali, in Kapurthala district, 220 miles north-west of the capital, Delhi.A neighbour told police she had seen Kaur in the vehicle of the two detained men, who were traced using mobile phone records.Sandip Sharma, the deputy superintendent of Phagwara police, who is investigating the murder, told the Guardian the attack took place after the two suspects lured her away under false pretences."They drove her to Saharanpur, Uttar Pradhesh. At first they wanted money from her children, but changed their minds," Sharma said.He said they strangled Kaur, cut off her head and threw it into a river. Her body was dismembered and scattered in nearby fields, he added.Police sub-inspector Harmel Singh said Kaur had previously lent money to her alleged killers. He could not confirm local press reports that the sum amounted to more than £2,500."She wanted it back. They took her in their car with the intention of frightening her but instead they ended up killing her," said Singh.The two suspects were remanded in custody by a local judge on Friday.A substantial proportion of the Indian community in the UK has links to Punjab. Tens of thousands of students travel from the state to the UK every year. There are many weddings between British citizens and local men and women.The village where Kaur lived is part of the so-called NRI belt of the state's Doaba region, where many Britons of Indian origin – or non-residential Indians – have either retired or maintain holiday homes.The Foreign Office confirmed it was aware of the death of a British national in India."Staff have been in touch with next of kin and are providing consular assistance," a spokeswoman said. "We will not speculate on the circumstances surrounding the British national's death."The murderous attack on Kaur emerged just days after reports that another older Briton of Indian origin was reported murdered in the Panjab. Gurbaksh Singh Rai, 72, had returned to India from the UK about a month ago and was living alone at his residence in Satnampura Mohalla at Phagwara. His body was spotted lying by the roadside by residents of Lalo Majara village on Wednesday.Reports claim that Rai had come to India to pursue a dispute over property.Two weeks ago, another holidaymaker in Chandigarh was stabbed to death when he confronted a group of youths who were trying to steal his wife's jewellery.Hassan Mubarak, who was working in Saudi Arabia, had been in India for two months when he was killed.