Spot-fixing in cricket is written about in the most apocalyptic terms, as if it was the greatest crime known to man. So why have I so far singularly failed to get worked up about the threat to the world's greatest sport, and its supposed reputation for fair play? The reasons are partly historical, partly philosophical.The phrase "it's just not cricket" embodies the ethical purity of the game, but it relies on a myth. Cricket developed in the 18th century, largely because it was patronised by English aristocrats who wanted to bet on it. It was no different to horse racing, boxing or cock-fighting.Matches were raucous. "Disputes involving both players and spectators were common," writes David Underdown in Start of Play, his survey of cricket in the 18th century. "At Carshalton in 1762 a disputed catch brought an abrupt end to a Surrey-Kent match. The conflict moved from words to blows, several heads were broken, and there was a challenge between 'two persons of distinction'. All bets on the match were duly called off – an indication of how completely things had got out of hand."With betting came bribery – not just of players but of scorers, too. When the great Hambledon club played Kent in 1783, Underdown reports that the Hambledon scorer "accidentally" mislaid the stick on which runs were recorded by making notches, thus denying Kent a victory that would have cost backers of Hambledon a good deal of money. The Duke of Dorset, playing for Kent, had also dropped two easy catches, probably deliberately. There are even suggestions of matches in which both sides had been bribed to lose, which must have made for gloriously entertaining cricket.The Duke of Dorset, unlike poor Mervyn Westfield, was not arraigned for spot-fixing. Westfield is the Essex bowler who this week was found guilty of spot-fixing in a NatWest Pro40 match against Durham in September 2009, when he was paid £6,000 to concede 12 runs in an over. I'm not entirely clear how he was found guilty, given that only 10 runs were conceded in the over, so the people who'd paid him failed to collect. The spot stayed resolutely unfixed.Taking the money was clearly a misjudgment, and he should be banned from the game. His career is over any case, as he wasn't much good. A better bowler would have managed the extra wide to get up to the requisite 12 runs. But the custodial sentence that is likely when he returns to court next month is surely unnecessary. He is shamed, his cricket career is over, isn't that enough? Put him in the same category as the Duke of Dorset, and see him as a throwback to the dodgy origins of the game.Equally, I fail to see why the three Pakistan players convicted of spot-fixing last year should have gone to prison. It was entrapment, the deliberate no-balls they bowled had no real bearing on the outcome of the match, and no allowance was made for the weird circumstances in which Pakistan are forced to play international cricket. Also, the far more serious charge of match-fixing – there was one highly dubious Test match on their tour of Australia in 2009/10 – seems not to have been properly examined.Cricketers being paid to bowl the odd wide or no-ball is, of course, highly undesirable, but it is not quite the heinous crime it is cracked up to be. It is more about stupidity than cupidity, and should be dealt with accordingly – public humiliation, community service, humble apology. Leave prison to the real villains, such as the administrators who dream up pointless competitions like the NatWest Pro40 or get into bed with grotesque characters like Allen Stanford.Spot-fixing – and possibly match-fixing – thrives in the meaningless, made-for-TV games beloved of cricket's administrators; or when a running sore such as Pakistan's curious position in world cricket, forced to wander the globe like a bunch of sporting mercenaries, is not properly treated. Players earning a fortune in settled teams are much less susceptible to offers of apparently easy money, and real cricket – an Ashes Test, say – would never be tainted by corruption. Racing is the same: it's always some rubbish race at Wolverhampton on a wet Wednesday that is targeted. No one's going to try to fix the Cheltenham Gold Cup. No one will ever have to write "Say it ain't so, Kauto".Spot-fixing and other forms of corruption don't truly undermine one's faith in these sports. The vast majority of matches and races, and almost all the practitioners, are clean, and trying to make a living out of something they love. It's only where there is no love – or no real living – that corruption takes hold. Believe it or not, we really have moved on since 1783. Today, the Duke of Dorset's two dodgy drops would be endlessly replayed on Sky, and he'd probably have to do six months in Wandsworth, followed by an even grislier punishment – a stint on Celebrity Big Brother.