The Government has apologised to the House of Commons for the publication in error of the names and addresses of key witnesses in the investigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. But, in the face of an Opposition onslaught, Home Office Minister of State Paul Boateng defended the Home Office's handling of the Lawrence inquiry report.  Mr Boateng told the Commons that Home Secretary Jack Straw "deeply regrets" the error which allowed the names to be published in an appendix to the Macpherson report. He said the Metropolitan Police thought "that a number of individuals may be put at risk by the disclosure of personal details" and added that the force had taken "every possible measure to protect them". Mr Boateng told MPs that the appendix contained "detailed information" which should have been kept confidential. However, he said it "would not have been right" for ministers or officials to have "edited" the report or "second guessed" whether the inquiry wanted identities omitted.  The minister said that only the inquiry could judge whether some identities should be kept anonymous and added: "They had the benefit of over a year's consideration of the evidence in order to do so." The minister went on to condemn the "mindless vandalism" that occurred yesterday when the Stephen Lawrence memorial in Eltham, south London, was defaced with white paint. He said police had confirmed that the site is now "under constant surveillance". Mr Boateng added that the "serious and regrettable error" in the report's publication should not mean that people lose sight of the wider issues. "We will not allow this error to sidetrack us in our determination to carry forward the recommendations of the report."  Conservative home affairs spokesman John Greenway said of Mr Boateng's statement: "That is simply not good enough." He said that the past week had been "appalling" for the Home Office, with a leak of part of the report, an injunction to try to stop the leak and now the withdrawal of part of the report.  Mr Greenway said the Home Office had had plenty of time to spot the mistakes in the report. He told the minister that if he and Mr Straw had "paid more attention to what was in the report rather than trying to reverse the damage of a deliberate leak from within the Home Office... this sorry incident might never have happened." 