Antisocial behaviour is inherited in some children and not caused by bad parenting, psychiatrists claimed today.They argued that children with psychopathic tendencies owed their antisocial behaviour to their genetic make-up.But children without psychopathic tendencies who were also antisocial were more likely to be behaving badly because of their environment rather than their genes, they concluded.Dr Essi Viding, from the Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, at King's College, London, said his study had important implications for social policy.He said: "The discovery that psychopathic tendencies are strongly heritable suggests we need to get help for these youngsters early on. Any behaviour is influenced by multiple genes, and an unlucky combination of genes may increase vulnerability to a disorder. "However, strong heritability does not mean that nothing can be done. Children are open to protective environmental influences early in life, and these influences can buffer the effect of genetic vulnerability." With further research, the scientists hoped to be able to develop methods of prevention and intervention to treat children who inherit antisocial tendencies, he said."We might be able to treat antisocial behaviour with psychopathic tendencies as successfully as other emotional disorders," he said.The psychiatrists based their conclusions on a study of 3,687 pairs of seven-year-old twins.Researchers investigating inherited traits often study twins. Identical twins share exactly the same genes, and therefore the same inherited influences, whereas non-identical twins do not. By comparing the two groups, it is possible to see if a particular trait is or is not carried in the genes. The researchers first obtained teacher ratings for antisocial behaviour and psychopathic tendencies in the sample of twins. Those in the top 10% of the group for antisocial behaviour were separated into two groups, with and without psychopathic tendencies. Analysis showed that antisocial behaviour in the psychopathic children was only strongly inherited. The research appeared today in the Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry.