 The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday October 2 2004The report below on the conviction of Thomas McDowell for murder said that before dismembering the body of his victim, McDowell visited a drop-in centre run by the mental health charity Mind and convinced staff that he was a DIY enthusiast in need of a ripsaw. Mind would like to make it clear that although this was the evidence McDowell gave in court, the charity he visited was not run by Mind.A "predatory psychopath" who strangled and dismembered a gay trainee rabbi was warned yesterday that he faced life behind bars. Thomas McDowell, 27, posed as a rent boy to flirt with his victim over a few drinks and then lure him home. No sooner had Andreas Hinz, 37, walked through the door than he was fighting for his life. Southwark crown court in London heard that after throttling him to death, the powerfully built killer kept a night-long vigil over the corpse. In the morning he popped into a drop-in centre, run by the mental health charity Mind in a church crypt, and convinced it he was a DIY enthusiast in need of a ripsaw. He then apparently dragged Hinz's body into the bath and dismembered it. He then wrapped his head, limbs and torso in binliners and put them out for the dustmen. But a missed collection, combined with soaring summer temperatures, created a "terrible smell", and a swarm of flies led to the gruesome discovery. Within days McDowell had been arrested and confessed to a police officer. "It all happened so quickly ... I have been having nightmares," he said. Ballymena-born McDowell, of Camden, north London, had denied murdering his victim on July 3 2002, but admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. The crown rejected his plea, saying he was a "controlled psychopath" who knew exactly what he was doing. The jury of eight women and three men took just three hours to convict him unanimously of murder. Adjourning sentencing until today, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC told McDowell the only sentence he could pass was life imprisonment. But a delay was necessary to ensure that when he left court he was taken directly to the "personality disorder unit" at Rampton high-security hospital. "I will sentence you on the basis that you are a dangerous psychopath. There are no two ways about it," he said. Outside court, Detective Inspector Tim Duffield of Scotland Yard's specialist crime directorate said there was no doubt McDowell "was a predatory psychopath who deliberately lured his victim back to his flat in order to kill him". He had posed a "grave threat to the public and to members of the gay community in particular". He added: "Although there are no other on-going investigations, we are keeping our minds open to the possibility that he may have committed further offences, and if there is anybody out there who may have information in that connection we will be pleased to hear from them." The three-week trial heard that Hinz was a German student in the second year of a five-year course training to become a rabbi. A flatmate described him as "complex, highly academic and gifted".