The armed gang which seized at least £25m from a depot in Kent yesterday may have pulled off one of Britain's biggest robberies, but now they have to figure out what to do with the cash.The crooks cannot simply walk into a bank and open an account - too many questions will be asked. They will have to resort to money-laundering techniques.The term is said to originate from Mafia ownership of laundrettes in the United States. Gangsters such as Al Capone, who made huge sums from extortion, prostitution, gambling and booze during the era of prohibition, needed to show a legitimate source for the money.One method was to buy outwardly legitimate businesses and mix the earning from these with the illicit cash. Gangsters favoured laundrettes because they were cash businesses.Meyer Lansky, nicknamed "the mob's accountant", took the process further by using numbered Swiss bank accounts. The pioneering use of such accounts meant that Lansky had latched on to the technique of the "loan-back" concept, which meant that illegal money could now be disguised as "loans" provided by compliant foreign banks.As far as yesterday's robbery goes, the thieves have the option of laundering the money by setting up shell companies - firms that have virtually no assets, employees or physical presence in countries where few questions are asked. Any number if Caribbean and Pacific islands fit the bill.The robbers can then wire the money to these offshore companies. Given that there are more than 500,000 wire transfers a day, representing in excess of £570bn and most of it legitimate, there is not enough information disclosed on any single wire transfer to know how clean the money is.John Horan, an expert on money-laundering, said the Balkans would be a good place to start. "If it were me I'd be setting up a front company in the Balkans and laundering it through that."If the gang are unable to take the cash abroad they could use a technique known as "smurfing". Here the money is broken into smaller amounts and given to lower-level criminals - the smurfs - who open bank accounts.But with £25m, that will mean hiring a lot of smurfs, heightening the risk that information will leak out.The robbers would likely need to contact organised crime syndicates to set up such a large smurfing operation, giving them about 10-15% of the proceeds.Banking secrecy helps money launderers, who can be common criminals or terrorists. Writing in today's Guardian, Prem Sikka, a professor of accounting at Essex University, points out that, of the billions stolen by the former Nigerian dictator General Sani Abacha, at least £743m turned up in 42 accounts in 23 UK banks.If the idea of creating front companies is too much hassle, yesterday's thieves could resort to simpler tactics, but all involve transactions to make the money come out clean."They could go to the local casino," said Mr Sikka. "Even if they lose £1m and win half-a-million, the amount they've won is clean."Or the cash may be used to buy casino chips. After gaming and placing normal bets, chips are redeemed at the cashier cage where a casino cheque is issued.There is also the time-honoured practice of buying businesses that generate receipts from cash sales such as restaurants, bars, night clubs, hotels, currency exchange shops, or even laundrettes.