A royal butler has been jailed for a minimum of six years after he admitted a string of sexual offences against young boys. Paul Kidd, 55, was described by police as a "brilliant groomer" and took one of his victims to tea with the Queen Mother.He regaled the boys with stories of his work in the royal household, saying that the Queen enjoyed scrambled eggs on toast, a court was told. He worked as a royal butler to the Queen from 1977 to 1979 and was senior footman to the Queen Mother from 1979 to 1984.Judge Mushtaq Khokhar told him at Manchester crown court: "You were someone who had influenced your victims to such an extent they were under your spell. They would do anything you asked them to do. I regard you as someone who is dangerous and presents a risk to all the young people you may come across."He gave Kidd, from Stalybridge, Greater Manchester, an indeterminate sentence and recommended that he remain in prison for at least six years for public protection until he could be considered for parole.The former candidate for the UK Independence party was caught after one of his three victims read a newspaper interview that he gave on the 10th anniversary of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, and contacted the police. The victim, now in his 40s, said he had been indecently assaulted by Kidd at the butler's home in the early 1980s, when he was 13.An investigation was launched and evidence of further abuse was uncovered during a search of Kidd's home in Castlehall View. Among items found on his computer were 18,019 images of unknown children and a video recording of him abusing another youngster as recently as 2006.Many of the images recovered were encrypted in computer files with the password "Pickles" - thought to be a reference to a royal corgi.Kidd started grooming another of the boys, aged 14, on CB radio airwaves, the court heard. The boy told the court: "I remember one story he told about dredging a lake at Balmoral with another servant. Two ladies were walking past and he went to jump out at them and scare them. When he did, one of the women turned round and told him to go inside because he would catch his death out here. It was the Queen and the Queen Mother."He also told me that the Queen used to like scrambled egg on toast." Kidd's third victim, who was treated to the royal tea party, came forward after reading publicity on the case when Kidd was charged.Kidd pleaded guilty to nine counts of indecent assault, six counts of sexual activity with a child and one count of causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity. He also admitted 11 counts of making indecent images of a child and two counts of possessing indecent images of children. The offences were committed between 1974 and 1977, 1981 and 1983 - when he was employed by the Queen Mother - and 2005 to 2008.Kidd introduced his most recent victim to a friend, David Hobday, who also abused the youngster. Hobday, 57, of Dukinfield, Tameside, Greater Manchester, was jailed for three years after he pleaded guilty to six counts of sexual activity with a child and one count of possessing an indecent image of a child, namely a video recording.