Former Leeds United footballer Clarke Carlisle has pleaded guilty to a drink-driving offence.The 35-year-old – still bearing the facial scars from his 22 December suicide attempt in a crash that left him in a coma until mid-January – spoke clearly as he stood in the dock at Highbury Corner magistrates court in north London.The former Professional Footballers’ Association chairman, who also played for Burnley and Queens Park Rangers, admitted failing to provide a sample on 20 December.He also pleaded guilty to a charge of driving otherwise than in accordance with a licence on the same date, when police officers spotted a Mercedes travelling in an “erratic” manner, Zahid Hussain, prosecuting, said.The deputy district judge, Margaret Dodds, told Carlisle he would “inevitably” be disqualified when he is sentenced on 14 May. She also ordered reports after being told of Carlisle’s medical situation. He had been spotted by police lurching from side to side in his Mercedes and nearly hitting a lorry on Pentonville Road, north London, on 20 December at about 7am. Hussain said the car was seen “swerving in the lane, to the pavement on the nearside, almost mounting the pavement” and that the tyres were “grinding on the curb”. When the officers stopped Carlisle “alcohol was smelled on his breath”, Hussain added.The court was told Carlisle did not blow long enough into the breathalyser when he was tested at the roadside to provide an adequate sample. He was taken to Islington police station but would not cooperate and said: “Sergeant, I would like to speak to my counsel first.” The court was told that Carlisle had been involved in excess-drinking offences in 1999 and 2011. Krystelle Wass, defending, told the court: “Two days after the incident, Mr Carlisle attempted suicide, which is why matters have taken some time to come to court.” She said there were “ongoing mental health issues”.Dodds told Carlisle that he would get credit for his early guilty plea but noted that he had a “bad record”. Carlisle was released on unconditional bail. Carlisle, who was smartly dressed in a grey wool suit, said “Thank you, ma’am” as he stepped out of the dock.He did not want to make further comment outside the court. Since the incident, Carlisle has said he felt he “had to die” after losing his job as a pundit on ITV, going on a gambling spree and being charged with the drink-driving offence of failing to provide a sample.