Two teenage girls who led a violent gang in Surrey were jailed for life at the Old Bailey yesterday for kicking and beating a man to death at a drunken party.Maxine Breakspear, 19, and Rochelle Etherington, 18, were ordered to spend a minimum of 13 years in jail for the attack on James Dalrymple, 42, and a father of one. The court heard how the teenagers from Walton-on- Thames, Surrey, spent their time with a "violent peer group" drinking heavily and taking drugs. The group, aged between 14 and 19, were notorious in the area, according to police. Breakspear and Etherington were among the hierarchy and stamped their personalities upon the gang, police said.But their past misdemeanours contained no hint of the violence with which they attacked Mr Dalrymple at his flat a year ago. The girls, who with friends would gather in Mr Dalrymple's flat to drink and smoke, turned on him after consuming vast amounts of alcohol when he tried to kiss one of their friends. They smashed a video player over his head, stabbed him with a screwdriver and kicked him repeatedly, inflicting more than 50 injuries to his face, head and body and then leaving him to die. As he lay dying they returned to steal his wallet and mobile phone, the court was told. A bloody footprint from one of Etherington's trainers was found on Mr Dalrymple's face.Etherington and Breakspear were convicted last December.Sentencing them to life yesterday, Peter Beaumont, the Recorder of London, said: "However irritating his behaviour or offensive his language the fact is he died an unlawful death in his own home. You will have to bear the responsibility for the rest of your lives." Reading from a probation report on Breakspear, he said: "You have been abusing drugs and alcohol to a serious extent for years." He said Breakspear consumed large amounts of alcohol in a "violent peer group" and had turned on the victim for some real or imagined threat he posed. He told Etherington: "There was no remorse or contrition, instead there was a great deal of alcohol-fuelled violence. I am satisfied you played the major part by stamping your attitude on others." Mr Dalrymple, who was born in Rasharkin, County Antrim, had come to England in his early 20s. His father, Gerry Dalrymple, was one of four men shot dead by loyalist gunmen at Castlerock, Co Londonderry in 1993. Separated from his wife, Mr Dalrymple's flat in Walton-on-Thames had become a gathering point for local youngsters. Fiona Kelly said her brother, known as Shamus, had been a kind and sincere person. She said: "It has been hard for our family to come to terms with this tragic loss. Regardless of the sentence, it will not bring Shamus back. He was the innocent victim of a very violent and brutal assault in his own home." Detective Chief Inspector Graham Hill, who led the murder inquiry, said the girls were part of a group of teenagers who hung around the local area, causing criminal damage and generally making a nuisance of themselves. "They existed in a culture in which there was a hierarchy in the group and these two were in it," he said. "They spent their time engaged in anti-social behaviour and causing chaos. They felt they could get away with anything." Mr Dalrymple's family had suffered twice, he said. "His mother Patricia lost her husband and now her son, both in tragic circumstances."