There are two questions which should be asked following the acquittal of those accused of the murder of Damilola Taylor. First, should our system of education, social services and juvenile justice have been able to prevent the murder of Damilola? Second, once such a killing happens, should our system of justice be able to secure a conviction?The first question is easy to answer - no police force can guarantee that a child will not be murdered. However, we can dramatically reduce the risk. The combination of deprivation, bad housing and sink estates, the erasure of youth services since the 1980s and the use of school exclusion to weed out "unruly" children have all conspired to create crime "hotspots" in our cities. Add the use of knives and a growing gang culture and you have a lethal cocktail.But the situation is not hopeless. We know that investment in young people reduces offending behaviour. Early intervention by youth offending teams, provision of quality youth services (particularly between 3pm and 6pm), diverting young offenders into employment, and targeting truancy does work. Being tough on the causes of crime is a slogan that has to become a reality on the north Peckham estate and in inner-city areas like it. Once a child has died, however, is it reasonable to expect the police to find and convict the killers? Despite the criticism the police attracted after a series of high-profile cases - Stephen Lawrence, Michael Menson, Rachel Nickell -there are clearly continuing problems. The "embellished lies" of eyewitnesses, the lack of forensic evidence and the disputed "confessions" are all worrying features of this case.  T he speed with which the case became a political test for the government's record on law and order -another effect of the Lawrence case - put enormous pressure on the police to find the killers. This appears to have led to a limited scrutiny of the quality of the evidence. Juries are, quite rightly, reluctant to convict where the evidence is so weak, particularly where the defendants are juveniles. Even without the political pressure, finding Damilola's killers and securing hard evidence against them was bound to be difficult. On estates such as this one, the "family" nature of gangs and the fact that many local children are afraid of them mean that juvenile crime detection becomes a far more skilled and diverse task. The traditional culture of white male CID officers will not persuade hard-to-reach children - black or white - to come forward. The difficulty in gathering evidence was exacerbated by the poor community relations in the area. When the police stop and search young black men five times as often as young white men and the police are almost all white, it is little wonder that cooperation or information does not flow freely. A poor community response was not due to any support for this death, but the predictable result of years of racist and oppressive policing. We can and must learn lessons from the failure of the case itself. We must question whether we are able to receive evidence from children in an adversarial system without bullying and intimidating them. Video links help, but are not a complete answer when the victim, witnesses and the alleged perpetrators are all children. We should re-examine our police interviewing techniques, too. The employment of police officers specially skilled in interviewing children - in their own homes wherever possible - is essential. The Old Bailey and the whole criminal justice system discriminate against young people, particularly young black people. The need to acknowledge these shortcomings was not properly recognised. Removing wigs is a superficial response, however well intentioned. On balance, the verdict was correct. The summing up was fair and precise. There remained a reasonable doubt as to these boys' guilt. A conviction based on inadequate evidence would have helped no one, not even Damilola's parents. It would simply have imposed another injustice, while allowing the rest of us to avoid taking responsibility (as we should) for the murder of Damilola Taylor.This verdict is a tragedy for Damilola's family, but it is also a tragedy for the local community. Here, divisions must be healed, and bullying and juvenile crime addressed. We all share a collective responsibility to ensure that this happens. The safety of our communities is far too important to be left solely in the hands of politicians or the police. That is the lesson to be learned. Peter Herbert is a barrister, deputy chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority and vice-chair of the society of black lawyers pherb5law@aol.com