The five men suspected of the murder of Stephen Lawrence issued a statement yesterday condemning the way in which their interviews were edited and presented on ITV's Tonight programme on Thursday night.Speaking to the Guardian from a retreat in Scotland, Gary Dobson said the five had been betrayed by the interviewer, Martin Bashir.Criticising the fact that nearly 10 hours of interviews had been compressed into one, he said: 'We feel our story has not been told wholly and truthfully as we were led to believe. We want the rest of the tapes to be made public.'In his statement Dobson said: 'Martin Bashir came to us as a reputable and honourable man with words of truth and hope for us. But he destroyed our hopes of being heard fairly.'We were promised an interview along the same lines as Bashir did with Princess Diana and Louise Woodward straightforward questions and answers.'All along it has been said we have remained silent. Now the public can understand why we have never spoken to the media. Martin Bashir is an untrustworthy journalist.'The five's unhappiness with the programme may have partly resulted from the almost universally hostile reaction to the interviews with commentators concluding that their performances pointed more towards guilt than innocence.Hundreds of people called Scotland Yard on the night, said John Grieve, the head of the Metropolitan Police's race and violent crimes task force. Next week he and his colleagues on the murder investigatyion will study tapes of the unused interviews. Commander Grieve, said yesterday that the calls from the public had revealed 'two more nuggets of gold'.Appealing for more witnesses, he said: 'Allegiances change. Girlfriends change, friends change, people change their behaviour. There are some interesting things to discover yet about the jigsaw puzzle that makes up Stephen's murder.'While it is understood that the interviews with the five did not reveal any new information, detectives realise the publicity generated could provide further leads.The Lawrence family's solicitor, Imran Khan, said: 'There have been many wild goose chases. I think it's a question of waiting to see if it does produce a result, then perhaps it will have been all worthwhile.'The five men Neil Acourt, Jamie Acourt, Luke Knight , David Norris and Dobson were named as suspects by dozens of people after Stephen, an 18-year-old A-level student, was killed by a gang of white youths in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993. But two murder cases brought by police and by the Lawrence family collapsed, and three of the youths were formally acquitted at the Old Bailey after the judge ruled that identification evidence from Stephen's friend Duwayne Brooks was inadmissable.Mr Brooks yesterday described most of the programme's contents as 'useless, offensive rubbish', but said he hoped something useful would come of it.