Five members of a gang, including pensioners and serious career criminals, have been jailed for breaking into a Hatton Garden security vault and stealing £14m-worth of jewellery, cash and gold.The men, aged 59 to 75, received prison terms ranging from six to seven years as they were sentenced at Woolwich crown court for their roles in what prosecutors called the biggest burglary in English legal history.But the gang’s oldest member, ringleader Brian Reader, who was known by his fellow raiders as “the Guvnor” or “Master”, was absent and will be sentenced at a later date after suffering a stroke in high-security Belmarsh prison. Reader, 77, a former henchman of crime boss Kenneth Noye, is also being tested for suspected cancer and may only have months left to live.Judge Christopher Kinch said: “The burglary of the Hatton Garden Safety Deposit vault in April 2015 has been labelled by many as the biggest burglary in English legal history. Whether that assertion is capable of proof, I do not know. “It’s clear that the burglary at the heart of this case stands in a class of its own in scale of ambition, detail of planning, level of preparation, the organisation of the team to carry it out and in terms of the value of the property stolen.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  How the heist was carried out - videoThe gang, most of whom suffer from serious illnesses including diabetes and arthritis, ransacked 73 boxes at Hatton Garden Safe Deposit after using a diamond-tipped drill to bore a hole into the 50cm-thick concrete vault wall, over Easter weekend last year.More than £9m-worth of the loot has yet to be recovered, with at least some of it feared to have been taken overseas.  Reader’s fellow ringleaders, John “Kenny” Collins, 75, Daniel Jones, 61, and Terry Perkins, 67, were each jailed for seven years after pleading guilty to conspiracy to commit burglary last September.Jones and Perkins both said “thank you, sir” to the judge after being sentenced. Carl Wood, 59, and William Lincoln, 60, were jailed for six and seven years respectively after they were convicted of conspiracy to commit burglary and conspiracy to conceal, convert or transfer criminal property after a trial.Plumber Hugh Doyle, 48, was given a 21-month suspended sentence after he was found guilty of concealing, converting or transferring criminal property between 1 January and 19 May last year.The men calmly waved at various family and friends in the public gallery as they left the dock. In his sentencing remarks, the judge said despite their age, the men showed some sophistication in plotting the raid. “Far from stumbling into 21stcentury crime as relics of a past era, the conspirators were clearly highly aware of the dangers of leaving traces that could lead to their identification,” he said. Explaining his decision to disregard the sentencing guidelines, the judge said the case involved greater harm than those covered by the guideline. “The theft and damage inevitably caused significant financial and economic loss on an unprecedented scale,” he said. “The consequences for the company and for some of the individual jewellers were serious indeed. The safety deposit company went into administration, its reputation in ruins and it no longer operates as it did.”Many of the losers were small independent jewellers, the judge said, including those who were keeping stock for their retirement. “In my judgment it must rank among the worst offences of its type,” he said. “It would be contrary to the interests of justice to follow the definitive guideline, which was simply not designed with a case of this scale in mind.”The judge said of Doyle, who was allowed to leave court on Wednesday after having his sentence suspended, that he was “somewhat in awe of these old-school villains”.As the 48-year-old left the dock, he shook the hands of the police officers and jurors that convicted him. Outside court, in front of an array of cameras he said he was sorry for the victims of the crime.“I just want to spend time with my family now and I have boilers to fit in north London,” he said.Explaining how he became involved in the now-notorious heist, Doyle said: “I had known Kenny for a number of years and i just got sucked into it. I’m sorry for the victims whose lives have been devastated, but I didn’t know what was happening.”Det Supt Craig Turner, head of the Met’s Flying Squad, which faced criticism over its handling of the investigation shortly after the raid, made a fresh appeal for information that would help catch a mystery thief known as Basil, who was blamed by a number of the men during mitigation for their involvement in the raid, which took place over two nights.“There will be some out there who have sympathy for these men believing this crime to be a bold heist where no- one got hurt,” Turner said. “The truth is these men were career criminals who didn’t give a moment’s thought for the people they were stealing from.”Basil, who was caught on CCTV wearing a red-haired wig, entered through the front door of the building, apparently with a key, and tampered with the alarm. He is also believed to have crawled through the hole drilled in the concrete wall of the vault, along with Jones.After he was caught, Jones offered to take detectives to Edmonton cemetery, where he had hidden his share of the stolen goods. Detectives discovered two stashes, but when Jones was taken to the cemetery, he only told them about one.Jones’s barrister, Ian Godfrey, said it was Basil who was aware of that second plot and responsible for it.Peter Rowlands, defending Terry Perkins, told the court Basil was the brains of the operation, while his client and the other gang members were merely “the team on the ground”.“The man, Basil, was the man who had the keys to the building,” he said. “He is the man who was able to educate the other conspirators on the workings of Hatton Garden, how the alarms worked, what the difficulties were and how best to go about it.”The burglary, which captured the imagination, was up to three years in the planning and gang members scoured the area beforehand and even visited the vault. Despite their various ailments, the ageing gang clambered down a lift shaft to access a vault, where they disabled the alarm and other electrics. Dressed as gas repairmen, they cut through a sliding iron gate and drilled three adjoining circular holes in the wall of the main vault with a Hilti DD350 diamond-tipped drill.After the raid, different members of the group were caught on audio bugs discussing the thrill of the heist and were photographed in the Castle gastropub in Islington as they met to discuss what to do with their takings.Reader, Perkins and Jones first entered the vault, and Wood joined them on the first night but bailed on the plot on the second night. Collins was said to be a lookout, while Lincoln, dubbed a getaway driver, helped move and hide the loot. Gas engineer Doyle later helped oversee an exchange of the stash at his workshop.Reader and Noye were charged with murdering a police surveillance officer in the grounds of Noye’s home in January 1985. PC John Fordham was stabbed in the front and back as he kept watch on Noye. The men were acquitted on self-defence grounds.Noye is in prison for an unrelated knife murder and has been an alleged criminal mastermind of significant interest to police since the 1970s. He was alleged to have bribed officers and was a police informant, as well as a mason. Police do not believe Noye was involved in the Hatton Garden heist.Reader was previously jailed for a total of nine years for conspiracy to handle stolen goods and dishonestly handling cash, after the £26m robbery at the Brink’s-Mat warehouse near Heathrow airport in 1983.Perkins was sentenced to 22 years in prison in 1985 for his role in a £6m robbery of Securicor vaults in east London.