A restaurant owner is facing a lengthy jail sentence after he became the last of a string of men to be convicted of child sex offences on girls in Peterborough. Married businessman Mohammed Khubaib, 43, originally from Pakistan, had a “persistent and almost predatory interest” in teenage girls, the Old Bailey heard. He groomed vulnerable underage girls by giving them money, gifts or cigarettes before plying them with alcohol. Following a trial at the Old Bailey he was found guilty of forcing a 14-year-old girl to perform a sex act on him and nine counts of trafficking for sexual exploitation involving girls aged from 12 to 15 between November 2010 and January 2013.His South African friend Manase Motaung, 32, was cleared of raping a 16-year-old and seven trafficking charges, involving six girls.Khubaib’s conviction brings the total number of people to be convicted under Operation Erle to 10. Khubaib was remanded in custody and warned he faces a long spell behind bars when he is sentenced on 15 May. Judge Peter Rook QC told him: “You have been convicted of a very serious offence of a rape on a young girl ... having plied her with vodka. “You have also been convicted of no less than nine trafficking offences in relation to underage girls who you were deliberately plying with vodka so that you could take advantage of them, knowing they craved vodka so you could exploit them sexually. “You must know the only sentence is a custodial sentence – and a long sentence.” The jury was deliberating for less than a day before it reached its verdicts. Four previous cases led to nine male defendants being jailed for 59 offences against 15 girls, from Peterborough, with a couple from Lincolnshire and Rutland. The court heard that Khubaib’s activities in Peterborough involved girls being befriended and then “hooked” with alcohol – normally vodka – in an attempt to make them “compliant” to sexual advances. Khubaib, who lived in the city with his wife and children, would pursue his interest “away from his home and family”, using his restaurant as a “focal point”. Mark Dennis QC, prosecuting, said the girls were vulnerable because of their age, background, circumstances or unsettled schooling and Khubaib pretended to be their “friend and helper”. Khubaib, who also ran a lettings agency, would drive girls to flats in his 4x4 and, once there, they would be groomed for sex by being “plied with alcohol and entertained by himself and his friends”. The jury heard details of the trafficking allegations. Khubaib would buy one girl and her friends McDonald’s meals and tobacco, as well as giving her small sums of money and a bunch of flowers for her 15th birthday, the court heard. He told the girl he wanted her to be his wife, saying that he would “choose her over everyone else”, while he told another 15-year-old she had beautiful eyes, the jury was told. When she rebuffed him, saying he was too old for her, he was said to have replied: “Age doesn’t matter.” In January 2013, Khubaib picked up two friends – one aged 12 and the other aged 14 – in his seven-seater car and took them to a McDonald’s, Dennis said. The girls became uncomfortable when Khubaib got into a row on his phone and slipped away. Later that month, the defendants were arrested at a terrace house in Peterborough, where police found two girls aged 14. Khubaib said in police interviews that his association with all of the girls was innocent and he had not acted in any improper way, denying any sexual contact with the girl he is said to have raped. Motaung also denied wrongdoing by saying he had consensual sex with the rape complainant. The two defendants, both from Peterborough, denied the charges. Cambridgeshire police and Peterborough city council launched a “victim-led” inquiry after identifying a number of young people who might have been at risk of sexual exploitation towards the end of 2012. The joint investigation was proactively initiated in response to the Rotherham and Rochdale child abuse cases. A police spokesman said: “We have made great efforts to safeguard these young people, win their confidence and explore what they told us. As a result of the information given to us, we launched a number of investigations. A police investigation formally began in early January 2013.” A number of the victims were in care at the time and had problems at home and school. The abusers’ ethnicity reflected the local demographic – Portuguese and eastern European, as well as Asian/Pakistani men. One of Khubaib’s victims, who was 14 at the time, said in a victim impact statement: “It was disgusting what he did to me. Before that happened, I was a typical 13-year-old who didn’t know any better and thought that Mohammed was my friend who I had under my thumb. “Now I know that he was the one with the control. I should have known better than to accept alcohol and things from Mohammed, but actually he was the one who should have known better. “As a parent now, if I knew my child was out with an older man, I would be out looking for them, and I would be angry as to why a grown man would want to spend time with young teenagers.” An NSPCC spokesman said: “No child should experience what these girls have been through. “Mohammed Khubaib subjected them to appalling ordeals but he will now have to pay for his crimes as a result of the victims’ bravery in giving evidence.” 