The provision of free newspapers for prisoners was always one of the more noble aspects of the British prison system. This facility, as set out in Prison Service Standing Order 4 and known among prisoners as the "stage paper", required prison governors to ensure that one newspaper was made available free of charge for every 10 prisoners.The guaranteed issuing of stage papers, most of which were tabloids, kept people in prison informed regardless of their financial circumstances or their standing in the prisoner hierarchy. Equally important, it encouraged literacy among those who did not feel confident enough or inclined to tackle books.Once read, the paper would be passed from cell to cell. There are few things more welcome to a prisoner on bang-up than a newspaper shoved under the cell door (usually by a wing cleaner or a helpful prison officer) or arriving via the cell window on the end of a makeshift line swung by a neighbour. Now, as the result of "a money-saving proposal from a member of staff", the prison service has given governors the discretion to abolish the practice. Prison governors are under pressure to meet ever tightening budgets, so it is inevitable that this change in policy will lead to substantial numbers of prisoners being deprived of news, views and ideas accessed from the printed page. The main justification given by the prison service appears to be the increased availability of in-cell television. Putting TVs into cells was a radical development. Many people, including some prisoners, argued against it on the grounds that it would increase isolation. Some politicians were highly vocal in their opposition, claiming that it gave the impression the prison service was going soft on criminals. Among those who were for it, most notably prison officers, there was a belief that it would serve as an extra control tool. Nobody, as far as I can recall, considered that it would be a good way of keeping prisoners in touch with world affairs. In the end, just like on the outside, television turned out to be viewed by prisoners primarily as a source of entertainment and escapism. It has made bang-up less mentally painful and helped prison officers to keep the peace. News bulletins and documentaries do inform those who make the choice to tune in to them, but there is no real substitute for a newspaper as a source of information on current affairs and public opinion. The free provision of newspapers to prisoners was never a luxury, or a treat at the taxpayers' expense. It was a practical measure that ensured that those excluded from the rest of society had a tangible and constructive means of maintaining a link with the outside world. This decision may save a modest sum from the governors' budgets, but in the long term the cost will be far greater in terms of further exclusion, particularly among the poorest and most vulnerable prisoners. It needs to be reviewed as a matter of urgency. · Erwin James spent 20 years in prison and is the author of A Life Inside, and The Home Stretch erwin.james@theguardian.com