Police hunting the man who stabbed Surrey mother Abigail Witchalls have assembled a list of 32 suspects but have warned it will take at least four weeks before they can say which, if any, of them is likely to have been responsible for the brutal attack.The 26-year-old was stabbed in the back of the neck while out walking with her 21-month-old son Joseph along a secluded country lane near her home in the village of Little Bookham, Surrey. The case prompted a huge manhunt throughout the county, which has one of the lowest crime rates in Britain, and more than 100 officers are involved in the investigation. Each of the 32 suspects matches the attacker's profile - having knowledge of the Little Bookham area and access to a blue-coloured car. They may also have a history of violence. A massive sweep of the area where the attack took place has produced more than 460 forensic exhibits, which have been sent for analysis. The weapon used has not been found. Further progress is at least a month away because of the difficulties of obtaining DNA profiles from the scene of the crime. While bodily fluids such as blood, saliva or semen can be used to produce a full DNA profile in a matter of hours, detectives have found no such material and are having to rely on what is known as 'low copy DNA' to make an identification. The buggy in which Joseph was sitting is at the centre of the inquiry. The attacker will almost certainly have transferred sweat and minute quantities of skin cells to the buggy during the attack. Using the latest scientific techniques it is possible for forensic scientists to 'grow' this DNA in the laboratory in order to provide enough cells to carry out a full DNA test. Detectives believe the buggy is particularly vital as other evidence could only put her attacker at the scene but linking him to the buggy would produce evidence he was involved in the attack. 'This will be a long, slow inquiry from now on,' said Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, the man leading the hunt. 'We are at the mercy of nature so far as the DNA evidence is concerned and there is nothing we can do to speed the process. Despite this, our dogged determination to catch the person responsible should not be underestimated. This is one of those inquiries where police officers cannot help but take some of it home with them. They are working 14-16 hour days because they are taking the case so seriously.' Police are preparing a photofit of the attacker and will also stage a reconstruction of Abigail's movements before the incident. Only one of the 32 suspects, an unemployed mechanic, has been interviewed by officers. He was released from custody on Friday night after Abigail failed to pick anyone out of an identity parade, which was set up on plasma screens in her hospital room. He will have to be rearrested if officers on the inquiry wish to speak to him again. Abigail's attacker is described as being aged 20-35, between 5ft 10in and 6ft 2in with scruffy dark hair, a long thin pale face and prominent cheekbones. He has a deep voice, possibly with a Cockney accent. At the time of the attack he was wearing large silver hoop earrings.