A man who murdered his pregnant girlfriend in an assault apparently driven by jealousy was jailed for life at Bristol crown court.Hugo Quintas, 24, who doubted that he was the father of his partner Hayley Richards's baby, slashed her across the throat with a craft knife at her flat.Police are being investigated over their handling of the case. Six days before the murder Ms Richards, 23, reported an assault by Quintas at her home in Trowbridge, Wiltshire.Quintas, a factory worker from Portugal, denied murder but pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of provocation. He claimed his girlfriend, who was a waitress, had confessed to sleeping with another man. But the jury rejected this claim and convicted him of murder. The judge, Mr Justice Owen, jailed him for life with an order to serve at least 18 years.Quintas killed his girlfriend in the early hours of June 11 last year. She was three months pregnant with his child, the court was told. Six days earlier police had received a 999 call from Ms Richards, alleging she had been assaulted at her home by her boyfriend. She said she was not injured but explained that she was pregnant and frightened. A police officer arrived at her flat within an hour and took a detailed written statement.Seeing that she had suffered "minor bruising", the officer accompanied her to hospital. She was examined and the same officer took her home that night.Ms Richards told police she was "petrified" of her boyfriend and feared he would "go mad" if he found out she had reported him. Quintas, who did not have a driving licence, had also been stopped twice by police and ordered to produce his motoring documents within seven days. He failed to do so on both occasions. The second occasion was weeks before the murder. The force's handling of Miss Richards' complaint is being investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission, which will look into why officers missed the chance to arrest Quintas between the reported assault and the murder. The IPCC will also examine claims by the murdered woman's family that an arrest was delayed because police could not find a Portuguese interpreter.Police in Britain receive a call related to domestic violence every 20 seconds and two women are killed every week by a current or former partner. One woman in four is physically abused by a partner during her lifetime.Quintas flew to Portugal on the day of the murder. His friend Sergio da Cunha, 30, who was alleged to have washed Quintas's bloody clothes and helped him to escape, was yesterday found not guilty of perverting the course of justice.While on the run, Quintas sent letters to Ms Richards's family claiming he was innocent and knew nothing about what had happened to her. He was arrested in the Basque region of northern Spain and brought back to Britain. He admitted that he had killed his girlfriend, whom he had been dating for 10 months.