The killer who bludgeoned the 19-year-old student Marsha McDonnell less than 100 yards from her home in south-west London may have attacked again, underlining police fears that they are facing a serial offender who targets his victims and strikes without motive.An 18-year-old has told detectives that a man lunged at him shortly after he got off a night bus in Hampton Hill at 2.50am yesterday, not far from where Ms McDonnell was killed this month. The attacker swung at him with a blunt instrument, and tried again when the student managed to get out of the way. The teenager was hit in the waist but was not hurt. The man then ran off. This incident is also being linked to an attack in nearby Strawberry Hill on January 8, which left a 17-year-old unconscious and suffering from serious head injuries which kept her in hospital for 10 days. At first police thought the teenager might have slipped on ice - she cannot remember anything that happened to her - but a pathologist has found that a 6cm cut on her head was consistent with a blow to the head, possibly from a hammer. At a press conference yesterday, Det Supt Alistair Jeffery confirmed that the murder squad feared the same man was behind all three attacks. He said: "We are linking these investigations because of the similar facts. They all took place during hours of darkness and all in the same type of location. "They were all apparently motiveless, unprovoked attacks, probably a planned attack in each case, and in each case it was a blunt instrument used as a weapon." Detectives believe the suspect is probably a local man because he seems to know the area. Officers were last night conducting house to house inquiries in the area close to the latest attack. The victim could not identify the weapon but has told police it was metallic. He described the suspect as 5ft 10in, wearing dark footwear, dark tracksuit bottoms, a white hooded top with the hood up, and a dark jacket with the hood up. The latest intended victim, a student at a local college, has not been named by police, who fear for his safety. Police believe he was saved from serious injury because he immediately realised what the suspect was trying to do from reading press coverage of Ms McDonnell's murder. "His life was saved because of his awareness [of the previous incidents]," said Supt Sue Hill. She has advised people living in the area not to wear headphones in the street. "Be aware who is behind you and of where you are. Tell people where you are going. You can't have a police officer on every street corner." Ms McDonnell, a gap-year student, was attacked from behind on February 4 as she walked home from a bus stop after going to the cinema with friends. She was hit over the head three times and died the following day from multiple skull fractures and extensive internal bleeding. Police said that the wounds indicated the attack had not been frenzied. The blows to the head had been quite deliberate, said Det Chief Supt David Cook, who is overseeing the inquiry.