Police were so desperate to prove a group of teenagers murdered Damilola Taylor that they "manufactured" evidence, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.Officers were concerned that the reputation of the police, already scarred by the unsuccessful Stephen Lawrence inquiry, would be tarnished further by another unsolved death of a black person, the jury heard. Courtenay Griffiths QC, defending one of the two brothers accused of murdering Damilola, 10, described the prosecution case as a "litany of lies and fairytales". In his closing speech, Mr Griffiths claimed that because Damilola's death happened in the "dark heart" of Peckham, south London, police could not believe that the 10-year-old's death might have been a tragic accident. The prosecution alleges the two 16-year-old brothers were part of a group which stabbed Damilola in the thigh with a broken bottle in November 2000. Mr Griffiths claims the fatal injury could have been caused by him falling on to broken glass. Mr Griffiths told the jury that Damilola's story hit the headlines partly because it came to stand for society's fear of street crime and of the inner city estates. He noted that there had recently been a "panic" about street crime, especially mobile phone theft. Damilola's death also had echoes of the murder of Stephen Lawrence a few miles away in Eltham, south London, the court was told. When Damilola died, the claim of "institutional racism" in the Metropolitan police was still ringing in officers' ears, Mr Griffiths claimed. "This death touches a preconditioned nerve," he said. Mr Griffiths alleged police were not concerned with "discovering the truth" or with the loss suffered by Damilola's parents. Officers were concerned with "saving their soiled reputations". Mr Griffiths reminded the jury of the "chilling words" of Detective Superintendent Trevor Shepherd, who led the investigation, in a log which was earlier read to the jury. Mr Shepherd wrote: "I will seek opinion on the viability of prosecution ... The public profile of the investigation is such that a discontinuation would severely damage the reputation of the Metropolitan police and the police service generally." Mr Griffiths said: "The police couldn't afford another unsolved black death in south London. They stooped to the level of manufacturing evidence." He pointed out that the prosecution's opening was based on the testimony of the 13-year-old girl, codenamed Bromley, who claimed she saw Damilola being attacked. The judge ordered the jury to dismiss her evidence after concluding it could not be trusted. Mr Griffiths said police had used Bromley and also used the teenagers who claimed the brothers confessed being involved in an attack on Damilola while they were on remand. Mr Griffiths said no one had the courage to tell the Taylors that Damilola's death may have been an accident. He told the jury it would take "great strength" to face Damilola's parents across the court as its verdict was delivered but he urged the panel to look at the evidence clinically. Earlier Mark Dennis, prosecuting, concluded his final speech by arguing that Damilola would have flown through the air "like Peter Pan or the Snowman" to have suffered the fatal injury accidentally. The brothers deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Two other teenagers who were originally put on trial for murder have been found not guilty. The jury is expected to retire next week.