Chris Langham, the actor accused of a string of child sex offences, broke down in court yesterday as he told a jury he had been sexually abused on a camping trip when he was eight years old.The award-winning star of The Thick of It wept several times as he admitted downloading and watching "vile" images of children on his home computer.Describing the impact of the allegations on him and his family, Mr Langham began to sob, telling the jury he had attempted suicide. He said: "I had a terrifying six months and I just wanted to die and I tried to kill myself. I just hated it."But the 58-year-old insisted that although he had been "arrogant", he was not a paedophile.He told Maidstone crown court: "[The police] wanted to convict me on the basis I had an abnormal sexual appetite for children, that I'm a paedophile, and I'm not ... That part of the crime carries a life sentence and that is the part of the crime I did not do."He told the jury that he watched the videos, which included children as young as seven being sexually abused, when he was researching a sex offender character for the hit BBC series Help, which he was writing with fellow comedian Paul Whitehouse.He said watching the videos had been part of an attempt to "reach something that I was blocking out".Fighting back tears, he said: "There is a room inside me that is locked. There is an eight-year-old boy in there and I don't know how to talk to him."Questioned further by defence counsel David Whitehouse QC, Mr Langham said: "There is something in the room that I can't look at ... there is a guy with no face ... a guy sodomising me in a tent when I was eight."Judge Philip Statman interrupted, asking Mr Langham: "Are you telling us that as a child you were subject to sexual abuse?"The actor replied: "Yes.""I got taken sailing by a bloke at a lake in Ontario," he continued. "There were tents; I stayed in a tent with this guy, I don't remember his name. I remember he had red hair. I remember he had red pubic hair ... I don't want to get into details if you don't mind."He said after the attack he remembered feeling pleased that someone had praised him but also a "deep, deep shame"."I hate myself for that, and have always hated myself for my approval-seeking."Mr Langham, of Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent, denies 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child between September and November 2005. He also denies six counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. The jury was directed by Judge Statman to return not guilty verdicts on four other indecent assault charges.Yesterday Mr Langham was asked how the child abuse videos aided his research for a sex offender character in Help called Pedro. "I know about the world of being at the receiving end of a paedophile but I don't know about paedophilia, the networks, the slang, what does the room look like," he said."There are people that we are not aware of. I want to know what the atmosphere is in that room."In many of the clips we have seen, there is no dialogue, whereas in pornography there is lots of robust dialogue. It is as if they sense they are trampling on sacred ground."Mr Langham said watching the films had been like "putting [his] face in a chainsaw.""My heart started beating, my mouth went dry and I started feeling sick," he said. "I tried to think what was the connection that made me go there."Mr Langham, wearing a blue suit and green shirt and patterned tie, repeatedly denied having any sexual interest in children."I have children myself," he said. "I find them [the images] very upsetting. To me it was like putting my face in a chainsaw. I had to get out."I did it on four occasions and had I not been arrested, I probably would have done it again."Mr Langham told the court that he had viewed adult pornography for many years: "I look at a lot of porn, I'm afraid it doesn't make me look good but I've done that for a number years ... My sense of my own sexuality is that I'm rather depressingly normal for a man of my age."The court heard that Mr Langham, a recovering alcoholic, had a breakdown when he was studying at Bristol University and was eventually kicked out."I spent most of my time acting and taking drugs," he said.During his evidence the jury were shown the first series of Help. Before the screening Judge Statman told them to feel free to laugh. The hearing continues.