A civil servant accused of raping a woman in a government office walked free from the Old Bailey yesterday after the case against him collapsed when the alleged victim was unable to continue her evidence.Michael Burrell, 36, a Department of Constitutional Affairs employee,said in a statement: "I am relieved that my 14 month ordeal is now over. I feel that justice has finally been done and I have been publicly vindicated."Mr Justice Aikens threw out the case, finding him not guilty of indecent assault and sexual assault yesterday after the trial was halted this month when the woman was taken ill.Mr Burrell was accused of raping the 38-year-old senior civil servant, but he claims the sex - which took place after an informal office get-together, was consensual and that "she wanted me to be rough with her".The prosecution had alleged that Mr Burrell manoeuvred the woman to a sofa in a private office where he raped her twice and forced her to perform oral sex. A doctor said that abrasions she suffered were consistent with non-consensual sex. The court heard evidence of how the woman had felt increasingly uncomfortable in Burrell's presence as he would hang around her. Colleagues referred to him as "aggressive". Mr Burrell claimed that the woman was the instigator throughout and had expressed her loneliness and need for comfort to him. On the second day of her cross examination the alleged victim - who had been giving evidence behind a screen and could not see Mr Burrell - said she was ill and could not continue. When Elizabeth Marsh, QC, defending, pointed out that Burrell had not been equipped with any weapon, the woman said she was so scared because: "It took me back to how I felt as a child, when I was abused, and felt utterly powerless and degraded." The following day the jury was told she had been taken ill. A forensic medical examiner said the woman was unfit to give evidence and may pose a suicide risk given her mental health problems and past history of sexual abuse. Mr Justice Aikens said the defence case and cross-examination of the alleged victim had been fair. "You conducted your cross-examination in a perfectly proper manner, with care, discretion and sensitivity," he told Ms Marsh. "I do not wish it to be thought it was anything on your part that led to the discontinuation of the case." The woman later made a statement saying she was unable to face a retrial. "The experience of giving evidence and cross-examination made me feel ill, too ill to continue during the trial," she said. "I have no reason to believe that I would not find another trial at least as traumatic. I do not wish to make myself feel ill and do not wish to continue. I understand this means the defendant will be acquitted." The Crown Prosecution Service said yesterday there was sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction but after much discussion decided that continuing the trial would be detrimental to the woman's health. Only 3% of all recorded rapes reach convictions at a crown court, according to recent figures. Two years ago, it was revealed that 11,000 rape prosecutions are dropped every year. Angie Conroy, of the Survivors Trust said: "One of the things that always strikes me is how long it takes for the case to get to court. With this case, it happened in September 2003, and it has taken 14 months to get to court. "Going through the process, your biggest fear is that you won't be believed, then you have to be forensically examined, then wait months to see if your case will come to court." Mr Burrell was yesterday awarded £446 in court costs. A spokeswoman for the Department for Constitutional Affairs said his future with the department was "an internal affair".