The only senior policeman facing disciplinary charges over the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation has had four counts of neglect of duty dropped, Scotland Yard said yesterday.Detective Inspector Ben Bullock, who was second in command of the investigation, still faces three similar counts at an internal disciplinary hearing, a spokeswoman said. But in a further twist to the case Mr Bullock, 49, may yet escape any censure. On June 25 - the day the tribunal formally began - he put in his 28-day retirement notice. He was allowed to do this as he has not been suspended. The tribunal was scheduled to last for six weeks but with three charges left it may reach a decision before Mr Bullock's last day in the force. Once he leaves, however, if the disciplinary hearing is still going on, it will automatically be ended. It has powers to admonish, fine, dismiss or demote but pensions cannot be affected. The charges, all of which were insisted on by the Police Complaints Authority despite resistance by the Metropolitan police, were dropped by the three-person tribunal after defence submissions that there was no case to answer. The chairman of the tribunal, sitting at Scotland Yard, is deputy assistant commissioner Des Flanders with two members of the PCA, Ian Brynoe and Caroline Mitchell. The Metropolitan Police Federation said he had been advised by doctors to quit because of his failing health. Mr Bullock tried to retire in January, in the week that the disciplinary hearing was first announced. But after protests from the Lawrence family he withdrew his papers and the police said he would have to face charges. At first they wanted only an admonition, which is the lowest penalty. Both the Macpherson public inquiry into the police investi gation and the earlier PCA-sponsored report by Kent police seriously criticised Mr Bullock's team. Kent found "weaknesses in the leadership, direction and quality of work and a large number of oversights and omissions which resulted in the murder investigation failing to operate to an acceptable standard". Macpherson found that Mr Bullock, who was described as "plainly a depressed individual", had failed to produce an innovative and positive strategy. The report said: "This officer, who is an honest man and a very long serving policemen, was appointed to act above his true station and in a position beyong his abilities. Criticism of him has to be considered in the light of that conclusion." Four other senior officers who might have faced disciplinary action because of the bungling in the investigation retired before any charges could be brought.