An independent financial adviser who fleeced an elderly client out of almost £300,000, then murdered her after she demanded her money back, was jailed for life yesterday. Peter Crittenden seduced Joan Beddeson, 71, and persuaded her to hand over the money. When she had second thoughts about their relationship and asked for the money back, he murdered her. In the early hours, he drove from his Worcester home to her bungalow in Macclesfield, Cheshire, and smothered her with a pillow. He was convicted of murder at Chester crown court yesterday and jailed for life. Miss Beddeson, a lonely and vulnerable retired tax inspector, had replied to a Times newspaper advertisement placed by Young Ridgeway and Associates in October 2000, offering financial advice. Crittenden, 64, who is married with three children, did not tell the company he was acting on Miss Beddeson's behalf and there was no suggestion the company knew of his actions. He used the money to pay off substantial personal debts, and gave some to family and friends. Lord Carlile QC, prosecuting, said Crittenden regarded himself as the "top man in retirement". But he was "rotten to the core". He compared him to the murderous financial adviser Richard Hillman in the ITV soap Coronation Street. On November 12 2002, Crittenden took Miss Beddeson out for a meal at an expensive restaurant near her home. The following morning he left her, ensuring the patio door was unlocked. Early on November 15, he left his wife Iris asleep at their home and drove to Macclesfield. He entered Miss Beddeson's home through the unlocked patio door and smothered her as she lay in bed. He left through the same door, drove home and got back in bed with his wife. Later that day, he visited a gym and had lunch with his sales manager. He tried to cover his tracks by leaving several concerned messages on Miss Beddeson's answerphone, but he was arrested on suspicion of murder. Sentencing him to life imprisonment with a recommendation he serve at least 18 years, Judge Elgan Edwards said: "You murdered Joan Beddeson in a planned and coldly calculating way, having stolen a large amount of her money. You showed her no mercy and you have shown no remorse. "She was a vulnerable, elderly lady, who was murdered in her home at night by you." Crittenden had boasted he was so successful as he was "walking the extra mile" for his clients. He would drive hundreds of miles to visit them in their homes and he would accompany them to meetings with solicitors and accountants. During his 40-year career he earned an average £70,000 a year in commission. To assist in the seduction of Miss Beddeson, he had used Viagra, which he kept in a leather briefcase he called his "travelling toolbox".