Michael Howard's latest attempt to use fear of crime as an election weapon against Labour rebounded badly last night when senior police chiefs condemned a Conservative campaign advertisement on crime for its "misleading statistics", and the Archbishop of Canterbury warned against populist campaign language.The Tory leadership was criticised by individual forces and by the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) for a series of newspaper and poster ads deployed in marginal seats to suggest that crime has been rising locally under Labour. "This misleading advert quite improperly seeks to stir up fear of rising crime when it is a well established fact that crime has been falling for years, both locally and nationally," said Richard Brunstrom, chief constable of North Wales. With at least five fellow chiefs in agreement Mr Brunstrom told Channel 4 News: "I am disappointed in the extreme that it has appeared in the press in a very marginal constituency in the runup to a general election." In an open letter, Dr Rowan Williams voiced concerns to all the parties about the effects of fear-driven politics and called on them to focus instead on concerns such as the environment, arms trade, penal system and the alienation of young people. Yesterday Mr Howard invoked the word fear quite deliberately, using it at least six times at an election press conference. Asked on BBC2's Newsnight about the Conservative leader's pledge that "I want yobs to fear the police", the archbishop replied: "I think there are things we really ought to be afraid of. And talk about fear at that level perhaps doesn't get to the root causes. If you think about what actually threatens us, not only as a country but as a planet, that's the level I think we ought to be going to." The twin-pronged attack on Tory tactics from two separate pillars of the British establishment was a gift for Labour on the day of the cabinet's last pre-election session and may raise fresh questions about Mr Howard's judgment. Last night he showed no signs of backing down. The row erupted after a day in which Mr Howard had unveiled a five-point plan to tackle "yob culture" which included electing chief constables and making them publish weekly internet reports on the crime clean-up rate. Faced with bar charts in the Tory ads which compared crime figures from 1999 - when a different method of counting was in use - Acpo's statement said: "If we wanted to increase fear of crime the select use of statistics can help in doing that." Confronted last night with Acpo's complaint, the Tory co-chairman, Dr Liam Fox, said: "We will not be making any apologies for raising crime as an issue at this election. It is very important that we are not dictated to by politicians, commentators, professional groups or anyone else." Last night Acpo said: "The British crime survey shows that crime has reduced over the last 10 years and that violent crime has remained stable. We feel it is important that all crime statistics, which forces publish regularly, should be put into context and communicated in a responsible way to the public." That gave Charles Clarke, the home secretary, the green light to accuse the Conservatives of "deliberate" distortion and his cabinet colleague, Alan Milburn, the election coordinator, to remind voters that crime had doubled during 18 years of Tory government. "Their aim is to spread cynicism and pessimism and to drive down the turnout in any election," he said.In his BBC2 Newsnight interview Dr Williams was more concerned about the tone of the campaign debate on asylum and immigration and "buttons being pushed. I think it's racist to whip up the kind of anxiety that can so easily be generated on this subject. That will always present asylum seekers, for example, as a menace, as an uncontrollable menace".