More than a thousand mourners yesterday paid their respects to murdered schoolboy Damilola Taylor at an emotional memorial service held on what would have been his 11th birthday.Paul Boateng, the home office minister, and Damilola's brother Tunde, 21, led the tributes to the boy who bled to death on a stairwell in Peckham, south London, 11 days ago. Damilola's father Richard, 55, wept alongside his wife Gloria, 49, and daughter Beme, 23, at the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries church in Old Kent Road, Peckham. Sobs came from the mourners as Tunde apologised to his little brother for not being there to protect him. Tunde, who left his third year university course in Nigeria for a better life in England, said: "Apparently the only thing I did not offer him was protection from his killers on that fateful day. "Damilola, I know you are resting peacefully. Please forgive me for not being there for you. I am deeply sorry for not being there for you." With his father by his side for support, he said Damilola - or Dami as he was known to most of his friends - brought great joy and happiness to the Taylor family. "He was a God-fearing, friendly, intelligent, loveable boy that any expectant mother would always like to have. He is part of my life that can never be erased." In an emotional address Mr Boateng said Damilola had been a "bright rising star". He urged people with information about the killing to come forward. "Speak, speak, tell the police what you saw." Mr Boateng indicated that there should be more police officers, saying people needed "new faces on the beat". A small group of Damilola's Sunday school friends sang a moving tribute to him entitled Thank You Lord. The service was held at the Pentecostal church Damilola attended three times a week with his family after arriving in Britain from Nigeria four months ago. It replaced what should have been a birthday celebration. His father said his son had planned to mark it by taking treats to school and sharing them with his friends.  Press Association Gallery: the CCTV shotsRelated stories30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' 30 November, leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a schoolboy 29 November: It's lawless out thereUseful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate 