Aim"To provide for the establishment and functions of the Serious Organised Crime Agency; to make provision about investigations, prosecutions, offenders and witnesses in criminal proceedings and the protection of persons involved in investigations or proceeding; to amend the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; to make further provision for combating crime and disorder, including new provision about powers of arrest and search warrants and about parental compensation orders."Main provisions• Establishes the Serious Organised Crime Agency and designates its functions.• Creates new provisions relating to parental compensation orders, civil orders which require parents or guardians topay compensation for damages or losses created by a child under 10 (therefore under the age of criminal responsibility).• Restricts the right to demonstrate within an exclusion zone of up to one kilometre from any point in Parliament Square. Those who want to demonstrate outside parliament, or indeed in Trafalgar Square – the traditional site of public protest – must apply to the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police six days in advance, or if this is not practical then with no less than 24 hours notice. • Creates a new offence of trespassing on a designated site. The site can be Crown Land, land that belongs to the monarch or heir to the throne or land a secretary of state believes is appropriate for designation in the interests of national security.• Makes all offences arrestable. Previously a police officer had to determine whether he suspected a person of committing a non-arrestable, arrestable or serious arrestable offence. The powers available flowed from that determination.• Extends previous legislation so that DNA retention on the National DNA Database is permitted even where a suspect has been cleared.BackgroundOstensibly, this act was to enable the establishment of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA). Launched in April 2006, SOCA bought together the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and the parts of HM Revenue and Customs and the UK Immigration Service that deal with drug trafficking and people smuggling.The legislation also makes a number of key changes to police powers and makes every offence, no matter how minor, arrestable. Prior to this act, there were a limited number of arrestable offences (one of the definitions was that the crime carried a penalty of five years' imprisonment). Under the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, fingerprints and DNA samples taken from a person arrested during the course of an investigation can be retained indefinitely on the National DNA Database, regardless of whether the suspect is charged or convicted of an offence.The most controversial aspect of the act was the decision to criminalise unauthorised demonstrations within an exclusion zone of one kilometre around Parliament Square. These provisions were in part an attempt to end the one-man protest by Brian Haw, an anti-war campaigner who has been staging a peace vigil in Parliament Square since June 2001. Initially the High Court ruled that since his protest began before the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act became law he did not need to seek authorisation, but a later appeal overturned that decision and held that the act did apply to him.A draft of the constitutional renewal bill released in March 2008, includes a proposal to repeal these contentious provisions. CriticismThere was widespread unease among civil liberty groups about the new police arrest powers. Human rights campaign groups such as JUSTICE expressed concerns that the act "grants too much discretion to individual officers and will lead to large numbers of unnecessary arrests". Under this act, officers merely have to satisfy themselves that there are reasonable grounds for arresting an individual because of their involvement or suspected involvement or attempted involvement in the commission of a criminal offence. JUSTICE pointed out that the legislation is drafted so broadly that it "will be very easy for an officer to justify an arrest" and that this could lead to unfair targeting of ethnic minority groups. The bar on unauthorised demonstrations within central London galvanised a grassroots campaign against the measure that continues to this day.