Yob, thug, lout, scum, evil, sick, feral, inhuman. If your neighbour called you these every day, you would probably file a harassment case.  As it is, a young man in Britain today is unlikely to pick up a tabloid newspaper without seeing himself reflected as a "terrifying teen" or "heartless hoodie", wielding a knife or binge-drinking.According to a new study commissioned by Women in Journalism, some 70% of press about young people is negative. Only 14% is positive. Little surprise, then, that 85% of boys think the press portrays them only in a bad light. Just 6% think they get a fair press. The effects that such headlines are having on the perception and fear of crime among adults are well documented. According to a recent Ipsos Mori survey, 83% of British people think violent crime is on the rise – when according to the British Crime Survey, it is down by 12% this year (40% over the last decade). Almost half of those people base their view on "what I read in the newspaper" (it is 57% for TV). Only 20% base this assertion on their personal experience – where, in reality, their local area is likely to be safer and better policed than ever.  More worrying, however, is the fact that this negative media image is making teenagers fear each other. Nearly three-quarters of young people say they have "changed their behaviour" in order to avoid other teenagers; again, half cite media representation as the source of their fears.  At a time when there has never been a greater need to broaden the horizons of young people who feel trapped in their own estates by postcode rivalry, and to foster what I call an "encounter culture" to help young people raise their expectations, this perception is very damaging indeed. How can we persuade a young man from Tottenham of the enriching experience he might have by meeting someone from Surrey, Stirling or Sunderland, when each just fears that the other is after for his mobile phone?  Perhaps it was ever thus. The press has a long history of playing its part in moral panics. From Victorian "scuttler" gangs, through the teddy boys, the mods and rockers, punks, skinheads, football hooligans and the rave generation, a predominant image of young men in newspapers through the ages has been one of violent nihilism.  How a group is represented in the media has always depended upon the power of that group to stand up for itself – to get a comprehensive, honest portrayal of itself in the media. Teenage boys are not one of them: they are rarely quoted, their perspectives rarely aired. But when they are seen or heard on television or radio, they are generally framed as inarticulate, feckless and irresponsible. So what to do? Essentially, the media's approach to young men is reactive rather than proactive. This has to change. In London alone last year, 27 young men lost their lives to knife crime. The mayor's response at the time was to put a thousand extra police officers on the streets. This was part of the solution, but not the most imaginative way of addressing the problem and communicating its causes and effects. We need to talk about families and parenting, after-school initiatives and constructive activities for young people – and if it does go wrong, effective programmes for young offenders. This way, we can begin to find the serenity which young men, in particular, will benefit from among the clamour and noise of modern journalism. But we need the media to engage in this dialogue. Times are changing, of course. The age of citizen journalism is upon us: instant connection, a vast database of news and a global distribution network are giving young people the tools to respond, to fact-check, and to create the spaces in which the richer stories of their lives and experiences might find their way into the mainstream media. We all know young men in our own lives – sons, brothers, neighbours, friends, cousins – who challenge the tabloid stereotypes every day through their courtesy and thoughtfulness, their determination and flair. Young men are achieving better school grades than ever. More than ever before are going to university. They were the pride of Britain during last summer's Olympics. Now, when we see the impact of the global economic climate in our communities, let's not make their lives harder. If we want to raise the aspirations of young men, we should be praising their achievements, not talking them down.