A doctor who stayed behind to comfort those trapped in the Circle line train after the Aldgate bombing spoke yesterday of her distress at being alone and with "nothing to give" to the injured and dying .Gerardine Quaghebeur, a consultant neuro-radiologist at the John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, described her anger at seeing passengers around her taking photographs after Shehzad Tanweer set off his bomb, claiming seven lives.Quaghebeur, 50, told the inquests into the 52 people who died in the 7 July bombings how she had remained in the carriage after another survivor pleaded with her: "You're not going to leave us?"Despite requests from people she thought were London Underground staff to evacuate, she told Crystal Main, who was trapped: "No, no – I'll stay."Main, a professional dancer who was injured, told Quaghebeur she was "very concerned" that she couldn't move because she had someone over her. "She couldn't move and I couldn't see any way of moving her," said Quaghebeur.Quaghebeur, who cradled the dying Carrie Taylor in her arms for an hour, told the inquest she felt she was of little use to the injured. She said: "Yes I'm a doctor, but what can you do in a situation like that? You can't do anything. You're completely on your own. You have no first aid to give. You have no airway to give. You have nothing to give other than to comfort the people who are still alive."She said that she wasn't sure whether Taylor, 24, who was bleeding and had a "probable" head injury and internal abdominal injury, would have survived had help arrived sooner.In a poignant exchange, Taylor's father, John, told her: "It's clear to me now that the first lady you went to was Carrie, my daughter."Asked whether the main reason she stayed was to give comfort to her, she replied: "It was to comfort her and to comfort some other people in the carriage and not leave them alone."Taylor said simply: "Thank you very much for that."She replied: "Sorry about your daughter."The inquests have heard that Quaghebeur shouted while looking after Taylor, "Get me a medic. This woman has only minutes to live if I don't get a medic." Asked about this, she said: "I don't recall saying that, but it's quite possible I did. I did at one stage get a bit distressed."It's possible that if people had got off the train earlier, they may have been alive getting off the train. I still very much doubt whether the outcome would be any different."Taylor asked her: "It was your opinion that Carrie would not have survived unless she got medical aid immediately?"She answered: "Nobody would survive an injury like that without aid. I still don't know whether she would have survived if aid had come earlier."Lady Justice Hallet told her: "I know it was awful for you, but I think you underestimate the importance of what you did achieve and you offered comfort and assistance to some people in dire distress and dire circumstances. In my judgment, you behaved with great courage, determination and humanity and there are a number of people who have very great cause to be grateful to you. So thank you."Earlier, Taylor asked another survivor who helped his daughter whether she was still alive when he left the wrecked carriage. Melvin Finn told the court that her eyes were closed but she "appeared to be alive". He and Quaghebeur had tried to support her torso and neck, he said.Asked by Taylor whether his daughter had said anything or murmured, he said: "No, absolutely nothing, nothing at all."The inquests, which are expected to last five months, are looking at whether the emergency services' response was adequate and whether the security agencies could have prevented the attacks.The inquests continue.