The demand for compensation from the Libyan government for victims of IRA actions, in which it is claimed Libyan armaments were used, and the British government's role in this, is the cause of some controversy in Belfast. On Monday, I spoke to Downing Street and to Northern Ireland secretary Shaun Woodward about this. I told them there could be no hierarchy of victims; that all victims deserve compensation – and that Mr Brown's position is totally inconsistent.I support compensation for all victims. But this has to include the victims of British state violence and collusion.No one should be surprised by the hypocritical stance of successive British governments on this issue. The role of the British state in killing citizens in Ireland in recent times is well-documented. Apart from killings by state forces, British intelligence agencies also armed unionist paramilitaries, including Ulster Resistance, which was established by the DUP, and provided the information which led to countless deaths.The tactics employed in collusion were drawn from decades of British experience in fighting colonial wars elsewhere. But it was the work of Brigadier (later General Sir) Frank Kitson that refined its use in Ireland. Kitson was the British Army's foremost expert on counterinsurgency. He rationalised the use of death squads and the corruption of justice: Everything done by a government and its agents in combating insurgency must be legitimate. But this does not mean that the government must work within exactly the same set of laws during an emergency as existed beforehand. The law should be used as just another weapon in the government's arsenal, in which case it becomes little more than a propaganda cover for the disposal of unwanted members of the public.In the early 1970s, the British killed Catholics and Protestants and carried out actions, including bombings, using surrogate groups. The UDA, which remained a legal organisation for almost 20 years, and the UVF, carried out a campaign of killings against Catholics. They were supplied with information by the British intelligence agencies, including files, photographs and details of cars and movements.One of the first people to be recruited by British intelligence was the loyalist Brian Nelson, a former British soldier. In the summer of 1985, Nelson was sent to apartheid South Africa to get weapons. To finance the trip, the UDA, UVF and Ulster Resistance carried out a bank robbery at the Northern Bank in Portadown; this netted £325,000, which was then used to purchase a shipment of arms consisting of 200 AK47 rifles, 90 Browning pistols, 500 fragmentation grenades, ammunition and 12 RPG launchers.In the three years after the South African shipment, unionist paramilitaries killed 224 citizens and wounded countless scores more. One of these was Pat Finucane, a human rights lawyer, who was shot dead in February 1989 at his home in north Belfast.In dealing with the issues of truth and victims, all of these matters must be open to scrutiny. I have no problem with campaigns for governments to pay compensation. But that has to include the British government.Gordon Brown's position is totally inconsistent, but this is in keeping with London's longstanding game-playing on this important matter. Another example of this is to be found in Shaun Woodward's recent dismissal of the Eames/Bradley Commission proposal for an acknowledgment payment to all victims.The fact is the British government is a player in all of these issues. It was one of the combatants in the conflict and is not and cannot be, or pretend to be, an objective or neutral referee.  