The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday January 29 2006In the article below, we referred to Donald Brown, former chief superintendent with Greater Manchester Police (GMP). The article mentioned Mr Brown's breach of the police code of conduct relating to a letter he approved and signed, the contents of which were not accurate. GMP confirm that Donald Brown did not retire early, that his retirement was pre-planned and not connected to this matter, which was relatively minor, or any other matter. We apologise if this was not clear in the article and are happy to set the record straight.Detectives from two forces are to be investigated for perverting the course of justice in connection with a BBC documentary that exposed racism at a police training college.The Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation could lead to criminal charges against officers from Greater Manchester and Cheshire police, who are said to have accused a BBC producer of murder in order to gain access to his journalistic files.The forces both sent recruits to Bruche police college, near Warrington, which featured in the documentary The Secret Policeman, broadcast in October 2003. In January 2004, police from Cheshire gained a warrant to search the house of Paul Atkinson, a former sergeant from Greater Manchester, who worked as a producer on the programme.The film used undercover reporter Mark Daly to film scenes of racist behaviour. One recruit dressed in a Ku Klux Klan-style hood and bragged of his plans to attack Asians. Charges of 'obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception' against Daly were dropped.The Observer has discovered that an assistant chief constable from South Yorkshire has been appointed to head the investigation into Atkinson's claims that officers falsely arrested him to gain access to his files. These allowed them to identify officers who had blown the whistle on the college and launch an internal inquiry into their conduct.The investigation will be the largest yet by the IPCC, which was established last year. Such is the seriousness of the claims that eight detectives will work on the case full time. They will examine whether Cheshire officers were acting in the full knowledge of their Greater Manchester colleagues when Atkinson's home was raided. Neither force now disputes they were working together to find out how the BBC had come to make the programme.Also under investigation is the decision to allow Greater Manchester police access to Atkinson's bank accounts just days before the programme was to be broadcast.The criminal investigation could lead to charges against individual officers and cast doubt over convictions in the trial that followed the murder investigation.Atkinson was first questioned as a witness about the murder of drug dealer Brian Waters in September 2003. James Raven, who had once been a BBC consultant, was later convicted of involvement in the killing in which the victim was whipped, tortured and burnt to death. Atkinson's name had been found in Raven's notebook. Raven, serving a 24-year sentence in Full Sutton high secruity prison, continues to protest his innocence.The producer was eliminated from the police inquiry in April last year, but not before the police had stormed his house and kept him in custody for 15 hours.The officers who arrested Atkinson will be asked to justify why they did not check the verifiable alibi given by his girlfriend as he was dragged away. They would have discovered that the couple were in a hospital 250 miles away from the scene of the crime, being told they had lost their unborn child.An internal inquiry by Greater Manchester Police found that Chief Superintendent Don Brown had not adequately performed his duties in sending a letter telling Atkinson he was not under investigation over the The Secret Policeman. Disclosures under the Freedom of Information act showed that this was not true. Brown has since taken early retirement.The investigation will raise questions about the role of Michael Todd, chief constable of Greater Manchester. There is no suggestion Todd was aware of the raid, but it is clear from documents seen by The Observer that he believed Atkinson to be behind the BBC programme before it had been broadcast. In September 2003, he wrote to the then director-general, Greg Dyke, naming Atkinson.The trials of the men held responsible for the murder of Waters (Raven, John Wilson and Otis Mathews) cost an estimated £6 million. All three cases have been referred to the Court of Appeal.Atkinson told The Observer: 'My case raises serious questions about the tactics employed by GMP in investigating officers brave enough to step forward and be counted in speaking out against racism.'