A student who mocked the football player Fabrice Muamba on Twitter after the Bolton player collapsed with a cardiac arrest, has lost his appeal against a 56-day jail term.Liam Stacey, 21, of Pontypridd, south Wales, sobbed as he was taken away after the failed appeal hearing at Swansea crown court.Mr Justice Wyn Williams rejected an argument that Stacey had already been punished enough. He said the Swansea University biology student had admitted an offence, racially aggravated public disorder, of intent."He was intending to say what he said and was intending to produce the effect that he did."He heard the appeal with two magistrates from the court where the original sentence was imposed on Tuesday.After listening to arguments from both sides, Williams adjourned for 30 minutes to reach a conclusion. He returned more than 90 minutes later and apologised for the delay."You will all understand that this is a very emotive and very difficult case and we wanted to be sure in our minds that what we were doing was right."He highlighted a penalty notice Stacey received in March last year for violent disorder. The incident had previously been overlooked and was not mentioned at Stacey's earlier sentencing.The notice was the result of Stacey becoming violent as he was ejected, drunk, from a pub. He threatened and swore at police officers when they arrived on the scene and was eventually arrested for a public order offence.Earlier Stacey's lawyer, Paul Hobson, who had been unaware of the offence, spoke of the effect the case had had on his family and friends and argued that a suspended sentence or a community order would be appropriate."What he did on that particular night was vile. But I would submit that the court can conclude that, vile though his actions were, he is not a vile person," Hobson said."What he did does not define his whole personality, but it will be a blot on his character forever."He added: "Very rarely will a court deal with an individual who has attracted so much stigma." That stigma had affected his family and friends, who were guilty of nothing.Hobson said Stacey had been a normal student with a very bright future a fortnight ago. Now he had a criminal conviction and his academic future was uncertain, with a university disciplinary hearing next month."He is now three days into a prison sentence and, probably worse than all of that, he has managed to achieve a notoriety and perhaps pariah status."Stacey triggered revulsion when he tweeted: "LOL [laugh out loud]. Fuck Muamba. He's dead!!!" as doctors fought to save the footballer's life.The Bolton Wanderers midfielder collapsed during an early evening FA Cup tie against Tottenham Hotspur on 17 March. Millions watched the match live on TV and feared the cardiac arrest was fatal.While prayers were being said for Muamba worldwide, a drunken Stacey turned to his BlackBerry to post his now infamous tweet. When it attracted a barrage of criticism he replied with a series of racist and personally abusive posts.Support for the jail term was widespread on the day it was handed down, and was subsequently debated on Twitter. But a significant minority criticised his punishment and claimed it was politically motivated to make him into an example.