A family man who made explosive devices after being inspired by a television science show has been jailed for six months.Michael Thomas, 40, and a group of friends created a batch of pipe bombs, took them to a remote quarry and exploded one of them in a microwave, re-enacting what they had seen on the Sky One show Brainiac.However, the group forgot to detonate one of the devices and Thomas unwittingly carried it home in a sports bag and stored it in his shed. Thomas separated from his wife, and seven years later as she cleaned the shed out she spotted the device poking out of the bag.Police were called and 80 homes in Warmley, near Bristol, were evacuated while an army bomb disposal team used a robotic device to inspect the bomb.It was taken away and made safe while residents sheltered in a nearby supermarket.At Bristol crown court, the judge, Michael Roach, told Thomas, a stock controller, that those "reckless enough" to build such devices should go to prison, even if they had no sinister motive."The consequences of that discovery were sufficient not only to excite the police but also the bomb squad," the judge said. "A street had to be evacuated and people had to be looked after at a nearby supermarket. There's no doubt at all that this is a serious offence. On any view you were enormously reckless."I accept that there was no sinister purpose of that device, but the potential for it being on a street, unguarded, available in a residential area makes it obvious that the risks were significant. I can't ignore those risks."Thomas, who is in a new relationship and the father of two young children, admitted a charge of making an explosive substance.The court was told that the group visited the quarry in Corsham, Wiltshire, in 2006. Thomas and his then wife, who has not been named, separated in 2010 and she found the bomb while cleaning the shed in August last year.Nicholas O'Brien, prosecuting, said that when police searched Thomas's computer they found material relating to making explosives. O'Brien said: "It is serious and dangerous, but really it seems to be a rather juvenile, amateur interest in explosives."Sam Jones, defending, said his client, who has moved to Bridgwater, Somerset, was a hardworking family man with two children, aged two and 10 months.Thomas made the devices with a group of friends in 2006."One was set off inside a microwave, inspired by a programme called Brainiac," Jones said. The programme, which ran between 2003 and 2008, was presented by Richard Hammond and Vic Reeves."At the end of the programme, which focused on science, various experiments were carried out in things like microwaves. It was used in an educational way. That was really the catalyst for what followed."Jones said one of the devices made a loud bang when it blew up, but the others fizzed and smoked.As Thomas was led to the cells, the judge told him: "What a sad day for your family."