There is a view that it is possible to identify the criminals of tomorrow in the children of today. Such individuals share characteristics in common. Family dysfunction, poverty, housing problems and other "risk factors" are markers of potential criminality. Intervening early in the lives of those manifesting these risk factors can arrest the descent into a life of crime.So the argument goes and it sits at the heart of Labour's approach to youth crime and crime prevention. According to the Youth Crime Action Plan, children at risk of offending "can often be identified early on". Intervening in their lives early "is not only a vital response to youth crime but also puts more young people on the path to success". It is a view that has also attracted cross-party support, as a recent pamphlet co-written by the former Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith and the Labour MP Graham Allen makes plain. All three of the main parties will probably go into the next election committed to early intervention policies informed by risk factor analysis.For such policies to be effective at least two conditions need to be met. First it must be possible to predict which children, left to their own devices, will grow up into a life of crime. Too many "false positives" – children identified as likely criminals who will not commit crime – would result in wasteful and unnecessary interventions being made. Too many "false negatives" – children deemed to be low risk who in fact grow up to commit crime – would result in necessary interventions being inappropriately withheld.In practice, risk factor analysis is rife with false positives and false negatives, as newly published analysis points out. One study drew on US data to predict which young men would commit a homicide. False negatives were very high, as were false positives. Only one in every 10 homicide offenders was correctly identified. Nine in 10 of those identified as a significant homicide risk did not commit a homicide. With our current state of knowledge, risk factor analysis is a very poor predictive guide.The second condition is that early interventions must also be appropriate in style and substance. In style, early interventions have taken on a distinctly draconian tone. Consider the following, from the Youth Crime Action Plan: "On support, we will offer non-negotiable intervention to the families at greatest risk of serious offending." When "support" is offered on a "take it or take it" basis, it crosses the line into compulsion. Given the problem of false positives it is highly likely that thousands of families are at the receiving end of unnecessary, compulsory "support".In substance too, government policies tend towards targeting risky individuals, rather than the risky social circumstances of their existence. Poverty, housing problems and family breakdown in childhood, to name but three, can all have a dramatic impact on an individual's later life. But these are the result of social processes requiring a broad-based policy response, not the failings of individuals who exhibit these factors. Current early intervention policies seek to "correct" the pathologies of individuals while ignoring the more fundamental challenge of correcting those social dysfunctions that give rise to these problems.