Two clinical forensic psychologists who treated Barry George, who was acquitted on Friday of the murder of the BBC presenter Jill Dando, today warn that he faces massive obstacles in trying to readjust to his new life as a free man.Professor Gisli Gudjonsson and Dr Susan Young have raised concerns that George may never be able to look after himself in the wider community.'These people often take years to adjust and some don't adjust properly at all,' said Gudjonsson, of the Institute of Psychiatry at King's College, London, who was responsible for making the initial assessment that George suffered from brain damage. He said George needed long-term psychological support to overcome years of being institutionalised in prison.'He's got problems with everyday living and he'll find it difficult to adapt to a new environment and look after himself,' Gudjonsson said. 'He was living on his own before and obviously his social functioning wasn't that great. His flat looked a bit of a shambles and I'm not convinced he was really looking after himself. The issue now is how he can be helped to look after himself.'Young, who has been beside George in court throughout his trials and appeals, said her former patient would require a comprehensive care package. 'He'll be linked with a community mental health team which will give him psychiatric care and psychological help to try to help him rehabilitate and he's going to need medication,' she said. 'Since the verdict it's been go, go, go - he needs space.'Gudjonsson warned that George, who has a low IQ and suffers from epilepsy and anxiety attacks, faces an additional problem. 'He is infamous now and people will recognise him. He can't just blend into the background. He is odd - he's a strange individual - and that will add to his problems.'George is expected to receive a six-figure compensation payout and is reported to have already been approached with lucrative offers for his story. But his acute psychological problems suggest the state will need to spend considerably more to help with his rehabilitation process, something that is expected to take years. 'He's very rigid and doesn't adapt very well to changed circumstances, so I think he will need very long-term support and counselling,' Gudjonsson said.The Ministry of Justice has so far not revealed what sort of care package is being put in place to help George, who has spent eight years behind bars. But it is believed he is being supported by his sister, Michelle Diskin, who has always maintained her brother's innocence.Yesterday, Young paid tribute to Diskin's campaign. 'I have a huge amount of admiration for her,' she said. 'Mr George is very fortunate because many people in his position don't have that level of support, even from within his own family.'However, Gudjonsson suggested George now faced a fresh set of problems. 'His freedom is like opening a door and saying "Now you've got to look after yourself",' he said.