Police investigating the death of oil executive Carole Waugh have made two further arrests.A 55-year-old man and another aged 39 were arrested in central London on Monday in connection with conspiracy to commit fraud, Scotland Yard said. Both were bailed to a date in early September pending further inquiries. Waugh, originally from Durham but living in London, was found dead with a single stab wound inside a car at a garage in Lime Court, New Malden, south-west London, on 2 August. The 50-year-old had been reported missing by her family on 7 May. They last saw her at a family party in mid-April. Two men have been arrested on suspicion of murder. Rakesh Bhayani, 40, of Chamberlayne Avenue, Wembley, north-west London, has been bailed to return to police in mid-August. He is due to appear in court next month on three charges of conspiracy to commit fraud worth about £280,000 by false representation following transactions associated with Waugh's identity. Nicholas David Kutner, 47, of no fixed address, who was arrested last week on suspicion of murder and kidnapping, is also due to answer bail later this month. He faces two charges relating to renting her property at Tressard Court and one of unlawfully withdrawing funds from her bank account. He is also facing a fraud charge after being accused of pretending to be Chris Waugh, Miss Waugh's brother, in a bid to sell her London home. Carole Waugh had lived and worked in Libya for a number of years but returned to London in 2008 and would regularly visit relatives in Durham and Cumbria. Her former boss, Stuart Anderson, told journalists she had fled Libya after being threatened by someone in Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's regime but a Scotland Yard spokesman has said inquiries are focused on London. So far 13 people have been arrested in connection with the inquiry into her disappearance. At least three women have tried to pose as her since she vanished, police have said. Her flat is in an affluent part of central London and her brother Chris has said she was "very frugal and careful" with money. Scotland Yard has investigated links to dating sites and appealed for information about the blue Volkswagen Golf in which Waugh's body was found.