A government-backed scheme to boost police numbers with civilians on street patrols is in trouble because so many of the support officers are being singled out for disciplinary action.Officials at Scotland Yard are examining accusations against its police community support officers (PCSOs) amid concern that they may have insufficient training, and may be being victimised by regular officers opposed to the scheme. The initiative was much lauded at its launch last September. Support officers have been identified by London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, as a vital part of his strategy to cut crime by covering the streets with patrolling officers. Sir Ian Blair, the Met's deputy commissioner, was knighted last month after having persuaded the Home Office to introduce support officers as a "new tier of police employee". The Guardian understands that at a police station in central London, where the first batch of recruits was based, 16 out of 100 support officers have had disciplinary proceedings begun against them. One estimate, disputed by the Met, puts the number of support officers either investigated or reprimanded as high as 64. One was disciplined because he arrived for work without his uniform epaulettes. Another was accused of impersonating a police officer, apparently for trying to use his support officer card to obtain free travel on the tube. It emerged he had a valid travelcard in the same wallet. Others have been disciplined over timekeeping. Half of those disciplined at the station are believed to be members of ethnic minorities. The Met's Black Police Association yesterday voiced concern that they were being singled out.Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, the association's chairman, said: "We must be concerned where members of staff are suffering disproportionately, and we must raise questions about the level of training and resources and the supervision of this new fledgling organisation." The disciplinary rate is much higher than for regular officers. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, representing rank-and-file officers, accepted that support officers had helped London to cope with security after the September 11 attacks. But he added: "We have always had concerns that the level of training [they] undergo is so minimal. Some may well be over the basic standard required for police officers, but they don't all achieve that. "I have spoken to senior officers at Scotland Yard, and they acknowledge that there have been teething problems. We think the rush to get them in, and to do that at a certain [financial] cost, has been at the expense of training and robust vetting." Some 500 community support officers were funded by the Home Office last year. It and the mayor have jointly funded a further 500 for this year. Regular officers train for two years, spending 18 weeks at the Met's facility in Hendon, north London. Support officers receive three weeks' training, are paid around £19,000 a year, and have only limited powers of arrest. In all normal circumstances they are obliged to call for assistance from a regular officer. Few dispute that the scheme has benefits. Despite problems at the station in question, the combined force of support officers and regular officers is credited with having cut street crime in half in the past year. The fact that many support officers are black is also politically important. The Met has been told that a quarter of its workforce should be from ethnic minorities by 2009; at present it is 8%. Lee Jasper, the mayor's policing adviser, said: "Whatever the internal issues, the scheme is working. I will be writing to Ian Blair to to clarify the situation. But we all recognise that these [support officers] are vitally important if we are to increase the diversity of the policing family in London." A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the scheme was in its early stages. "In the creation of any new role, learning, improvement and adjustment would be expected. Their introduction has had a very positive impact on safety and reassurance in central London. We are extremely pleased with the calibre of the recruits."