Facebook and Twitter are being used to mobilise volunteers to help clean up the damage caused across London in the wake of further looting, arson and violence on Monday night.The operation, tagged #riotcleanup, was started shortly after midnight by Dan Thompson, who runs a social initiative aimed at encouraging people to use empty shops and open spaces. By 10am Monday, the tag was the top trending topic in the UK, and the second worldwide.A Facebook group to collate information was set up shortly afterwards, and had 3,600 members by mid-morning. Eleven locations in London had volunteers arriving for cleanup operations, according to a Wiki site set up on Tuesday. There are also similar operations in Bristol and Liverpool.Thompson, from Worthing, in West Sussex, decided to use social media to help co-ordinate people who were looking for ways to clean up after the riots."There are now people on the ground all across London," he said. "Even just putting on some gloves, picking up a dustpan and brush, and clearing one broken window on the way into work. People are saying, 'We're Londoners, we're resilient and getting on with it.'"Thompson was particularly keen to encourage people to help local independent businesses. "It's local traders who need help. Councils have done a good job getting the streets clear and removing a lot of the debris," he said. "Local shops find that harder."Councillors, activists and others were feeding information to volunteers on which areas needed help, and when their efforts would be most appreciated."Thanks for all offers to help clean up but CJ [Clapham Junction] still a crime scene so sealed off until at least lunchtime," Wandsworth council said.Councillor Philip Glanville tweeted: "Mare Street [Hackney] update, council officers have already cleaned the streets around here. Big thank you to all our staff."Thanks to all the #riotcleanup people turning up in Hackney, but so far things are under control. Now heading up to Clarence Road," he added.The former deputy prime minister John Prescott tweeted: "Would be really great to see the England football team heading to a #riotcleanup What do you think @rioferdy5 @waynerooney?"Others were more flippant in their support for the cleanup: "Last night we needed batman. This morning we need The Wombles," tweeted @arthurascii.