The mother of Shannon Matthews was today sentenced to eight years' jail for kidnapping her own daughter in a plot to claim the anticipated reward.Karen Matthews, 33, and her accomplice, Michael Donovan, 40, were found guilty last month of drugging and imprisoning the nine-year-old schoolgirl for 24 days. Donovan was also sentenced to eight years.Each was given concurrent sentences of six years and three years for kidnapping and false imprisonment as well as an additional two-year sentence, to be served consecutively, for perverting the course of justice.The judge, Mr Justice McCombe, told the pair: "The offences that you committed were truly despicable. It is impossible to conceive how you could have found it in you to put this young girl through the ordeal that you inflicted upon her."It is incomprehensible that you could have permitted your friends, neighbours and in your case, Matthews, even your children to sacrifice time and energy in extensive searches for the supposedly missing child."Shannon, the judge said, had been left "disturbed and traumatised and frightened" after her ordeal. "She ... often complained of having nightmares where she is being tied up."The judge questioned whether Matthews and Donovan had acted alone. "The pre-sentence report in Matthews's case comments that neither defendant seems to have the cognitive ability to devise and orchestrate such an elaborate offence with any degree of likelihood of success," he noted."It is argued for both that they were not of sufficient intelligence to conceive and implement this plan without the involvement of others."Outside court Julie Bushby, who chairs the residents' association on the Dewsbury Moor estate, said she had no idea who else might have been involved in the plot to kidnap Shannon. "If Karen isn't going to break and say what the full story is, what can us little people do to help her?" she said.But Detective Superintendent Andy Brennan, the officer who led the investigation, insisted that the case was now closed. "If new evidence comes to light, it will of course be investigated," he added.In mitigation pleas earlier today, Frances Oldham QC, for Matthews, criticised the media "hysteria" that followed her client's conviction and, in particular, a comment by Det Sup Brennan who condemned Matthews as "pure evil". Oldham told the court: "The one thing she is not is 'pure evil'."Shannon, she insisted, had been kept "safe, warm and nourished".Alan Conrad QC, for Donovan, told the court he accepted the case was so serious that only a custodial sentence could be justified, but stressed that Shannon was not physically mistreated or harmed during her time in Donovan's flat. "She was treated by the defendant with a degree of respect and allowed her own space," he said.Shannon, now 10, went missing on 19 February last year as she walked home from school in Dewsbury Moor, West Yorkshire. The search operation conducted by West Yorkshire police cost almost £3.2m.On 14 March, Shannon was discovered in the base of a divan bed in Donovan's flat in Batley Carr, less than a mile from her home. Donovan is the uncle of Karen Matthews's former partner Craig Meehan.The jury heard how the pair conspired to claim a £50,000 reward offered by a national newspaper. Detectives suspected they were influenced by the widespread media coverage of Madeleine McCann's disappearance in Portugal.After being freed, Shannon was found to have traces of the potent hypnotic drug temazepam and the travel-sickness medication melcozine in her system.Matthews and Donovan were alleged to have dosed her with the drugs to keep her subdued and drowsy. She may also have been given them for up to 20 months before her abduction.Donovan forced Shannon to observe strict rules. Officers discovered an elasticated strap believed to have been used to tether Shannon when Donovan went out.Matthews gave five versions of what had happened to Shannon, ranging from being a distraught mother whose daughter had gone missing, to blaming the crime on Meehan and other members of his family.Donovan, who has convictions for arson, shoplifting and criminal damage, claimed he was terrified of Matthews and said she threatened to have him killed if he did not comply with her plan.After the trial, Kirklees social services announced an independent serious case review into the dealings agencies had had with Matthews's family.