An elderly gentleman, a constituent of mine in Croydon, once told me that the country no longer had clear values to guide it. He contrasted this with the postwar era, which saw the emergence of the modern welfare state. "You paid your contributions when you had a job, you could receive benefits when in need." Today he felt there was no such clarity.My constituent's wisdom chimes with the theme of citizenship in political philosophy. A leading contribution to postwar debate was Professor TH Marshall's 1949 lecture on citizenship. He stated:Citizenship is a status bestowed on those who are full members of a community. All who possess the status are equal with respect to the rights and duties with which the status is endowed.Marshall formulated his ideas in the postwar years when the first ever majority Labour government was expanding the practical realities of citizenship through its construction of the modern welfare state. He distinguished three elements of citizenship: civil, political and social.Today, citizenship remains a crucial and provocative concept for a range of modern questions. Exactly 60 years on from Marshall's lecture, we see a nation very different from that of the early postwar period. There is more individualism, more diversity, coupled with a decline in those institutions that created solidarity, such as coalmines and factories, or church and mass political parties. So there is less shared interest and less shared history. And globalisation weakens ties between company and community. These factors challenge the reality of citizenship and therefore make it more important to foster.This raises a central issue for a democracy: what are the fundamental rights and responsibilities of citizens? British politics has been weakened by the left's almost exclusive focus on rights, at least in recent decades, and by the right's equally narrow emphasis on duty.A focus on both provides a useful entrée into, and a moral foundation stone for, some of the key policy questions that Britain faces today. These include employment, child maintenance, healthcare and family.We need to recognise that citizens may also be the leaders of powerful organisations in both the public and private sectors. Talk of responsibility is sometimes used as a stick to threaten the poor, but responsibility also focuses attention on some of the most powerful in the land.The responsible nation recognises that we grow stronger if we respect mutual rights and responsibilities and if there is a strong egalitarian ethic that cherishes, but also holds to account, every citizen.Britain at its best manifests many of these characteristics. The National Health Service is based on this ethic and understanding. The service provided by hundreds of thousands of citizens in their role as councillors, school governors and volunteers is a testament to this ethic in practice. There is a huge silent majority of families, where parents quietly bring up their children so well. Millions of the so-called informal carers, provide service to those with disabilities and serious frailty. With so many more citizens living into their 80s and 90s, there is certainly more care provided by the modern family than ever before in history. So much for the charge that we are a "broken Britain".But there is so much more we need to do to promote a sense of responsibility. Here we consider two very different examples: the first concerns children's upbringing. The second concerns the irresponsibility of powerful financial organisations that almost brought this country to its knees.There is always the danger of looking for a golden age that never existed when it comes to families. There are, however, serious questions about the welfare of some children and the impact of dysfunctional families on communities. A family revolution in Britain has created a diversity of family forms, and it is not a bloodless revolution. There are too many children being brought up in families that are uncaring and chaotic, where there is no father figure. There are also many more children who are the victims of family breakdown. Some of these children will face harmful impacts on their socialisation, their educational attainment and consequently their future life chances.Labour has done much, from Sure Start initiative to better financial support. However, there is a need for some fresh thinking. First, we must emphasise that the frontline of defence against insecure childhoods must be the promotion of the strong family. Second, we must ensure that public expenditure is used to most effect, pooling portions of departmental budgets in pursuit of agreed priorities, such as promoting parental responsibility and cutting crime.The grimmer consequences of our difficulty in facing these questions is seen in too many communities. With so many children, some very young, out late, in bad company and often carrying knives, who have no sense of responsibility to the wider community, there is prevalent in too many of our communities a social disease that we must recognise.The consequence is often a sense of unease and fear. But there is also anger. One honest constituent said "we need to reclaim the streets". He is right. While some liberal commentators decry the growth of a surveillance society, many of our constituents demand more protection, more CCTV cameras. I have heard the experience of the victims of assault – enough to be exasperated by the narrow and perverse propaganda about "liberty" that affects public debate. We need a more holistic approach to liberty and freedom, one that recognises that extreme antisocial behaviour can make communities far from free for the majority.Let us consider a very different example of the need to build responsibility into our nation. It has been precipitated by the current banking crisis and presents a more general challenge to the party.Rather than subject the market to the same objective scrutiny that we brought to bear on other institutions, we were at best uncritical, at worst rather awe-struck, sometimes craven.Now the question is how to refashion financial services when we still see a sector reluctant to admit responsibility or offer an apology, stubborn in its opposition to change. A key test for the government in the months before the election, therefore, is to face down this narrow self-interest and to structure a banking system that meets the needs of the whole British economy.Some clear guidelines have emerged. The first is to draw a distinction between banks that serve practical and easily understood purposes, for companies and citizens, and those that seek to play in global financial casinos. The former must be regulated scrupulously and be subject to state guarantees. The latter must be the sole responsibility of their shareholders and never again the world's taxpayers.Second, we require diverse forms of ownership and, in achieving this, Britain must draw on a rich tradition of mutuality and co-operation. In the 1980s and 1990s, the building societies, established largely in the 19th century to enable ordinary citizens to access decent housing, became victims of privatisation mania and pursued profitability and lavish bonuses. The fortunes of former building societies such as Abbey, now owned by Santander, and Northern Rock were intimately linked to the more general bankers' folly which the public is now having to sort out. A proud heritage, prudent finance and integrity: all trashed in just a few months.So one of the new dividing lines in British politics should be between those who wish to see a financial system that largely resembles the one before the crash and a progressive alternative based on sensible and responsible banking structures and a strong role for mutuals. One powerful move would be the remutualisation of Northern Rock – a clear message that lessons have been learned and that Labour fully backs the renaissance of co-operation and mutuality.In an era in which ties of obligations – and therefore a sense of citizenship – have been undermined, we cannot take for granted a common ethic that underpins and enriches society and economy. Social trends threaten children and global economic developments threaten corporate responsibility. The task for Labour, always a party with a strong morality, is to re-establish values that still command public respect through a citizenship that recognises both rights and responsibilities.• The full version of Malcolm Wicks's essay on citizenship, as well as all the other essays in the Labour's Future pamphlet, which was launched by senior party figures today, can be read here.