Detectives began interviewing stab victim Abigail Witchalls yesterday as she lay paralysed in her hospital bed in the hope that she could give vital information to help catch her attacker.This will take time as Mrs Witchalls, 26, who was stabbed in front of her toddler son, cannot speak but can communicate by mouthing "yes" and "no", blinking and using facial expressions. The part-time teacher, pregnant with her second child, had a knife plunged into the back of her neck as she pushed 21-month-old Joseph in his buggy in a secluded lane in the village of Little Bookham, Surrey, last Wednesday afternoon. Police think she was the victim of a botched robbery or a random attack. It has not been made public whether she has lost her unborn baby. The knife struck Mrs Witchall's spinal cord and she was given a 50% chance of survival when first admitted to St George's hospital in Tooting, south London. Doctors do not know how much movement she will recover but she has improved enough for police to be able to talk to her. A Surrey police spokeswoman said two female detectives were at Mrs Witchall's bedside and their interviews, which could take several days because of the state of her health, were being recorded with audio and video equipment. Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, the officer in charge of the investigation to find her assailant, said: "Members of my team are now in the process of taking a statement from Abigail about what happened. Apart from her son, Joseph, Abigail is the only person who saw her attacker and the information she may be able to give us will be crucial." Det Sup Harper said the police incident room had been inundated with more than 300 calls, many of which are being followed up. More than 100 officers are working on the case. They hope house-to-house inquiries and forensic material recovered at the scene will yield important clues. There has been a heavy police presence since the attack, with officers in stab vests patrolling the village, and police vehicles circling the area. A 28-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman came to Leatherhead police station on Friday after an appeal for a car seen near the scene of the attack. The car is being examined by forensic experts. The man was questioned and released on police bail pending further inquiries, while the woman has been eliminated from the inquiry and freed without charge. Mrs Witchall's 26-year-old husband, Benoit, an engineer, is at her bedside.