"I am Hilary Foster, Hannah's mother. We were a normal, happy family; my husband, Trevor, and our two daughters Hannah, aged 17, and Sarah, 14. Our lives revolved around our two girls, their wellbeing, personal interests and hopes for the future."On March 14 2003, our lives changed for ever. When Trevor and I saw Hannah in the mortuary, I couldn't believe what I was seeing. There must be some mistake. The cold, bruised and battered body certainly looked like Hannah but where was the sparkle in her eyes, the radiant smile, the warmth and tenderness of her touch?"Hannah was vibrant, graceful, gentle and so alive. No, this can't have happened."But there was no mistake; this lifeless form was Hannah, our first-born daughter: dead aged 17. Her life tragically cut short by the willful actions of a cruel stranger who took it upon himself to abduct, rape and then murder my beloved Hannah, an innocent girl who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time."I felt numb, paralysed by grief and pain. Why Hannah? She had so much to live for, so much unfulfilled promise, so many talents, so much humanity and compassion to share."When a mother gives birth she has an immediate, instinctive need to nurture and protect her child. I would give anything to change places with Hannah, to take away the terror and pain she suffered that night."For the rest of my life I will feel the guilt that I wasn't there when she needed me most. She died terrified and alone with an evil stranger. I feel as though Kohli has ripped out my heart and stamped on it. Hannah was a gentle, peaceloving girl who was never able to cope with raised voices and certainly not any threat of violence. She would have been frozen with fear, unable to run or fight."Trevor and I have both been unable to return to work. After Hannah's murder we were both inevitably consumed with the need to bring her killer to justice. For the past five and a half years we have been immersed in a long, frustrating and exhausting mission firstly to find Kohli, who fled to India immediately after the murder, and then to ensure he was safely extradited back to the UK. We made three trips to India in this time, which left us emotionally and physically drained."For five long years this cowardly murderer has dominated our thoughts and our lives. He has done everything possible to delay our grieving process. He fled from the UK, went into hiding in India and used every ploy to delay the extradition process, refusing to acknowledge guilt for his crimes."This evil man walked uninvited into our lives and destroyed Hannah in pursuit of his own depraved sexual gratification. He has wrecked our family. So many other innocent people, including his own family, have had their lives shattered by his relentless lies and deceit."Hannah was an easy child to love, eager to please, extraordinarily kind and always polite and respectful. We cherish every moment we spent with her; we have so many happy memories."I can see her now, running along the beach with Sarah, stopping to practise her ballet exercises, so slight and graceful, hardly leaving a footprint in the sand."I miss her quiet ways, snuggled up with a book in the garden, or cuddling up with her father on the settee to sneak some warmth. "Hannah, your short life enriched the lives of so many people. You'll never be forgotten. Loved for ever. My darling little girl, may you now rest in peace."