Dame Helen Reeves was stalked for a couple of years and twice assaulted when she worked for the Inner London Probation Service. "Tiny things like the silent phone calls or walking into a supermarket on a Saturday and seeing him there were terrifying collectively," she recalls, "but I just thought of it as a consequence of the job."It wasn't until she joined a fledgling charity dedicated to helping the victims of crime did she realise that she had been one herself. That was 26 years ago. Since then she has worked tirelessly for Victim Support to push crime victims' needs, and those of their family and friends, up the political agenda, and to provide them with the support they require.In the three decades Reeves has been at the helm, there has undoubtedly been a change in attitudes towards victims, not least in the rights and services to which they are entitled. Yet, today, as she steps down as the charity's chief executive, it faces one of its biggest challenges.A government green paper, launched earlier this month, on supporting victims of crime, proposes that the vast majority should lose their right to cash compensation payments. This is so that the £200m a year criminal injuries compensation scheme can be targeted at the most seriously injured victims of violent crime. As a result, some 89% of the 40,000 successful claimants who currently receive awards of less than £5,500 would no longer be eligible.Victim Support opposes the move. "Our general philosophy is that the state does not stand in the place of the offender, it does not have a civil liability," says Reeves. "But because violent crime erodes confidence in society it's very important to make a gesture on behalf of the community that it should not have happened. Even a small payment of state compensation recognises the distress and suffering caused by a violent crime."A government survey shows that respondents spend their compensation on things as diverse as holidays to home improvements to paying off debts. The green paper suggests that practical support, such as help to improve home security and personal safety, dealing with insurance claims, and access to counselling would be more beneficial than cash.Reeves disagrees. "The government might pay for something very specific to the crime, such as self-defence classes, or buy health services, such as plastic surgery not available on the NHS. But we don't see anything wrong with people spending money on a holiday or something for the house if it cheers them up and makes them think at least something good came out of this."She also warns against the government responding to criticism after the July 7 London bombings by proposing to raise compensation above £500,000 for the most serious cases. "The danger is that you'll never satisfy people, because the more you provide the more they'll expect. Public compensation is never going to pay what the courts can pay."Manifesto commitmentReeves is more enthusiastic about the green paper's emphasis on services, in particular the introduction of victim care units (VCUs), which were a Labour party manifesto commitment. Under the preferred VCU model, all victims of reported crime would be referred to the units - open 24 hours a day, seven days a week - and contacted by a Victim Support worker or volunteer by telephone.That would mark a big improvement on current practice, she explains, which ensures that everyone referred to Victim Support - some 1.3 million people a year - receives at least a letter and an information leaflet relevant to the crime they have experienced. Yet only 20% of referrals - victims of serious crime who are vulnerable in some way - automatically receive a service over the telephone or the offer of a meeting. Others are invited to contact their local Victim Support - there are 90 across England, Wales and Northern Ireland - if they want to talk to someone. "Some do," Reeves explains, "but many say in surveys that they would have liked more help but didn't like to ask."The charity has been struggling for some time to respond satisfactorily on its £30m a year Home Office budget. An increasing proportion of reported crimes are referred to Victim Support, including a 10% increase in rape referrals. On its 30th anniversary, two years ago, it warned that without more funding, help was likely to be "seriously reduced from levels which are already inadequate".With legislation expected in April that will make it a statutory requirement for police forces to refer all victims of crime to the charity, it expects to see a threefold increase in clients.Fundraising, which brings in an additional £12m a year, will not plug the gap; partly because the public wrongly assumes that Victim Support is a statutory service. "People think Victim Support is related to the police and the courts," says Reeves. "Why would you give money to a witness service? You feel government should be paying."Supporting witnesses, many of who are also victims, is one branch of the charity's work that Reeves nurtured from a pilot project in 1989 to a nationwide court service five years later that now supports almost 400,000 people. It is the most comprehensive service for witnesses in the world, Reeves says proudly, and attracts visitors from every continent to the charity's London headquarters. Victim Support's sun and cloud logo is used as far away as Australia.Reeves, who is down to earth with an inquiring mind, says it is the job's variety that has kept her at the charity for a lot longer than the three years she intended to stay. "I've surprised myself because I'm somebody who really enjoys change. I don't like doing the same thing twice."My first year [as the first paid national member of staff] was spent working from home with a part-time secretary who lived 40 miles away. After six years, government funding came in, which made a huge difference, then we started taking on more serious crimes. I started getting involved in government working parties and then we pioneered the witness support service," she recalls.Battles wonThe charity now has a workforce of 1,500 and 11,000 volunteers. With many of the battles won - including legislation requiring probation services to give notice to victims or their family when an offender is released from prison, and the forthcoming victims' code of practice for all statutory organisations - Reeves could retire happy. Yet she is anxious throughout the interview not to say anything that could jeopardise the future of the charity she is so closely associated with.On the government's proposal to devolve Victim Support funding to local criminal justice boards - which was finally dropped earlier this year after pilot projects proved unsuccessful - she is diplomatic: "The alternative announcement of victim care units is a lot better."After stepping down, Reeves plans to use her considerable clout and experience to promote victims' rights at international level, chairing a Council of Europe committee of experts on the care of victims and witnesses, and speaking at global conferences as vice-president of the World Society of Victimology.On the future of Victim Support in the UK, she says she can see a cloud on the horizon. It is the same one that looms over much of the voluntary sector. "The biggest challenge is the extent to which it can remain independent and charitable."Curriculum VitaeAge 60.Status Single, no children.Lives: Blackheath, south-east London.Education Dartford grammar school for girls; 1963-66: University of Nottingham, social administration degree.Career history 1980-2006: chief executive, Victim Support; 1975-79: senior probation officer, Inner London Probation Service; 1967-75: probation officer, Inner London Probation Service; 1966-67: medical social worker, Nottingham city hospital.Public life 2005-present: chair, Council of Europe Committee of experts on care of victims and witnesses; 1994-present: vice-president, World Society of Victimology; 2003-05: member, National Criminal Justice Council.Interests Audio books, travel, visual arts.