Let’s just imagine a national newspaper ran a front-page campaign demanding that young people were given a few hours’ warning before police carried out searches for knives, giving them time to hide the weapons. The outrage would be universal.And yet today one newspaper, the Sun, has devoted its front page to the fate of another category of people whose offences are provably dangerous, asking why the police try to “snare” them through “hidden means”. But this is a special category of criminals: speeding drivers.The Sun (@TheSun)Today's front page: The Sun calls for guidelines on speed cameras to be reinstated http://t.co/BNblohu6pP pic.twitter.com/9QW6A9GhsJOctober 1, 2015The parallel is not exact, of course. Deaths from speeding are generally seen as the result of negligence rather than intent. In contrast, unless you’re a sous chef heading to work, carrying knives on the street tends to have a more directly malign intent.But to continue this imperfect parallel, the effect of speeding is more severe. Government data lists breaking the speed limit as a factor in almost 220 road deaths a year, rising to 350 if you include travelling too fast for the conditions. The new Sun campaign is fascinating in how it illustrates the more generally skewed debate about motoring offences in the UK, and the way even deaths and serious injuries caused by over-fast driving are normalised, seen as somehow just one of those things.The Sun wants police to be obliged to give drivers proper warning that they could be caught speeding, with cameras signposted, clearly visible and painted luminous yellow, while traffic police using speed guns should wear hi-vis jackets, allowing drivers time to slow down and avoid the fine or licence points. More than this, the paper says, speed enforcement should only take place where there’s a “significant accident rate”.There is, of course, an argument that visible speed cameras are a better deterrent than stealth. But with its talk of the “Gatso Gestapo”, the Sun is going way beyond this, not least the idea that no speed camera should be installed before a set number of people have been killed or maimed. Such views are undoubtedly popular with many Britons, who see speeding as a victimless crime. “I’m a good driver,” they say. “I drive to the conditions of the road. I’m not endangering anyone.”The problem is they’re completely wrong, and there are reams of research showing this. Rune Elvik, an academic at Norway’s Institute of Transport Economics, has spent years crunching data on speed and traffic crashes from numerous countries into a system which allows governments to accurately predict how many more people will die or be injured when speeds rise by a certain figure. This isn’t speculation: it’s based on what actually happens.When the UK government pondered the idea of raising motorway speed limits to 80mph, Elvik was able to calculate that even if this brought just a 3mph rise in average speeds – allowing for the fact that many drivers go faster than 70mph anyway – this would bring about 25 extra deaths and more than 100 serious injuries a year.Elvik is grimly amused by drivers who say they are sufficiently skilled to speed safely: “They are not able to override or repeal the laws of physics.”The effects of this attitude are felt almost everywhere. Round the corner from me is a street with a 20mph limit. Almost every time I drive on it at this limit a car will tailgate me, flashing their lights, often then undertaking in the bus lane. Doubtless they would say 20mph is too slow. The speed camera never lies | Victoria Coren Mitchell The road safety charity Brake has some charts that grimly expose the fallacy of this argument. If a pedestrian runs in front of a car that is three car lengths away then a driver travelling at 20mph can stop in time. If the car is travelling at 30mph they would hit the person with the equivalent force of the pedestrian falling from a third-storey building.This peril is all the greater on country roads, the sort where speed cameras can be so effective. A 2002 study found that a 10% increase in average speed on rural single-carriageway roads brought about a 30% increase in serious crashes.Speeding blights communities in other ways, too. Fast-moving vehicles put people off cycling, make crossing the road frightening, especially for vulnerable pedestrians like children and older people. Communities become dominated by these blurred tin boxes, not human beings.It’s worth stressing, too, that for all the Sun’s assumption that everyone will be outraged at speed cameras, car use is by no means ubiquitous. More than a quarter of households in England and Wales don’t even own a car or van, a figure that rises in many urban areas. In my own suburb, where 20mph is clearly seen as impossibly slow, almost 60% of people don’t own a vehicle.Meanwhile, total road deaths went up last year, bucking a long-term trend of decline, particularly among pedestrians. None of this is to say cars are not vital for many people. I’m not anti-car. But I am, completely and unapologetically, anti-speeding. Barring the fraction of a per cent of people who happen to have a transplant organ in their boot, speeding is never a matter of necessity. It’s choice.And it’s a selfish choice. When you speed, you put yourself in more danger, any loved ones in your car in more danger, and other people on the road in more danger. If you get caught it’s your own fault. Stop whining.