The security and intelligence agencies are at odds with the country's most senior police officer and top prosecutor over the use of telephone taps as evidence in court.The issue has come to a head in the wake of the decision by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, not to allow wiretaps to be admissible in trials. His decision broke an apparent growing consensus in favour of allowing intercept evidence in court. Such a move was supported by Mr Clarke's predecessor, David Blunkett. The issue has taken on added significance in the light of the plan to impose control orders on terrorist suspects, including house arrest, instead of bringing them to trial. Last week, Ken Macdonald, the director of public prosecutions, told the New Statesman magazine there was no reason why phone tap evidence should not be used in court. Sir Ian Blair, the new Metropolitan police commissioner, has said he had long been in favour of using it. "It would make my job much easier," he told the Daily Telegraph. In an unusual alliance, the Conservative leadership and the civil rights group Liberty are also in favour. However, the move is opposed by security and intelligence agencies, according to senior anti-terrorist officials. They argue that the benefits would be outweighed by the disadvantages. Terrorist suspects, they say, are wary of the telephone and therefore taps would not provide much, if any, useful evidence. The product of surveillance cameras and bugs placed in a property, and of surveillance cameras, is already admissible as evidence in court. There is also a serious technical problem, they say. Conversations using digital systems, including all modern mobile networks, are scrambled. The defence in a trial could argue that such evidence could never reach normal standards of proof. It would be difficult for the prosecution to prove that intercepted information had not been tampered with. Opposition within the security and intelligence agencies - and also within Customs - to the use of phone taps in court appears to be dictated mainly by the issue of resources rather than national security, as Mr Clarke has suggested. But not all intelligence professionals agree. David Bickford, former chief legal adviser to MI5 and MI6, says the inability of the security and intelligence agencies to use such evidence has prevented trials which, had they gone ahead, would have saved lives. The former head of MI5, Dame Stella Rimington, told the Guardian the refusal to use such evidence was "ridiculous".