Tackling youth crime was one of the few areas in which Labour had developed detailed policy before it came to power in 1997. Most of the work was done by Tony Blair and Jack Straw. The result has been the introduction of a youth justice system with a battery of extra powers for the courts, the development of new programmes to cut crime and the establishment of youth offending teams to implement them. Although overall recorded crime levels have fallen by 22% since the 1997 general election, all parties are able to make capital out of the issue because no authoritative statistics exist to show whether youth crime is going up or has also come down. Home Office statistics suggest that there has been a sharp fall in youth crime since 1990. The official figures show that the number of boys aged 10-14 found guilty or cautioned has tumbled from 4,000 per 100,000 population to 2,600, but thisreflects a much greater use by the police of informal cautions for young offenders. Since Labour came to power the courts have been given an entirely new menu of powers to deal with young offenders. Have they worked? Halving the time it takes to get a persistent young offender into courtWorked but took longer than expected. This 1997 election pledge promised to cut the average time it takes to get a hardcore young offender into court from 142 days to 71 or less. The target was achieved in January 2002 since when the national average has drifted up to 74 days. Local child curfewsA flop. Introduced in September 1998 to deal with the problem of unsupervised children under the age of 10 out on the streets at night. No local authority has seen fit to apply for one. Child safety orders Poor takeup. Introduced in 1998, only 12 used during 18-month pilot scheme. Places a named child under 10 involved in anti-social behaviour under supervision of social worker. Anti-social behaviour orders  Beginning to take off after initial flop. Allows local councils to go to court to get yobs banned from town. In first 18 months to December 2001, 518 orders were issued, 58% of them for juveniles as against original estimate of 5,000 a year. Application procedure to be streamlined. Final warning scheme Worked. Replaced repeated use of cautioning by the police in 2000. More than 100,000 now issued each year, 65% of them with compulsory intervention programmes attached, including mentoring schemes and acceptable behaviour contracts. Intensive supervision and surveillance programmes Proving successful. In place in 41 urban areas, they provide surveillance, either by electronic tagging or personal supervision, coupled with a intensive education classes to improve behaviour and to deal with drug or alcohol problems for up to five hours a day. A robust alternative to locking teenagers up. Parenting orders Proving successful. Youth justice board funding 42 parenting programmes over the next three years. Designed to develop the skills of parents to deal with difficult and challenging behaviour from their children. Some 1,338 parents went on parenting programmes in 2000 and numbers have risen since. One in five volunteer.Referral orders Introduced nationwide from this month. Every young person appearing in court for the first time who pleads guilty will be referred to a panel of trained volunteers from the local community who will decide what reparation the offender should make to the community and his victim. Based on Maori-style justice, pilot schemes involving 1,107 cases were judged a success by magistrates. Detention and training orders Jury out. Locks up 12- to 17-year-old persistent offenders for up to 12 months with up to further 12 months on anti-crime programmes in the community. 5,072 orders made in six months to December 2000. Some 40% were sentenced to two months or less in custody, making it impossible to do anything about their criminal ways. Youth inclusion programmes and splash schemes Working. Targeted at the core 50 young people most likely to offend in each area and other children at risk during school holidays. On-spot cash point fines Never got off drawing board. Floated by Tony Blair at party conference to cope with growth of "yob culture". Replaced with fixed penalty fines to be paid within 30 days. Action plan ordersWorking. Some 14,152 made during first year. Provides a three month, intensive programme to nip juvenile offending in the bud. Can include attending school, staying off drugs and taking part in specified activities. Withdrawing child benefit from parents of tearaway teenagers Still on the drawing board. Will it take off?