Leading drug charities have welcomed proposals from Britain's senior police officers to provide addicts with treatment rather than convicting them.In a report released today, the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) said it looked forward to the time when those who appear in court for misuse of class A drugs such as heroin have immediate access to treatment. Turning Point said the report recognised that the war on drugs had failed to tackle drug misuse and drug-related crime.The charity's chief executive, Lord Victor Adebowale, backed Acpo for moving the drug debate on from "moral panic and ignorance".He said: "Criminal justice responses to drug misuse are not working. The war on drugs has resulted in an increase in drug misuse and drug-related crime and succeeded in criminalising one of society's most vulnerable groups."Turning Point agrees that providing serious drug users with treatment programmes is a far more effective way of getting them off drugs and enabling them to lead more stable lives. This is good for individuals and society as a whole."Lord Adebowale said many of the destructive effects of drugs came not from the substances themselves but the illicit circumstances in which they were used. "Removing these circumstances by allowing heroin or cocaine to be prescribed by specially trained GPs would allow drug misusers to deal with their dependency within a supportive environment and away from a criminal subculture," he said.Action on Addiction said one in three adults in the UK suffer from some form of addiction. Lesley King-Lewis, chief executive of the charity, said: "Our researchers have shown that for every £1 spent on drug treatment, we save £3 in terms of crime. "Currently 75% of the UK drug budget is spent on law enforcement. We recommend that more money should be allocated to researching the causes of addiction and providing treatment for addicts." Peter Martin, chief executive of drug and alcohol treatment charity Addaction, said treatment was "the ultimate solution to stopping drug misuse". "Treatment itself can be tough and is not a soft option. Where there are drug treatment programmes within prisons, we have had some very good results. But so many addicts have been sent to prison for possession where there has been no treatment available," he said. But Mr Martin warned that any increase in heroin prescribing must be allied to efforts to encourage users to stop, otherwise it risked encouraging those who smoke the drug to switch to injecting.Chief constables remain opposed to the decriminalisation of drugs and as well as downgrading ecstasy from class A to B. But Kevin Flemen, acting director of charity Release, said that unless ecstacy and LSD were reclassified imposing treatment on drug users would prove problematic.He said: "Treatment will not be very helpful for people who use those drugs because they take them recreationally rather than habitually."