When John Myatt was a young man, he dreamed of fame as a painter. Today, in his fifties, he has indeed found a kind of fame, though not perhaps in the way he intended. Last February, he was sentenced to a year in prison for his role in what has been described as 'the twentieth-century's century's biggest contemporary art fraud'. For the better part of a decade, Myatt sat in his rambling, cluttered home in the hamlet of Sugnall near Stafford, faking dozens of works by the likes of Ben Nicholson and Graham Sutherland. They weren't forgeries - exact replicas of real works by the artists - but pieces in their style which could have been mistaken as having been produced by their hand. Down in London, an expert con man, John Drewe, used a mixture of large cash donations and his undoubted charisma to gain access to the archives of the Tate Gallery. There, he placed faked documents authenticating Myatt's work. Then, having created the means by which to convince experts that the fakes were genuine, he sold them for tens of thousands of pounds.Drewe is still in Pentonville Prison, in the middle of a six-year sentence. Myatt served six months of his year in Brixton Prison and was released two weeks ago. He has now returned to Sugnall. Myatt is an attractively greying man in the comfortable depths of middle age. He shows me the prison phone cards he earned in Brixton by drawing portraits of his fellow inmates - two 20-unit cards per picture. 'The main currency inside,' he says. 'That and tobacco.' His life, he agrees, has not worked out in the way he thought it might. Though he dreamed of making his life as a painter, he was realistic enough to know that he would also need to teach. There were stints at schools, night classes and then a lectureship at a college in Blackpool, where he taught architectural illustration. In his own work, he had always been fascinated by architecture. 'I was a figurative, representation painter. Buildings, people in front. That sort of thing.' He shows me a couple of large canvases he painted in the Seventies, of an old post office where he had a studio, painted in satisfyingly flat, mellow tones. He shows me where the paint is beginning to crack. On arrival at art school, another pupil had showed him how to use domestic emulsion paints as cheap replacements for oils and he had continued to use them, but now they are showing their age. Later, when he got into the fake business, he would continue to use them. It was one reason why he assumed no one would ever mistake them for the real thing. Later in the Seventies, when the teaching work began to dry up due to education cuts, he used his long-held love and knowledge of music to become a professional musician, securing a contract as a songwriter. He even co-wrote a hit, the pseudo-reggae 'Silly Games', which Janet Kay took to No 2 in 1979. It was through the music business that he first began experimenting with fakes. A music executive he worked for announced he was considering buying a painting by Raul Dufy. 'They're jolly, happy, loose figurative works. I told him I could knock up a couple for him so he could see what they were like. He hung them on the wall of his Holland Park home. I signed them Myatt on the back and Dufy on the front.' The buyer was delighted. He framed them expensively and reported back that guests would stand in front of them, commenting on the detail and how they could see the influence of Matisse on Dufy. 'I remember thinking how interesting it was that someone could simply mistake it in that way.' It was not until six years later that he returned to painting fakes. By then, he was back in Sugnall, he had been married, become a father twice over and his wife had left him. He had two children to care for and needed a way to pay the rent that didn't require him to leave the house. 'What I should have done was go on welfare but it was not something I had any experience of.' Instead, he placed an advert in Private Eye: 'Genuine fakes. Nineteenth- and twentieth-century paintings from £150.'The commissions soon rolled in. 'Quite a few people wanted impressionist paintings. The only thing I avoided was pre-Raphaelite work, because it was too detailed and took too long.' It never occurred to him that anybody would mistake them for the real thing. There was always a receipt signed by Myatt and they were executed in emulsion: 'I always favoured Leyland trade paints.' Drewe telephoned after the second or third Private Eye advert had appeared. He wanted a painting in the style of Matisse. Any subject. It just had to be a certain size. Myatt finished it and took it down to London where he met Drewe at Euston station. Today, Myatt is loath to criticise Drewe. He's doing his time, he says, and he was always good to him. 'He's a very nice bloke,' Myatt says. 'Very entertaining. I enjoyed his company immensely.'Very soon, Drewe had commissioned another painting, and another and another. 'He was my best customer. Others sometimes came back for one more but I must have painted a dozen for Drewe before the criminal element began. In the end, the choice of artist became mine.' Then everything changed. Around 1987, Myatt painted a version of a cubist drawing of an army doctor by Albert Gleizes. Drewe telephoned and said that he had taken it to an auctioneer, who had said it was either by Gleizes or one of his school and had valued it at £12,500. 'That was the point where Drewe ventured the suggestion that there was money to be made.' Myatt was a single parent living in penury. 'Your perceptions change. I thought it was quite a good idea. He told me I just had to keep painting. The rest is history. I was living here. I was painting. I was never party to any of the financial transactions. But from time to time, I would receive large cheques. Every month was not a financial crisis anymore.' In the end, Myatt created more than 180 fakes. At the time of the trial, it was estimated that Drewe had made in excess of £2.5 million. 'Mr Drewe was, as is now known, making histories for these paintings. He found it easier on the technical level to deal with British rather than Continental artists. He wanted people from the late Forties and early Fifties and they had to be dead.' I suggest to Myatt that, in the age of conceptual art, the whole process could have been seen as an artistic statement in itself. 'I often thought that. I thought that what we could have been perceived to be doing was creating a comment on art and its own perceived value. It would have been a fitting ending if we'd just come clean and said this is what we've been doing.' It didn't work like that. Instead, Myatt became increasingly uncomfortable with the process. 'It suddenly occurred to me that this was a crime, the kind of thing you could go to prison for.' On one occasion, Myatt went to the Tate Gallery with Drewe, where a curator held up a painting after the French artist Bissière which Drewe had donated. It was one of Myatt's fakes. The curator said they were planning to hang it. 'I couldn't stomach that. I told Drewe to get it back, said it needed more work. I burnt it on a bonfire. It was painted in emulsion. I was sure they'd find out.'Eventually, he stopped painting for Drewe altogether and, as he says he should have done at first, he went on income support. Still he waited for the knock at the door. It came one morning 12 months later in September 1995. A dozen policeman turned up. Myatt confessed immediately. Prison, he says, was an interesting experience; he met some good people there. He is now painting fakes once more but these are clearly marked as such on the back. 'It's the only thing I've got to give people as a token of my appreciation for all they've done for me.' Now, he says, he's just thinking on his feet, trying to work out what he wants to do next. He fancies the idea of an exhibition about the case, a mixture of his fakes and his prison drawings. The irony is that, if he wants to, he could probably make rather a lot of money out of his fakery skills now. The public can't help but be fond of art fakers. It is as if we enjoy the idea of somebody who can puncture the self-importance of the art world. And there is no doubt that John Myatt's genuine fakes did exactly that.