Honesty Close in Clayhanger, near Walsall, is a quiet cul-de-sac. There are 11 red-brick estate houses with small concrete drives, white garages, double glazed windows and well kept gardens. The neighbours know each other well enough to have a chat as they pass in the street and try to keep an eye on each other's properties.The street is made up of young families and a few retired couples. In the daytime there is hardly anyone to be seen, although you can hear women chatting in a back garden. At 5.30pm workers head back in their cars and most families sit down to eat a meal together. This is what the residents of this quiet, middle-class West Midlands suburb, think about crime - and how it is being tackled. 1 Honesty Close John Aston, 52, fork-lift fitter: I have never seen a police officer walk down the street. If you walk in [nearby] Brownhills all you see is crime caused by gangs, and it needs to be dealt with. In the year I have lived here I have not been a victim of crime but it is the biggest issue facing us today. The government is all talk when they say they will get tough on it - they won't actually do anything. This road is a little bit of England and they have made me really welcome, but three streets down and they are fighting on a Saturday night. We used to get in trouble when we were young but today there is no punishment. Even if we had adequate police officers, the kids would have no respect for them. Gangs of kids start with gentle abuse but often grow up to be violent.  2 Woman who wished to remain anonymous: Crime needs to be dealt with. I have never had any experience of it, but we know it is all around us. I don't expect Tony Blair to cut down on it because I don't think he is a good Prime Minister. 3 Andy and Melanie Viney, young married couple with two sons. Andy: We need more police on the beat. I think the government is full of empty promises, and its promise to improve policing and clamp down on anti-social kids is just another one. We don't have any major problems with crime around here. Tony Blair just tackles the biggest issue that people are moaning about at any one time. At the moment it is lack of police, crime and anti-social behaviour. Melanie: The problem is that the kids have nothing to do. There is a park but they want to put a supermarket on that. If they want to cut crime they need to divert kids to other activities. They also need to clamp down on petty crime by teenagers because they could end up committing worse offences. But government policy is just for a short, sharp, shock. It is not a long-term plan that will lead to real changes.  5 Diane Steadman, 56: I have never been burgled here. I can't judge the change in crime across Britain properly, but from the television it looks like more muggings and more murders. I would love to see more police - we have a local bobby who walks about here, and that is good. But people do not respect the police today. I was young in the Sixties, and we were terrified of them. Maybe what they are doing about anti-social behaviour is a step in the right direction but a lot more needs to be done. Surely every vandal starts with petty crime and builds up - so nip it in the bud now.  7 Neil Bullock: We had a car stolen off our drive about seven years ago but nothing has happened since. I haven't taken much notice of whether there are problems locally. Kids do seem to do graffiti more.Crime and anti-social behaviour is one of the biggest problems in the UK, and it is good they are facing it and trying to improve policing. My perception is that there is not so much violent crime today.  8 Woman aged 46 who works for the government and wished to remain anonymous:  I have lived here for 10 years and have never experienced crime. I do think crime is the worst problem in the country, though: you can't help it with the reports on the television and in the newspapers. There is a yob culture today. I go out and about but I feel intimidated in Walsall. There are teenagers in crowds of 20 or more, and they drink heavily. I work there but I go out there much less at night. I do not know my local policeman but I know there has been an increase in their presence. It is a good thing, although I have to admit I do not know if they are policemen or community officers. Whether or not crime is on the increase, the fear of it is, and having police on the streets helps by providing reassurance.  10 Stephen Thomas, married with three daughters and one son: We have never experienced crime here, but there is low level crime in the area. Teenagers roam around not doing much but they can intimidate older people. They hang around shops and rail tracks and let off fireworks. Occasionally a community police officer comes round but it is usually a Sunday afternoon when there are no kids around. I would welcome them coming more often. Community police do have an impact because the kids move on when they see them. There's a lack of discipline and respect as well. Schools have lost the power to punish.  12 Maureen Brookes, 53: This is a quiet neighbourhood and we have not been victims of crime. There are odd incidents of kids hanging around but no muggings. But crime is a big problem in the country - burglaries, drugs, gangs and old people being victimised. The government is aiming at low-level crime, and that is a problem. We have had a lot of trouble with children down by the shops being abusive. Every now and then the police come round to check everything is ok but they should do it more often. Tony Blair is hopeless. If the police could get the kids when they are committing petty crime it may never lead to the more violent crime. But I don't trust Blair to do anything. I think he tells lies and gets away with it. I don't think he will do anything about it - it is just talk.