At first glance, it looks like a lads' mag. Across the cover, a silhouetted yobette brandishes a can of paint and shoves her palm at your face. "Playtime is over," announce the red capital letters. Below, a skier turns a somersault, and a man aims what looks like a futuristic gun.Welcome to issue one of The Sharp End, "voice of the frontline" in policing, commissioned by the Home Office for distribution at police stations across England.There is a macho, derring-do air about it. Antisocial behaviour, we learn, is "the new menace on the streets"; body armour helps win the "fight against the bad guys"; criminals caught by number plate recognition "can drive but they can't hide".A cartoon shows the Taser stun gun in action. You might pity the knife-wielding teenager, struck by a cross between a lightning bolt and the laser from a sci-fi stormtrooper's gun. Happily, he gets up to joke about it with officers in the next frame.Its aim appears to be to drive support for initiatives such as antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) and to encourage police officers to improve physical fitness, reinforcing a sense of camaraderie at the same time. But at £450,000 for the first three issues, is it value for money?"Our research suggests that the Sharp End will be a cost-effective way to reach frontline officers who normally miss out on more traditional methods of communication," the Home Office says.There are professional tips for officers. An article on Asbos stresses the importance of school visits. There is a piece on a police Top Trumps game aimed at helping children get to know local bobbies. Behind the armour, you suspect, there's a half-decent in-house mag waiting to get out.The anonymous blogging policeman known as Dave Campbell (coppersblog.blogspot.com) is resolutely unimpressed. He writes, with trademark scepticism, that the magazine is "government propaganda for the Loaded generation" and, worse, "designed for simpletons".The publishers say each issue is to be guest-edited by a different officer. Campbell says he will apply.