When Jamie, 31, a heroin addict and prolific offender, was transferred to the Verne prison in Dorset last year, the only word he could read was "chips". Twelve months on, he is a fluent reader who now spends several hours a week teaching illiterate prisoners. Due for release soon, he speaks excitedly about his plans to enrol in college in September.Ken, a first-time offender serving eight years, could neither read nor write when he arrived at the category C prison, built on the foundations of a 19th-century fortress overlooking Portland harbour. He now works on the prison magazine. In the edition he shows me, Ken has interviewed a visiting bishop and written an engaging short story. He says his mother was "thrilled to bits" at seeing his name in print. Like Jamie, he teaches literacy to other prisoners.In isolation, these would be two remarkable stories. Incredibly, they are replicated in dozens of jails across England and Wales. Jamie and Ken are part of Toe by Toe, a scheme run by the Shannon Trust, a charity devoted to literacy in prisons, which was set up in 1996 by Christopher Morgan. Around 38% of adult prisoners are described as having no useful literacy skills, while a further 29% have a reading age below that of an eight-year-old.The Toe by Toe manual, written by Keda and Harry Cowling, has been described as so highly structured that anyone who can read can teach anyone who can't. That theory was put to the test by its introduction into the prison system, starting at Wandsworth in 2000, and now in place in more than 90% of UK prisons. The programme had its share of critics, and Morgan is full of praise for an officer at Wandsworth, Neil Lodge, who volunteered to set up a trial in the vulnerable prisoners' unit. Within a year, over 80 prisoners had learned to read. Lodge, who has written a guide for jails starting up the scheme, says successful learners "now have the skills they need to survive in society. They can represent themselves in a way that was not possible before they achieved literacy."Wandsworth, one of the largest jails in Europe with 1,400 inmates, now has prisoners working full-time as teachers across the prison. The scheme has the backing of the Prison Officers Association, essential given that the inmate teachers have to be allowed freedom of movement to reach their pupils, easier said than done in high-security prisons.At the Verne, Katrina Thompson, a voluntary assistant to the prison's chaplain, set up Toe by Toe four years ago. Around 30 mentors and 60 learners are involved. Thompson and Robin Collis, a volunteer for the Shannon Trust, work as equals with the prisoners in the scheme. Collis says the programme has created a real community spirit.Governor Vic Pomeroy, head of learning and skills at the jail, believes the programme has resulted in staff developing a commitment to literacy. That sense of cooperation has led to staff and prisoners sharing a classroom where they are taught by lecturers from Plymouth University. One prisoner, Charles, a qualified teacher who teaches business studies to inmates, says this participation breaks down barriers between prisoners and staff. He has seen a 51-year-old prisoner break down in tears at being able to read a letter from his children for the first time.The Verne holds 600 inmates, most of them there for long periods. HMP Birmingham is an entirely different sort of place, serving courts across the whole of the West Midlands. Holding 1,450 inmates, Birmingham is more of a transit depot. In any given week, there are around 750 movements in and out. Yet the prison manages to run a highly effective education programme.The Toe by Toe scheme is run from the prison library, an impressive place used by 600-800 inmates a week, even though most cells have TV. When I visit, a group of mentors and learners are meeting there. Danny, a mentor, says they were offered £2.50 a week for every student they helped - the men declined, preferring to work on a voluntary basis.Danny has been coaching Stuart for three months. Stuart describes himself as being "barely able to read" when they started. Now, turning to page 47 of the manual, Stuart starts to read. He makes a couple of small errors, but Danny says nothing until the end, then goes over the mistakes. Thanks to the programme, Stuart has now enrolled on a carpentry class. He could not read the safety instructions before he teamed up with Danny.DyslexiaJames, imprisoned for dealing in cannabis, suffered from dyslexia and often played the clown to gain the acceptance of his peers. His wing officer referred him to Toe by Toe and, six months later, he was among the first Birmingham prisoners to complete the manual. His mentor, Ray McNally, says James's confidence has gone from strength to strength. "Witnessing James's progress has been a wonderful journey for us both," he says.Justin describes himself as an ambassador for Toe by Toe. He used to work and live in the first night centre at the prison. This unit was designed to identify the needs of the newly imprisoned and reduce the risk of self-harm during this vulnerable period. Justin would chat to new arrivals and identify those with serious learning difficulties. His successor, Evo, says admitting to illiteracy can be a traumatic step, but he is buoyed by the satisfaction he gains from helping others. "I was not a charitable person before I started this sentence, but now I want to carry on helping others. It's a great feeling, a great buzz."Chris Szeborowski, head of learning and skills at Birmingham, says Toe by Toe fills a need that conventional education often fails to provide. Many successful graduates have gained the confidence to go on to full-time education.At Birmingham, at least, that does not mean prisoners will suffer a financial penalty for choosing education over prison work. Most jails pay those in classes around £6-£8 a week; Szeborowski has managed to negotiate a basic £12 a week for her students, with a bonus for passing exams.VolunteersAt every jail where the scheme is in place, there is a representative of the Shannon Trust. Morgan says the trust needs more of these volunteers.He believes the scheme has provided many secondary benefits, outside of the original aim of improving literacy in prisons. "Toe by Toe offers both parties the chance to take control of their lives. We have seen self-harmers who stopped, cleaned themselves up and raised up their eyes," he says."The prisons are full of men and women who have something of value to teach. Why should this discovery be confined to help with reading? Why not encourage as many prisoners as possible to discover the good in themselves and the pleasure of passing it on to others?"The last words must go to Jamie, who originally had just the one word on his reading menu. Why "chips"? "I lived on the streets a lot," he says, "and I like chips, so I wanted to make sure that, when I asked for them, the place sold 'em." www.shannontrust.com