The widow of a church organist who died after being attacked on his way to a Christmas Eve midnight mass said she had not stopped crying over his "evil" murder.Alan Greaves, 68, a lay preacher and organist, was found badly beaten just yards from the couple's church of St Saviour's in High Green, Sheffield, where he had been due to worship. He died from his head injuries in hospital on Thursday night. Two men who had been arrested on suspicion of murder, one in his 20s and one in his 40s, were released on bail, South Yorkshire police said.At a service on Sunday, his widow Maureen Greaves, a church community worker, told the congregation: "I won't be able to contact you over the next few days, but I want to thank you for the support you have given me."I have prayed constantly for Alan and I know you have too. I have not stopped crying for him and I know you have not stopped either." She said she had "wept over the evil that has been done".There was standing room only as dozens turned out for the service to hear tributes to the grandfather and father of four, who was also a school governor and a key member of the church team running the community project and food bank.The bishop of Sheffield, the Right Rev Steven Croft, told the congregation: "There is a sense of shock and a sense of outrage, not just in this community but across the whole city of Sheffield."Alan was the victim of a brutal attack as he was on his way to church on Christmas Eve – as he was walking to this church to bear witness to his deep Christian faith."There will be immense grief for those who knew Alan well, which included many in this church and the community. There will be fear that such a thing could happen, apparently to anyone."There will be anger and all kinds of questions and real pain in our hearts today."Paying tribute to his widow, the bishop said: "Maureen has said very clearly and powerfully that she longs for justice, not for vengeance, again bearing witness to her own deep faith in the midst of the sharpest agony of her life."The vicar at St Saviour's, Canon Simon Bessant, described the killing as a random act of senseless violence.Greaves, who had been due to play the organ at the Christmas Eve service, was found on a pavement near his home with a head injury at about 11.15pm on Monday.Police have said the motive for the attack is unclear and are appealing for witnesses to come forward with any information.Speaking after the service, Croft said Greaves had been deeply loved by the community. He added his widow was in great shock but had been very courageous. He said: "It's been a very moving service. This is the first chance the church has had to come together after Alan's death."He was very deeply loved in this church and in this community. Maureen has been very impressive and courageous throughout this week. I spoke to her on Friday morning and she was courageous then but in deep shock."