An investigation into a series of suicides at Styal women's prison in Cheshire was ordered yesterday after the death of another inmate brought the number to six in a year.The unprecedented inquiry follows the death last week of Julie Walsh, who is believed to have overdosed after taking drugs stolen from the prison's healthcare unit: she was awaiting sentence for theft and motoring offences. Another inmate, 18-year-old Sarah Campbell, took an overdose of anti-depressants last January. She had a conviction for manslaughter. In June, Hayley Williams, 41, hanged herself. She had been found guilty of theft. Six weeks before, 24-year-old Jolene Willis was found hanging in her cell; her sentence was also for theft. Last November, Anna Baker hanged herself, as did Nissa Ann Smith in August last year. The investigation into Walsh's death is unique because it is the first time the prison service has allowed an independent investigation into a death in custody. The investigation will look at whether her death bore any similarities to other recent deaths at the jail, near Wilmslow. A Home Office minister, Paul Goggins, said: "Although I know that at Styal and elsewhere the prevention of self-inflicted deaths is an over whelming priority, I have concluded that it is time for someone independent of the prison service to take a fresh look at the difficulties Styal has faced. "This investigation will examine the detail of Julie Walsh's tragic death and will also establish whether we can do more at HMP Styal and across the prison estate to see that where a death can be prevented, everything is done to ensure that it is." The investigation will replace the normal internal prison service inquiry into the death, and is expected to be complete by mid-September. Campaigners say that its focus will be too narrow. Pauline Campbell, the mother of Sarah, who died three days before her 19th birthday, said yesterday: "This is a step in the right direction and is very encouraging. But it is only an investigation into the most recent death. I know it is going to touch on the others but I have been calling for an independent public inquiry into Sarah's death since January. And I still haven't got it." Inquest, the campaign group that supports the families of people who die in jail, says 17 women have taken their own lives in British prisons since August last year. In 2002, there were nine suicides, until then the highest ever number. Inquest's co-director, Deborah Coles, said: "This belated response to the serious disquiet about the series of deaths of women in HMP Styal is a missed opportunity. What is needed is a wide-ranging independent public inquiry that examines all of the recent deaths, any institutional and systemic failings and, most importantly, involves bereaved families and women prisoners themselves. "We are concerned that the proposed inquiry with its limited time frame and narrow remit cannot possibly establish what is going wrong and ensure that lessons are learned." The Prison Reform Trust claims there is an epidemic of mental illness among women in prison and the conditions they are held in drive them to suicide. It says 66% of women in prison show symptoms of at least one neurotic disorder, half are on prescribed medication such as anti-depressants or anti-psychotic medicine and 14% have schizophrenia or delusional disorders, compared with 1% in the general population. Out of all women jailed, 40% say they have attempted suicide at some time. Juliet Lyon, the trust's director, points out that most of the women's prison population has been convicted of minor offences. "There is a crisis in women's prisons. There are too many mentally ill women in prison," she says. "So much of their offending is a public health rather than a criminal justice concern. This could be solved not by investing in more women's prisons but by providing mental healthcare, drug treatment, court diversion and women's support and supervision centres."