The unsolved murder of a 78-year-old rose grower that inspired extraordinary conspiracy theories involving the secret services is to be studied by a team of detectives in a final attempt to clear up the mystery.West Mercia police announced yesterday it was launching a "cold case review" of the investigation into the death of Hilda Murrell, whose body was found in woodland on Haughmond Hill, six miles from her home in Shrewsbury, in March 1984. Slumped against a tree and partially clothed, Ms Murrell had been stabbed repeatedly, although a pathologist concluded she had died from hypothermia. Why anyone would have wanted to target a mildly eccentric spinster best known for the prizes she won at local and national flower shows has been the subject of at least three previous police inquiries, as well as TV documentaries, books and plays. Detectives have always preferred the theory that Ms Murrell was killed by a burglar in a raid that went wrong. But the pensioner's anti-nuclear power campaigning and the fact that her nephew was a Royal Navy intelligence officer during the Falklands war led to excited speculation of MI5 plots and claims that she had been drawn into the controversy over the sinking of the Argentine cruiser the General Belgrano. A definitive explanation eluded everybody, principally because the culprit has never been caught. The hope is that fresh forensic analysis of material found on Ms Murrell's clothes and a review of other evidence, including unmatched fingerprints and casts of a footprint, might finally lead to her killer. "It will be five months before our officers have gone through the material we already have and decided what new leads, if any, there are to follow," said a West Mercia spokesman. "This review has not been launched because some significant new piece of information has come to light. There is no one particular line of inquiry in mind. We are looking at everything." The review, which is being led by Detective Superintendent John Cashion, has 3,000 statements, 500 reports from officers, 3,000 exhibits and 6,000 lines of inquiry to assess. Ms Murrell was last seen alive when she visited her neighbour at noon on Wednesday March 21, to pay for charity draw tickets. Sometime afterwards she was abducted from her home and forced to drive her own car, a white Renault 5, to a small coppice known locally as The Moat, where she was found three days later. Police found that her phone had been tampered with, seemingly in a way that allowed it only to dial out. The killer had kicked Ms Murrell in the head and shoulders, stabbed her six times in the stomach and arm, and masturbated on her underwear. Even before an inquest found she was killed unlawfully and the first police inquiry had concluded that Ms Murrell must have disturbed a burglar, conspiracy theories were beginning to emerge. A vocal CND supporter, Ms Murrell had intended to appear as an objector at the Sizewell B nuclear power station inquiry, and had prepared a paper entitled An Ordinary Citizen's View of Radioactive Waste Management. Her nephew, naval commander Robert Green, declared that he believed she had been killed on the orders of organisations connected with the nuclear industry which feared its credibility was in danger of being undermined. "They were desperate because they believed she had information which would expose dangers in the design of the pressurised water reactor proposed for Sizewell," he said. Mr Green suggested that his aunt had been interrogated, tortured and injected with truth drugs. This was not the most remarkable of the theories. In the Commons on December 19 1984, the Labour MP Tam Dalyell denounced the Sizewell story on the grounds that Ms Murrell's research was "elegantly expressed but unoriginal". Instead, he claimed, she had been killed by "men of the British intelligence" who were looking for documents concerning the Belgrano. Mr Dalyell said he was relying on a source who had told him that Commander Green had been working as an intelligence officer with the Royal Navy during the Falklands war and had been appalled by the unprovoked attack. Cdr Green dismissed the notion and persisted with his own ideas about his aunt's anti-nuclear stance providing the clues to her death. This gained further impetus when it was discovered that private detectives had been hired to spy on objectors at the Sizewell inquiry. The twist eventually proved misleading because the private detectives had stopped work more than a year before Ms Murrell died. "We don't want to raise expectations at this stage," said the West Mercia police spokesman. "Hilda Murrell's relatives have been informed about what we are doing, but nobody is expecting quick results."