At about 11.30 on a Monday night in June, Khalique Miah was driving his blue Mitsubishi Space Wagon along the Commercial Street red-light district in the East End of London. He was arrested by undercover vice-officers, who heard him ask a woman how much for "a blow job". After being taken to a nearby police station, where the arrest was documented, he was released on bail. By a quarter past midnight, the Space Wagon was back in Commercial Street, and Miah was again arrested after asking another plain-clothes police woman for sex.Two weeks ago, Miah, 29, pleaded guilty at Stratford magistrates court to two charges of soliciting women for sex. In doing so, he became only the third man in England to be issued with an antisocial behaviour order (Asbo) for kerb crawling - in his case, a two-year night-time ban from the area around Commercial Street, plus a fine of £395. His conviction will also feature in the local council newspaper, delivered to every house in the borough. If he breaches the Asbo, he could face jail.The first Asbo for kerb crawling was issued in Bristol to Colin Grist, then 47, in September 2004. In February this year, he was joined by Royston Morgan, 57. Police say Morgan was a persistent offender and had previously signed an acceptable behaviour contract (ABC) - a voluntary agreement to desist from "unacceptable behaviour". His breaching of the ABC automatically invoked an Asbo.Both men were arrested in the Fishponds Road red-light area of the city, where police are taking a tough line on kerb crawlers. In 2005, Avon and Somerset constabulary dealt with 97 kerb crawlers. Just over half of those were arrested and the remainder signed an ABC. So far this year, 40 men have been arrested and 15 have signed an ABC.Inspector Andy Bennett, of Avon and Somerse police, says that the vast majority of kerb crawlers who are arrested receive a police caution, or sign an ABC, and do not return to the area. "The publicity surrounding the men who have appeared in court or received an Asbo can be very damaging to their reputation," he says. "If they are caught once and receive a caution or ABC, they do not want to risk being splashed all over the paper. Out of the 97 men in 2005, only two came to our attention again."This week, however, another Bristolian is expected to receive an Asbo for kerb crawling.Since Asbos were introduced under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, more than 7,000 have been imposed across England and Wales, many of them on young people causing a nuisance in their communities. While many local authorities have been more than happy for photos of young tearaways to be splashed across local newspapers, they have shied away from using the same treatment on men who prowl the streets in search of paid sex.Even Manchester - the Asbo capital of the UK, where more than 1,000 orders have been issued - has not imposed one single Asbo for kerb crawling. A Manchester city council spokesman said it did not feel that kerb crawling fitted the definition of an Asbo - that it "caused harassment, alarm and distress".In certain areas of London, Birmingham and Nottingham, however, dozens of Asbos have been issued to prostitutes to deter them from soliciting. But police and local authorities are beginning to change the way they tackle the problem of sex sold on the street. More emphasis is being placed on helping prostitutes off the streets and punishing the punters.Driving banIn 2004, Middlesbrough police introduced a policy of recommending that every punter with a second conviction for kerb crawling should receive a driving ban. As a result, the number of arrests halved, from 230 in that year - when the city held the dubious record of claiming 25% of all the UK's kerb crawling convictions - to 110 arrests in 2005.Sergeant Paul Higgins, of Middlesbrough police, says: "We name and shame all convicted kerb crawlers. We have a good relationship with the Evening Gazette, and it prints names and addresses and details of whether they got a fine or a ban from driving."The Local Government Association says it is happy that punters are being punished and that less action is being taken against prostitutes. A spokesman says: "It's down to individual councils, police and courts as to how they play it locally, but Asbos are a welcome deterrent."District Judge Richard Hawgood, sitting at Stratford magistrates court, clearly disagrees with Manchester city council's take on what constitutes an act of antisocial behaviour. Taking into account a previous conviction in 2001 for the same offence in the same area, he told Miah: "Your actions have caused harassment, alarm and distress to people in this area and this anti-social behaviour needs to be restrained from any form of repetition."Miah's lawyer told the court his client had just become a father and had a stable relationship with his girlfriend and a regular job as a plumber. He said that an Asbo would create work difficulties as Miah lived in the borough. He said his client regretted his actions and had "made mistakes on more than one occasion".Hawgood echoes the feelings of local people who are fed up with all the low-level squalor, mess and petty crime associated with prostitution. Yet police and other agencies that want to tackle both supply and demand feel that the courts still treat punters with too much leniency. When they ask that offenders lose their driving licence, magistrates rarely agree. Without evidence proving that he is a regular kerb crawler, the accused will declare his remorse and say it was an aberration that won't be repeated. Judges, given no evidence to the contrary, can only punish with a small fine.Miah was one of 18 men arrested in a four-night sting operation by the Metropolitan police in June. But despite the fact that it netted punters who had come from Kent and Sussex to buy sex in the East End, this is the first Asbo that has been granted to officers working this patch since the power was extended in 2002, when the Police Reform Act was introduced. This allowed for Asbos to be added to the punishment given for a criminal conviction.Of the 17 others, five pleaded not guilty and will be appearing in court in September and October. The rest pleaded guilty, but because there was no previous history, they were fined between £150 and £200, plus costs. "There is a sense of frustration among officers that courts are reluctant to disqualify kerb crawlers or issue Asbos, despite the fact they have had these options for many years and that the latest Home Office guidance [issued in January] reiterated that," says Detective Superintendent David Eyles, who runs the Metropolitan police's clubs and vice division. He says the Met can only afford a handful of sting operations a year like the one that captured Miah.Regarding the reporting of Miah's conviction in the council newspaper, Olivia McLeod, head of the crime reduction partnership at Tower Hamlets, says: "We will be using sanctions where we feel that people's actions have a negative impact on the community, and kerb crawling comes within that bracket." Asked about the impact of naming and shaming on families, she replies: "Every crime has an impact on the family of the criminal. The families need to know that it is their father or brother who is carrying on in this way." McLeod points out that the council is helping women out of prostitution, as well as trying to reduce and discourage demand. "They go hand in hand," she says.The council is pioneering a multi-agency approach called Safe Exit Tower Hamlets (Seth). But the coordinator, Alice Peyke, is not certain how helpful Asbos will be. "It may simply mean that the man goes to another red-light area," she says. "I would like to see more use of driving bans. Re-education programmes are also important."Punitive actionNikki Adams, from the English Collective of Prostitutes, is opposed to all forms of punitive action and says Asbos for kerb crawlers simply drive the problem underground. "Legal action against kerb crawlers makes women more vulnerable to violence and exploitation," she says. "They will be driven off their normal patches into unknown territory, where they don't have the same support networks as usual. Or they will spend less time checking out a punter before they get in a car with him. The only solution is decriminalising the whole thing."In court, Miah was shown a map with the no-go area highlighted in pink. "I will put it on my TomTom," he said, a reference to the brand name of his car satellite navigation system. The police officers looked amused. "Tom" is police slang for a prostitute.Later, Miah said he was OK with the verdict, but shook his head when asked if he regularly buys sex from women in Commercial Street. "No, it was a silly mistake, just like five years ago," he said. "I work in this area and I thought I knew the woman and wanted to tell her the police were working here."· More on Asbos at societytheguardian.com/crimeandpunishment