"I'm not in tomorrow," said Jill, the practice nurse. "You'll have to see Dr Shipman for your next jab." She paused then added: "He's not very good at injections, mind, so you'll probably have a huge bruise for the next week."With the benefit of hindsight, the whole exchange might seem darkly funny. Yet the doctor and his syringe were, presumably, the last thing his victims saw. The irony is that I didn't just drift into Harold Shipman's practice. I sought him out. My partner, a health service professional, took some trouble and used her contacts to identify the best GP in the area. No one had a bad word to say about Shipman. The positive impressions were fleshed out by our first meeting. After a lifetime of off-hand treatment, it was refreshing to meet a doctor who took an obvious pride in his practice and interest in his patients. As he did with all new patients, he sat me down and explained the workings of the surgery. How he was a "prescribing doctor" who kept abreast of new pharmaceutical developments and didn't hesitate to use them, how the practice had access to its own counselling service. He appeared avuncular, reliable, friendly and knowledgeable. I was impressed. Over the next few years, I was a regular visitor to the Market Street surgery. Outwardly it was little different to any other GP's waiting room: piles of dog-eared women's magazines, ranks of senior citizens and subdued kiddies. The surgery was never quiet but always efficiently run. The news of Shipman's arrest was baffling. My first reaction was that it must be a terrible mistake. A lot will undoubtedly be written about betrayal and breach of trust, but the simple truth is that we expect to encounter evil, for want of a better word, packaged in villainous black, with flashing red eyes and menacing teeth. We don't expect it to prod our piles and prescribe a wide selection of highly effective antibiotics. In common with many other people in Hyde, my overwhelming feeling isn't so much anger as utter bewilderment.