A woman who lost control of her Toyota 4x4, swerved on to a kerb and crushed a toddler in his pushchair was jailed for seven years today .Katie Gutierrez-Perez, 40, was driving to hospital after a failed suicide attempt last September when her vehicle collided with three cars before breaking through a pedestrian barrier and smashing into Finlay Woods as he sat in his pushchair outside a primary school in Chingford, east London.Snaresbrook crown court heard that the 15-month-old's mother, Tina Woods, and grandmother, Linda, had taken him with them when they went to collect his three siblings from school. Moments before the crash, Finlay's four-year-old brother, Harvey, had run off, forcing Tina to chase after him.Finlay's grandmother was with him when Gutierrez-Perez's car swerved on to the kerb, ripping the pushchair from her hands.The car finally came to a stop, with its engine still revving, against the school's brick gatepost.As Finlay's mother and grandmother tried to drag him from under the car, a dazed Gutierrez-Perez staggered from the driver's seat and asked: "Have I hurt someone?"The car could not be reversed, so passers-by lifted it to free the toddler.Eloise Marshall, prosecuting, told the court: "The defendant appeared to be blank; witnesses described her as dazed. Finlay was freed from the pram. He was, sadly, quiet and pale."He died later in hospital from a head injury.The court heard that a tax disc inspector had tried to stop Gutierrez-Perez getting into the Toyota outside her home because he smelled alcohol on her breath.A police test showed she had 52 micrograms per 100 millilitres of breath. The legal limit is 35.Gutierrez-Perez later said she was trying to commit suicide because her house and restaurant business had been taken from her. The business had failed and her home had been repossessed."She confirmed this was a suicide attempt," said Marshall. "She had actually written a note but then thought the better of what she was doing so decided on taking herself to hospital."Sue Rodham, defending, said Gutierrez-Perez, of Chingford, felt genuine remorse. "She is finding it very difficult to come to terms with what she has done."Jailing the former restaurateur, the judge, Timothy King, told Gutierrez-Perez she had devastated the boy's family, especially his 31-year-old mother."As far as the family are concerned, no sentence I impose today could be too long and I have to balance the feelings of the family, the crime and my duty to the public in administrating justice," he said."You were aware of the school, you were aware of the presence of any children and, if you were not aware, then you most certainly should have been."I have a statement from Tina Woods, the boy's mother, and it's a moving document."It's a testament to the devastation that your behaviour has visited on this family, and I quote Mrs Woods' statement: 'I have constant reminders of Finlay's short life – his toys, clothes and cot, which is still made up from the morning on 18 September. Finlay's dummy is still lying in the same place that it was. I haven't been able to bring myself to move anything in the cot. Harvey screams at night sometimes. It is impossible to console him. We tried to tell him it will be all right but he tells us it will never be all right."The judge said that although he realised Gutierrez-Perez would have to live with Finlay's death on her conscience, the consequences of her "criminal behaviour" would remain with the Woods family for ever.At an earlier hearing, Gutierrez-Perez had pleaded guilty to causing death by dangerous driving and driving without insurance.