The government last night ordered an urgent inquiry into the care of children in the borough where 17-month-old Baby P died after months of abuse and neglect. The announcement of the investigation followed a furious row in the Commons between Gordon Brown and David Cameron over the case, in which the Speaker of the house had to intervene repeatedly.The schools and families secretary, Ed Balls, said that the review of the case already conducted by the council indicated major failures, poor management and inappropriate actions on the part of the agencies involved in the north London borough of Haringey. In a damning summary of the review, Balls said that "each agency has singly and collectively failed to adhere to the procedures for the proper management of child protection cases".As a result, he said, he was ordering an inquiry under the Children Act into the safeguarding of children in Haringey. It will be conducted by Ofsted, the Commission for Healthcare Audit and Inspection and the chief inspector of constabulary."The review will need to undertake an urgent and thorough inspection of the quality of practice and management of all services which contribute to the effective safeguarding of children in the local area," he said. He added that the staff concerned had failed to follow the correct practices set out in Working Together 2006, the government guide for such cases.Balls said that there might be other areas where, if proper procedures had been followed, it "could have led to a better outcome for the child". "The death of Baby P in Haringey is a very tragic case that will have shocked and appalled the country. It makes all of us question how someone could do such a terrible thing to a child and set out to deceive the very people trying to help."In the Commons, Brown and Cameron clashed furiously over the case. The prime minister said the death, over which three adults were convicted at the Old Bailey on Tuesday, "raises serious questions that we have to address". But when Cameron said the local review should not be undertaken by the council's own children's services director, Brown reacted angrily."I do regret [his] making a party political issue of this issue, because I think the whole country shares the outrage, the whole country wants to see action, and the whole country will support the action that is taken nationally and in relation to Haringey," said Brown.Cameron called Brown's remark "cheap ... I asked some reasonable questions about a process that is wrong and I would ask the prime minister to withdraw the attack that [the remark] was about politics."Fresh protests from the Labour benches brought the Speaker to his feet again. "I appeal to the House again," Martin said. "It is not a good thing at this time when we have heard this news about a little child ... that we should be shouting across the chamber. Let the leader of the opposition speak ... and also the prime minister."Phillip Noyes, NSPCC director of public policy, welcomed the review of children's services in Haringey. "This terrible case has shocked our political leaders into action," he said.There were calls also for the resignations of Haringey council's leader and for the lead councillor for children's services to quit. The Lib Dem MP Lynne Featherstone, one of the borough's two MPs, said: "The silence from Haringey's political leadership has been deafening. Councillor [George] Meehan was also the leader when Victoria Climbié died. He must take responsibility for the failings that have led to this double tragedy."On Tuesday, Sharon Shoesmith, chair of Haringey's local safeguarding children board, said that three people had received written warnings about their conduct in the case, but there had been no sackings.Last night Haringey was facing criticism that not all papers relating to the case had been shown to police and prosecutors until the trial began.Professor Colin Pritchard, of the school of health and social care at Bournemouth University, said yesterday that children in England and Wales were less at risk than in most developed countries. The baby murder rate is highest in the US and only Greece, Italy, Spain and Sweden have lower rates than England and Wales."The death of Baby P horrifies ... but such tragic events are relatively rare," said Pritchard. The criticisms of our frontline child protection are generally unfair ... whilst not perfect, [it] is amongst the best in the western world."Leaked documents last night revealed that Shoesmith refused a review of social services six months after the death of Baby P. ITV news was handed documents by rival Liberal Democrat councillors in which she reportedly said: "In the light of the good performance, a full scrutiny review would not be beneficial."Key questions• Why did all the children's services in Haringey individually and collectively fail to stick to approved procedures for managing child protection cases?• Why did Sharon Shoesmith, Haringey's director of children's services, rather than an independent expert, chair the serious case review into the handling of Baby P?• Is it a coincidence that the death happened in Haringey again or is there a specific problem in the north London borough?• Did police urge social workers not to return Baby P to the family home, and if so, why was this ignored?• Why did Haringey fail to pass on all relevant documents to police and prosecutors until the case reached trial?• Why did NHS staff fail to follow the correct procedures when there was evidence that Baby P suffered non-accidental injuries?• Was the management and supervision of staff involved in the case up to scratch?• Why did the local authority not abide by the fostering regulations when it used family friends as temporary carers for Baby P?