A smuggler has been jailed for 20 years for the manslaughter of a taxi driver who died after unwittingly drinking a shot of rum from a bottle heavily laced with cocaine.Lascell Malcolm's death was the tragic culmination of a chain of coincidences after the bottle of Bounty Rum and its lethal contents was taken aboard a flight from St Lucia to Gatwick airport by an unsuspecting passenger, who then passed it to another, before it was given to the driver as a thank-you present.The drug had been smuggled in the bottle by Martin Newman, of Romford, east London, who was yesterday convicted of manslaughter by a jury at Croydon crown court. The jury heard he duped an acquaintance, Michael Lawrence, into taking two bottles on to the plane, saying he had exceeded his baggage allowance.Newman intended to collect them on arrival in the UK, but his plan went awry when he was detained by Customs officers. Lawrence, unaware that the bottle contained 246g (8.7oz) of cocaine dissolved into the alcohol, waited for Newman briefly before leaving to catch a connecting flight to his home in Switzerland, the court had heard. He handed one of the bottles to Antoinette Corlis, who was returning home from a Caribbean holiday. She then gave it to Malcolm, a friend, as thanks for collecting her from the airport.Hours later, on 25 May last year, Malcolm, a 63-year-old father of two from Haringey, north London, drank a shot of the rum along with a pint of Guinness. But the bottle contained "a mixture of such toxicity that a teaspoonful could kill anyone who consumed it", the court heard.At 4am the next day he called emergency services saying he could not walk, had a headache, and thought he was dying. He was admitted and discharged from hospital but later collapsed and died in front of his son Richard from a heart attack brought on by cocaine poisoning.The link to the cocaine-laced rum emerged later that day when two friends, visiting Malcolm's house to pay their respects, found the bottle and decided to drink a toast. Both men spat out the foul-tasting liquid but were taken to hospital after suffering seizures.Newman was sentenced to 20 years for manslaughter and 15 years, to run concurrently, for the importation of cocaine. In a statement, Malcolm's widow, Gretal, said the last 14 months had been a "living nightmare". She said: "My husband paid the ultimate price for Martin Newman's deceitful, selfish and dangerous operation of importing drugs into the UK."DC Paul Coyle, who led the inquiry, said the "unusual and tragic case" had seen a good deed result in someone's death.He said: "Had Newman not arranged for the potent and deadly drug to be imported the tragic sequence of events would never have occurred. Mr Malcolm's family and friends have been left devastated by his death and his two close friends who visited his home were lucky to survive."