There is a gut-wrenching scene in Michael Haneke's Code Inconnu, where Juliette Binoche is verbally abused on a Parisian metro train by a Turkish youth, and no one seems to notice. Just as things look set to get out of hand, however, an older Turkish passenger intervenes. I wasn't so lucky.Last Saturday, I took a night bus from Marble Arch. At the next stop, four young men – about 16 to 20 years of age, all white – boarded the bus, looked around, and within a few minutes sat down surrounding me. I don't know why I caught their attention, but I cursed myself for reading Walden on a late-night bus. Then the abuse began."Hey Paki … did you not listen to Prince Harry? Get the fuck out of this country, you brown monkey … ""Fairer than other Pakis … maybe his mum was a slut.""You stink, like the rest of them do … soaked in curry, did ya?""Mowgli, you get paid in bananas or tikka masalas?"Several other passengers boarded the bus at the next few stops. The young men, however, continued undaunted, imitating the behaviour of monkeys, playing with my book, and continuing the verbal assault.I didn't have the nerve to confront them, fearing further aggravation. Two black men, standing on the concertina area of the bendy bus, laughed initially and then egged the gang on. Two other men of south Asian origin sitting further along stared helplessly at what was happening. At least 20 other passengers were on the bus, most of them older than the four youths. I shifted my eyes in every possible direction to ask for support. None was forthcoming.Near King's Cross, after 15 minutes of torment, things became physical, as the relatively sober gang began to prod, pull and pinch me. I swiftly got out of the bus and climbed into the nearest taxi. Behind me, I saw that the gang had followed me.Did I call the police? No, I didn't see the point. Besides, as someone who wants to stay in this country – yes, as an immigrant – I didn't want to risk getting my name on any legal record, lest it cause problems in the future. Are these incidents rare? To be sure.Yet I have never identified myself through my race; never belonged to any Indian or Asian groups or societies; do not even frequent curry houses. I've never been to Club Kali nor, for that matter, Brick Lane. Race is a superficial identification that society forces upon me, be it through dating sites, where men (more than women) expressly specify a racial preference, often unkind towards south Asians, or through equality monitoring, or when confronting prejudices or racial abuse. Even if I accepted an identification that is so meaningless to me, it wouldn't have been of much help. Those two Asian men in the bus were unwilling or unable to do anything.Fear, or indifference, was the uniting factor in the bus. Not race. Just look at the behaviour of the black men who egged the gang on. Could it be that they were just as sick of other ethnic minorities as these disaffected youths were? And what of tolerance? Was what I witnessed yesterday a measure of tolerance in a multicultural London, or one of willed, self-protective indifference? Do we just misread the latter as the former? Would things have been different in a different bus, at a different time, with a different crowd?The nobler or the baser attributes of humanity unite and divide us more than race, religion or sexuality ever could.Racism is out there, and we know it. But the worrying trends that this incident reveals have little to do with it. They reveal an alarming coldness that runs through the veins of an otherwise vibrant, multicultural city. They show the strained relations between different races, not just white people and "ethnic minorities". They hint at disaffected youth, clueless political parties, and a media base that exploits the former for money.People often say that we use the word "racism" a bit too much these days, and that we have made a hobby out of taking "offence." I don't feel offended. I feel hurt. Let down. Attitudes such as these, and the accumulation of small doses of indifference towards intolerance and prejudice, are what bring about systematic discrimination.Schopenhauer said of humanity that the more he loves it, the less he admires individual human beings. For me, the inverse has long been closer to the truth. The experience of 15 minutes reinforced that conviction – and lost me my faith in London.