The Assets Recovery Agency, which cost £60m to set up and aimed to reclaim ill-gotten gains from criminals, is to be scrapped after recovering just £8.3m.The Home Office today announced that the body would be merged with the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) in April 2008.The Tories claimed that it was a "classic example of a glitzy Labour pledge that turned out not to be worth the paper it was written on". David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "A Conservative dossier by Grant Shapps MP exposed this agency as costing four times more to run than it recovered each year. "It is common sense to merge it with Soca but this should not mean that its costs and level of assets recovered are no longer published. We still need to be able to monitor its effectiveness."In a written statement, Vernon Coaker, the junior Home Office minister, claimed that the merger offered "significant synergies" and said there would also be extra powers for prosecutors to launch civil recovery action.He also pledged that the demise of the Asset Recovery Agency, which has operated in London and Belfast, would not mean any reduction in the resources available for tackling organised crime in Northern Ireland. The proposals are subject to parliamentary approval.Mr Shapps, Tory MP for Welwyn Hatfield, said: "The decision follows my report into the underperformance of the Assets Recovery Agency published last year where I revealed that since its inception the ARA had cost £60m, while only managing to recover £8.3m. "When I published my report ministers tried to claim that the agency was on the brink of a breakthrough, but ... the government has now been forced to scrap the ARA altogether. "This agency was a classic example of a glitzy Labour pledge which turned out not to be worth the paper it was written on. "Rather than retrieving money for the public purse, it has ended up costing the tax payer in excess of £90m with very little to show in return, but as usual nobody will ever take responsibility for this huge policy failure." The ARA has been operating in London and Belfast for almost four years. Last year it froze assets belonging to Northern Ireland criminals worth almost £16m. Soca was set up last year to tackle drug trafficking and other major crime. It is thought the transfer of functions to Soca will not affect ongoing investigations.