Philip Etienne was just half a mile from the heart of Handsworth, Birmingham, when he pulled his Ford Mondeo into a quiet side street, switched on the Nagra tape recorder strapped to the small of his back and cleared his throat. 'I am a serving police officer who for the purpose of this operation will be known as Philip Etienne. I can, should a court require, produce my warrant card. The date is Friday October 29, 1994, the time is 1800 hours.'It was the final phase of Operation Marine, the biggest anti-crack initiative ever launched by the West Midlands police. But within two hours, and after a catalogue of incompetence and bungling, two police officers had been shot, an armed suspect had escaped, no drugs had been recovered and Marine had become one of the most disastrous police operations ever. Last week West Midlands police made a 'substantial' settlement to Philip Etienne and his colleague Martin Maynard who had taken the force to court claiming that the actions of the senior officers in charge of Operation Marine had put their lives at risk. With the action finally settled, it is only now that the full story can be told. Operation Marine was conceived a few months earlier in June 1994 when detectives in Handsworth decided to target the notorious and wealthy drug-dealing brothers Wayne and Gary Wilson. Crack cocaine is usually sold in 'rocks' costing £10 or £20 each and even the most active dealers tend to have only a few rocks in their possession at any time. The Wilson brothers, however, were said to be selling the stuff in lumps the size of house bricks, each with a wholesale price of up to £90,000. Broken up into street-size deals, the crack would be worth more than £500,000. The brothers both had previous convictions for drug offences and the experience had made them extremely wary. To protect themselves they would deal only on the streets around their home in Handsworth and only with black customers. They employed lookouts and informers and had managed to identify virtually all the officers in the local drug squad and their unmarked vehicles. The only way to break up the gang, police decided, would be to mount an undercover operation. West Midlands had only one black undercover officer and he had limited experience. Between June and September he met with the Wilson gang and slowly gained their confidence. When the time came to move on to the next stage of the operation, senior officers at West Midlands contacted the Metropolitan police's élite SO10 division, which trains undercover officers for all forces in the country. Within a few days Martin Maynard, one of SO10's most experienced black officers and the veteran of dozens of drug stings, was dispatched to Birmingham to make a small test purchase. On 13 October he received a chilling taste of what was to come. Having been given £850 to buy half an ounce of crack, Maynard was introduced, via an informant, to members of the Wilson gang. He told members of the Handsworth police drug squad to keep away but, as he sat in the back of Wayne Wilson's car, cruising through the streets, Wayne spotted a drug squad car packed with officers. Only Martin's quick thinking saved his life. He accused Wayne of trying to set him up. 'I just launched into a torrent of abuse,' said Maynard. 'I was going, "What the fuck do you think you're playing at, you've just brought me here to meet the police?" It worked perfectly, the more furious I got, the more convinced Wayne was that I must be a genuine buyer.' Having regained Wayne's confidence and completed the purchase, Maynard set a date for the end of the month to buy £10,000 worth of crack. The plan was that, when the drugs were produced, an armed police back-up team would swoop and arrest everyone, catching the Wilsons red-handed with enough drugs to ensure a lengthy jail term. It was then the problems really began. Maynard wanted three other undercover officers with him to pose as members of his gang. West Midlands commanders refused, saying they could not afford to allocate that many officers. When Maynard insisted, they said he could recruit another officer from London and they would find a third from their own force. Things were to get worse. 'The bust was set for the evening of 29 October and the briefing was to be at 8.30am. We booked a hotel for the night before so we'd be rested and fresh but then West Midlands cancelled it. They said they couldn't afford it. It meant we had to get up at 4am and drive there. I couldn't believe it.' Posing as London gangsters, Etienne and Maynard would normally expect to be driving a large BMW or Mercedes. Instead they were forced to take a Ford Mondeo - standard issue for many detectives. Again, West Midlands police refused to pay for a bigger and more convincing car. Maynard said the biggest shock came when he and his colleague arrived for the briefing to be told that the back-up team would not be armed, even though previous operations around the country showed there was a strong likelihood Jamaicans involved in crack dealing would have access to firearms. Again West Midlands cited financial reasons. When Etienne and Maynard finally met the third member of their team, they realised he had little experience; he was a traffic policeman who had not done undercover work for several years. He was given the task of minding the £10,000 to be shown should the gang ask for proof the buyers had money for the drugs. At first the traffic officer would not let the London officers check the money, claiming his superiors had told him that the London police were 'notoriously light-fingered'. But, after persuading him to open the bag, Maynard's worst fears were realised; each bundle was stamped 'Property of West Midlands Police'. That afternoon, a few hours before the raid was due to take place, the pair discussed whether to pull out. Fearing their careers in the force would be over if they did, they decided to continue but made sure their concerns were fully logged with those in charge of the operation. That evening they made their way to the rendezvous and waited for the Wilsons to turn up. They were kept waiting for more than an hour and during that time the back-up team failed to warn them that a member of the Wilson gang was keeping watch on their car from a telephone box, even though he could be clearly seen from a police observation point. Etienne was on the verge of calling off the operation when two men tapped on the driver's window and asked Etienne for a light. As soon as the window was lowered they tried to grab the keys. Maynard jumped out of the car and gave the signal to the back-up team that they were in trouble. He got back in the car expecting Etienne to race them to safety. But the officer had lost his grip on the keys and had to get out of the car to try to retrieve them. Maynard went to get out again and found himself staring down the barrel of a gun. It was being wielded by the man from the phone box. Etienne, a martial arts expert, began fighting with the two men until a shot rang out - he had been hit in the leg. Maynard, taking advantage of the confusion, made a dash for a nearby wall, a bullet zipping past his head as he ran. When he reached the wall and cast a glance back, he saw Etienne staggering around the rear of the Mondeo. The gunman was standing eight feet away, his gun aimed directly at Etienne's chest. Maynard said: 'I was thinking "Oh Jesus, he's going to kill Philip". In that fraction of a second I had to make a decision that I would live with for the rest of my life. To my right was the safety of the main road. The gunman hadn't seen me, I wasn't injured. I could easily make it. To my left was Philip, moments away from being murdered in cold blood. It was the hardest, most agonising decision I have ever had to make. I took one last glance at the main road, sucked in a deep breath, turned towards the gunman and started running.' Maynard threw himself at the gunman who span round and let off a single shot into his leg. Etienne, despite his injuries, grappled the gunman to the ground then sat on top of him, raising his fist to knock him out. At that moment he realised the gunman had managed to hold on to his weapon. Etienne was shot for a second time, directly through his pelvis, the bullet narrowly missing an artery. The gunman, Andrew Mitchell, left the two officers for dead and ran off. Seconds later, the back-up team arrived. Events after the shooting were equally dramatic. Etienne and Maynard were taken to Birmingham City Hospital for emergency surgery. By 10.30pm they were moved to a private room in time to see the regional news. The top story was the shootings and the fact the gunman was on the loose. He would not be caught until the next day. Both officers had taken reassurance from the fact that no one knew they were police officers or where they were. But there was time for one further bungle. The commanding officer appeared on screen to make a statement: 'I can confirm that both men were undercover police officers from London who had been seconded to Birmingham. They are currently in a critical but stable condition at the Birmingham City Hospital.' Maynard, a 36-year-old father of two and Etienne, 37, who also has two children, spent three years struggling to overcome their injuries. They expected to resume at least some part of their careers but were unexpectedly medically retired. Today both continue to suffer, both physically and mentally, as a result of their injuries. Perhaps what hurts most, however, is that despite the trial judge recommending that they be given the highest possible commendation for gallantry they have not received any award. The Police Federation notes that no black officer in Britain has received the George Medal and last week announced its intention to open an inquiry to find out why the two officers have not yet received one.