A teaching assistant killed in a hit-and-run incident in the West Midlands gave up driving 20 years ago because of the misery caused by road accidents, his widow revealed yesterday.David Evans, 55, a father of two, was hurled 20ft in the air by a speeding stolen car which hit him on the zebra crossing outside Shireland language college, Smethwick, where he was a teaching assistant and his wife, Jane, was deputy headteacher. She ran out of the school to find him lying in the road. He died at the scene. Police hope to recover a black Daihatsu which was discovered burned out less than a mile from the scene. The vehicle was unwittingly towed away before officers had a chance to forensically examine it. Mrs Evans, 57, an English and religious studies teacher, was accompanied by the couple's daughters, Laura, 22, and 19-year-old Emily, yesterday as she appealed for help in finding his killer. She said her husband hated cars because of their effect on the environment and the trauma that crashes brought to families. "Consequently he gave up driving 20 years ago and would only use a car if there was no alternative," she said. "When crossing the road he was extremely careful, and that is what makes his death through a hit-and-run so tragic. "It represents everything he disliked. His death has left all of our family devastated. His mother, brother and immediate family are all bewildered and shocked by the senselessness of what has happened. "He loved nature, cared passionately about the environment and loathed the hate and aggression so often displayed by the human race to fellow humans. He rarely judged anyone and never discriminated. He was as comfortable in his local pub as in the company of university dons. "Dave and I had been together 34 years. He was not just my husband, he was my best friend. If anyone can help us find who is responsible, not only would they help us greatly in our time of grief, but they might prevent this person putting another family through the trauma ours is experiencing." West Midlands police are still examining CCTV images, and said the best description they had of the driver was a "man of non-white appearance in his 20s". Inspector Ron Winch, leading the investigation, appealed to the driver to turn himself in. He said: "I would like to appeal to his better nature to give himself up and anyone who knows him to contact us." But the police's main line of inquiry at present is trying to find the stolen car. A black Daihatsu YRV F-Speed, with false number plates, was seen burned out just over a mile from the scene. They think someone unwittingly towed it away before officers had a chance to examine it. The burned-out car, registration DU03 LWX, was collected by a white man in his 50s with a local accent, in a pick-up truck with a white cab, shortly after Mr Evans was run over. Insp Winch said detectives wanted to speak to this man. "It may be the case that this man unwittingly picked up the car and we are keen to trace him. It is possible the car is sitting somewhere waiting to be scrapped. It is crucial we find this vehicle."