There's a welcome mat on the front porch. But the only way some people are ever likely to step into a university is through the back window. It's the catch-22 in almost every higher education social inclusion scheme: you advertise, you spend money, you give talks in schools, you run access courses, all the things diversity watchdogs recommend, and still most of your undergraduate places go to the middle classes. The real barrier to education for many students is not achievement, but a sense of entitlement.Step forward Joe Baden. For the first 35 years of his life, Baden was told he would amount to nothing and he took everyone at their word. Growing up just off the Old Kent Road in south London, he effectively left school at 13 - "I got an unclassified in maths; I must have misspelt my name" - and followed his dad into the print trade. The money was reasonable, but the work was dull and repetitive, and Baden drifted into crime. Even two weeks on remand for armed robbery - "Did I do it? Well, I passed the ID parade, so obviously not" - didn't give him a wake-up call, and it was only when he was arrested for affray that he reckoned something had to change.Room 101Ten years on and the place you're most likely to find Baden is in his office, Room 101, at Goldsmiths College, University of London, where he runs the Open Book programme to open up higher and further education to addicts, offenders and people with mental-health problems. The scheme has been running on a shoestring since 2002 and already has more than 100 students on its books, many of whom are now taking access or undergraduate courses at south London universities. A few have even moved on to postgraduate studies. Baden's contribution has just been recognised in a nomination for the University and College Union's (UCU) lifechangers awards."Joe's amazing story is proof that knowledge is power," says the union's joint general secretary, Sally Hunt. "Everyone who has been through further or higher education has a story to tell about the staff who made it possible, or about the people who opened up a new area of knowledge and persuaded them that they could achieve more. These awards celebrate and highlight those achievements."So what made Baden change? The easy answer is education, as he first got himself on a basic skills course, then an access course, before taking a degree in social history. But that tells only half the story; it wasn't a question of getting any education, it was about getting the education he wanted. "I'd been offered various courses and job training schemes through the probation service," he says, "but I always felt as if what I was really being told was that working-class people shouldn't aspire to too much."They tried to get me to do stuff like training to be a forklift truck driver. Now there's nothing wrong with that job if it's what you want to do, but they didn't seem to understand that this was precisely the kind of job I'd been running away from all my life. No one goes in to schools like Eton to give advice on crap careers."Even when he got his place at Goldsmiths, the battle was only half-won. "I walked around with my eyes lowered because I didn't feel that people like me had a right to higher education. I often felt less comfortable in the university than I had done on the wing in prison. I even felt patronised by some of my sociology lecturers; it was as if they felt they knew more about my life than I did and they hadn't even had my experiences."It was to fight off this sense of "unbelonging" that Open Book was started, and in many ways the programme has more in common with a 12-step fellowship than a traditional social inclusion project. There are all the usual activities - visiting prisons, young offenders' units and other institutions, making academic staff aware of students' needs and running mentoring programmes - but at its heart are regular meetings where students from similar backgrounds can get to know one another and help each other out.Baden is keen to stress that Open Book isn't an easy option. "It's not about rehab, it's about becoming the people we always should have been," he says. "There's no wishy-washy liberal paternalism; we've got where we are by working fucking hard to turn the negatives into positives. Of course, I regret the harm I've done, but I take responsibility for it. We're not victims, we're survivors. Victims don't have the power to change things. We have."The survivorsUp in the canteen, Jason Grant is happy to count himself as one of the survivors. After spending much of his adult life in prison, Grant came across Baden during an Open Book visit to Wandsworth prison. "I'd lived all my life in the same part of south-east London," he says, "and I'd often walk past Goldsmiths College. But I never once thought it was the sort of place where someone like me could go into, until I met Joe."I'm doing a BA in media communications and I'm loving it, but the academic stuff is almost the easy bit. What's tough is making friends, as there are so few people here who have experienced the kind of life I have. And it's not much easier at home, as I've had to drop many of the old friends I used to hang around with and the ones who do understand how I'm trying to change my life are understandably sceptical. If someone who'd stolen off me and my family all my life turned round and said, 'I'm not a thief any more', then I'd be going, 'yeah, right'. So it's great to have the support and understanding of Open Book."Jimmy Mudie, a 51-year-old former alcoholic and ex-con who is now doing an MA in anthropology, has also been on the right end of the programme. "Like it or not, there is a difference between people with our kind of backgrounds and traditional middle-class students," he says. "Open Book gives us the confidence to study here in parallel to the others. We don't want any special favours from anyone; we just want the same kind of access to education. You know, what we've got going here could transform society far more than any government initiative." He might just have a point.