More than double the number of serious offenders are involved in the foreigner prisoner release crisis than previously thought, the new home secretary, John Reid, revealed yesterday. He said the latest official estimate for the most serious offenders from overseas released without being considered for deportation was 150, compared with the 90 figure published last week by his sacked predecessor, Charles Clarke.He also warned that if armed robbers were included - thought to be 93 - then the number of serious offenders involved could be "several hundred" out of the 1,023 foreign prisoners released since 1999 without being considered for deportation."The number who have committed the most and more serious offences has increased as we have studied the cases. This is a moving picture as we discover more and more. But we are also detaining and discovering more," Mr Reid said after visiting the centre in Portsmouth that is coordinating the national operation to trace the missing prisoners.More than half of the 150 have yet to be tracked down. So far 75 of the original group of 90 of the most serious offenders have been traced by the 60-strong team of police, probation, immigration and prison staff. "We now have another 60 we want to detect and detain as urgently as possible because that additional number has resulted from the additional work done over the past week," the new home secretary said. "On top of that, personally I would consider anyone involved in an armed robbery, even if it hadn't involved any violence, as a serious offence, so there could be even more."He insisted that the vast majority - about 75% - of the 1,023 released since 1999 would face deportation. But the prime minster confirmed yesterday that new legislation will be necessary "to override the human rights" of foreign nationals so they can be deported. Tony Blair repeated his view that those convicted of serious criminal offences should be "automatically deported", adding: "I am absolutely sure we can deliver on this."More than half of the attempts to remove foreign national prisoners have failed in the past because those involved do not have suitable travel documents, make late immigration or asylum applications to stay in the country, or because there are lengthy appeals against the deportation orders. There are also countries such as Somalia, Chad and Ivory Coast to which foreign nationals cannot be returned, because it is too dangerous to fly them there."There are cases before the courts now that determine a lot of this. If we find that those cases go against us, then we have got to legislate," Mr Blair said yesterday. "If someone is a threat to our security or people, it is wrong that we are prevented from deporting them because they may go back to a country where we cannot guarantee their safety 100%."