Few murders in the last 50 years in this country have attracted as much attention as that of Rachel Nickell. The callous circumstances of the killing, the beauty of the victim and the subsequent tangled failure to find the murderer have ensured it remains lodged in the public psyche as an unresolved tragedy. Yesterday, however, there was renewed hope that Scotland Yard may be close to solving the mystery.Detectives were interviewing a 40-year-old man in Broadmoor secure hospital in connection with the murder and in the light of what is understood to be new DNA evidence. The man is not being named for legal reasons.Scotland Yard last night passed on a request from Rachel Nickell's family yesterday that the person being questioned should not be named or identified in any way so that the inquiry was not jeopardised.Colin Stagg, the man who was originally accused of the murder, said yesterday that he hoped that finally "the real killer" would be brought to justice for the sake of Ms Nickell's family."I have always maintained my innocence and still do. I hope in due course that the real killer pays the penalty and the family of Rachel Nickell finally achieve some measure of peace."Mr Stagg's solicitors would not comment on what compensation he was was seeking in connection with his original arrest or what stage a claim had reached.It was a July morning in 1992 when a man walking his dog on Wimbledon Common stumbled across the body of the former model and lifeguard Rachel Nickell. Her two-year-old son, Alex, was clinging to her, covered in his mother's blood. She had been stabbed 49 times and sexually assaulted. A massive murder inquiry was immediately launched and every detail of its progress monitored by the media.Although a total of 32 men were questioned in connection with the murder, police eventually targeted an unemployed man from Roehampton, south London, called Colin Stagg who was known to walk his dog on the common. While there was no forensic evidence linking him to the scene, attention soon focussed exclusively on him and police attempted to get evidence against him through a complex sting operation involving an undercover policewoman.The case against Mr Stagg was thrown out when it came to the Old Bailey in 1994 and police then re-opened their inquiry, although Mr Stagg, who is now 43, was aware that the finger of suspicion continued to point at him. He has since taken and passed a lie detector test for a television programme and is hoping that the latest investigation will finally remove any lurking doubts. The investigation has intensified in the last two years and police hope that the increasingly sophisticated developments in DNA technology will assist in what they recognise is a highly delicate case.Ms Nickell's husband, Andre Handscombe, who was working as a motorcycle courier at the time of the murder, moved with their son, now a teenager, to France a decade ago. He was driven abroad, he said, in his own account of the case, The Last Thursday in July, by media intrusion. "Callous, mercenary, unfeeling ... cowardly, snivelling scum," is how he described some of the reporters who tracked him and his son down to his "sanctuary" in the French countryside. Mr Handscombe embarked on a new career writing and illustrating children's books.Professor David Canter, of Liverpool University's Centre for Investigative Psychology, who interviewed Mr Stagg prior to his trial and become convinced of his innocence, said yesterday that the case was a watershed in terms of police investigations."It is widely accepted that the initial police investigation was incompetent," he said. "It is one of the strengths of the British judicial system that the judge saw that. It is also one of the strengths of our policing system that they accepted the findings of the judge and have now put in place a much more careful and considered investigation."Professor Canter said the case highlighted the problems created when police focussed all their attention on one suspect. He added that the case stood alongside that of the Yorkshire Ripper as an object lesson for the police on the dangers of targeting one person to the exclusion of others and the dangers of relying on flawed "expert" opinion. "I met Colin Stagg and he really did not understand what he was caught up in."Backstory Police investigating the murder set a trap for suspect Colin Stagg using an undercover police officer, code-named Lizzie James. She contacted Mr Stagg through a lonely hearts advertisement in a contact magazine and attempted to get information from him by feigning a romantic interest in him. They met, telephoned each other and exchanged letters of sexual fantasy over a period of five months. They spoke about the murder during a meeting in Hyde Park but Mr Stagg said later that he had only played along with her because he wanted to pursue the romance. He never admitted any involvement in the murder. The strategy, described as a "honey trap", was a failure and, following four days of legal argument, the trial judge, Mr Justice Ognall, threw the case out. He described the attempt to get Mr Stagg to confess as "deception of the grossest kind." The policewoman, who had 13 years' service in the police, had to take 18 months off work because of the stress involved in the operation and she eventually took early retirement. In 2001, the Metropolitan police paid her £125,000 in compensation shortly before her case for damages, backed by the Police Federation, was due to come to court. Her solicitor said at the time that "the willingness of the Metropolitan police to pay substantial damages must indicate their recognition that she sustained serious psychiatric injury."