No one seems to know the whole of Harry's story, but this is what they do know. He was born in Kilmarnock, worked on the railways, became an alcoholic after his parents died. They know he lived rough and that in 1991 he was sentenced to life for starting a series of fires. He is 71. It was never easy to get through to Harry at the best of times, and a couple of years ago it began to get even harder. Depending on who you ask, he was suffering from either Alzheimer's or a form of alcohol-induced dementia. Everyone agrees that he frequently did not know where he was, that he began falling over regularly and became incontinent. Once he borrowed a lighter to light a cigarette and accidentally set his hair on fire. They put him in a cell with a CCTV camera because they were so worried he would do himself an injury. Recently, when he could no longer walk without help, he was moved to a nearby prison hospital. Doctors there said he should be released, but to where? "It's difficult to find nursing homes that are prepared to take people like that," says Stuart McLean, who retired as governor of Portsmouth's Kingston prison last week. "The last thing they want is to have someone who may be disruptive." Harry's case highlights one of the thorniest questions facing our penal system: when, if ever, is someone too old or infirm to be kept behind bars? It is a delicate balancing act between compassion and risk, and right now the scales are tipped heavily against compassion. "If someone has a terminal illness I will pull out all the stops to give them the dignity of dying a free man," says Mr McLean. "But apart from that there's not a lot I can do. It's difficult to get people released because everyone wants to make sure there's not going to be some sort of miraculous recovery. That can be terribly embarrassing." Mr McLean has more experience of these grim calculations than most. Kingston is the only prison in the country with a wing dedicated to elderly prisoners. The administrative wing of the Victorian jail was converted into accommodation for around 30 older prisoners five years ago in response to the rising number of elderly inmates in the system. The numbers of old prisoners has mirrored the explosion in the prison population of the last 15 years. In 1989 there were just 345 prisoners over the age of 60; by 1999 there were 1,053. There are 250 inmates in their 70s and 21 over 80. Until now, however, the prison service has devoted little or no thought to how to handle older inmates. Individual jails do the best they can, usually housing their older inmates in so-called VP (vulnerable prisoner) wings or prison hospitals. "[The prison service] has no policy on the elderly at all," Sir David Ramsbotham, the chief inspector of prisons, says in an interview with the Guardian to be published on Friday. "When I discover an 87-year-old on a Zimmer frame with Alzheimer's in a high-security prison, I'm sorry, but I think that is a nonsense." Built in 1877 as Portsmouth's town jail, Kingston prison is a generously proportioned, three-storey stone structure surrounded by 20-foot walls topped with a roll of barbed wire. It is renowned for its gardens - complete with aviaries, manicured hedges, water features and artificial bowling green - and its football team. (The team's position at the top of the local league could have something to do with the fact that all fixtures are played at home and visiting supporters are forbidden, admits Mr McLean.) It is also the only prison in Britain that takes only lifers, meaning that at least three-quarters of its inmates are murderers. The idea behind H wing was to give older lifers some protection from the rest of the population, says Mr McLean. Its inmates can circulate in the prison but other prisoners cannot pass through the two heavy gates that separate it from the rest of the jail. The wing itself has many of the trappings of a care home: stairlifts, specially equipped baths and alarm buttons in each room. Its rooms, each shared by four inmates, are bright and comparatively airy and there are several spartan communal rooms that could easily be mistaken for doctors' waiting rooms. Staff appear to be patient and courteous. "The biggest problem with them is motivation," says Jim Clark, one of the officers on the wing. "We've tried to get them out to play bowls but they just won't go. About a third of them work and the rest of them don't want to move away from their TVs." Sir David Ramsbotham has praised Kingston for its treatment of elderly prisoners, so why, I wonder, has the press been kept out until now? A prison service official offers a surprisingly candid response: "A lot of people in the service have doubts about whether these people should still be in prison." It's easy to see why. In one room I meet Boom Boom, a man who looks to be in his 70s leaning awkwardly on a three-legged walking stick. Like many of the inmates on E wing, he is dressed in tracksuit bottoms, T-shirt and slippers. I ask him how old he is and he holds up one hand to show five fingers, while making a series of incomprehensible sounds. "You're 60, aren't you, Boom Boom?!" bellows his room-mate, Frank. Frank explains that Boom Boom suffered a stroke before being admitted to prison: "He can't do much. When he arrived at the Scrubs all he could say was 'boom boom'. That's how he got his name." The large, high-ceilinged room is divided into four by a series of drab partitions. The floor is dirty and the cream walls are bare. A TV is flickering noiselessly in the corner and a few books are scattered on the floor. It looks just like the kind of care home you hope you'll never end up in. Mr McLean is quick to point out that Boom Boom and Frank are among the scruffiest inmates on the wing. "They were living rough before they came in," he says. "No one else will share with them." Upstairs the rooms are tidier and less gloomy. The furniture would not look out of place in a student accommodation block. In one room the walls are decorated with pieces of wrapping paper. In another there is an inmate who spends his time making replica Faberge eggs. A photo of Princess Diana has pride of place by Sam's bed. He is 50, 11 years into a life sentence for murder. He's one of the youngest prisoners on the wing, admitted because he suffered a stroke. He has barely seen the two grandchildren who were born since his conviction but he thinks his age has helped him to get through his sentence: "If I was 21 or 22 at the time I wouldn't have been able to make it." The average age of prisoners on E wing is 65, but most look older than that. "People age quicker in prison," says Gill Ripiner, the senior nurse who runs the prison dispensary. "A 55-year-old inside would be more like a 65-year-old outside. The stress levels are high, they can't do things to relieve the stress and they can't do as much exercise." Although they are more likely to suffer medical problems, specialising in older inmates has its advantages, says Mr McLean: "The staff-to-prisoner ratio can be quite low because you're unlikely to have a serious problem [with violence]. The sort of problem I'm worried about is not an attack, it's that someone will light a cigarette and discard the match." Its not just a figure of speech. A senior officer later tells me that several cigarette burns were found on Harry's torso when he was transferred to hospital. "He'd obviously just rolled over and lain on them. Fortunately all the mattresses are flame resistant." Mr McLean says the prison has encountered two unforeseen problems. One has been the reluctance of many older prisoners to go anywhere near E wing. "It's perceived as dead men's shoes. People think the only way out is by dying." In fact, he says, more prisoners have been released to lower-security establishments than have died. The second problem is that many of the inmates are in a poorer condition than the unit had bargained for. "Unfortunately, fit elderly people do become progressively more frail and the problem we've got now is that we've got people who really we shouldn't be keeping any longer who need to move from residential care into a nursing home, and we are not a nursing home." Albert, a neatly dressed 69-year-old who has served 18 years of a life sentence for murdering his wife, describes the condition of some of the E wing prisoners in more graphic terms. "Christ, we all get old, but you've got blokes pissing in the plant pots and blokes shitting themselves." He says he was grateful for a move back to the main part of the prison after he underwent a hip replacement operation. "I was in there with a chap who'd done 42 years and one night I wake up and he's pissing up against the wall. It could have been brilliant but you've got the wrong people in there. You have people who should be in a hospice." Mr McLean acknowledges that there are at least two prisoners on the wing who have "lost it" and "others who you talk to and you think: 'I'm not really getting through here.' " But as another senior officer points out, senility or even extreme frailty are no guarantee that someone will not reoffend. Dick's case illustrates the dilemma facing the prison authorities. Dick is 57 and has served 16 years of a life sentence for rape. He is suffering from motor neurone disease and wears calipers. Doctors have called for his release, the senior officer tells me, "which is all very well, but where are you going to put him? He's got to go to a care home but the fact of the matter is that these places often have a lot of young women working in them. Physically he couldn't rape anybody, but he could ravish someone - and can you risk letting that happen?" With few signs of a more liberal approach to releasing elderly prisoners any time soon, the prison service is at last acknowleging that it will have to hold and care for older and sicker prisoners. It is spending £3m on creating facilities for elderly inmates at several prisons. "This is something that has crept up on us quite recently," said Martin Nary, director-general of the prison service. Kingston has submitted a proposal to upgrade the facilities and staffing of E wing so that it can offer equivalent care to a nursing home. Already, says, Alisdair Munroe, there's not much difference between E wing and many care homes on the outside "except that it's all male and we don't let them out". Frank, however, has little time for those who point out that life for him is not very different from what it would be like if he were in a home. "They say you must like prison. Nobody likes prison. It's a stupid question, it's daft. The same people asking it don't go to the door and open it." • Names of prisoners have been changed.