The government yesterday hit back at claims that closed circuit television cameras only have a limited effect in cutting crime.A report by the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Nacro) found that other measures, including better street lighting, could be up to four times more effective. The charity warned against over investing in CCTV which between 1996 and 1998 made up three quarters of the Home Office crime prevention budget at the expense of cheaper and often more effective options. But Lord Falconer, the Home Office minister, insisted cameras had a "significant" impact on crime levels when they were properly used and maintained. "People really like to have CCTV cameras because police and the people who live in the areas believe it brings greater security," he said. "In terms of providing people both with security and a sense of security, this is a good investment." Rachel Armitage, of Nacro's crime and social policy unit, said: "It would be foolish to claim that well-planned CCTV can never have an impact, but the effectiveness of CCTV is often overstated. "This places a big responsibility on councils and others to think through the implementation of CCTV and ensure that is not favoured in place of cheaper and more effective measures such as adequate street lighting." Nacro said that high profile cases, including the abduction and murder of James Bulger and the arrest of Brixton nail bomber David Copeland, had given CCTV a "common sense appeal". But the report found that while CCTV schemes in car parks can be effective in reducing car crime, cameras in town centres have little impact on serious or violent crime. "Without the constant oxygen of publicity CCTV schemes can quickly lose their effectiveness," Ms Armitage said. "Ironically, evidence shows that the biggest falls in crime linked to CCTV installation occur before cameras are operational, coinciding with the period when publicity is at its greatest." Home Office evaluations of 24 CCTV schemes in town centres, housing estates, public transport and car parks showed four had resulted in crime rates rising significantly. A total of 13 resulted in a fall in crime, while seven had no effect. Nacro said that a forthcoming comprehensive review of the impact of CCTV concludes that the overall reduction in crime amounts to 5%. A parallel systematic review carried out by the Home Office looking at the impact of street lighting found a 20% reduction in crime. The Nacro report said that despite the boom in camera coverage and government funding, there had been very little substantive quality evidence to support these measures. But Lord Falconer told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme the signs were that cameras increased safety, and that people felt safer. "What the research indicates is that in every area there is a statistical reduction in crime. What it is saying is let's get more research done to see how more effectively it can be used."