The most severe criticism in the 200-page Bichard report is reserved for the chief constable of Humberside, David Westwood. But serious failings by several other organisations, including the Cambridgeshire police and north-east Lincolnshire social services, are also exposed. Nor does Sir Michael spare the government and the Association of Chief Police Officers, claiming they should have given stronger leadership.He also highlights five areas where improvements are needed. Here is a summary of the report. Humberside police The force that covered the area where Ian Huntley grew up and lived until he got the job as caretaker at Soham Village college was guilty of "systemic and corporate" failings, Sir Michael said. There was a "widespread failure to appreciate the value of intelligence" within the force. Though Huntley was accused of nine sexual offences in Humberside, five involving schoolgirls, this intelligence was not collated and retained. Sir Michael said there was "not one single occasion in all of the contacts with Huntley when the record creation system worked as it should have done". The process of creating records on its main intelligence system - called CIS nominals - was "fundamentally flawed". Police officers at various levels were "alarmingly ignorant" of how the system worked. Guidance and training given to officers were "inadequate". There were "few effective management audits" and "little evidence of sufficient strategic review of information management systems and no real awareness among senior managers of the scale and nature of the problems". Turning to Mr Westwood, Sir Michael criticised him for blaming data protection legislation for the lack of intelligence on Huntley: "Greater care was needed before making a statement of this importance." Sir Michael said he was "disturbed" that Mr Westwood still did not know basic details of how his force kept and stored intelligence before the inquiry began. "The lack of awareness of the nature or scale of these problems, failings and misunderstandings over such long periods is deeply shocking." Cambridgeshire police Sir Michael concluded that it was"extremely unlikely" that Cambridgeshire had sent a fax to Humberside police asking them to carry out a check of Huntley when he came to be vetted for the caretaker's post - though if they had done so nothing would have been found. The force was also at fault for failing to check both Huntley's aliases (he also used the surname Nixon) when it checked him on the police national computer. If this had been done, it should have revealed he had committed a burglary in the mid-90s. These errors were caused by problems in the force's local criminal records bureau, which had "resource and work pressures". The mistakes were "serious" but not systemic or corporate. Sir Michael said: "One might have expected the chief constable to identify the extent of these earlier than he did." North-east Lincolnshire social services Sir Michael raised "misgivings" about some of the contacts social workers in and around Grimsby had with Huntley. He asked why social workers concluded there were "no significant concerns" in 1995 when it became known that Huntley, then 21, was having sex with a 15-year-old girl. Sir Michael also questioned why in 1996 the cases of two other 15-year-olds who allegedly had sex with Huntley were not referred to the police. "These issues raise serious questions about the extent to which social services played their part in dealing effectively with someone who was known to have been involved sexually with several girls under the age of consent." Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers Sir Michael said he believed the Home Office, Acpo and Pito, which provides the police with IT systems, had to "share responsibility" for the fact that there is still no national intelligence IT system, nor at least a system which flags up to police forces that there is intelligence held on an individual by another police force. He said Acpo had been unable to "foster a culture that properly values the importance of intelligence". His report highlighted that though a national computer intelligence system was drawn up in 1994 it was abandoned in 2000. Before the home secretary's announcement yesterday there were still "no firm plans" for a national IT system in England and Wales. Delays in entering information on the police national computer were also highlighted. "The failure to remedy these problems over such a long period is further evidence of the failure to recognise intelligence gathering as a pre-requisite of modern, effective policing." There remained a "lack of clarity and differing practices in the 43 forces over intelligence". Data Protection Act Sir Michael described the act as "inelegant and cumbersome" but said it did not need to be revised. Instead "better guidance is needed on the collection, retention, deletion, use and sharing of information so that police officers, social workers and other professionals can feel more confident in using information properly". Huntley's recruitment Sir Michael concluded there were "errors" in the recruitment process at Soham Village college. The five open references which Huntley provided when he applied for the post of school caretaker were "by their nature unreliable and should not have been accepted". Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary HMIC "might have focused earlier on the issues of record retention, deletion and vetting". The inspectors had failed to expose the problems at Humberside. Five key areas for improvement 1 A new system for those working with children and vulnerable adults Sir Michael suggested the introduction of a register for those who wished to work with children. The register would be easily accessed by any employer, including parents and sports coaches. 2 A national IT intelligence system The introduction of such a system should be an "urgent priority for the government". At the least an interim system for flagging up the existence of information should be in place by 2005. But the Home Office should report on a permanent scheme by December. 3 Clear guidance on record creation, retention, review, deletion and the sharing of informationA new national code of practice was needed. It should cover all information, not just that relating to actual convictions. The code should also cover the sharing of information with other agencies. 4 Referral of sexual offences against children Sir Michael said he had noted the "level of public disquiet" that Huntley was able to have so many sexual relationships with girls under 16. He said there was concern that the issue of underage sex was not taken sufficiently seriously by the police. He said the government should "reaffirm the expectation that social services should other than in exceptional circumstances notify the police about sexual offences committed or suspected against children". National guidance should be provided to assist social services in making the decision when to notify the police. 5 More training for all involved in appointing people to work with children From a date to be agreed no interview panel for staff working in schools should be convened without at least one panel member being properly trained.