Canning Town tube station is grand and gleaming, and wouldn't look out of place in an international airport. It could not give a more misleading impression of Canning Town.This week, DHL announced that it was happy to deliver to Baghdad but not to certain inner-city areas of Britain, including this district of east London, blighted as it is by poverty, yob culture and, of course, that great 21st-century curse - hoodies. This is by no means the first time that Canning Town has been blacklisted: two years ago, NatWest labelled it a particularly risky place to lend money. (The bank, previously willing to make mortgage advances of 100%, became reluctant to advance more than 75% in London E16.) The area certainly suffers by way of contrast - it is within spitting distance of those great symbols of thriving capitalism, Canary Wharf and the City. But it definitely has problems: life expectancy is seven years lower in Canning Town than it is in SW1, 15 minutes away on the tube. Is it really so dangerous here? So dangerous that DHL workers fear for their safety in the face of gangs of threatening youths? Outside the tube station a group of men congregate. They are happy to talk about Canning Town but not to give their names. "Are you having a larf?" asks one. "Are you trying to get me beat up?" He says it's not the children who are the problem but the fact that there are no facilities for them. "Look at the parks. They are run-down. There is a lot of racism here, too - stinky attitudes. And it's not just white on black . It's complicated." Past the huge roundabout of roadworks, there is a road stuffed with shops and stalls. They are not boarded up, their windows are not smashed, they just look slightly under the weather. Walk through the town and you will not find the centre, the focal point. There is none. Strangely, DHL appears to be one of the area's biggest employers. Its depot here is huge. The receptionist says he has been told not to say anything. He gives me an Oh-God-No look and hands me a press release headlined "Holding statement". "DHL does not have a blacklist of areas where we do not deliver," it states, before going on to explain, without mentioning names, that it won't deliver to addresses that put their staff at risk. I ask the man on reception if he can elaborate. He closes an imaginary zipper across his mouth. On the corner of the high street in the local post office Jason Colligan, 32, is waiting in the queue. He has lived in Canning Town all his life. "I'd love to get out Essex way. There is nothing here. No cinema, no bank, just one cashpoint, nothing for the kids to do ... except drugs." Billy, 12 years old, is riding through the post office on his pink bicycle. "Canning Town is crap," he says. Why? "Hoodies ... I'm moving to Canvey Island." Past the West Ham Claret and Blue Traditional Fish and Chips, Age Concern and Bargain Food Centre, half a dozen pupils wait for the bus home. "Look," Delio says, "it's peaceful, it's beautiful here." He thinks all these reports about Canning Town are negative and disrespectful - it's true that some youngsters don't respect adults, but adults need to respect the kids, too. "We're not talking about the people, love, we're talking about the area," Kelis says to Delio. "And we want Canning Town to be safe." The problem, John says, is that people are so judgmental. "You see someone with a hood and start judging them negatively straightaway. And that's just wrong." All the children agree that it's daft for DHL to single out one area. "Take Wood Green in north London," James says. "There have been loads of stabbings there, and last week somebody got shot." Over at the cabbies, Chris looks at a newspaper and says it's rubbish. "All I wanna tell you is I gave a guy from DHL directions this morning." Jane, running the switchboard, reads the piece in the paper out aloud. Ah, she says, and concedes there is some truth in it. "They aren't delivering to homes. If a DHL van is parked anywhere around here you'll get a gang of boys who'll just go and break the doors and nick all the stuff out of it. The last five years have got worse. There are more robberies, more cars nicked," she says. All the drivers have their own story. Abid Naseem qualified as a vet in Pakistan but is working here as a cabbie. Five months ago, he had a knife held to his neck and two years ago he was held at gunpoint. "I was off for a month with stress. Now I can't work nights." What can be done to make Canning Town safer? "Lock all the kids up," Jane says with a peal of laughter. Is that really the answer? "Nah, course not. It's the drugs." Kayky's office is at the back of a hairdresser's that specialises in braiding. Yes, Canning Town has had its problems, but it's not too bad, he says. Kayky, a Nigerian, laughs when I ask if he cuts hair, too. "No, I operate a courier service from here." Is it dangerous? "I don't go looking for trouble, and things are fine. If somebody looks threatening, I turn the other way." His business partner, Max, a Russian, says Canning Town seems little different from Moscow. "Different faces, different places, but always human behaviour is the same - too much drinking, too much smoking."