A woman who went on a killing spree, murdering three men in 10 days, has been sentenced to spend the rest of her life in jail.Joanne Dennehy, 31, began her rampage in March last year in Peterborough. She then drove 140 miles to Hereford where she attempted to murder two other men, John Rogers and Robin Bereza.On Friday at the Old Bailey in London, Mr Justice Spencer sentenced her to a whole-life term, meaning she will never be released. The only other woman serving a whole-life sentence is Rose West.Dennehy laughed in the dock as the judge said she was "a cruel, calculating, selfish and manipulative serial killer". Spencer said she had a "sadistic lust" for blood.Dennehy appeared in the dock with her accomplices Gary Stretch and Leslie Layton, who were convicted this month of offences related to her killing spree. Dennehy, wearing a pink sleeveless T-shirt, smiled and chatted during the proceedings.Stretch was sentenced to life in prison and will serve a minimum of 19 years. Layton was sentenced to 14 years, and a third accomplice, Robert Moore, 55, who admitted assisting an offender, received a three-year sentence.Dennehy, who was referred to in earlier proceedings as Joanna, is one of the most lethal women in English criminal history. Her first victim was Lukasz Slaboszewski, 31, who was lured to a property in Peterborough via suggestive texts and then stabbed through the heart. He had come to believe Dennehy was his girlfriend, which led him to text a friend saying "life is beautiful".Over the next fortnight Dennehy used a pocket knife to stab to death her housemate John Chapman, 56, and her landlord and boss, Kevin Lee, 48. In Hereford she attempted to murder two strangers within nine minutes of each other as they walked their dogs.The judge said Dennehy had a "psychopathic personality" and she had provoked a "strange fascination" among the men.Lee was found dressed in a black sequinned dress with his buttocks exposed. The judge said the body had been posed in this position in a ditch.The court heard that Dennehy became excited at reports that police were hunting for her. As graphic and bizarre details of her acts were detailed by the judge, Dennehy appeared to laugh and smile. The court heard that she had told a psychiatrist she killed to see if she was as "cold as I feel" and that spilling blood became "more-ish".The judge said Dennehy had written him a letter showing no remorse for the murders but claiming some for the attempted murders, which she blamed on "drunken cruelty" and "lack of respect for human life".Dennehy, a mother of two, was described as "evil" by Robin Bereza, one of the men she attempted to murder in Hereford.The judge said the whole life term was merited because each of the three murders involved substantial degrees of premeditation or planning. He said she had a personality disorder and suffered from diagnosed as suffering from paraphilia sadomasochism, a condition in which sexual excitement is derived from pain and humiliation. She also lacks the normal range of human emotions.Dennehy is the second person to receive a whole life term this week, indeed the second since the court of appeal cleared any doubt that ordering people to be jailed until they die is lawful.On Wednesday, Michael Adebolajo, the ringleader of the terrorist attack in which the soldier Lee Rigby was murdered, was ordered never to be released. That case was also heard in court two at the Old Bailey.• This article and the subheading were amended on 18 March 2014 to correct a quote from Mr Justice Spencer's sentencing remarks.