Police investigating the fatal stabbing of a teenager in front of his parents at the family home say he may have been the victim of mistaken identity.Aamir Siddiqi, 17, was subjected to "a horrific attack" after opening the door to two masked men in Cardiff on Sunday afternoon. His parents, aged 55 and 68, were also stabbed as they tried to defend their son.Aamir, an A-level student, was treated at the scene and taken by ambulance to the University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, where he died. Siddiqi's family said today they feared the attackers would strike again unless witnesses came forward."We are afraid in our own family that the people who committed this crime may do so again," said Nishat Siddiqi, 34, one of Aamir's three sisters. "If anybody has any information, they should pass this on to the police. Please help so that these perpetrators are found before they harm anyone else."She said her brother was a "genuine" and "sincere" person, adding: "He was a dearly loved and loving brother, son and friend to many. Even within our own family Aamir was a friend, something precious that we will miss."Aamir's parents suffered serious stab wounds to the torso as they tried to fight off the two assailants, and both were taken to hospital for treatment. In a statement they described their son as "a kind and sensitive gentleman"."He was like his dad – he was a gentleman, kind and sensitive and really funny," the statement read. "He was a unique character always ready to help anybody and he was devoted to his family and friends.'Police said two men armed with a bladed weapon forced their way into the end terrace house in Ninian Road at about 1.40pm on Sunday. A team of 60 officers are involved in the investigation and detectives said the family were "understandably going through an unbelievably traumatic time".Detective Chief Superintendent Stuart McKenzie, who is leading the investigation, said: "It is clearly a hypothesis of ours that Aamir was mistakenly targeted. But that forms part of a number of hypotheses we have got. We have got to keep an open mind in this investigation."Aamir was an upstanding member of the community ... and I can't understand why he was targeted in this fashion, so mistaken identity is something we are considering."Detectives say the attack did not appear to have been racially motivated. One of the attackers is described of Asian appearance, in his late 20s, of average height and stocky build, with dark hair. He was wearing dark clothing.The second man is described as being of Asian appearance, in his early 20s, about 5ft 11in and of slim build. He was wearing a white jacket with a grey stripe down the sleeves. Detectives said that as the pair were leaving the area they were seen pulling black knitted balaclavas over their faces.