A British citizen was today with charged committing war crimes in the Balkans 16 years ago.Milorad Pejic, a Croatian Serb, faces trial in Belgrade for allegedly taking part in the murder of at least 200 Croatian prisoners killed by Serbian firing squads.Pejic, from the Croatian border town of Vukovar, lived in Corby, Northamptonshire, for 10 years until last month, obtaining a British passport.The 39-year-old father of two, who worked as a forklift truck driver, is accused of involvement in one of the worst single atrocities, which happened at a pig farm outside Vukovar after the Croatian town fell to besieging Serbian forces in November 1991. Pejic was arrested after travelling to Belgrade from the UK last month, and is to be put on trial along with 16 other suspects already being retried for the Ovcara farm massacre.They were found guilty, but the supreme court in Belgrade ordered a retrial by Serbia's special war crimes court. "Pejic, who at the time of the event was a member of the Vukovar territorial defence force, took part in the execution of 200 ethnic Croats in November 1991," the Serbian prosecutor's office said. Pejic was a member of the firing squads that murdered the captives and dumped the bodies in pits at the farm complex, the prosecution alleged. "He participated in the executions, according to our evidence," Jasna Sarcevic-Jankovic, a prosecution spokeswoman said. When Vukovar fell to the Serbs, some 300 Croatian fighters and civilians at the town hospital were taken by bus to a barracks and then to the farm complex. Exhumations of the mass graves have since identified 261 corpses. The charge sheet says Pejic and his accomplices murdered around 200 people and names 192 of the victims, some of whom were killed "by slicing their throats with knives." The charge sheet said the killers were ordered to load "groups of 30-40 captives on a tractor trailer [who were] transported in five or six turns to the execution site ... while they assigned a number of persons to supervise the transport, avert potential escapees, and perform the executions". The victims were lined up before firing squads "in front of previously dug pits" and those "still showing signs of life received gunshots in the head", the indictment reads.It says the bodies were dumped and the graves bulldozed. Pejic is expected to plead not guilty. Miroslav Djordjevic, his lawyer, insisted his client was innocent, saying: "He did not commit any crimes." Djordjevic refused to discuss any details of the case, except to claim that his client had "saved lives" in Vukovar. The Serbian authorities have been investigating Pejic since 2003.They issued an international warrant for him through Interpol in 2006, raising questions about why the British had failed to detain him. "It's not clear at all why the British did nothing. That's our question [to the British]," Sarcevic-Jankovic said. "I assume they knew about him." "If Serbia has issued an international arrest warrant, then the UK was made aware of such a warrant," Ivan Jovanovic, a legal expert monitoring Serbia's war crimes court for the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, said."Usually a state would check and locate a suspect and go through files to see if there are grounds for extradition or for prosecution." In London, the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) is responsible for liaising with Interpol and dealing with international warrants.Pejic, who came to Britain from the Balkans - first to London, then to Corby, where he lived in a three-bedroom house with his Serbian wife and two teenage boys - was granted British citizenship under his real name. UK police sources confirmed Soca had received an "international notification" on Pejic from Interpol, but only late last year - at least a year after the Serbs issued their wanted notice. "There is no link to the UK indicated in the warrant," a source said. Pejic has already been named by witnesses in the ongoing Ovcara trial in Belgrade as being a member of a firing squad. Like most of the others on trial, he served in a Serbian "territorial defence" unit at Vukovar, which, together with the Yugoslav army and paramilitary thugs, terrorised the town. "It's very strange," Natasa Kandic, Serbia's foremost war crimes campaigner said. "No one knew where Pejic was. They said he wasn't alive. We thought he would have changed his name."