Police investigating the murder of a teenage boy in south-east London arrested a 19-year-old man in connection with the killing today.Jimmy Mizen, described as a "gentle giant", was stabbed to death in an attack at the Three Cooks bakery in Lee on Saturday.His attacker seized an advertising board, forced his way into the bakery shop and wrecked the premises. Jimmy, 16, received a fatal slash wound to his throat during the onslaught, dying in his brother's arms after being attacked with a shard of glass when he refused a challenge to fight. It is not clear whether the victim knew his attacker.A Metropolitan police spokeswoman urged the media not to speculate about the identity of the teenager currently in police custody, saying that could prove prejudicial to the investigation.Yesterday, police appealed for more witnesses, saying they had retrieved CCTV footage gathered from the surrounding area.Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons, of the Metropolitan police homicide and serious crime command, said a forensic science examination had recovered "significant material".Lyons, who is leading the investigation, said the incident was "not being linked to any ongoing police investigation, neither does it have any racial or gang element".Jimmy – who had gone out that day to buy his first lottery ticket - was the 13th teenager to be murdered in London this year. His parents, Barry, 56, and 55-year-old Margaret, paid tribute to him yesterday."He was happy-go-lucky, loved his family, loved his guitar and playing rugby in the garden," his mother said.Her husband said his son was a "dear, dear, sweet young man, we loved him dearly. On the night of his birthday he was going out with his friends and we cuddled him. That is just a great, great memory". Asked about the parents of her son's attacker, Jimmy's mother said: "What can you really say to them? "You can imagine, that's their child, they held that boy in their own arms as a baby. They must be in pain. It's so painful that their child has been so cruel and so wicked."