The police yesterday warned ministers to "tread warily" over ideas for reforming the laws on prostitution which could lead to small-scale licensed brothels, local "tolerance" zones and a state register of prostitutes.The ideas are contained in a Home Office discussion paper, Paying the Price, published yesterday, which outlines the possibilities for the first big overhaul of the laws surrounding prostitution for almost 50 years. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday he wanted to launch a "thorough public debate" over the next four months over how to "meet the devastating consequences of prostitution". Legislation could follow this winter. The Home Office consultation paper says there are 80,000 people involved in prostitution in Britain, with 95% of those working on the streets using heroin or crack. About 5,000 children are believed to be involved in the trade, with more than a million men estimated to have paid for sex in the past five years. Home Office research published yesterday said traditional enforcement methods such as police crackdowns did not appear to reduce nuisance to local communities. Ministers say they are open-minded about the changes that are needed and the official consultation paper is careful to list both sides of the argument in its discussion of the options for controlling on- and off-street sex trade. Prostitution remains legal in Britain but there are more than 35 offences on the statute book that attempt to regulate the trade.Mr Blunkett told the Guardian this week that while he was personally not sympathetic to creation of "toleration zones", he would be prepared to give local authorities the discretion to set them up in their area. Liverpool and Doncaster are already pressing to push ahead with such schemes, which current laws make technically illegal. Edinburgh recently tried, and abandoned, such a scheme. Mr Blunkett indicated to the Guardian he would prefer a system of registration and healthcare checks for sex workers. The home secretary is also considering changing the law so that two or three women working together in a private flat or premises would no longer be prosecuted for running a brothel. Tim Brain, Gloucestershire's chief constable and spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, welcomed the debate. But he said senior police officers were unconvinced by tolerance zones or licensed brothels and warned ministers to "tread warily" in these areas.The UK Network of Sex Work Projects said it hoped Mr Blunkett would approve managed zones for street soliciting and allow prostitutes to work together in indoor premises.