How alarmed should we be at the spectacle of magistrates and judges handing out stiff sentences to rioters, looters and, at Chester crown court, four years apiece to two blokes who, it turned out, couldn't organise a Facebook riot in a brewery?Leading Lib Dems (remember them?) have been saying these cases are about "restorative justice, not about retribution". Oh, really?Given that it will cost a lot of money to restore the physical damage to already vulnerable communities – I was in Tottenham on Wednesday, and the cleanup is impressive – and a lot more time to dissipate wider public fearfulness, the task is probably beyond the average feral culprit.But retribution? Shameful though it may be deemed to admit it within the Guardian family, every time I see a nasty piece on new pix, CCTV footage or film of brutal incidents on the street (as I did on Wednesday: someone pulled off a moving motorbike, bike and rucksack both stolen), I hear the R-word tip-toeing across my brain.I want to see riot louts punished and, if punishment also helps them turn around their otherwise futile lives, then good.Unfortunately, another R-word (rationality) is rarely far behind. When it catches up it reminds me – as Alan Travis explains – that four years in prison for trying to organise a riot in Northwich or Warrington (no one turned up) is a bit excessive. You normally have to kidnap someone or run them over while drunk to attract that sort of attention.Yet I'm not sorry at the thought that Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan (we must blame the parents for that name, but a non-custodial sentence is appropriate) and Jordan Blackshaw woke up in the slammer on Thursday remembering that, no, it's not all a bad dream. It could be like this for the next 18 months, lads. And what if that big bloke on the next floor takes a shine to you?Mean? No. People write all sorts of really ugly and stupid things on Facebook, Twitter, email and other anti-social media platforms (including this one), and it's time they realised that they matter.They can rebound harshly on oneself as well as others, perhaps years later – as the Murdoch family empire is currently learning in the US (Ed Pilkington explains) as well as in Britain.We're at the start of a new communications era whose durability is both fragile and eternal. It's not yet clear whether your latest Tweet or Facebook witticism will be around forever like a Sumerian writing tablet, rapidly fade like too many modern photographs, or disappear with the next Tsunami/major electricity disruption. In the meantime, best to proceed with caution. Got that, Perry, Jordan and Rupert?The fact that there is a capricious, even arbitrary nature to the way local magistrates and judges are handing down sentences as they struggle to process the rioters also has a satisfactory element, though deplored by right-thinking people.Were not the rioters also being capricious in the streets and shops they chose to loot and burn? In the Malaysian student or motorcyclist they mugged on camera? In the elderly Ealing resident they chose to kick to death?Indeed. So it will do them no harm to find themselves looking from the dock at Magistrate Mayhem or Hanging Judge Jeffries.They are about to learn some important lessons of life. One, that life is sometimes unfair, two, that there is, after all, an old bloke in Britain who can punish them – contrary to what the idiots told each other during the riots – and do so in unpleasant ways like deprivation of liberty, loss of hoodie and, oh no!, of mobile phone and mum.Apart from swearing, giving a v-sign or waving at your mates (they'll be safe in their own beds tonight) there's nothing they can do about it except have a good cry the next time they're alone, which may be a while. I'm not sure that Lib Dem handwringing quite catches the public mood on this one, or that the public mood is wrong.It's different for civil liberty organisations – they're not representative in the way MPs are. For them, a riot is like an earthquake is for the Disasters Emergency Committee – both a disaster and a chance to raise donation levels.Lord Macdonald, the ex-DPP, and Lord Carlile, the QC and ex-MP who had oversight of terrorist detention cases until this year, make more weighty criticisms of David Cameron's "zero tolerance" response to the riots. They're both grownup Lib Dems, with their own Lib Dem long trousers.The prime minister is duty-bound to reflect the public mood, especially that wedge of the public that voted for him, but he also has to be careful. As Macdonald told the Guardian, there is a risk that we lose all sense of proportion in sentencing. As Carlile says, there's no point in overfilling crowded jails, expensive too.There's a wider point, endorsed by Sir Ming Campbell MP, also a member of the Lib Dem Long Trousers Tendency, namely that politicians should be wary of either "cheering or booing" what courts do. That argument cuts both ways, of course, but we are not here to discuss mission creep by judges who couldn't get elected if their lives depended on it.On Radio 4, as I type, Lord Macdonald is being very sensible – oh damn! – and suggesting that the Sentencing Guidelines Council should meet and issue advice on how to handle this extraordinary series of events.Consistency in sentencing matters, though a judge is also reminding listeners that inconsistency has always been there. It's part of life, too – in healthcare or education we call it the postcode lottery, and those who call for more local decision-making are actually demanding more of it.All the same, there has been a lot of loose talk – denied – about current guidelines being ignored at the behest of court clerks (the power behind many mags' benches), egged on by politicians like Cameron. He is taken to task by an editorial in the admirable but lofty New York Times, and should lose a little sleep – but not too much.George Osborne, on the other hand, should worry. Punitive policies cost money, even more than the rehabilitation/renovation policies I heard being unveiled by Boris Johnson and Eric Pickles in Tottenham (so impressive is the cleanup, incidentally, that only the lingering smell of smoke along parts of the High Road betrays the reason behind boarded up shops and demolished buildings. Plenty of other depressed British high streets look worse).Last but not least, as the Guardian also reports, there is the court of appeal, already clogged up and likely to be more so now that offenders are getting jailed for fairly trivial offences and marginal involvement in the riots.It's the latest manifestation of an old problem. We all want to punish the seriously bad guys, but sometimes it's quicker and easier to make an example of the idiots.