When one of the highest-profile and richest women in the world serves on a murder jury, it is inevitably a big story. So Oprah Winfrey's $17 a day stint in a Chicago courthouse this week has duly made news on both sides of the Atlantic. Yet the queen of US daytime televisual empathy's readiness to take her turn in the jury room is not merely another celeb story. It is also a reminder that they do these things differently - and often better in America than in this country.Jury service is a duty that Americans, rich and poor, tend to take in their stride. In some US cities with busy courts, an adult citizen can expect to be summoned to serve once every few years. Compare that with Britain, where a citizen has only a one-in-eight in a lifetime's chance of serving on a jury. Historically, one of the principal reasons for this disparity was the "middle-class opt-out". Not only were many professions - lawyers, doctors and clergy among them - exempt or debarred from jury service; those who knew how to play the system were also practised in the art of escaping jury service by pleading professional or other commitments. Until recently, two-thirds of those summoned to serve contrived to make themselves unavailable. The upshot was that juries in this country were often unrepresentative; disproportionate numbers of housewives, retired people and the unemployed made up the bulk of the jury numbers. Since May, when the Criminal Justice Act 2003 came into force, that has begun to change. Now it is no longer possible for whole groups to be exempt and it is harder than before for those summoned to win excusal. One consequence was the previously improbable sight of an appeal court judge, Lord Justice Dyson, serving as a juror last month at a London crown court (his fellow jurors elected him foreman without knowing his identity). Barristers and police officers, both also formerly debarred, can now be on juries, too. It is too early to say whether the old loopholes have been closed effectively - the department of constitutional affairs should in due course publish a research monitor on the new changes - but there still seems some way to go before the concept of jury service as a public duty becomes as well-established here as in the US. That day cannot come too soon.Juries matter. They strengthen the bonds of community and citizenship. We should all accept the duty to serve. Whether jurors should be encouraged to discuss their work on television, as Oprah's fellow jurors will, is arguable. But an open approach will always strengthen the system, not weaken it.