Detectives are heading to the Caribbean in a fresh bid to trace the man at the centre of Scotland Yard's biggest and longest-running serial sex attack inquiry, it emerged today.Police believe the man - a gerontophile with a predilection for elderly women - has broken into the homes of 98 pensioners in south-east London over the past 16 years, raping four of them and indecently assaulting 24.The assailant is a black man thought to be in his late 30s, and groundbreaking forensic tests have pinpointed his ancestral DNA to the Windward Islands.Senior Met officers, who suspect he may have gone there in lulls between spates of attacks, plan to fly out in the next couple of weeks to liaise with local police and make a public appeal to islanders for information."The purpose of our visit is to try and narrow down our list of possible suspects by using the very latest forensic techniques," said Detective Superintendent Simon Morgan, who is leading the investigation, codenamed Operation Minstead."We believe there may be links down the generations between our suspect and countries of the Caribbean. We know that the offender has periods of non-offending that may suggest he is not always in the UK."The majority of those targeted were in their 80s - the oldest was 93. Most were women, although police revealed yesterday that 10 of those burgled were elderly men, one of whom was sexually assaulted.The first offence linked to this attacker was in 1990, the latest in February 2005, and there could be more victims who have not come forward. In some cases, detectives only found out from family members after the deaths of elderly relatives, that they may have been attacked years earlier.The inquiry has looked at 21,500 "persons of interest" and eliminated 10,000. Officers have a strong DNA profile but have so far drawn a blank on the national database.Today, for the first time, police made a direct attempt to prick the attacker's conscience. All of his victims suffered emotional and in some cases severe physical trauma. Several have since died, including an 88-year-old woman who needed emergency surgery after the attack."For years she has lived in absolute agony and I went to this lady's funeral last month," said Mr Morgan."On behalf of her and all the other victims, I would appeal to this man directly and say 'Give yourself up. Your crimes have caused so much pain and misery to so many people. You know who you are. You know you need help. You know you have to stop.'"The attacker wears a balaclava, but he is described as between 5ft 10ins and 6ft 2ins, with a round face, broad nose and large lips, an athletic build and size 10 feet. He rides a motorbike - one of the victims heard it pulling away - and wears an all-in-one biker-type suit.Chilling new facts were disclosed today about how he talks to his victims in a soft, well-spoken voice during the attacks, often giving away details about his life which police hope will help identify him.He has mentioned links with Brighton several times and that his mother died in 2000. He seems to have experience caring for the elderly, evident in how he handles his victims, which could suggest he has worked with older people or maybe just spent years looking after his mother.He steals from the houses he breaks into, but appears to take items, such as ornaments or jewellery, as 'mementos' rather than straightforward burglary. On one occasion, he stole an unusual ceramic dish, on another a set of rosary beads, although he also declined to steal money from a church collection dish, suggesting he has some kind of distorted religious principles.He has taken credit cards but, to the knowledge of police, he has never attempted to use any of them, perhaps indicating he has a steady job and does not need any income from burglary.He has strong local knowledge of south-east London, particularly Shirley in Croydon, where he has carried out the majority of offences, and also Orpington, Warlingham, Coulsden and Forest Hill.He prowls quiet residential streets around midnight, breaking into houses where he seems to know elderly people live alone and will be asleep in bed. Police yesterday warned pensioners on their own and those with elderly neighbours to be vigilant.There is a £40,000 reward for information leading to his conviction and anyone who can help should call police on 0208 721 4640.