From full-face veils to page 3, different societies devise different ways to put women in their place. Oppression can be found anywhere in Britain, and not just in Muslim communities. But there are certain Pakistani, Bangladeshi and east African communities in which any teacher, police officer or community worker who has their eyes open will witness subjugation in distinctive forms. The forcibly arranged marriages which the government yesterday promised to criminalise are one.This newspaper resists any suggestion that a cultural practice can ever be made immune from criticism by tradition or the claim that religion requires it. We have, for example, argued that the niqab serves as a barrier to integration. But, like it or not, some women really do choose to wear it, so France's burqa-banning is deplorable legislative bullying. To criminalise a dress code is as wrong-headed as it would be to fine the girls who follow the undress code of Page 3. It hardly needs saying that forced marriage is different: it is tautological that it can never be voluntary. There are troubling questions about many more of the broader class of arranged marriages, where these follow on from too much pressure. But in those extreme cases where vows are truly made under duress, then there is no argument. Freedom has been violated with consequences that can include domestic slavery and rape.There can, then, be no principled objection to subjecting parents or others who would force someone to marry to the full force of the criminal law. The only question with the home office's proposal for a specific new offence is what difference it will make in practice. The statute book is crammed full of ineffectual offences designed to "send a message"; will the forced marriage ban prove to be one more example? It might be said to be superfluous, as to truly force someone into a wedding, one might have to punch, restrain or even abduct and at the very least to threaten – all of which are crimes already. But, in the context of an authoritarian father and a young daughter clueless as to her own rights, the real damage may not be done by any one threat which could plausibly be prosecuted, but rather by a pattern of intimidation which slips through the cracks between existing offences.The argument that the existing law was adequate was also heard when specific anti-slave labour laws were first proposed in 2009, but the last Labour government eventually agreed that the sum of exploitation could be more than its parts. Prosecutions following on from the uncovering of a modern-day slave camp near Leighton Buzzard are ongoing, and may see the new crime of forced labour prove its worth. The new forced marriage offence has to be worth a go if it likewise raises the prospects of a conviction and an appropriate sentence.That, however, remains a very big if. Community organisations that work with the women and girls on the sharp end cite youngsters who insist they would never come forward to seek help if the upshot could be their parents ending up in jail. Far better, these groups say, to stick with the existing system of civil injunctions which put parents on notice that they will end up in the dock if they keep up the pressure to marry, and then concentrate on the support services that can detect, counsel and provide sanctuary in the event of a problem.World-weary ministers tasked with making vast cuts will shrug that the voluntary sector is bound to prefer grant cheques to legal changes. But they really ought to listen to those experienced in persuading youngsters who have been brought up to believe they should be seen and not heard to, first, find their voice – and then raise it against their oppressors. It is difficult work. Changing the law is worth a go but, where crimes go on behind closed doors, the big stick will not break through on its own – the open ear is at least as important.