Even before the riots, you didn't have to walk far around Salford to see a boarded up house or shop. Salford's unemployment rate is higher than both the national and regional rates, and so is the proportion of the local population that is economically inactive.Salford's multimillion-pound Media City development has created hundreds of jobs in the area, and there are 6.6 unfilled Job Centre vacancies per member of the Salford working age population (compared with 6 in the north-west and 5.7 in Great Britain). But it's not such a surprise that these jobs might not be going to local young people: only 45% of local people have qualifications at A-level or above, and 13% of Salford's working age population have no qualifications at all.If the background to the riots is complex, it is not surprising that young people's views about the riots are complicated too. In the days immediately following, some made statements that chimed with the government – like Andy, 14, who said it was just that "chavs wanted to rob everyone". Or Jay, 15, who commented: "It was buzz, but it was stupid and there weren't no need to hurt people and little places." Jay's suggestion that the riots happened because of youthful-high-spirits-gone-wrong, is an analysis that all too readily shifts into condemnation of "pure criminality".Other young people's reflections, that point more towards sociological triggers, may just as readily be dismissed by some. Jack, 15, asked: "What do people think will happen when we can't get work, got no youth centres and can't go nowhere cos of the dispersal order?" Dave, 17, told us: "I'm not saying I know why people kicked off, but I do think most people ... and kids are angry, angry about jobs, no housing, no training... just that's there no help, no way to do better."Dave reserves judgement – how could he know the momentary sparks and the longer trajectories of experiences that got them there? But he does know that "kids are angry", and that background of anger about there being "no way to do better" seems significant. One of the most poignant comments came from 17-year-old Sylvia, who said: "People are angry, some people wanted to get the government to listen, some are angry but don't know why yet ... the younger ones anyway, they've got the same shit to come as us, nowhere to go and it will be worse by the time they're 17 and 18."While national commentators argue about whether or not the riots are 'political', what these young people remind us is that people can be angry about entirely political issues – inequality, disenfranchisement – while their anger may not be politically directed or organised.As Rob, 17, said of the aftermath of the riots: "It's not right, some man smash up some shop and it's everywhere, all over the news and everyone wants people to lose their houses ... but when rich people steal and things no-one's bothered." For Rob and others, the responses to the riots are just as political as the events themselves.• Hannah Jones is a sociologist based at Goldsmiths, University of London, and Michael Riley is a qualified youth worker in Salford and a Youth and Community Work undergraduate at Manchester Metropolitan UniversityAll names have been changed