Drunken men who demand sex from their wives or girlfriends should be treated as rapists and no longer allowed to claim their judgment was blurred by alcohol, according to the head of the government's review of the rape laws.Lady Stern, who is leading the review into how rape complaints are handled, has said there must be "no grey area" and that drink should be regarded as an aggravating factor when the case comes to court.Stern told London's Evening Standard newspaper that a drunken woman was not "fair game" and called for a much tougher line to be taken with men who failed to restrain themselves when they are drunk."Being drunk is voluntary and people who become drunk are responsible for their actions. It is not the alcohol that commits the rape. It is not an excuse. It used to be regarded as such, but it is not an excuse . It is an aggravating factor."Stern said that clear consent had to be obtained for sex regardless of how well couples know each other. A man could not assume a woman's consent."I don't think there is any ambiguity. You can't have sex with someone who hasn't said yes and this it. There is no grey area."The Stern review is due to report in February. It was set up by the minister for women, Harriet Harman, and the home secretary, Alan Johnson, in September to ensure more rapes are reported and that the conviction rates increase fairly.Stern said a prime focus of her review was to ensure that women's claims were investigated thoroughly and not dismissed prematurely because officers felt there was something suspicious about their allegation.She added that the oft-quoted statistic that only 6.5% of reported rapes end in a conviction for rape was misleading. Stern said she believed the 61% national conviction rate for rape cases that came to court gave a more accurate picture. This was because the 6.5% figure included large numbers of allegations that were either later withdrawn or related to historic incidents dating back decades that were impossible to prove in court.A report last month by Sara Payne, the national victims' champion, showed that the police are still refusing to take complaints seriously if victims have been drinking or if they come from "the wrong part of town".Her report on the treatment of rape victims said this culture of disbelief was matched by generally held misconceptions that a rapist is a stranger who breaks into victims' homes or attacks them in public places. Payne said most victims were attacked in private by someone they know, and injuries were not common. She voiced concerns that juries appeared reluctant to convict those who did not fit their idea of a "real rapist".