Manchester United captain Roy Keane was today found not guilty of common assault and criminal damage after a two-day trial at Trafford magistrates court.Keane had been accused of grabbing a 16-year-old student by the neck and shouting in his face after clashing with the youngster who had earlier made a "wanker gesture" outside his home.The footballer, who remained seated while the judge gave his ruling, gave no reaction as he was cleared of the three charges.District Judge Paul Richardson said he had to remind himself of the high burden of proof needed to convict a suspect in court. He added: "It was clear to me this was a young man who enjoyed the attention the incident had given him. Given his motive was at the best very questionable, I could not rely on his evidence."Earlier Keane, 33, spent 40 minutes giving evidence. Standing in the witness box with his hands clasped in front of him, Keane spoke quietly to deny any physical assault on the youngster, who cannot be named for legal reasons.The court was told that after exchanging words with the teenager, Keane walked away with his dogs. But once the footballer had left, the teenager said to his friend "what a wanker" - and Keane overheard the remark and returned.Keane denied lashing out with a walking stick when he first saw the youngsters as they initially rode past him.And in the second incident weeks later, he again denied physically manhandling the teenager. "I walked towards him and asked him if he gave me a hand gesture a couple of weeks earlier," Keane said."I just wanted to ask him to see if it was him and ask why he had done it. He said along the lines of 'you tried to knock me off my bike'."I was quite surprised, I think I might have said 'no I didn't'. I basically said I was not a wanker and I did not try to knock you off your bike and something along the lines of watch your mouth."Keane was asked by his barrister, Stuart Denney, if he had thrown a mock punch at the youngster's face, his fist stopping just before contact. Keane said it had not happened. After walking away, he said he overheard a remark from the teenager to his friend saying "what a wanker". Keane said he went to speak to the teenager to "nip it in the bud" because on occasion he walked his dogs with his young family. Prosecutor Peter McNaught, cross-examining Keane, asked him how he felt under the media spotlight, even attracting attention in his private life such as a relaxing walk with his dogs. "It's part of the trade," Keane replied. Keane said he had spoken in a "polite and calm" way to the teenager about the swearing. In a statement to police read out in court, Keane said the youngster was "quite lippy to say the least, saying 'get out of my face, get walking your dogs', just giving lip basically". Mr McNaught asked why Keane decided to go back to the teenager after overhearing the "what a wanker" remark. "Just to have another word with him, give him another warning," Keane replied. "What warning?" the prosecutor asked. "Along the lines of watch your mouth." Mr McNaught: "What were you going to do if he did not watch his mouth?" "I'm not sure, telephone the police, along those lines," Keane replied. He admitted he was "just a little bit angry".Mr McNaught: "This 16-year-old youth a few weeks ago calls you a wanker. You have gone across to speak to him and he wouldn't answer your question. Then he called you a wanker again. Just a little bit angry?" "Just a touch," Keane replied.After leaving court, Manchester United club solicitor Maurice Watkins released a short statement on behalf of the player.It said: "Roy has been here for two days. Throughout Roy has cooperated fully with the police inquiry."He has maintained his innocence throughout and he has been vindicated today and he is very relieved justice has been done."