More than 100 indecent images of children were found on a computer belonging to Craig Meehan, the stepfather of Shannon Matthews, a court heard today.The computer was seized by detectives the day after Shannon went missing in February from the home Meehan shared with Shannon's mother, Karen Matthews, in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire.David Holderness, prosecuting, told Dewsbury magistrates court today that Meehan faces charges referring to 134 indecent images of children. All but one of these were found on the second-hand computer he had bought in 2006. One was found on his mobile phone, the court heard.Holderness told the court that 16 of the images had been classified as level four on a scale from one to five, in which five is the most serious. Eleven of the images were classed as level three, 19 as level two and 83 as level one.Meehan, 22, has denied 11 charges of possessing indecent images of children. At the beginning of the trial today, he was asked again if he continued to deny the allegations. Holderness said Meehan blamed other people who had used his password-protected computer. "There are substantial amounts of material which, when put together, provide a convincing and overwhelming picture that it was Mr Meehan who was the person who downloaded the relevant materials," Holderness said. Part of the prosecution case would be matching the times at which the images were downloaded with fishmonger Meehan's work record, he said.The court heard that police seized the computer along with another from the house in Moorside Road on February 20, initially to help them with their search for Shannon. It was only when the machine was thoroughly examined that the indecent images were found. Meehan bought the computer from the Brighthouse store in Dewsbury in September 2006. Holderness said the store had wiped the machine's memory clean before selling it on. Extensive inquiries had taken place into the nature and thoroughness of this cleaning process, the prosecutor said, and he was confident he could persuade the court "all of the images were not on the computer prior to the purchase by Mr Meehan". Meehan has never been accused of involvement in Shannon's disappearance. The trial, which continues, is expected to last five days.