The prime minister will deliver a speech on the criminal justice system today. Some will portray it as a typical New Labour rapid response to the weekend news that crime is rising and to yesterday's audit commission report on serious defects in the criminal justice system. But in fact the speech was planned weeks ago and the government has been assembling its criminal justice reforms for over three years, including last year's Halliday report on sentencing and this year's Auld report on the courts. A Home Office white paper is due next month. But what should Tony Blair say today?Mr Blair needs to think Sven not spin. He needs to be cool and calm, and not exaggerate. Tabloid headlines like the Sun's "Crime Soaring Under Labour - shock official figures" need to be put in perspective. The figures are based on a media round-up of 33 of the 43 police forces. The official figures are not released until next month, though the Home Office does not deny that there will be a rise. If the projected 6% rise proves to be correct, it will be a setback but not a disastrous one. In one 10-year period under the Conservatives (1982-1992) crime more than doubled - and in the last four years of that period it increased by 67%. Until nine years ago, crime had been rising by an average 5% a year since 1918. The most stunning news this decade has been last year's British Crime Survey, which showed a 12% drop compared to the previous year and a phenomenal 33% drop in the previous five. We will not know until next year whether this year's rise is a blip or the start of a trend.There are plenty of reasons why crime might have started to rise again: a rising number of males aged 14-24, the most crime-prone age group; a rise in hard drug users needing to finance their addiction; new police recording proce dures; and more police officers to record crime (traditionally half of all crime was not reported, and half of reported crime was not recorded). All this, though, is for next month, when the facts are clear. Today Mr Blair should be highlighting current inefficiencies. As the audit commission noted yesterday, one obvious challenge of the £13bn system is its complexity: three government departments, seven main agencies, including an independent judiciary. All seven agencies suffer unacceptable inefficiencies. There is £80m wasted every year through adjournment or cancellation of trials. Wide variations in the performance of the agencies need correcting - the new police standards unit has a really crucial role here. Auld had a list of changes which could make courts more efficient, including more rigorous pretrial hearings plus written summaries for juries. Lawyers should be held accountable where they cause unnecessary delays. Victims and witnesses have long needed better care and protection. But the biggest challenge facing this government is the crisis in the prisons. A court system which already was incarcerating proportionately more people than China, Saudi Arabia and Turkey has become more punitive not less. Halliday documented the damage which short sentences produce by removing the influence that keep people straight - family, home, and work. The three top professionals - the lord chief justice, prisons chief inspector, prisons director general - have all called for more use of community programmes. The two senior justice ministers - the lord chancellor and home secretary - endorsed this approach in a joint statement last Friday, but they did it without fanfare and publicity. Mr Blair could change that today with a bold and ringing endorsement.