Two new American private prison companies are to be invited to bid to run jails in England and Wales as part of the government's plans to build more places to cope with the soaring inmate population.Martin Narey, the chief executive of the new National Offender Management Service (Noms), has told the Guardian that a new programme of market testing of prisons is to start next year and may include tenders to run groups of prisons for the first time. The National Offender Management Service is to be set up in June and will oversee the running of the prison and probation services. The prison population reached 75,000 for the first time this week and ministers hope Noms will play an important part in capping that increase at 80,000. Mr Narey said the 80,000 target was chosen to give sufficient time to convince the courts to use community penalties instead of "futile short prison sentences" for people who do not need to be inside. "We felt that gave us sufficient leeway to stop the increasing use of custody and increasing sentence lengths," Mr Narey told the Guardian. "We thought it would not be realistic to say we would stop it dead in its tracks at 75,000 and that does give us scope to do that." As Noms chief executive, Mr Narey has been given the task of ensuring "contestability" in the provision of prison and probation services by attracting new providers into the market through a planned programme of market testing. He said that he hoped that would include not-for-profit voluntary organisations bidding to run some local probation programmes. Mr Narey said the new programme of market testing for prisons will mean a number of jails will be put out to tender. "That means that the public prison sector may lose management of those prisons if they do not return the best tender in terms of quality and cost." He said last month's merger between Group 4, Falck and Securicor, who run four private prisons in England and Wales, means he will have to keep a close eye on the competition implications. He said he wanted to see more "providers" enter the British market: "Last summer I visited the US and spoke to two providers who are not yet operating in England and Wales. I have started a dialogue with them about the possibility of their bidding for future work." He declined to name them but said they were two viable US private companies who had not yet, in their current form, bid to run British prisons. Mr Narey added that Noms was looking at the possibility of market testing a group of prisons rather than a single individual prison as has happened up until now. "It is difficult for the private sector to manage the overheads when they have a small number of operations while it is relatively easy for the public sector prisons to manage overheads because they can spread them over a large organisation," he said explaining his thinking behind the idea of inviting bids for a limited group of prisons.