Anne Darwin wished her husband had really disappeared at sea, and she contemplated suicide as the immense strain of living a double life became too much, a court heard yesterday. John Darwin faked his own death in March 2002 in a canoe accident at Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool, and she went along with the scam for five years, hiding it from their sons, the police and insurance companies.Occasionally weeping as she stood in the witness box yesterday for the first time at Teesside crown court, she said: "I ran out of the house and I crossed the road to the sea and I sat on a bench looking out to sea and I wished, in fact, that John had drowned at sea. Because that had not happened I actually considered going into the sea myself, I felt so desperate but I couldn't do it because of the rest of the family, particularly Mark and Anthony [her sons]."Darwin, 56, a doctors' receptionist, said she felt intellectually inferior to her husband, who used to be a teacher. She is claiming a defence of marital coercion.As their marriage progressed, the couple stopped going out together, particularly after the birth of their sons: "He [John] used to joke with the neighbours that he only took me out to vote," she said. Early in the marriage, he had an affair.On the night of his disappearance he rang to ask whether she had reported him missing. "I really wanted him to come home and I didn't want him to go any further," she said. "He said: 'I have to.'"She had dropped him off at Durham train station. He gave her a payphone number and she was told to ring it at set times. Her husband told her he wanted to return home as he was finding it difficult living rough. When she eventually picked him up, she did not recognise him as he was bearded, limping, in different clothes and using a walking stick. "Yes, I was pleased to see him," she said. "But I was also very angry and I was angry for the fact I had been put in that position. I said to him, 'Now is the time to put an end to this. We have got to stop it.' He said: 'We can't because we have come this far.'" Darwin said she urged him to come clean. "He said that if I didn't carry it out, he would say I had been party to it from right at the beginning and I had helped him plan everything," she told the jurors.John Darwin secretly lived in a neighbouring bedsit connected by a door. She said by 2003 she was under immense strain as "I was effectively leading a double life and it wasn't something that came naturally. It was a strain keeping up the pretence." She had not walked out "because it was difficult to live with him at times but it would have been even more difficult to live without him".Asked by defence barrister David Waters: "Do you still love John?" She replied: "At this moment in time, no."Waters asked her why she couldn't be pleasant but firm with her husband, as she was at the doctors' surgery where she worked. "The two are completely separate worlds," she replied. "In the surgery I had ... skills developed for dealing with difficult patients. It was not quite the same dealing with your own husband."Darwin said her husband was secretive when he played an internet role-playing game. She said: "If I went to look at the screen and if I went to see what was going on, he would quickly hide the conversation box." After his disappearance, she became aware of a woman named Kelly Steel, from Kansas, whom he met through an online role-playing game. He flew to meet her. She said: "He had been virtually a house prisoner for some time and he needed a break and he was planning to go. "He said he was going to America. I didn't know where he was going to go."She said she did not try to stop him, as: "There was not much point because ... whatever John wanted, John got." She said he returned some time later having lost £30,000.Anne Darwin, who denies six deception and nine money-laundering charges, said she had no idea about the level of debt they had been in as her husband dealt with the finances. Of her husband, Darwin said: "He would not shout. He was a very quiet man. The more angry he became, the quieter he got." He made her feel "like a second-year pupil in one of his classes", she added."He would go on and on about things and in the end I gave up trying. No matter what I said, he would have his own way."The trial continues.