The man whose dismembered body parts were found at different locations during the past month was last night named by police as Jeffrey Howe, a 49-year-old salesman for a kitchen firm.  Jeffrey Howe, the murder victim whose body parts have been found around the English countryside. Photograph: Hertfordshire police/APHowe, from north London, who had no children and was not married, had lived in various locations across the UK and had worked in Italy as a cook, police said.Detectives released his name in what is being called the "jigsaw man" case as they continued to question a man and a woman on suspicion of his murder.Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire major crime unit said a man aged 37 and a 20-year-old woman were arrested on suspicion of murder at an address in Southgate, north London, on Tuesday afternoon.Magistrates had given detectives until this afternoon to question the pair, who are being interviewed at a police station in Hertfordshire. Detective Chief Inspector Michael Hanlon said: "Extensive work has been carried out in relation to this murder investigation and I can confirm today that two people have been arrested on suspicion of murder."We believe we have identified the victim of the murder and specialist officers are currently working closely with the family."Officers issued a tribute from his brother, whom they did not name. It read: "Jeffrey was an extremely caring son. He was a jovial, charming character who had a heart of gold and would get on with anyone. He could be a little selfish sometimes, but did what he thought was best. "Although we didn't have a great deal of contact and we hadn't seen each other for a few months, as you can imagine our family has been left extremely traumatised by what has happened."Scores of officers have been chasing leads since a left leg with the foot attached was found in a lay-by on the A507 in Cottered, Hertfordshire, last month. On 29 March, an arm, dismembered at the elbow and wrist, was discovered on a grass verge in Wheathampstead, about a 40-minute drive from Cottered. On 1 April, a farmer found Mr Howe's head in a field in Asfordby, Leicestershire, about 95 miles from Wheathampstead via the M1 and A606. His right leg was found near the A10 Puckeridge bypass in Hertfordshire by a driver on April 7 before finally his torso was discovered by a walker near Standon in the same county on April 11. Only his hands have not been found.