Black and ethnic minority officers in the Metropolitan police face serious discrimination in the way their conduct is managed, an independent inquiry into alleged racism in the force found today.The inquiry, chaired by Sir Bill Morris, called for radical and urgent change in "discriminatory" management practices. It expressed concern that there was no common understanding of diversity within the force, and that diversity remained "at worst a source of fear and anxiety, and at best a process of ticking boxes". The 288-page Morris inquiry report made 37 primary recommendations and more than 50 secondary ones after hearing from more than 100 contributors and sifting through 16,000 returned questionnaires from the Met's 43,000 officers.Among its chief findings, the report called for the Commission for Racial Equality and the Independent Police Complaints Commission to monitor the Met's complaints and disciplinary policies, an independent inquiry into the high-profile prosecution of Superintendent Ali Dizaei, and the replacement of outdated regulations."The statistics indicate clear disproportionality in the way black and minority ethnic officers are treated in relation to the management of their conduct," Sir Bill told a press conference. "This represents a serious issue of discrimination, which must be tackled as a matter of priority. Such is our level of concern that we will be directing the issue to the attention of the Independent Police Complaints Commission and the Commission for Racial Equality."The former union leader said the report recommended a "significant agenda for change, both nationally and within the Met". "We began from the premise that we wanted our inquiry to help the Met improve and learn," he said. "We are confident our recommendations will provide the Met with a route map for improving the way in which it manages its officers and staff."The inquiry was set up by the Metropolitan police authority to examine policies and procedures used for dealing with complaints and allegations. It followed questions over the handling of a number of high-profile cases involving ethnic minority officers, including that of Supt Dizaei, who was last year cleared of allegations of dishonesty at the Old Bailey. Sir Bill added that the inquiry was concerned about how the Met's directorate of professional standards managed investigations, and recommended that the commissioner take charge of a review of the body.Other recommendations called for the extension of employment law to police officers, the human resources department playing a full part in disciplinary cases, the Met consulting with other forces over best practice, and that officers under investigation should be better informed of developments. It also urged the Met to take steps to monitor the culture at its training centre in Hendon.The Met admitted that it had "a way to go" to achieve its goals, and said recommendations contained within the Morris inquiry would help speed up that process. The deputy commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, said: "Despite the continuing modernisation of the Met, we do recognise that we have a way to go to build an organisation where everyone feels comfortable ... we'll continue to work together with all our staff and other partners to keep improving. "I will now study the detail of the report and consider how its conclusions and recommendations can help us do this." Sir Ian stressed that, in many areas of "operational effectiveness", the Met was exceeding expectations. "The organisation is continually striving to modernise itself, and changes have already been introduced to improve the way we look after our people," he said. "Both the commissioner and I have lobbied for change to the arcane regulations that govern police disciplinary matters, a court martial-style system that has not kept pace with modern employment practices, and we welcome the inquiry's endorsement of the evidence we provided." The mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, said there was "continuing racism in the police, as there is in every other institution". "Without a shadow of a doubt, some people have in the disciplinary structure focused more on their colleagues who are black or Asian. This is completely unacceptable," he said. "It is something that myself, Sir Ian Blair and others are determined must change. It is an attitude of mind that has to change. And if it cannot be changed, the people have to change." The home office minister Hazel Blears said: "The commitment to reform shown in commissioning this report demonstrates they are committed to tackling the difficult issues head on and ensuring that their police force is held properly to account. "The Metropolitan police service's constructive engagement with the inquiry is a very positive sign for the future."