In a move described as "long overdue", 18 primary care trusts (PCTs) will take responsibility for healthcare in local prisons from April in the first wave of partnerships between NHS authorities and prisons, the Department of Health announced yesterday.Prison campaigners welcomed the change but warned that the unique and intense health problems of prisoners posed a challenge.The Prison Reform Trust policy officer, Enver Solomon, said: "This is long overdue. It's a positive move that prison health has shifted to the Department of Health. In the past the standard of provision and care has not been of an equal standard to that outside the prison."The main health problems facing prisoners are mental illness, drug addiction and infectious diseases. Around 90% of all prisoners have a mental health disorder, substance abuse problem or both. Nearly a quarter of prisoners have injected drugs, with 20% of these infected with hepatitis B and 30% with hepatitis C.The results of these medical histories - and challenges for healthcare providers - include dozens of detoxifications a month, having prisoners sectioned and stemming infectious diseases passed through needle-sharing and unprotected sex."It's absolutely imperative [that] the transfer is done properly," Mr Solomon said. "A lot of primary care trusts have never worked in a prison. It's no good putting in a GP that has no experience working with mental health or drug problems. Those are going to be the two big issues."These concerns were echoed by those working within prisons. The Prison Officers' Association general secretary, Brian Caton, said: "I can understand the logic behind what's happening but its misguided."You're not dealing with patients, you're dealing with a prisoner who's ill. Prisoners have lots of baggage and are seriously damaged," he said. Mr Caton said that he believes the skills of prison officers and other prison employees who have vast experience handling erratic and volatile prisoners are undervalued by PCTs.Nurses within prisons, however, are confident they have the necessary experience to care for the prison population.A spokeswoman for the Royal College of Nursing Prison Nurses' Forum, Lesley Jones, said: "The general health community has a lot of experience dealing with people with mental health problems. While I understand the concerns, the NHS and the PCTs have the background to deal with mental health and drug issues."A Department of Health spokeswoman emphasised that the initiative signalled a working partnership between the NHS and the prison service, under which the PCTs will be taking over the commissioning and purchase of services but not the staffing.She said: "The transfer is about a partnership to modernise prison health. The PCTs have all created a delivery plan. These have been agreed by the strategic health authorities and prisons."The community care minister, Stephen Ladyman, said: "This transfer will enable PCTs to use their considerable knowledge and experience to tackle some of the wider health and social exclusion problems such as mental health, substance misuse and communicable diseases, and will bring about real health improvements. "If we can tackle these problems while people are in prison we can have a real impact on helping people settle into the community on release and reduce reoffending. These 18 pioneering PCTs are playing a key role in testing out new health partnerships between local prisons and the NHS and ensuring that the arrangements are robust and fit for the future." The minister for correctional services, Paul Goggins, said: "This is a complex and challenging task. The prison service is delighted that so many local partnerships between prisons and the NHS have shown they have the right arrangements in place to take forward this critical agenda on behalf of the rest of both services." The NHS will have frontline healthcare responsibility for all English prisons no later than April 2006.