Harold Shipman killed at least 215 of his patients, the report into his crimes concluded yesterday, officially confirming him as Britain's worst serial killer.Yet despite a lengthy criminal trial, a year-long public inquiry and the publication of a 2,000-page report into his 23-year murder spree, no one is closer to answering the question - why? Dame Janet Smith, the inquiry chairman and author of Death Disguised, said: "He betrayed their trust in a way and to an extent which I believe is unparalleled in history. "Deeply shocking though it is, the bare statement that Shipman has killed over 200 patients does not fully reflect the enormity of his crimes," she said. "As a general practitioner, Shipman was trusted implicitly by his patients and their families." She said there were 45 deaths for which she found that a "real suspicion arises that Shipman may have been responsible, although the evidence is not sufficiently clear for me to reach a positive conclusion that he was." Shipman was convicted at Preston crown court in January 2000 of killing 15 elderly patients with lethal injections of diamorphine. Dame Janet said in some ways that Shipman's "non-violent" killing seems almost more incredible than the violent deaths of which we hear. "The way in which Shipman could kill, face the relatives and walk away unsuspected would be dismissed as fanciful if described in a work of fiction." Five of his victims lived on the same street and nine lived in the same sheltered housing complex. In Hyde yesterday morning, church bells were rung 215 times in memory of those who were murdered. Dame Janet said it was deeply disturbing that Shipman's killing of his patients did not arouse suspicion for so many years and the systems which should have safeguarded his patients against his misconduct failed to operate satisfactorily. She said the report sets out as complete and accurate an account of Shipman's criminality as she believes it will be ever possible for anyone (other than Shipman) to give. His first victim, Eva Lyons, was killed in March 1975 on the eve of her 71st birthday while Shipman was working at the Abraham Ormerod medical practice in Todmorden. In February 1976, he was convicted of obtaining pethi dine by deception - an opiate commonly used in labour. He was reprimanded and resigned from his job, but was not struck off by the General Medical Council. Later, in 1966, in the name of a dying patient, he obtained enough diamorphine to kill 360 people. The majority of Shipman's victims - 171 - were women, compared with 44 men. The oldest was 93-year-old Anne Cooper and the youngest was 41-year-old Peter Lewis. He killed 71 patients while at the Donneybrook practice in Hyde and the remainder while a sole practitioner in Market Street. "No one reading this report can fail to be shocked by the enormity of the crimes committed by Shipman and to feel, as I do, the deepest sympathy for his victims and their families," she said. She said his activities had brought tragedy upon them and also upon the communities in which he practised and which gave them their trust. Detective Chief Superintendent Bernard Postles, who began investigating Shipman in July 1998, said: "I have always believed that the full extent of his killing would far exceed the murders of the women he was convicted of killing. "From an early point in the investigation into Shipman, we became aware of families' concerns about the deaths of a large number of his patients. The nature of the criminal judicial process meant that we were unable to include more than 15 murders on the indictment." Yesterday Primrose Shipman, the 54-year-old wife of the serial killer, who has stood by her husband, refused to comment. A copy of the report will be sent to Shipman at Frankland jail, County Durham, where he is serving life. The home secretary David Blunkett has already indicated that he will spend the rest of his life in prison. Relatives of those killed by Shipman spoke of their sense of betrayal, while politicians and the medical profession insisted that lessons had been learned. The prime minister's spokesman said the affair should not be allowed to "erode the bond of trust" between doctors and patients. Dr Ian Bogle, chairman of the British Medical Association, said changes in the way doctors are regulated meant "this sort of thing could not happen now". The second phase of the public inquiry will now begin and it will look at how Shipman went undetected for so long and what measures could be brought in to ensure it never happens again. It is likely to recommend strict guidelines over controlled drugs and changes to procedures involving cremation certificates. Until yesterday Britain's worst serial killer was Mary Ann Cotton, the Victorian poisoner, who murdered up to 21 people in the 1870s.