Our society has moved towards, or some might say reverted to, a legislative approach that punishes those who commit crimes not solely on the basis of their actions, but on the reasoning behind those actions and the identity of the victim.If I steal a bicycle from my friend, and admit in court that I do so because his name is Tim, and I am proud of vehemently disliking people called Tim, perhaps I'm a member of an anti-Tim society, should I be punished more seriously than if I had simply stolen his bike because I wanted his bike? You may think that would be nonsensical.In April 2005, section 146 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 was implemented. This section of the act doesn't create new offences, but imposes a duty upon courts to increase the sentence for any offence aggravated by hostility based on the victim's sexual orientation or disability. Race has similar legal protection. The court, in deciding on the sentence to be imposed, must treat evidence of hostility based on disability, orientation, or presumed orientation as something that makes the offence more serious.The writer Gerald Warner, in an article for the Telegraph, calls for the repeal of "hate" laws, describing their "grossly distorted sentencing system which has created two-tier justice" citing section 82 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, which lead to guidelines of significant increases for the sentence where a racial motive was involved.Warner argues that considering some crimes to be aggravated by virtue of the intention of the criminal and the identity of the victim "is a reversion to the Middle Ages when assaulting a Norman baron meant death, while attacking a churl entailed a fine ... By imposing a much heavier sentence for an assault on a member of a statutorily specified minority than on an elderly person whose life may subsequently be shortened by the shock, we have again created legally privileged sections of society."What is so different about Tim that means he and his bike do not deserve the same level of recognition in the law that a gay man would receive if he were the victim of a similar incident at the hands of a thieving homophobe?The CPS guidelines for the prosecution of hate crimes in relation to discrimination against homosexual and transsexual people articulate an answer to why the blindfold of justice can be accused of "slipping":"We regard homophobic and transphobic crimes as particularly serious because they undermine people's right to feel safe about and be safe in their sexual orientation, whether they are lesbian, gay, bisexual or heterosexual, and in their gender identity, whether they are women or men and including trans men and women. Such crimes are based on prejudice, discrimination and hate and they do not have any place in an open and democratic society."In theory all are equal, and should be treated equally, but as the supreme court justice Oliver Wendall Holmes Jr so clearly reminded us, law must be written taking into account the "bad man".Take the news story of an unnamed gay couple assaulted in Northern Ireland recently.Following the incident, one of the men said to a reporter:"I'm too scared to leave my own house. I'm too terrified to answer my own door. I'm terrified to walk down the street. My partner is working today and I had to walk him to work because he is terrified and he is usually a very strong, confident man … People don't realise the repercussions of hate crime. It debilitates you. It wrecks you. It wrecks lives."The reason my theoretical anti-Tim society isn't the subject of legislation is that it is not a real problem. The reason that hate crime legislation identifies attributes requiring special protection must be not because these particular facets of human identity are any more or less meaningful, interesting, valuable, or morally significant than plenty of others (for instance, class) but that these factors are currently ones which are subject to socially undesirable and harmful discrimination.My only experience of hatred comes from participating in trials where it has been a factor. I don't know if Gerald Warner has other experiences, but it seems to me that if it debilitates victims and wrecks their lives, legislators must be allowed to put it into a special category of real problems created by bad people. Should enough acts of violence and hatred be specifically levelled against people called Gerald, creating fear in the hearts of Geralds everywhere, perhaps the calls would be for the creation of laws, rather than their repeal.• This article was commissioned via the You tell us page. If you have your own suggestions for subjects you would like to see covered by Cif, please visit the page and tell us