"This country is rotten." So said a friend of mine reacting to the news that a man waiting with his three-year-old daughter at a bus stop to go to visit his wife and newborn son in hospital had been stabbed to death. We were in my friend's car and the news had just come over the car radio. Cursing and swearing about the perpetrator, my friend's anger was palpable. "It stinks," he said banging down on the steering wheel, "fucking scum."We do not yet know the exact circumstances of what happened in this case. But I'm not going to lie, I was angry too. Every week, it seems, there are reports of nastier, even more senseless violent incidents in which innocent, men, women and children are killed and loving families destroyed. The seemingly random nature of such killings heightens our sense of anguish and horror – the victim could have been any one of us, any one of the people we love. In the heat of our emotional response to such news, any consideration or understanding for the person or persons responsible does not even remotely enter the heads of most of us. And so, when we think about prisons and prisoners, criminals and convicts, it is easy to shroud all under the same cloak of scorn and loathing. They deserve nothing, and plenty of it.But – there is always a but, and in this case, it is a big one – all the people who go to prison, bar a couple of dozen of those involved in the most high-profile cases and those who die of natural causes or by their own hand, will one day be released to be somebody's neighbour. The challenge for us as a society, if we want people to return from wings and landings as good neighbours, is to maintain a humane approach even towards those we perceive to have behaved inhumanely. There is no excuse for causing harm and distress to other people. But the prisoner population is heaving with damaged, disturbed and difficult individuals, most of whom have not coped well with the stresses and strains of their lives. People who end up in prison after having harmed others are generally those most lacking in the better qualities that make us human, in abilities and skills, in emotional and mental wellbeing, in positive aspiration. Many have made rational choices that have led to criminal acts, for sure. But a greater number would rather have had good, constructive lives, free from crime, disorder and dysfunction. Yet, for a whole multitude of reasons other than simple choice, have been unable to succeed. Personal failure leaves little room for empathy with others who appear not to have experienced it. Among the most inadequate, it distorts thinking and breeds envy and contempt. The way such people are treated once they are in prison, therefore, is key to how they will behave once released. Give them plenty of nothing and that is what we are likely to get in return, except with a large measure of aggravation and pain as interest. Justice Secretary Jack Straw's clampdown on people in prison experiencing "fun", in the form of creative and artistic activities, smacks of spitefulness and, as Libby Purves argues, will be completely counterproductive. Clearly unamused by the stand-up comedy course offered by a drama group in high security Whitemoor prison in Cambridgeshire late last year, Straw stepped in and personally cancelled the course halfway through. He described it as "totally unacceptable" because, he said, it was not "a constructive pursuit".Under his orders, his department has now issued a PSI (Prison Service Instruction) forbidding any "recreational, social, or educational activity" unless it meets "the public acceptability test". The course at Whitemoor had been going for some time without controversy, until Zia ul-Haq, convicted of planning terrorist offences in London enrolled. An opportunist at the prison then decided to contact the tabloid press. Hence Kneejerk Jack's ill-thought-out reaction. The fact is creative activities and the arts can transform the attitudes and lives of those in prison who choose to become involved. Exposing people who have been brutalized themselves and may have brutalised others to drama, music, and maybe even a little stand-up comedy, just might reach a part of their characters which stark punitive attitudes can never penetrate. Allowing troubled people to feel some self-worth through creative expression is more likely to foster self-respect and engender empathy with others than what prison life offers generally. Straw bangs on about "public acceptibility" – what about public acceptability of the reoffending rates? Since 1997, Jack Staw has held ministerial responsibility for prisons and justice. During the same time, reoffending figures for people released from prison have risen steadily to the present level of more than two thirds reconvicted within two years of release, statistically of a more serious offence. That, to my mind, should be totally unacceptable. Contary to what my friend said about the bus stop killer, this country is a great country. It deserves an effective prison system. For the sake of victims of crime and potential victims, Jack Straw should be supporting it, not undermining the efforts of those who are in the thick of it, trying their best with little thanks, to facilitate change for the better in troubled, angry, dysfunctional lives. The ministry of justice PSI reminds staff that "Prisons are places which are, rightly, under intense public scrutiny." Not intense enough as far as I am concerned. We need more truth about what goes on in our prisons, not silly grandstanding from the man with overall responsibility for their failure.