The chief constable of Sussex police today apologised to the family of an unarmed man who was killed in a bungled raid almost six years ago.Chief constable Ken Jones travelled to Liverpool to meet relatives of James Ashley, who was killed by a police marksman at his flat in St Leonards, near Hastings, in January 1998. His relatives, speaking at a press conference after meeting Mr Jones in their home town of Liverpool, said they were relieved to have received a "genuine" apology.However, the family said they still planned to press ahead with a campaign for a public inquiry into Ashley's killing.Ashley's sister, Pauline, said she was pleased the police had publicly acknowledged that her brother had died needlessly, but she criticised the way her family had been treated in their quest for the truth.She told the press conference: "From day one, because it was officers of the law that killed my brother, we haven't had the support network of the police. We've been treated like criminals and the court process was abysmal. My brother's name has been cleared ... that's what we've been fighting for."But, she added, the family had been denied "concrete facts" about what happened to her brother, and the only way to find out would be through a public inquiry.Ashley's father, Jimmy, said: "It's been nearly six years since they killed my son. This is the first good news we've had from Sussex police. What I'd like for Christmas is a box from the home secretary saying 'public inquiry'".A solicitor for the family said it was seeking an inquiry "not only into [Ashley's] death but also into the way the killing was investigated".Ashley was naked in bed with his girlfriend when a four-man armed response team stormed his flat at 4am on January 15 1998, after a tip-off about a haul of drugs. Police intelligence suggested that Ashley was a potentially armed and dangerous drug dealer. Only a small amount of cannabis and an air pistol were found. The incident caused a public outcry, but the chief constable of the Sussex force at the time, Paul Whitehouse, did not step down until 2001, after the home secretary, David Blunkett, exerted pressure for his removal.PC Christopher Sherwood, who fired the fatal shot, was cleared of murder at a trial in 2001 and three other officers involved in the raid were cleared of neglect of duty.