Tony Blair was facing his third backbench rebellion in a fortnight today, as up to 40 Labour MPs were predicted to vote against plans to limit trial by jury.The home secretary, David Blunkett, wants to allow judges to sit alone in complex fraud cases and trials which have been threatened by jury-nobbling. But some 53 Labour backbenchers have signed a parliamentary early day motion denouncing the change, tabled by Medway MP and QC Bob Marshall-Andrews, who predicted at least 30 would defy the leadership in this evening's second reading of the criminal justice bill. There is no prospect of a government defeat, but with Tories and Liberal Democrats also intending to oppose the bill, a sizeable Labour rebellion may be enough to embolden peers to vote it down when it reaches the House of Lords. Today's vote follows a 63-strong rebellion over the government's plans for foundation hospitals and 27 Labour MPs voting against measures to impose a settlement in the firefighters' dispute. Government whips are understood to be concerned that the habit of obedience instilled in backbenchers may have broken down in the wake of the vote on war in Iraq, when 139 Labour MPs opposed the prime minister. Mr Marshall-Andrews said: "I would be disappointed if less than 30 Labour MPs vote with me against this bill, and I will be very pleased indeed if it is over 40. "The more people who stand up to be counted in the Commons, the more likely it is that the Lords will act to stop this." The QC, who has often been a thorn in Mr Blunkett's side as he seeks to shake up the legal system, added: "This is a very important matter of principle for everybody. Trial by jury is the most fundamental of our civil liberties and eroding it is wholly unjustified."Today's vote, which is subject to a three-line whip, should have been made a free vote because of its impact on basic civil rights, he said. The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said the Conservatives would table amendments to allow for special juries in long and complex fraud trials. They would also provide for trial by judges alone in exceptional circumstances, where a previous panel has been discharged as a result of jury nobbling and if a further jury trial is impossible. But Mr Letwin said they would seek to delete all the other government measures to give the prosecution the power to ask a judge to restrict jury trial. "The government proposals to abolish jury trial have caused massive disquiet on all sides of the house," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "We believe that the proposals are unnecessary and are a serious attack on our civil liberties. Jury trial is an essential safeguard to ensuring respect for the criminal justice system."We will be seeking to cooperate with MPs from all parties to persuade the government to change their minds."The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, voiced concern about other measures in the bill which would allow juries to be told of a defendant's previous convictions and give politicians more power over sentencing. "Reducing jury trial reduces public participation in the courts process. That in turn reduces confidence in the decisions made by the courts," he said. "Allowing previous records to be known during trials will lead to more people being found guilty because of prejudice, not because of the evidence," he added."Changing the rules about sentencing, to give government and parliament more power and judges less, is an unacceptable removal of the discretion of the judiciary. "Our unwritten constitution requires judges and police to be entirely independent of the state. This Labour government consistently seeks to interfere more in what the police do and in what the judges decide. Labour MP Vera Baird, who is set to rebel against the government over the bill, told the programme: "My primary concern is the erosion of the right to trial by jury, which I see as a very important historical feature of our democracy," she told the BBC."It's the best way of making a decision on facts to have 12 people drawn at random who can go away and discuss everything they've heard and level out each other's prejudices and come to a fair and sensible conclusion. She added: "It is steadfastly denied that it is anything to do with the economy, but I fear that it is the thin edge of the wedge, not necessarily even deliberately at this stage, but soon." Ms Baird said she did not know how many Labour backbenchers would rebel. Home Office minister Lord Falconer denied the measures were to save money and time. He added: "It is to make the criminal justice system work a whole lot better." The measures would "convict more guilty, acquit more innocent", he told Today, adding: "We believe it will seriously improve the quality of justice. It will also ensure that the system works in a way that protects communities better from crime. "To say 'no change at all' is ridiculous. You must change things in order to make things work. "It is for judges to decide cases and for parliament to decide policy overall." The minister said the government was confident the bill would get through the Lords. "We are going to make sure that the major provisions survive," he added.