A constant stream of negative descriptions and generalisations about young people only serves to perpetuate fear and anger in society. As adults, we would not and do not tolerate such descriptions of ourselves, so why should children and young people?The Barnardo's report on Monday rightly highlights the concern that many children and young people have raised with me: that they are all being demonised by the actions of the few. Of course, I'm certainly not in denial about the severity of crimes that some young people commit and, just as Martin Narey has said here, I believe that criminals must be held to account and appropriately punished for their actions. But Barnardo's survey and report reminds us why we need to curb our intolerance, the sweeping stereotypes and kneejerk reactions. We must look beyond the headlines. Because the facts and figures speak for themselves – the majority of our children do not cause trouble, are law-abiding and, like adults, want to be safe in their communities. Millions of children and young people in England are involved in positive community activities; they're enjoying growing up, being with friends, going to school and just doing what young people have always done. It's time we asked ourselves some searching questions and confronted the negative stereotypes. If we are to attempt to solve the rising demonisation of our children by adults we have to start by understanding the truth about our young people.And for those that are deemed as troubled or troublesome, we should remember that many of those who commit crimes have been victims themselves. Speaking at the Nacro's annual conference last week, I heard the genuine concern among the delegates that society is giving up and washing its hands of too many young people like these. We can't let that happen.Our children do not live in isolation from the rest of us, they are a part of our society and they should be supported – even when they get into difficulties. Let's include them in debates and decisions, not exclude them or treat them as a separate species. During my time as children's commissioner, I have seen the real benefits of engaging directly with young people. Many adults are sceptical and remain extremely uncomfortable with this approach. But the advantages are there to be seen by children, young people and grown-ups alike.But most of all, I urge all adults to remember that they were young once, too. Were you an angel or a demon? I suspect we were all a little of both in our time. Let them enjoy their childhood – and let's not reclassify their youthful limit-testing as anti-social behaviour or falsely label all 11 million of them as feral troublemakers. Above all, let's start to listen to what they have to say. They certainly aren't all bad.