1:00pm: Broadmoor patient Robert Napper, 42, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey today to the manslaughter of young mother Rachel Nickell on Wimbledon Common 16 years ago.1:04pm: The Guardian's crime correspondent, Sandra Laville, explains how Napper has evaded justice for 16 years.1:06pm: The police are expected to make a statement shortly apologising to the former suspect Colin Stagg.1:19pm: The judge told Napper he was "highly unlikely" ever to be released."You are on any view a very dangerous man. You still present a very high risk of sexual homicide which can only be managed in a high security hospital.You must be returned immediately to Broadmoor."1:20pm: Rachel Nickell's father, Andrew, said outside the court that Napper should be held in custody for the rest of his life. He thanked the police and said he counted many of them as his friends. "It is easy with benefit of hindsight to say that mistakes have been made," he said. He urged the media not to contact the family again and to stop printing pictures of Rachel.1:24pm: John Yates, the assistant Metropolitan police commissioner, apologised to Stagg for the first time. He said legal restrictions meant they could not have said sorry earlier. "He was wrongly accused of Rachel's murder. I apologise to him for the mistakes that were made in the early 1990s. It is clear that he is completely innocent," said Yates. He added that the police accepted the damage done to his life. Yates said police investigations had changed and the chance of a similar miscarriage of justice was very small.1:32pm: Rene Barclay, the director of serious casework at the Crown Prosecution Service, also apologised to Stagg. "We accept that Colin Stagg was completely innocent of murder," he said.1:35pm: Follow the history of the Rachel Nickell case including the hounding of Colin Stagg here.1:38pm: David Fisher QC, defending, said Napper wished to apologise to the victim's then partner and her son, her parents, and her close friends for "the dreadful thing that he did".He said the killer had also asked him to make an apology to Colin Stagg."At the time of these events, the arrest and the preliminary trial of that man, this defendant was not in a satisfactory mental state to really appreciate what was going on. He is now."He realises how dreadful that period of time in Mr Stagg's life must have been," Fisher said.1:45pm: The Guardian's Duncan Campbell's explains how trial by tabloid and police errors framed Colin Stagg while Robert Napper went free1:46pm: "It has been a long time coming," Stagg said of the apology to him. "It would have been nicer if the Met could have looked me in the eye while they did it, but I'll take what's on offer," he told the Guardian.1:57pm: A gallery, looking back at the images of the Nickell case, has been launched by the Guardian.2:01pm: The Guardian's crime correspondent, Sandra Laville, has returned from the Old Bailey. She said: "Napper admitted a rape and two attempted rapes in 1995 which were part of a series of attacks over four years in south-east London. Detectives say that there were 86 victims and 106 crimes identified by officers, but Napper refuses to admit any offences for which there is no forensic evidence."2:15pm: The Guardian has profiles of the key people in the case.2:21pm: "The Guardian are live blogging the plea reaction to the Nickell-Napper case - how long before we get Twitter feeds from High Courts?" asks Andy Barratt, from Canada, via Twitter."Killer for Rachel Nickell goes down at last," tweets Campbell from East London.2:32pm: Alex Tribick, Stagg's lawyer, told BBC News that his client was "very pleased" with the apology from the police. "His only sadness is that it's taken 16 years to arrive," said Tribick.He said Stagg did not want to detract attention from the relief felt by Nickell's parents at Napper's conviction by saying "I told you so". Tribick added: "He just wants to get on with his life quietly and try to put this whole sorry case behind him." The BBC is to screen an interview with Stagg tonight.2:39pm: Reuters has published a useful fact box on the case. It points out that Napper was already in jail for the murder of Samantha Bissett and her daughter Jazmine.2:46pm: Stagg talks of his anger and relief in a pre-recorded interview with the BBC. "There are still people out there who think I'm guilty," he said.2:57pm: Andrew and Monica Nickell have released a powerful impact statement.It said: The greatest loss is your future. All the things that any family hopes for and expects are completely smashed. There will be no daughter to talk to in our old age, no grandchildren to love and admire. At a stroke all this has been removed.The next loss is your anonymity. Your life is trampled on by the media. You are gawked at in supermarkets. You are avoided by so called friends who think some bad luck will rub off on them. Your son is devastated as he is very close to his sister. He avoids any close relationship because he fears losing someone else.3:03pm: The police explain how they finally connected Napper to the killing. Scroll down and you will find Scotland Yard's full apology to Stagg.3:28pm: "Robert Napper gave few clues that he was a killer, sex attacker and compulsive stalker and voyeur of women," begins the Mail's profile. It goes on: "As his attacks increased, he became more and more brazen in letting his face be seen and leaving evidence behind." The Guardian has more on Napper here.3:54pm: Most of the people involved in the case, who were likely to comment, have now done so, so that concludes our live coverage. Thanks for following it.