Traces of blood belonging to Damilola Taylor have been found on two broken bottles close to where the 10-year-old was murdered.Police cannot yet confirm that shattered glass from the bottles was used to sever an artery in the schoolboy's left leg, leaving him to bleed to death in a stairwell."They may have been used as a weapon and then been smashed apart and then had blood dripped on them," said detective superintendent David Dillnutt, the officer leading the inquiry.Two new knives found in Peckham, south London, following the attack are currently undergoing DNA and forensic tests. Two other knives, which had been recovered shortly after the murder, did not have traces of Damilola's blood on them but will be tested further.Police have appealed for three boys, two black and one white, to come forward. They were seen just outside the stairwell where Damilola's body was found after its discovery."It is clear they were there at an important time and might have some vital information. "I would urge them to come forward and assist us," said Mr Dillnutt. He said witnesses had seen the boys attempting to enter the stairwell. They are believed to be different from a group of boys aged between 11 and 14 who were seen in the area shortly before the attack.Superintendent Rod Jarman said he had attended a meeting of more than 100 residents from the north Peckham estate last night where there had been strong support for the investigation. But he said many young people that police had spoken to in the area had not understood what was going on and some did not even know that an important appeal for information was happening. "I would urge parents and teachers to encourage youngsters to come forward. It's not that they didn't want to help but that many young people didn't understand the importance of small pieces of information they could bring." Mr Jarman said he had spoken to Damilola's father, Richard Taylor, who had been full of support for the police investigation. Mr Taylor is to make a public appeal for information about his son's killers at a Scotland Yard press conference tomorrow. Damilola bled to death after being attacked on his way home from Oliver Goldsmith's primary school in Peckham. He staggered 100 yards, with blood pouring from a sliced artery in his leg, after being stabbed.Related stories4 December: New knifing as Damilola inquiry seeks gang  2 December: Witnesses saw boy minutes before death  Angela Neustatter: Pity the killersUseful linksMetropolitan policeThe Home Office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the north Peckham estate 