The government is threatening to abandon flagship legislation to make company directors liable for deaths caused by negligent management, because of a row over excluding prisons and police stations from prosecution.It is adamant that such institutions are already covered by robust safeguards, but an alliance of peers and MPs is determined that they should be included in the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Bill.The move would trigger a furore. High profile disasters such as the Potters Bar and Paddington train crashes have raised fears that company executives are not being held properly accountable for the deaths of customers and employees.The bill, which has taken years to draw up, is a cornerstone of Tony Blair's third and final term in office and is considered so important that it is subject to the Warwick agreement - a pact signed by the Prime Minister and the unions prior to the 2005 election in which the government pledged to pass certain pieces of legislation.The government faces a serious fight to get its way and keep the exclusions in the bill. The alliance of Liberal Democrat, Conservative and crossbench peers in the House of Lords - led by the former chief inspector of prisons Lord Ramsbotham, and backed by campaign groups Liberty, Justice, Inquest and the Prison Reform Trust - will tomorrow seek to have the exclusions removed and return the bill to the Commons.'In a briefing of peers, Baroness Scotland made the extraordinary claim that the government would drop this bill if they lose this vote,' Lord Hunt, a Conservative peer, said last night.Such a scenario is now a distinct possibility. Ramsbotham said he was hopeful the alliance would mobilise enough support to oppose the exclusions. 'The way to create absolute trust in the criminal justice system is to ensure those who are placed into it are properly looked after,' Ramsbotham said. 'It's not right that parts of the public sector should escape this legislation.'A defeat for the government in the Lords tomorrow would have wide repercussions for the Home Office. A growing number of Labour MPs, led by three influential figures in the Commons, are now signalling they will join the Lords in taking on the Home Secretary, John Reid, and opposing the exclusions.Andrew Dismore, chair of the Commons and Lords human rights committee, John Denham, chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee, and Chris Mullin, who is also director of the Prison Reform Trust, are leading the rebellion in the Commons. They argue prisons and other custodial institutions must be subject to the new law so that offenders are better protected. Dismore has cited the murder of Zahid Mubarek, who was killed by a racist psychopath in Feltham Young Offenders Institution, as an example of the need for the law to be tightened.Last night the shadow Home Secretary, David Davis, called for the government to change its mind on the exclusions. 'This decision by John Reid [to pull the bill if defeated] is extraordinarily reckless,' Davis said. 'This bill is designed to improve the safety of all citizens. Ministers should not be immune from their duty to protect people.'Home Office sources last night played down the government's threat to drop the bill. 'Let's see how it plays out first,' one source said.But Dismore said he believed opposition was growing to the government's plans. 'There have been 10 unlawful killings in custody and no prosecutions,' Dismore said. 'I hope the government will think seriously about what we are saying and not seek confrontation over this issue. Would they really withdraw the bill? Or is this a game of chicken?'