Birmingham police who arrested a 20-year-old male nursery worker on suspicion of child abuse have said they believe there is "one offender, one victim" in relation to the case.Superintendent Matt Ward of West Midlands police said the man, who has worked at the Little Stars nursery in the city for 18 months, was arrested after a warrant was executed at his home in the Nechells part of the city on an unrelated matter. A computer and other items were seized.Speaking at police headquarters in Birmingham, Ward said: "As a result of that unrelated warrant being executed we recovered material which, when it was forensically examined, led us to believe a series of serious sexual offences against a child had taken place at the Little Stars nursery."He had spoken earlier today to parents of children at the nursery and they were "clearly very angry and very shocked". He added: "At this stage all our evidence suggests there is one offender and one child."The nursery was closed as police and council officials carrying out the investigation talked to parents.Police would not reveal any personal details of the man arrested, his duties at the nursery or the alleged victim.They said the accused had no previous convictions.The nursery is run by the Nechells Regeneration Project. In a statement released by police, John James, its chief executive, said: "We were shocked to hear of the allegations made and we are, of course, co-operating fully with the police inquiry."The safety and welfare of the children and the community we serve is our first priority, and in the circumstances we fully support the decision by the police and Ofsted to temporarily close the nursery during the initial stages of this investigation."Parents of children at the nursery spoke of their horror after being informed of the police inquiry by reporters gathered outside. At least three mothers arrived with their children, unaware it had been closed.Sahra Said described the allegations of abuse as "horrible" before being let inside by a police officer. "I bring them here when I learn English. I thought it was open."Nahla Yusif, whose three-year-old and eight-month-old baby go to the nursery, said: "I have just turned up today. This is the first I have heard about this ... no one has tried to contact me."She took her children home, saying: "I am so frightened for them right now."Joan Ndeme arrived with her 11-month-old daughter, who first attended two days ago. She had not received a call from the nursery. While expressing deep concern about the arrest, she said: "The baby area looked really nice and comfortable and the staff were very friendly."Assistant Chief Constable Anil Patani, who is leading the inquiry, said: "The investigation is in its very early stages – however we believe that we have identified one victim, who we believe attends the nursery."The family of this child have been told and police are supporting them at this very difficult time. As the investigation continues we will update families with children at the nursery at the earliest possible opportunity."In a statement the council said it was working closely with police and had set up a helpline with specialist staff.Little Stars was opened almost five years ago as part of a multimillion pound regeneration of Nechells, near the centre of Birmingham.An Ofsted report last year rated the quality of the nursery as "overall, good" and said "children are cared for in a safe and secure environment", but found risk assessments had not been completed to ensure the safety of children.It was given a good rating after a subsequent inspection in November.There are 14 members of staff.