Two 16-year-old British schoolgirls arrested at Ghana's international airport on suspicion of smuggling 6kg of cocaine were today provisionally charged by a juvenile court judge and given a trial date of July 26.The north London pair face a minimum of 10 years in jail if convicted, according to local police officials. They were arrested in the Ghanaian capital, Accra, on July 2 before checking in for a British Airways flight. Narcotics officers allegedly found cocaine with a street value of £300,000 sewn into the lining of the girls' laptop bags.A British High Commission spokesman attended the closed hearing. He told reporters: "A juvenile court judge provisionally charged them on two counts: possession and attempting to export controlled substances. The charges will be formalised when the trial begins." He said the girls had entered pleas in response to the provisional charges, but declined to say what these were.If found guilty, the girls face serving their sentence in Ghanaian jail, as there is no bilateral arrangement on prisoner exchange with Britain.The legal services charity Fair Trials Abroad, which is helping the teenagers to arrange legal representation and is liaising with the family and the Foreign Office, said the family was shaken at the swiftness of the court process.The charity's chief executive, Catherine Wolthuizen, said: "It's been a shock. The trial date has been set so quickly, it's a lot to come to terms with."But she added: "It is a comfort the girls will have their trial in a juvenile court and out of the media glare."Ms Wolthuizen said she had been concerned at the amount of access that the press had had to the teenagers. "A lot of information has been released to the public about two vulnerable defendants at risk of affecting the outcome of the trial."According to Mark Ewuntomah, the deputy head of Ghana's narcotics control board, the girls arrived in Ghana on June 26 and spent a week based at a hotel in the capital.They told him their trip had been arranged by a north London man who had promised them an all-expenses-paid holiday and £3,000 each if they each brought a package back to the UK.Two young Ghanaian men who met the girls on arrival in Accra allegedly gave them two empty laptop bags, and dropped them off at the airport on July 2.Airport narcotics officers, who have been trained in profiling drug mules by UK customs experts, noticed that the girls' bags were unusually bulky. Mr Ewuntomah said the officers found no computers but rather 6kg of what preliminary tests at the airport showed to be cocaine.He said the girls professed to know nothing about the drugs.The girls were taken to police headquarters, where they shared a cell with a 20-year-old Romanian woman who had been caught at the airport the same evening with 10kg of cocaine. The pair were later moved to the headquarters of the narcotics control board, where they have been sleeping in an air-conditioned office on the third floor.They have been allowed to receive food parcels and magazines. A control board official said yesterday they were doing "very well".Over the past few years Ghana has become a key transit point for South American drug barons seeking to ship cocaine to Europe. In 2005 and 2006, customs officials at Heathrow and Gatwick airports intercepted 400kg of cocaine from Ghana - more than from Nigeria, the traditional hub of drug smuggling in west Africa.Since the start of a joint UK-Ghana anti-drugs operation in Accra last November, 44 drug mules have been arrested, including two British men. More than 200kg of cocaine with a street value of £35m has been seized.