The policewoman shot while investigating a burglary in Nottingham was today awake and speaking to family members at her bedside, police said.Rachael Bown was shot as she hunted a burglar who had targeted a student property in the Lenton area of the Midlands city.The 23-year-old probationary officer is in a "serious but stable" condition at Nottingham's Queen's Medical Centre following emergency surgery yesterday. "While she is clearly in a serious condition, she is young and strong and the signs are very encouraging," a Nottinghamshire police spokeswoman said.Police said they had received a huge number of phone calls and emails from wellwishers following the shooting, which happened shortly before midnight on Monday. "We are all very touched by the many messages, which have reminded us how much ordinary people do care when police officers are attacked in this way," the spokeswoman said. Ms Bown was on duty with an experienced male officer when she was shot by a man around half a mile from the scene of a burglary. She was hit in the abdomen, below the level of her body armour. No one has so far been arrested in connection with the shooting. Chief Superintendent Marcus Beale said it was not clear whether the gunman had been connected to the burglary on Lenton Boulevard. He said "time will be the test" in determining whether the two incidents were linked. The road was cordoned off for more than half a mile yesterday as forensic teams carried out a search of both crime scenes. Students living in the area were unable to return to their homes, and some said they were fully aware of the problems with guns in that part of Nottingham."We knew this was a rough area ... and being Nottingham there's always the threat of gun crime," 21-year-old Sophie Austin said. "It's just terrifying when it happens on your doorstep." Ms Bown, who was nearing the end of a two-year probationary period and had undergone safety training, had only recently been transferred to the city centre beat. The shooting, which followed the November murder of PC Sharon Beshenivsky in a robbery in Bradford, West Yorkshire, has reopened the debate over whether British officers should routinely be armed.