Child welfare experts today condemned a new government scheme to target potential young tearaways as "dangerous and damaging".Lord Warner, chairman of the youth justice board, announced today that children as young as eight who display anti-social behaviour are to be targeted by youth inclusion and support panels (YISPs) before they commit a crime.But Sharon Moore, of the Children's Society, said the charity was concerned that the scheme "could be a way of lowering the age of criminal responsibility through the back door". "We already have one of the lowest ages of criminal responsibility in western Europe and we've just been criticised by the United Nations for that," she told the BBC.Addressing the Association of Chief Police Officers' (ACPO) youth justice conference in Bristol, Lord Warner said that up to 10 YISPs will be piloted in the government's 10 street crime blackspots. The schemes aim to identify potential tearaways aged from 13 down to eight, which is two years below the age of criminal responsibility. Lord Warner said: "It has to be acknowledged that there has been some controversy about these proposals. "There are those who fear that by targeting younger children we will be stigmatising or labelling them. "But it is the strong view of the board that this is not about labelling young people but 'de-labelling' them." "We are not lowering the age of criminal responsibility."The panels will comprise a range of experts including officers from local youth offending teams, police, and representatives from schools, health and social services. They will try to identify youngsters who display problematic behaviour and might be at risk of offending. Factors could include drug misuse, mental health issues, family problems or anti-social behaviour. The children and their families will then be given voluntary referral to the panel, directed to relevant services and allocated a key worker. Lord Warner added: "These young people by definition will be well known to the relevant agencies already in one form or another. "The panels will be about intervening early so that as they grow up these young people are no longer labelled by their community or the agencies as problem children."The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, said the projects should be opened to children younger than eight. "We hope the government will now consider our further point - that the problems have already often become intractable by the age of eight, and that intervention is required even earlier," he said. But Ms Moore said: "What we really need to do is take a step back and look at the whole system of how we provide services to children who are at risk, including those who are at risk of offending, but recognising that those children are also children in need and need to be dealt with in that way." Professor Philip Bean, professor of criminology at the University of Loughborough, also warned: "What you are doing is targeting certain kids who've not been convicted. "You are labelling someone as a potential delinquent and that is itself quite dangerous and likely to be damaging. But the chief constable of Avon and Somerset, Steve Pilkington, ACPO's spokesman on youth issues, said it was a "nonsense approach" to wait for young people to become involved in the criminal justice system before intervening to help them. YISPs will be piloted in the 10 street crime initiative police force areas: Avon and Somerset, Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Merseyside, metropolitan, Nottinghamshire, West Midlands, Thames Valley, South Yorkshire and West Yorkshire.