Down in the Avon valley the Georgian city of Bath maintains its age-old air of dignified, prosperous tranquillity.But on top of one of the hills above the town, residents are being plagued by problems more associated with a deprived inner city. Gangs of youths in the Fox Hill area, a mile from Bath's historic crescents and squares, have become so threatening that police have put mounted officers on the streets.Residents were meeting police and local politicians last night to discuss other ways to tackle the situation. The crisis began building towards the end of last year when a small gang of youths, aged between 14 and 17, took to congregating at a parade of Fox Hill shops. Their numbers swelled until it was not uncommon to see 30 young people hanging around, many hooded and with scarves over their faces. They terrorised residents and businesses, smashing windows and burgling shops. One shopkeeper had a narrow escape when a breeze block was thrown through a window; another resident was threatened at knifepoint; the fire brigade had to be called when bins were set ablaze, almost spreading to nearby flats; and some youths began racing around the estate on motor scooters. The youths became ever more brazen. While a local councillor, Leila Wishart, was giving an interview about the problems to a television crew, one young man let off a firework behind her. "To begin with it was irritating - they were kicking footballs at people's houses, damaging bus shelters and so on," Ms Wishart said. "But it became really very frightening for many local people, especially the elderly. They are not the sort of problems you expect in a place called Bath, which in no way can be described as deprived." One shopkeeper, who asked not to be named, said: "It has got so that you go away and wonder if your shop is going to be there when you come back the next day. The other night I had to come back to the shop after dark for something. I drove up, saw a big gang outside and kept going. I couldn't face the confrontation." Another resident, aged 74, admitted being too scared to go out after dark. "I sit in my house and am frightened that someone could burst in at any second." Peter Hickinbotham, the acting inspector at Bath police station, said the behaviour of the young people in Fox Hill had been "totally unacceptable" and would be tackled.