The mother of murdered teenager Jimmy Mizen paid tribute to her "beautiful son" yesterday at a funeral attended by hundreds of mourners. The 16-year-old from London was stabbed to death in a bakery last month.During the service, which the family described as a celebration of Jimmy's life, friends carried 16 candles to the front of the church, one for every year of the teenager's life. His mother, Margaret Mizen, 55, told mourners: "I never told him off. Apart from saying 'put your socks in the dirty washing basket'. I can't believe we are here now. He really was a beautiful son." She added: "He was a beautiful baby and so well-behaved. He really was amazing, as each and every one of my children are, and I have to tell them that I love you all." She carefully planted a kiss on her son's coffin, which had been draped with a T-shirt bearing messages from his siblings and decorated with white and yellow carnations.Margaret's husband, Barry, 56, told the congregation at Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic church that his son had been a "lovely boy" who had his mother's smile. "I have some really good memories and I will keep them always." The teenager's six brothers each made a personal tribute to him during the service. His only younger brother, George, aged eight, carried a picture of Jimmy in his football kit as the family walked behind the hearse to the church. His five older brothers, Danny, 30, Billy, 28, Tommy, 26, Bobby, 24, Harry, 18, and nephew James, 19, acted as pallbearers. The procession passed the Three Cooks bakery, where the fatal attack took place.Jimmy's sister, Samantha, laid a bouquet of flowers at the scene. With the church full, mourners spilled into the car park. Bob Marley's Three Little Birds, one of the teenager's favourite songs, was played as his coffin was carried from the church.Jimmy's brother Billy spoke about how he struggled to answer questions about his family after Jimmy's death. He had always been proud to say he had six brothers, two sisters and a nephew, he said. "After Jimmy's death, I went back to work and a lady asked me how many brothers and sisters I had, and I had no idea how to answer her," he said. After speaking with his brothers, he resolved always to tell people about Jimmy. "Whenever I'm asked that question again I will always say I have six brothers, two sisters and a nephew. "Jimmy will always come after Harry and before George."