The home secretary, Jack Straw, yesterday rejected a call from the Police Federation to increase police numbers by 10% to 140,000 by 2004 but he insisted Labour would boost numbers to 130,000 by 2003.Speaking during a BBC TV On the Record debate between all the main home affairs spokesmen, Mr Straw drew laughter when he was forced to admit that he had no idea how many rejected asylum seekers were still in the country, or had left voluntarily.The controversy over police numbers is certain to continue tomorrow when Mr Straw addresses the Police Federation conference, where Fred Broughton, the federation's chairman, will demand the increase in police numbers to 140,000 by 2004.Mr Straw replied: "It can't be as many as the Police Federation want, but of course we would like that number. We are now turning those numbers around. There will be record police numbers, 3,000 more than they are now. Under the Conservatives, there will literally be fewer."The Conservative manifesto promises to reverse the cuts in police numbers since the Tories left power. There were 127,158 police officers in England and Wales, including secondments, in March 1997. The comparable January 2001 figures - the latest available - show 126,527 officers. The shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, said: "It isn't only police numbers, it is what they do with their time. You can actually get more police hours which are the equivalent of policemen if, on top of the rises in raw numbers, they deploy their time in a way that they are actually out fighting crime." Mr Straw acknowledged: "We ought to be doing a lot more to make the police more efficient." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "There is not nearly enough support or money for the police." The federation, which represents rank and file police, is also pressing for an increase of 4,000 - 15% - in the number of Metropolitan police officers. It published figures comparing New York and London before and after a change in the number of uniformed officers. It found that after a 42% rise in New York officers between 1992 and 2000, there was a 54% reduction in notifiable offences. In the Metropolitan police, a 10.5% reduction in numbers - 3,000- was accompanied by a 12% increase in notifiable offences. Mr Broughton said:"We've got this government to say we need to change funding and we're seeing this coming through in recruits but we're not seeing it in the police stations yet." In a discussion on asylum, Miss Widdecombe insisted that her proposal to put more asylum seekers into detention would make it possible to track applicants and remove them forcibly if their appeal was rejected. Mr Straw admitted the government knew how many asylum seekers had been forcibly removed, but did not know how many had left voluntarily.