A respected family man was revealed yesterday as a Jekyll and Hyde rapist, who hid past convictions and used business conferences as a cover for random attacks.Michael Podlubny, 50, a father of two, subjected his victims to long and terrifying ordeals before making small talk to them and apologising for his behaviour. He admitted three rapes and an attempted rape, involving two women, and was given concurrent life sentences on each count, although his guilty pleas automatically reduced the terms by half. In theory Podlubny, whose wife has terminal cancer, could apply for parole after just over six years but he was told that in practice he was likely to leave jail only as an elderly man. "No woman is safe when you are around," said Judge Paul Hoffman at York crown court. "You are said to be a good and caring husband and father and a good and successful salesman. But there is a more sinister and shadowy side to you. You are a predatory rapist and your inclinations are entrenched. You are a Jekyll and Hyde character." The court heard that Podlubny, a travelling salesman, had previous convictions for attempted rape in Leicester in 1976 and a rape in Harrogate in 1980 for which he served four years. But these were unknown to colleagues and customers. His dark side was also hidden from family and friends in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire. But after drinking heavily at the annual Ambex conference in Harrogate, a trade exhibition, he went looking for victims. The court heard that he appeared to have got away with rape in 1999, when he pounced on a 29-year-old woman and dragged her into a garden. Police caught up with him in July this year, when he was at Ambex in Harrogate again and ambushed a 45-year-old woman walking home through the Valley Gardens. Podlubny held her captive until 6am after repeated assaults, then chatted about birds in the park and walked her to a taxi rank, where she escaped. The woman had made a careful note of his appearance and gave police a detailed description. Podlubny was arrested at his home five weeks later. The victim of the 1999 attack also came forward. Jonathan Carroll, prosecuting, said Podlubny had confessed the rapes to his wife while getting dressed to go with detectives for an interview. His attacks dated back to when he was only 21, although his first conviction in Leicester had not been followed by a jail term. Andrew Dallas, defending, said that Podlubny was a broken man, who cared for his family and his wife, who was dying of cancer. He had pleaded guilty to make sure the women he attacked did not suffer the trauma of describing their ordeals again.