The body of a seven-year-old girl who was allegedly starved by her mother resembled that of a concentration camp survivor, an ambulance service worker told a murder trial today .Steven Hadlington also likened the emaciated frame of Khyra Ishaq to that of a famine victim while giving evidence at the trial of Angela Gordon and her partner, Junaid Abuhamza.The prosecution alleges that Gordon and Abuhamza murdered Khyra by starving her over a period of weeks or possibly months at her home.Hadlington told Birmingham crown court today that he went to the property in Handsworth shortly after 6am on 17 May last year after an emergency call made by Gordon mother.Recalling the moment he arrived at the terrace house, Hadlington said: "There was no real emotion shown [by Gordon], as far as I remember – she just indicated that the child was upstairs."He said his initial thought on seeing Khyra on a mattress was that she was already dead. He told the jury: "I went immediately to the side of her and felt for some sign of life. There was nothing."Her eyes were sort of half-closed in a very glazed look. The child was very emaciated. The only other times I have seen anything like that has been on appeals for famine-hit countries or, other than that, people who have survived the horrors of the concentration camps."Jurors heard that Hadlington feared his attempts to resuscitate Khyra by applying pressure to her chest might break her ribs. "You can only do what you can do," he said. "There's no medical textbook that can tell you how to deal with that. I have never seen anybody in that condition."Abuhamza, 30, and 34-year-old Gordon, both of Handsworth, deny murdering Khyra. Abuhamza pleaded guilty last week to five child cruelty charges relating to other children. Gordon denies charges of child cruelty.Forensic pathologist Dr Alexander Kolar, who carried out a postmortem on Khyra's body, confirmed that she weighed only 19kg (2st 9lb) when she died. Khyra, who was 1.25 metres tall (4ft 1in) at the time of her death, weighed just 5.5kg more when she died than she had at the age of 14 months.Kolar told the court that 34 marks of recent minor injury were found on her body, including eight tramline-shaped bruises which suggested she might have been struck with a stick-like object. Various older injuries were also found.Kolar said the tramline-shaped marks, shown to the jury on a computer-generated image of Khyra's body, were "indicative of Khyra being struck with an object".The case continues tomorrow.