The six-times champion jockey Kieren Fallon was involved in a plot in which he and two other jockeys agreed to cheat in 27 races to make horses lose, the Old Bailey was told today.The prosecution alleged there was an agreement not to permit horses to "run on their merits" and that "riding practices would be used if necessary" to interfere with their running. The horses did not always lose as they were meant to - but when they did, it allowed a dishonest syndicate run by businessman Miles Rodgers to make money on the online betting exchange Betfair, the jury was told.Fallon, who rode Dylan Thomas to victory in the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe in Paris yesterday, stood in the dock to hear the charge read to the jury this morning. The six defendants, including jockeys Fergal Lynch and Darren Williams, deny being part of a race-fixing scam.Fallon, 42, formerly of Newmarket, Cambridgeshire, but now of Tipperary, Ireland; Fergal Lynch, 29, of Boroughbridge, North Yorkshire; and Darren Williams, 29, of Leyburn, North Yorkshire, deny the charges. Lynch's brother Shaun Lynch, 37, of Belfast; former racing-syndicate director Miles Rodgers, 38, of Silkstone, South Yorkshire; and Philip Sherkle, 42, of Tamworth, Staffordshire, have also pleaded not guilty.They are charged with conspiracy to defraud between December 2002 and September 2004 by interfering with the running of horses to ensure they lost races, defrauding Betfair punters and others putting money on the races. Rodgers is also accused of concealing the proceeds of crime."This case concerns a serious allegation of fraud," Jonathan Caplan QC, prosecuting, told the court. "It is unusual because it is also concerned with sport and any allegation of fraud in that context obviously undermines the integrity of the sport in question."He said the 27 races were run on various dates and in different parts of Britain. "The prosecution case is that there was an unlawful agreement or conspiracy between these defendants and other persons that those races should be fixed," added Mr Caplan. "The defendants in this case did not fix races to ensure a particular horse won. On the contrary, they fixed the races to ensure that the horses in question lost. The object of the conspiracy was to wager large amounts of money on a particular horse to lose in each of those races while knowing that the jockey was prepared, if necessary, to cheat by stopping the horse."Although the defendants firmly denied there was a plot, some of the men agreed they had phoned each other for the innocent purpose of passing on tips or betting information. "Fallon's position appears to be that he would discuss the prospects of his own rides with Fergal and Shaun Lynch but was completely unaware if they passed this information on to Rodgers," said Mr Caplan. "Fallon says that he also gave some tips to Sherkle, whom he thought was having 'his own couple of quid' on them. He was completely unaware if Sherkle passed these tips of Rodgers. Whilst they may well have exchanged tips and information at various times, there was something far more sinister and unlawful going on."Mr Caplan said it was "inconceivable" that Fallon gave information to the Lynch brothers and to Sherkle and they all passed it on to Rodgers without him knowing. Mr Caplan said a total of £2.12m was laid by Rodgers' Betfair accounts on the 27 races between December 2002 and the end of August 2004; Fallon rode 17 of the races. "He won for the conspirators 12 times by losing, but he lost for them five times by winning," Mr Caplan said.