New legal guidelines which could result in an increased number of early guilty pleas from defendants and a reduction in the number of trials were announced by the court of appeal yesterday.Five judges, presided over by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, announced important changes to a rule of practice which had effectively prohibited crown court judges from giving any indication of sentence in advance of a guilty plea except in exceptional circumstances. The deputy chief justice, Lord Justice Judge, who prepared the written ruling of the court, said: "The objective of these guidelines is to ensure common process and continuing safeguards against the creation or appearance of judicial pressure on the defendant. "Experience tends to suggest this would result in an increased number of early guilty pleas, with a reduction in the number of trials." The judges said they had re-examined "principles which govern an indication of sentence given by the trial judge to a defendant" in the light of issues raised in an appeal against sentence brought by a man who pleaded guilty last April to an offence of corruption at Doncaster crown court. Karl Goodyear, 40, was sentenced to six months' imprisonment, suspended for two years, despite the judge saying to his barrister before the trial began that he took the view that "this is not a custody case". Allowing the appeal, Lord Woolf, Lord Justice Judge, Mr Justice Treacy, Mr Justice Wakerley and Mr Justice Calvert-Smith ruled the judge should have "abided by the sentencing indication" he had given before Goodyear tendered his guilty plea. Lord Justice Judge said there was "a significant distinction between a sentence indication given to a defendant who has deliberately chosen to seek it from the judge and an unsolicited indication directed at him from the judge and conveyed by his counsel". The court stressed that "we cannot and do not seek to water down the essential principle that the defendant's plea must always be made voluntarily and free from any improper pressure". Lord Justice Judge said after yesterday's changes a judge would know that "counsel is entitled to advise the defendant that an advance indication of sentence may be sought from him". The case of Goodyear "was one of those rare cases in which a non-custodial sentence for an offence of corruption may have been appropriate".