The Birmingham City directors arrested on Wednesday in a City of London police corruption inquiry declared their innocence yesterday after share trading in the Premier League club was briefly suspended.The club took the unusual step of requesting the suspension of share trading following confirmation from the club that Karren Brady, managing director, and co-owner David Sullivan had been interviewed under caution on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and false accounting. Trading resumed in mid-afternoon.Brady, 39, and Sullivan, 59, were questioned and bailed by officers from City of London police's economic crime unit, who raided the club's offices last month.In a statement the club said the police inquiry was focused on the activities of an agent and the transfer of two players in the 2002-03 season, and was related to tax and national insurance payments.It is understood that the police inquiry, which has so far seen nine leading football figures arrested and bailed, is examining the activities of agent Willie Mackay.Sources have also confirmed that one of the players at the centre of the inquiry is the midfielder Alliou Cisse, who joined Birmingham from French club Montpellier for £1.5m in 2002.Cisse's subsequent transfer from Birmingham to Portsmouth was one of 17 highlighted as being unsatisfactory by Lord Stevens, the former Met commissioner, in an inquiry into football corruption published last year.The club's statement said: "The City of London police investigation is focusing on payments to a football agent and two players dating back to 2002-03. There is absolutely no allegation that any director of the company or the club itself has benefited financially from any of this activity.Insofar as there may be any implications for the company, these are not considered material to its financial affairs and they are in relation to the payment, or possible non-payment of Paye and national insurance contributions."The club and its directors are cooperating fully with the police in this investigation and will continue to do so. For the avoidance of doubt we wish to make it plain that David, Karren and Birmingham City FC deny absolutely any wrongdoing. For the avoidance of doubt, no charges have been brought."Detectives confirmed that they had questioned a 59-year-old man and a 39-year-old woman on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and false accounting.Brady, 39, was the first woman to be appointed to a professional club board in 1993. She became the UK's youngest managing director when overseeing the flotation of the club 1997. She is also non-executive director of Channel 4 and Sport England. Sullivan, 59, the multimillionaire former proprietor of the Daily Sport and Sunday Sport, who co-owns the club with brothers David and Ralph Gold, said he was shocked by the arrest. "We answered every single question they put to us. We have absolutely nothing to hide. We have done nothing wrong, and we think in due course this will be proven."Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp and Tottenham Hotspur full-back Pascal Chimbonda have also been arrested as part of the inquiry.