Does Bill Bratton have anything to teach the British police?Possibly, but whether they will now listen is another matter. In his interview with the Guardian, America's former top cop broke the first two rules of capacity-building (in this case, foreigners teaching others how to reform their law and institutions) by: first, "disrespecting" the British police; and second, showing a lack of local knowledge. While Bratton's criticisms of British policing may please prime minister David Cameron – who can use them to bludgeon the police who oppose the government's bill for elected police and crime commissioners – the commissioner of the Metropolitan Police is selected by the Police Authority, home secretary and London mayor, a committee that doesn't always sing from the prime minister's song sheet.Lack of local knowledge is understandable; our shared language conceals big differences between the laws and institutions of the US, on the one hand, and Great Britain and the Commonwealth, on the other. Not least is the British civil service's "no risk" culture and its obsession with process, which can be maddening to a proactive, outcome-oriented American. Characteristics like boldness, self-confidence, self-assertion are part of the American character; but so is overreaching. Bill Bratton is miffed that Hugh Orde thinks that hiring an American to police the British is "stupid". If Hugh Orde, an Englishman, can lead the Northern Ireland police, why can't an American lead the Met? (Though, the last time I looked, Northern Ireland was part of the United Kingdom.)Could Bill Bratton improve British policing as a consultant to the prime minister?Absolutely. He has vast experience, a profound grasp of the fundamentals and a deep love of policing. I predict this is what he would be saying within a few weeks of getting his feet on the ground:Stop over-egging your crime problem; this could be seen as a scare tactic. London's gang problem is minuscule compared to LA's. In 2009, with a population about half the size of London (4 million compared to 7.75 million), LA had 157 gang murders. London had only 13! Since 2002, the Met has got homicides down from 219 to 124. In my book, that's sterling police work.Forget about bringing in ex-generals to juice up the police. Would you hire a dentist to do open heart surgery? The military's mission is to defend and destroy; the police force's mission is to protect and serve. Different professions, different knowledge, different skill sets.Yes, there are areas where the police could be more efficient, but don't expect miracles. In New York, I was given 5,000 extra police; the LA mayor passed a special tax so he could hire 1,000 more cops for me.There's no evidence that changing the system of police governance from police authorities to elected police and crime commissioners will make policing better. If I had £130m to spend – the new programme's predicted cost – I'd use the money to hire more cops instead.Regarding the August riots, the police can't be faulted for not planning for an entirely new situation: gangs using encrypted BlackBerry messaging to organise hit-and-run riots the length and breadth of London. Instead, measure their performance by adaptability, and the extent of injury to life and property.In the last serious New York riot (in August 1977, which was triggered by a 25-hour city-wide blackout), the police massed in midtown Manhattan, instead of the ghettos where previous rioting had always occurred. In the city's poorest neighbourhoods, thousands of homes and small businesses were burned out and looted; the final bill came to $155m, in 1977 dollars. In the 1992 LA riots, 54 people were killed – 10 by the police and army. Ten years later, 22 of those murders were still unsolved. There have been four deaths in the August riots, all caused by criminals retaliating against Good Samaritans. Within a week, the police and CPS had arrested or charged the suspects.Picking public fights with the police is a no-winner. You're undermining the morale of police officers serving on the front line; that hits their performance and knocks public confidence in the police – which is the very foundation of public order.Finally, when rioters say, "We did it to send a message to the police because they don't treat us fair," remember the late Robert Mark's words: "The police are the anvil on which society beats out many of its problems."