The home secretary, David Blunkett, prepared the ground yesterday for a clash with the lord chief justice on sentencing murderers by attacking "inconsistent" judges and insisting that parliament must have the right to lay down the principles of sentencing.He confirmed that he intends to ask parliament to approve a much tougher three-tier framework which will include "whole life" terms in cases involving child sex, terrorism and multiple killing. Myra Hindley's death last year reduced the number of prisoners serving whole life sentences to 22, and the package Mr Blunkett announced is bound to increase it substantially. The Home Office confirmed that there would be no further review after an initial appeal in such cases. The second tier will be a minimum 30 years for contract killers, racist murderers and those who kill police officers: the current minimum is 20 years. The starting point for most other murders will be 15 years. Judges who depart from the recommended sentences will have to explain their reasons in open court. The significant increase in the minimum term contrasts sharply with the guidance issued by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, a year ago, that the current 14-year minimum "starting point" should be replaced by 16 years for more serious cases and 12 years for lesser crimes such as mercy killings. He has also said that there is a strong argument for scrapping the system of mandatory life sentences altogether. But Mr Blunkett made it clear that he completely disagreed, and that it had to stay. "I share public concern that some very serious criminals seem to be serving a relatively short spell in prison," he said. "When capital punishment was abolished, it was intended that a strong, rigorous alternative needed to be introduced and strictly maintained." He made it clear that he believed that judges had failed to provide clear and consistent sentencing. "It will be parliament that decides the structure. It will be judges that act within it." His attack on the judiciary shows his clear intention to face down a revolt by senior law lords and others when they vote next month on the package as amendments to the criminal justice bill. Senior lawyers were unhappy with the announcement. Allan Levy QC said no matter how terrible the crime it was important that the sentence should be reviewable over the years. The Bar Council described it as "constitutionally a leap in the dark" and said Mr Blunkett was trying to "institutionalise the grip of the executive around the neck of the judiciary". The Howard League for Penal Reform said the package could increase the present 3,900 life-sentence prisoners by 50%. The prison service said it would be 10 years before there was a significant extra burden. The new framework is being proposed in the wake of the Anderson judgement, the House of Lords ruling that the home secretary's role of setting the minimum term to be served by those given mandatory life sentences was incompatible with human rights legislation.  Life will mean life for: · Multiple murders with a high degree of premeditation, involving abduction or sexual or sadistic conduct · Murder of a child in similar circumstances · Terrorist murder · Further killing by a convicted murderer · Term will not apply to killers under 20  30-year minimum for killing: · On-duty police or prison officer ·With gun or explosive · On contract or for other gain such as during burglary or robbery · For racist, religious or sexist motives. · Adult for sadistic or sexual reasons · Other multiple offences  15 year minimum for:· Other murders by adults and all murders by children under 17 theguardian.com/crime