A man aged 39 is due to appear before Dewsbury magistrates today, charged with the kidnap and false imprisonment of nine-year-old Shannon Matthews. Michael Donovan, of Lidgate Gardens, Dewsbury, was charged with snatching her off the street on February 19. Peter Mann, head of the Crown Prosecution Service's West and North Yorkshire complex case unit, said: "The service has been working closely with the police since the arrest of Michael Donovan, formerly known as Paul Drake, on March 14. Having considered all of the material supplied by West Yorkshire police, we have made the decision that there is sufficient evidence and have authorised that Michael Donovan should be charged. We will continue to keep this case under constant review."Donovan had earlier appeared briefly before magistrates in Halifax, who gave police a further 24 hours to continue questioning him. He lost custody of his two daughters, aged 10 and 12, when his marriage broke up two years ago.West Yorkshire's chief constable, Sir Norman Bettison, yesterday described as "fantasists" those critics who claim to have pointed the finger at Donovan early in the huge inquiry, unaware of his detectives' jigsaw puzzle of clues.Shannon remained closeted with trained officers who are trying to establish what happened during her 24-day disappearance, which ended last Friday. They are trying to discover whether Donovan, an uncle of Shannon's stepfather, Craig Meehan, abducted her on his own.Shannon's 32-year-old mother, Karen, who has seen her only briefly since her rescue from the storage compartment of a divan bed, was escorted twice from her home on Dewsbury Moor by police family liaison officers yesterday.Sir Norman visited the inquiry headquarters at Dewsbury police station, where 60 detectives were winding down the force's biggest inquiry since the hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper 30 years ago. He said that he was amazed to have to defend his officers publicly after the successful finding of Shannon. He was proud of an inquiry "done by the book", in which officers interviewed 6,000 people and searched 3,000 houses. He singled out for praise two detective constables, Paul Kettlewell and Nick Townsend, who led the raid on Donovan's house after neighbours corroborated suspicions raised by several tip-offs.Sir Norman said that pieces of the jigsaw were completed when the two officers were told by a neighbour of Donovan that she had heard a child's footsteps in the flat where Donovan lived alone. He said that the detectives' persistence, after initially getting no reply from the flat was "amazing and a matter of pride for me, given that this was the 700th action they had taken since the start of the operation".Sir Norman said Shannon was being questioned gently in sessions of up to 15 minutes, with plenty of breaks. He implied she would not be returning home for a considerable time, saying that she was "in the place where we think she's safest at the moment, away from flashing lenses and the glare of publicity".