A fortnight ago, a letter I wrote to the man who sexually assaulted me when I walked home on a Friday night was published in Cherwell, an Oxford University newspaper. With the letter, we launched the #NotGuilty campaign. Through this we hope to encourage individuals to feel that they can speak out and get help after an assault, by emphasising the solidarity of community, and abolishing victim blaming.By waiving my anonymity I put a face to my story to emphasise that victims are not statistics, but individuals whose voices need to be heard. I was determined to reach out to others who could relate to my case and show that they are not alone.The response to the campaign has been incredibly positive. As well as raising awareness of the problems of victim blaming and assault, it has encouraged thousands of others across the world to speak out about their experiences. The attention it has received, though wholly unanticipated, shows how necessary this call to arms is. However, there is something I have been particularly struck by amid this media interest.Boy who sexually assaulted Ione Wells detained for a year For something to be news, given the etymology of the word itself, we assume it must be new, recent or even shocking. As much as the campaign has celebrated its response, if we take a step back for a second we must ask ourselves: why is speaking out about rape and sexual assault still something new and exceptional in our society? It is this question that fuels the campaign.Of course, when you launch a public campaign these vital questions can be swept aside by some. Online trolls hope to plant negativity in the good you are trying to achieve. Tabloids and social media users assume intentions “to shame the attacker” are at the heart of the campaign. And all too soon an assault on a community consequently becomes a commodity to sell with gratuitous headlines. The campaign never meant to “shame” anyone. It was meant to help people speak and to make others listen.So far, we have had more than 300 women and men speaking out about their experiences of sexual assault worldwide, including in India and South America. Harrowing accounts such as “I had to run away from home”, “I was raped and thrown into a bin” and “I was sexually assaulted by multiple family members” are just a few of the stories that have been shared. But among them are also messages of hope. Messages from people accessing help and realising they had not done anything wrong and that they are not alone. This campaign is not just about one individual’s story. By bringing the discourse surrounding assault into the public sphere we seek to encourage every silenced voice to speak out and receive help, but also to stress that there is no shame in doing so. People who commit assaults on others work on the assumption that they will not be caught and that they will not have to know, or care, about the impact they have had on their victim. Even worse, some operate on the basis that their victim “wants it” or “won’t mind”. The legal system does allow for victim impact statements but these can only be read to assaulters who are convicted, which is not the majority. The right to anonymity is incredibly valuable for many victims. However, anonymity does not mean being silenced. If individuals feel afraid of speaking out, or are made to feel that they are to blame for what happened to them, then we cannot progress to a society in which all victims can seek the help they need and those committing such offences realise the impact assault has and are held to account for engendering such behaviour. By putting stories out in the open, our campaign seeks to abolish the attitude that other human beings can be treated as emotionless objects. All unwanted sexual attention, both physical and verbal, stems from the same principles of objectification and a lack of respect for fellow individuals.The campaign has underlined our human nature to empathise. When we hear stories in the media about attacks on others, however distant they seem from our daily lives, we feel upset by them and feel a need to respond. We must use this sentiment as a catalyst for change.Everyone reading this article will know someone affected by assault or unwanted sexual attention. It is that common. Our duty is to educate one another about consent and the devastating effect that a lack of it can have on victims. For this to happen, we need to build a society where you are not the exception if you speak out about assault.We are not there yet, and there are thousands more voices still to be heard, but we must all contribute to make sure that this is the year for change.Comments on this article are premoderated