A school bully who stabbed a fellow pupil to death was detained for life yesterday and stripped of the anonymity which has shielded him since the killing of 14-year-old Luke Walmsley in November.Alan Pennell, 16, was recommended to serve a minimum of 12 years by Mr Justice Goldring, who said that the murder in a school corridor had been premeditated and involved the deliberate use - to the hilt - of an illegal flick knife, which the judge called "a wicked weapon".Pennell, who was 15 at the time of the stabbing, sat blank-faced in the dock with his head bowed as sentence was passed and details of his violent background - withheld from the jury before their 11-1 verdict on Monday - emerged. An obsessive collector of knives, he spent spare time slumped in front of violent videos at his home in the Lincolnshire village of Grainthorpe or getting drunk with a pack of fellow bullies from Birkbeck secondary school in nearby North Somercotes. The judge told him: "Having heard the evidence, I am sure that it was your intention to use your knife on Luke Walmsley. You thrust it into his chest for the full length of its blade - 7cm. I am sure this was not something done on the spur of the moment. It was something you had thought about." The judge rejected a plea from Pennell's defence counsel, Sasha Wass QC, that lifting the ban on naming the boy would cause "unnecessary damage" and work against his rehabilitation. He rejected comparisons with the killers of toddler James Bulger and the child killer Mary Bell. "The facts are different. The defendant is older, his release is a long way ahead," he said. "He could well serve considerably longer than 12 years. "Some evidence suggested a fragile personality and that there might be some unfairness. But there is nothing in the reports I have that suggests significant harm will be done to him if he is named." The sentence was welcomed by Luke's parents, Jayne and Paul Walmsley, who sat in court in tears as Pennell was escorted from the dock. Reading a joint statement outside Nottingham crown court afterwards, Mrs Walmsley described the killer as "an evil boy who was a bully. He roamed in a pack, he is a true bully and I don't think the school has enough power to get rid of these people. "Luke was never afraid to stand up for what he believed in and he stood up to bullies. Some children even take their own lives because they are being bullied but Luke was killed because he dared to stand up to the bullies in his school. "It seems to us that schools have to put up with those bullies and trouble-causers these days because there are no special schools to send them to. That can't be right." Mrs Walmsley and her husband, who are divorced but on friendly terms, attended every day of the two-week trial, which included a school security video of Luke clutching his chest after Pennell had rammed the knife through his heart. Friends initially thought the incident was another joke by the sports-mad teenager, who had just been chatting about football after a science lesson. Evidence from 21 pupils - the largest number of juvenile witnesses in a British murder trial - destroyed Pennell's claim that the stabbing was an accident.  SurlyHunched and surly, he told the jury of six women and six men that Luke had "walked on to the knife", which he had taken in to frighten the younger boy. Confronted with pupils' evidence that he had repeatedly threatened to stab Luke, he said that he had never meant them and had been drunk. Drink was part of Pennell's dead-end life, which bred resentment against more popular teenagers at Birkbeck. He was smaller and slighter than Luke, and his dislike turned to hatred when the younger boy sent notes to his girlfriend and spread rumours about his mother. She was killed when Pennell was four, in a car crash with a boyfriend when both were three times over the legal alcohol limit. Pennell's father, a lorry driver who sat expressionless in court as sentence was passed, was often away from home. Pennell had also seen the contrasting happiness of the Walmsleys' home in Cleethorpes, during a brief period when he tried to go out with Luke's younger sister Lauren. Luke was an outstanding all-round sportsman, attractive to girls and busy with out-of-school interests. Pennell's previous official warnings from police, revealed after the verdict, related to an attack on a police officer, who was unhurt, and the punching of another Birkbeck pupil, who was left with a loose tooth and split lip. Many students at the school were frightened of him, particularly when he formed part of a gang, and Luke had told his mother he was worried about being "jumped" in the dark after rugby practice. But no one remotely thought that his mutterings could turn into murder.Detective Sergeant Sean Baxter, of the murder investigation team, said after the sentence: "Hopefully it will send out a statement to those thinking of taking a knife into school. If you use a knife, your age is not going to save you."It gives us no satisfaction putting a 16-year-old boy away but we did a professional job."