Eight years ago Stuart Ware left prison. As an elderly ex-prisoner, he had no clue what to expect. The uncertainty was intensified by a temporary breakdown in relations with his family. He soon found sheltered accommodation but his health had deteriorated and he had developed hypertension during his 12 months in jail. For the first time in his life, he was also claiming benefits. "I was fortunate because I knew how the system worked - it doesn't come to you," the former education adviser says. "There are very few elderly people leaving prison who have that knowledge or awareness. For others, it is more of a struggle." The prison service has a duty to provide adequate and appropriate facilities to cope with prisoners' needs. But there are no specific resources allocated to the rehabilitation of older prisoners. Ware believes that resettlement responsibilities should not stop at the prison gates. "There's little, if any, pre-release preparation for older prisoners. Why can't funding follow an elderly prisoner from the prison to when they leave and thereafter?" Older prisoners tend to have less social support on release than their younger counterparts. Most leave institutions with growing health problems, including depression - which affects more than half of elderly prisoners. Many have no family or community links. Access to employment, housing, healthcare and benefits is applicable to all prisoners on their release, yet services for the elderly are often overlooked. "Resettlement for elders leaving prisons is an area that has been neglected," says Enver Solomon, policy officer at the Prison Reform Trust. "Older people have a wide range of specific health and social care needs, both while in prison and on release. Top-end services should be in place for them as their needs are far greater." Prisoners over the age of 60 are the fastest growing age group in Britain's jails, with more than 1,200 in this category in England and Wales. About 1,000 leave prison every year, and 18% of this group who were discharged in 2000 had been serving sentences of more than four years, according to Home Office statistics. Those sentenced to less than 12 months are not required to be supervised by the Probation Service. As a result, they receive little practical support, before release or afterwards. "Nothing is done with these vulnerable people on their release, and there is no responsible agency to which they are handed over," Solomon adds. Prison governors are required to develop working relationships with local health services, social services and housing agencies to ensure that prisoners receive properly integrated, needs-based services in prison and on release. But Ware, who has seen ex-cellmates reoffend because of lack of support, believes this process does not always run smoothly. "Services for the elderly leaving prisons are few and far between," he says. "It is like a game of roulette - you are lucky, depending on where you live." Portsmouth social services has developed an effective multi-agency approach to elderly people leaving institutions. The local prison, Kingston, has a special unit largely made up of elderly inmates, a high proportion of whom are lifers or serving long-term sentences. Kirsty Langton, spokeswoman for Portsmouth social services, says: "Many of the elderly who are coming back into the wider community have committed serious offences. A review of that person's individual assessment needs therefore always includes a representative from the police, a psychiatrist as well as social services. Any assessments we make, whether it includes long-term care, are followed through if we have the individual's consent." In cases where a person has been imprisoned in an area far from their home and wants to return, probation services in both regions assess that person's needs. Provided their circumstances do not come into conflict with their crime, their care is handed over to the chosen local authority. Living back at his family's Bedfordshire home, Ware, 66, set up Pacer 50Plus. This advisory network for older prisoners is set to launch a nationwide mentoring scheme, with pilots in two prisons in the south-west. Ex-offenders will offer advice and support to older prisoners during and after their sentence. Ware is also keen to develop advocacy work for dementia sufferers. A study of 203 male prisoners aged 60 and over in 15 prisons in England and Wales, conducted for the Prison Service, found that 1% had a clinical diagnosis of dementia. MHA Care Group, a housing association, provides sheltered housing and nursing homes for the elderly and specialises in care for dementia sufferers. Jane Barker, group director of the northern branch of MHA, says elderly prisoners with dementia are subject to "multiple prejudices". "It is difficult to house them as there is so much prejudice about old people coming in from prisons. There is also the rigmarole among residents about sharing a home with an ex-offender who may be a convicted sex offender." MHA has an arrangement with the Langley House Trust to house older prisoners. The trust works in partnership with a range of statutory and voluntary agencies to provide residential rehabilitation for ex-offenders. Of its 249 beds, a fifth are for elderly people. Cath McGee, regional operations director at Langley House Trust, says: "Many of these elderly have specific health needs - some have mental health concerns, learning disabilities and physical needs. The difficulty that we have with these people is moving them on, because of their offending profile." McGee stresses that there is a lack of funding for provisions targeting elderly ex-offenders. "There is a great need for services like this at the stage when they are coming out of prisons. Not many agencies are able to provide that level of care. They need 24-hour care and support. There needs to be more of the same services that provide that level of care. Only then will targeted support packages be readily available to these vulnerable people." Details of Kingston prison's multi-agency approach at www.preventionteam.org.uk/older_people/kingston_prison.htm