An inquest jury yesterday saw the spot where an unarmed man was shot by police yards from his home.Harry Stanley was shot dead in 1999 by armed officers who mistook a table leg he was carrying for a shotgun. Coroner Andrew Reid showed the jury damage to a garden fence and a brick wall caused by bullets fired by police which had first passed through Mr Stanley's hand and head, killing him. The jury of four men and six women retraced the last steps of Mr Stanley, 46, as he walked from a pub to his home in Hackney, east London. Standing yards from the house where Mr Stanley's widow Irene still lives, Dr Reid told the jury not to prejudge any of the issues in the case and not to draw any conclusions until they had heard all the evidence. Armed police challenged Mr Stanley after a man in a pub called 999. Inspector Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan, who fired the fatal shots on September 22 1999, are expected to give evidence later at the two week hearing. Dr Reid told the jury: "There was an armed police response in relation to a telephone call made by a member of the public. At the end of the armed response, Mr Stanley and the police officers were involved in an exchange here. "We will hear evidence about that." At the spot Mr Stanley was killed, a bouquet of red and purple roses was tied to a bollard bearing the slogan "Justice for Harry Stanley". The inquest which opened yesterday is the second into the death. Dr Reid told the jury the first verdict was quashed by the high court because of procedural errors made by an earlier coroner hearing the case, who had also failed to give any reasons for his decisions. Irene Stanley told the court that her late husband had undergone an operation for cancer shortly before his death. She told the jury Mr Stanley was in such pain that he could not bend down. Mrs Stanley, 51, said: "He couldn't do his shoelaces. He couldn't bend down, his stomach was still tender because of the wound and the stitches." On the day he was shot, Mr Stanley had taken a leg from a damaged table to be repaired at his brother's house. It was wrapped in a blue plastic bag under his arm as he visited several pubs. Det Supt Brian Boxall of Surrey police, which investigated the shooting, said Mr Stanley was seen by witnesses consuming several drinks. The inquest continues.