The former England footballer Ian Wright is "really upset and angry" after his wife and children were burgled at knifepoint, his spokeswoman has said.Four men armed with knives broke into his north-west London home and held his wife and children before making off with personal possessions.The 50-year-old pundit, who was in Brazil working for ITV at the World Cup, tweeted on Wednesday night: "You won't get away with it."On Thursday, a spokeswoman for Wright said he was flying home to be with his family. "Nancy [his wife] is really shaken up," she said. "Their kids are so young that hopefully they aren't going to read into it too much. They are all physically OK – Nancy and the kids. Ian is just really upset and angry and just wants to come back and be with his family at this time."She added: "We are very grateful to ITV for being so supportive and getting him back so quickly."Nancy, 39, is thought to have been put in a bedroom while the couple's two girls were taken to another room. The Sun reported that a blade was held to her throat during the ordeal, while one of the robbers shouted: "If you don't tell us where the safe is we'll cut off your kids' fingers."A spokeswoman for Wright said: "I do believe they threatened to cut off fingers. I don't know if it was the children's or Nancy's."  Ian Wright tweeted after the burglary: 'You won't get away with it.' Photograph: Peter Byrne/PANeighbours of the former Arsenal striker said two police cars screeched up after the robbery and the road was "teeming" with officers."A next-door neighbour, Marianne Collinge, 70, said: "I suppose they could be a bit of a target because they do have beautiful cars. But they are very unpretentious people. They are one of us and I'm terribly sorry for them. It's awful."Chris Martin, a neighbour in his 50s, said: "We were watching the Spain game when the police arrived last night and that's all we know about it. Ian is a neighbour and a decent family man. He's been living here several years and everyone around here respects his privacy."Wellwishers took flowers to Wright's door and posted messages through his letterbox, while police made door-to-door inquiries.Scotland Yard said it was investigating an aggravated burglary at an address in north-west London after police were called at 9.20pm on Wednesday. Four men, believed to be armed with knives, forced their way inside the house and stole a number of items, including personal property and jewellery, a police spokesman said.The suspects are described as black, aged between 18 and 25, with London accents, wearing dark clothing and hoodies obscuring their faces, he added. No arrests have been made.DCI Mick Gornall, who is leading the investigation, said: "We are trying to trace these four men, and I'd ask anyone who may know anything to get in touch with my team and help us."Fortunately no one was injured during the burglary, but it is still very frightening to have people force their way into your home and threaten you. Last night officers went to the address and started carrying out house-to-house inquiries. We are also seizing and reviewing CCTV."An ITV spokesman said: "Ian travelled home immediately to be with his family on hearing the shocking news. Our thoughts and best wishes are with them."