Just three years short of the term's official centenary, the Home Office is set to jettison "probation service" from the lexicon of law and order and has launched an urgent appeal to find a suitable replacement.The decision to end a long and honourable usage in Britain's courts which dates back to the 1907 Probation of Offenders Act comes as a result of the merger of the prison and probation services into the new National Offender Management Service (Noms) from next month. Senior probation and prison staff have been startled to discover that the Home Office's preferred organisational structure for Noms, now being circulated, makes no mention of the probation service. Instead its role is to be taken over by "public sector interventions staff", with a "director of public sector interventions" whose job will be to manage community penalties and programmes such as probation and electronic tagging. The attempt to rebrand the Prison Service ran into trouble this year when prison staff protested at the idea that they might lose the royal endorsement of the HM prefix before the name of a prison. The Home Office dropped the idea but is still intent on producing a "brand image" for the new service when it is launched next month. Martin Narey, the Noms chief executive, said this year that it was necessary for the public-sector Prison Service to "find a strong separate brand identity, so that it can compete with, for example, Group 4". Eithne Wallis, director of the Noms "change programme", appears to be aware that there might be some problems in the probation part of the new service if it has a brand image based on "public sector interventions". "This is our working title for this part of Noms, and we wish to seek your views about the name and would welcome positive suggestions," Ms Wallis has told staff. The need must be fairly urgent as the closing date for submissions has been set at Friday June 11. Some senior criminal justice figures are tempted to suggest that "probation service" might be a good term to use. It is only three years since a costly reorganisation created a national probation service for the first time. Its current head, Steve Murphy, who replaced Ms Wallis as director general of the probation service in February, has been told his job will disappear next March. The new organisational structure of Noms makes clear that the current 42 local probation boards are to be replaced by 10 regional "offender management" boards and one "national board for public sector interventions". It is expected, though, that although the Noms organisational flow chart refers to them as "interventions staff" individual probation officers will keep their title, as will prison officers. But senior criminal justice staff are getting increasingly concerned about the negative reaction Noms has already attracted as a name. One source said: "It is already widely referred to as the 'gnome service' by journalists and staff. This may seem puerile, but it is of great significance to the credibility of an organisation. It is most damaging to have a new idea mocked at the outset." HM Prison and Probation Service has been suggested by some as an alternative.