Thirteen instances of bonded or forced labour; 28 examples of illegal employment of children and young workers; 40 cases of illegal deductions from pay; 34 breaches of the law on the status of foreign workers; and any number of the usual abuses over excessive hours. These bald statistics from a new audit of 164 gangmasters who provide casual labour to the food and farming industry in Britain cannot begin to convey the human misery that is still routine for migrant workers in this country today.This evidence, which has been given to the government, can leave it in no doubt that scandalous conditions are as rife in our supermarket packhouses and food-processing factories as they were when the tragedy of Morecambe Bay forced them upon our attention two years ago.The audit, conducted by the Temporary Labour Working Group, only covered gangmasters who had volunteered themselves for inspection. So these statistics on bonded labour and exploitation of minors come from employers who see themselves as the good guys. If 90% of the good guys are found to be breaking the law, imagine what the bad guys do. We know, of course, that migrants in the food sector suffer extreme exploitation involving trafficking and violence, and that precious few prosecutions ever take place. But leaving that aside, the government now has, as the auditors point out, "compelling, first-hand evidence of ongoing serious abuses of agency workers in the entire food industry".So what's the problem? Surely no one would want to block the legislation that was rushed through as a private member's bill after Morecambe Bay and became the Gangmaster Licencing Act? Surely no one would want to frame the new law in such a way that the majority of places where these abuses occur are removed from its provisions? Yet that is what is being discussed this week in Whitehall.Government departments are wrangling over whether they can exclude from licensing any labour supplied to "secondary processing" - the packaging and processing plants where fruit, vegetables and meat are sorted, cut and packed, or turned into ready meals - as opposed to the farms where these are grown.Nearly all the gangmasters found guilty of the litany of abuses listed above were operating in this secondary processing sector. In the real, squalid world of 24-hour shifts on the food production line, there is no clear line between work in the field or on the factory conveyor belt. The gangmasters bus people from jobs in one sector to those in another at their will. Sometimes the different activities take place on the same site.Everyone in the industry understands this. That's why there is remarkable unanimity on new regulation between sides that are often opposed. The unions say packing and processing plants must be covered by the new licensing law, otherwise abuses will remain rampant. The big supermarkets insist the whole food sector must be included, because they know how damaging to their reputation it is to be associated with forced labour and immigration abuse on their own doorsteps. The food manufacturers want a level playing field. The gangmasters, too, want the law to apply to everyone, so that those that are halfway decent have some chance to clean up their industry before organised crime undercuts them any further.In fact, out of the 48 organisations that responded to the government's consultation on which parts of the food industry should come within the scope of the Gangmaster Licensing Act, 44 said that there should be no exclusion for processing and packing factories. What on earth, then, is driving the proposal to flunk the tackling of this terrible blot on our collective consciences?It appears to be the ideological obsession with lightening the burden on business. The new act runs counter to the great thrust towards "better regulation" that has become one of Labour's mantras. In the new world of the Better Regulation Executive and the prime minister's own panel for regulatory accountability, this messy, but practical and effective, law - put together with cross-party agreement and industry-wide support - is an irritation. It is the opposite of the fashionable light-touch, risk-based approach.Wrung out of government at a moment of national shame over 23 Chinese deaths, the act was an admission that every gangmaster represents a risk; a recognition that other regulation has failed to touch widespread illegal practice; an admission that the five government departments responsible for all the laws that should protect those who bring us our food have failed utterly to enforce them. They will continue to fail if the government backtracks now.· Felicity Lawrence is the Guardian's consumer affairs correspondentfelicity.lawrence@theguardian.com