Ian Huntley, the man accused of murdering schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, was reportedly in a coma tonight following a suicide attempt.He was found having a fit in his cell early this morning after taking an overdose of anti-depressants at one of Britain's top security prisons, according to sources cited by the Press Association. The former school caretaker had been on suicide watch since his last court appearance and was understood to have been receiving medication for depression for some time. He was discovered "fitting" in his cell by officers at Woodhill prison - dubbed "the British Alcatraz". Because of fears he could try to kill himself, prison warders had orders to check him every 15 minutes. Harry Fletcher, of the national association of probation officers, said he had learned from sources that Mr Huntley had overdosed on the anti-depressants, which he had accumulated and hidden in tea bags inside his cell. Mr Huntley was rushed from the prison near Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, to hospital by ambulance, but was in a coma by the time he arrived at about 4am, according to PA. Prison service officials asked that the hospital not be identified due to security fears. Mr Huntley was being held at Woodhill prison ahead of his trial for the murders of the two 10-year-old girls, from Soham in Cambridgeshire.A prison service spokeswoman said: "A thorough investigation has begun into the circumstances surrounding this incident and ministers are being kept fully informed."She refused to confirm whether the incident had been an overdose, or to comment on Mr Huntley's condition.Mark Freeman, deputy general secretary of the prison officers association (POA), said a recent change in prison procedures could have given Mr Huntley his chance. "This will no doubt be an embarrassment for the prison service and the government," he said. "They will be looking for someone to blame and the chances are that it will be some poor wing officers who unfortunately have been dispensing medication that, in our opinion, they are not medically trained to do." Officers have to hand out drugs after medical officers have left prisons at night, he said, adding that the changes had come into force in recent months.Mr Huntley, 29, a former caretaker at Soham Village college, has denied murdering the two girls in August 2002. In April he admitted to charges of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.Police launched the biggest manhunt in British criminal history after Holly and Jessica disappeared on the evening of August 4 2002, after being seen walking near their homes in Soham. Their bodies were found in a woodland near Lakenheath, Suffolk, nearly two weeks later. Mr Huntley's former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, denies two charges of assisting an offender and one charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, 26, was formerly a teaching assistant in Holly and Jessica's class at St Andrew's primary school in Soham. Their trial is due to begin in October.