Ian Huntley was today given two life sentences after being convicted by an Old Bailey jury of murdering Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells.Huntley's co-accused and former girlfriend, Maxine Carr, was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in jail after being found guilty of conspiring with Huntley to pervert the course of justice. She was cleared of two counts of assisting an offender in relation to the murder of the girls.As he handed down the sentences, trial judge Mr Justice Moses told Huntley: "You murdered them both, you were the only person who knows how you murdered them ... in your lies and manipulation up to this very day you have increased the suffering you have caused the two families." Addressing Carr, the judge said: "You had plenty of opportunity to refuse to persist in a course of lying and deception. You chose not to. If you had the slightest true regard for those girls or their families you would have told the truth." The jury of seven women and five men returned 11-1 majority decisions on the guilty verdicts after 17 hours of deliberations. The jurors rejected 29-year-old Huntley's testimony that the schoolgirls died accidentally at his home, 5 College Close, in Soham on August 4 last year.Huntley, the caretaker at Soham Village College at the time of the murders, told the court that the 10-year-olds went inside the college-owned three-bedroom detached house because Holly had a nosebleed. He tried to convince the jury during more than two days in the witness box that Holly had slipped into the bath and drowned, and that he killed Jessica when he placed his hand over her mouth to silence her screams. The jurors knew Huntley had once been charged with raping a teenager - a charge that was later dropped. But it emerged today that he had also been accused of indecently assaulting an 11-year-old and having sex with other schoolgirls in his native Grimsby, allegations that could not be revealed during the course of the trial. (Ian Huntley profile)As the sordid details of Huntley's background began to emerge in the aftermath of the trial, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced an inquiry into how Huntley - with a history of targeting under-age girls - managed to slip through police and local authority vetting to secure a job as a school caretaker. (Vetting blunders let Huntley slip through net )Indeed, Cambridgeshire detectives investigating the girls' disappearance found out about the rape charge from a call from a member of the public and not from their counterparts at Humberside police, who had been asked to check his background. Such failings have highlighted serious flaws in the way large investigations are run, and are likely to increase support for an FBI-style force that would be brought in to take over the most high profile inquiries. Soham case strengthens call for FBI-style force Nevertheless, the officer who led the Soham murder inquiry welcomed the verdict and praised the efforts of his team and of the victims' families in bringing Huntley and Carr to justice.Speaking to journalists outside the Old Bailey, temporary Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson said: "As a result of one of the most comprehensive and painstaking investigations ever mounted by Cambridgeshire police, Huntley was pushed further and further into a corner by the power and extent of the evidence against him."He added: "Throughout the investigation he refused to speak to police, let alone accept his guilt. As a consequence he forced the families through the ordeal of the trial. Even then he could not bring himself to admit what he had done and concocted the most incredible and implausible explanation of their deaths." Cambridgeshire Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) spokeswoman Marion Bastin added: "We made sure that we blocked every avenue Ian Huntley went down to work his way out of the murders. It left him with no alternative but to fall back on a final story which was no more than a tissue of lies to save his own skin."The CPS and police had worked day by day to piece together a jigsaw of evidence to find justice for Holly and Jessica. Today that jigsaw has been completed. We are pleased justice has been achieved for those two little girls. We are delighted with these two verdicts." However, no clear motive was established for the girls' murder during the 30-day trial. The prosecution claimed Huntley had a sexual motive, but his efforts to erase all evidence of his crimes meant detectives were unable to prove exactly what happened when the two best friends fell into his hands.Carr, 26, who worked with Huntley's victims as a teaching assistant, admitted lying to protect her lover of three years. She claimed she was unaware of his crime, denying a charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two counts of assisting an offender. In one of the most dramatic moments in the trial, she turned on her former lover and shouted: "I'm not going to be blamed for what that thing in that box has done to me or those children." Today's verdict had provided a "great sense of relief, but no euphoria", the father of Holly Wells said today. The parents of the murdered girls, Leslie Chapman, 52, and his wife Sharon, 44, and Nicola Wells, 36, and her husband Kevin, 40, were in court to hear the verdicts and today gave their reactions to Huntley's conviction. Mr Wells told journalists that the couples had not had a "cessation of their fears" that Huntley would evade justice until they heard today's verdicts.He thanked the Cambridgeshire constabulary and the people of Soham for their support during their 16-month ordeal, adding that the Cambridgeshire family liaison officers had made the couples' "journey a wee bit more bearable". He also paid tribute to the "minimal intrusion" they had experienced from the media.Mr Chapman thanked the trial judge, Mr Justice Moses, and the 12 jurors for their part in Huntley and Carr's convictions, describing Huntley as "a time bomb ready to go off ... our girls were just in the wrong place at the wrong time". He said: "The next time I have to see him [Huntley] is how we saw our daughters for the last time - in a coffin.""Our life sentence started last August; his is only just beginning."Soham's community leaders expressed hope that the verdict would enable the town to "move forward". The vicar of Soham, the Rev Tim Alban Jones of St Andrew's Church, said "justice had been done" at the Old Bailey, but pleaded for the media to leave the town's people alone to return to normality. Reaction from Soham