When Elisabeth Fritzl's quarter-century of abuse by her father Josef came to light earlier this year, it was widely seen as a peculiarly Austrian crime, a legacy of the years when a whole country was in thrall to a violent and abusive Nazi regime. That naive conceit was shattered on Tuesday when a Sheffield judge sentenced a man to life imprisonment for incest with his two daughters over a period of 20 years, stretching back to their childhood. Under the cover of anonymity that the court deemed necessary to protect the two women and the seven surviving children fathered by their father, there have been glimpses of a nightmare of brutal domestic tyranny and of a score of moments when the authorities might have intervened - the injuries spotted by teachers, the suspicions of the doctors, the fruitless interventions of social services. Less has been said, so far, of the culpability of the rest of us, of a society that offloads responsibility for our neighbours on to the professionals and excoriates them for what in truth is a collective failure of culture and understanding. Sexual abuse, and incest in particular, are crimes that even now we are reluctant to acknowledge. But the NSPCC believes that one child in six experiences sexual abuse before the age of 16. Although incest - defined as sex with a relation with whom marriage is forbidden - is relatively rare, it is still the experience of one child in every hundred. Three-quarters of abused children do not speak of it until adulthood, and often not even then. The Sheffield case, where the daughters appear to have actually denied abuse, is only an extreme example of a widespread experience. In the public imagination, for every victim of abuse there is another family wrongfully broken up by interfering social workers. Escaping from this seemingly preordained cycle of failure will require a shift in both public perceptions and in the whole culture of childhood. Perhaps cases should more often be heard in open court, allowing a wider understanding of how un-monsterlike men who abuse can appear, how self-deluding they often are (Fritzl cannot understand why he is considered a pariah) - and how that very self-delusion can lead to a baffling protective confidence. Adults who fear they might abuse should find it easier to seek help. The argument against opening up the courts in such cases is that it exposes children and their families to the very opprobrium that keeps them silent in the first place. Children must be sure that they will be listened to. They need a clear understanding of what is and is not appropriate behaviour by adults. And we all need to think harder about how children are socialised, and the way they are sexualised.