A man has been convicted of killing a 16-year-old Arab student who was punched to the ground after his friend was racially abused.Mohammed al-Majed, from Qatar, had one week remaining of his six-week stay in Hastings, East Sussex, when he was attacked and hit his head on the ground on 22 August last year. He died three days later at King's College hospital in London where he had been transferred for specialist treatment to a brain injury.George Austin, 22, admitting hitting Mohammed but claimed he had acted in self-defence. A jury at Lewes crown court found him guilty of manslaughter.The court heard that the incident began when Austin's co-defendant Paul Rockett demanded of Mohammed's South African friend Peter Henworth: "Where are you from?" Rockett aimed a punch at Henworth but missed as someone else shouted: "Come back here, you nigger."Rockett, 21, was convicted of racially aggravated common assault.Mohammed initially hid inside the Kebab Hut and USA Fried Chicken restaurant with his cousin Abdullah Alnowais and Mojeb Qatani, a 14-year-old from Saudi Arabia, before running out to try to escape.Camden Pratt QC, prosecuting, said Austin hit him "so hard it knocked Mohammed off his feet and effectively into the air with the force of impact. Mohammed went backwards through the air, striking the back of his head on to the road."Qatani was hit on the back of the head with a bottle by the third defendant, Alexander Quinn, and received a 6.5cm laceration to his head. Quinn, 19, from Hastings, was found guilty of wounding with intent.Austin, Rockett and Quinn had been drinking together at a pub prior to the attack and presented a "contrast" to the sober foreign students, the prosecution said. Austin and Quinn fled the scene after Mohammed collapsed but Rockett was arrested on the spot for being drunk and disorderly.After the English-language student died, Rockett, from Burwash, in East Sussex, was re-arrested and charged along with Quinn. During police interviews they claimed the foreign students were a gang "trying to turn all the kids into Muslims". Both admitted to having drunk up to seven cans of lager each beforehand.Austin, from Bermondsey, south-east London, fled to Cyprus, claiming he did not know Mohammed had died and had travelled abroad for work. He was arrested when he arrived at Gatwick airport in November.In a statement read to jurors, Austin claimed he had punched Mohammed in "self-defence" because an Arab group had attacked his friends and three of the group had run at him. "I wish to say that I'm really sorry," he said. "I never intended to hurt him. I just wanted to get to my group who were being attacked."A witness testified that Mohammed had his hands by his side when he was punched.The three men will be sentenced at a later date. Mohammed's father, Abdulla al-Majed, said in a statement: "Mohammed Abdulla al-Majed, our boy, tragically lost his life just over a year ago. We believe that the right verdict was reached today."