Around 280 criminals who committed serious offences in Europe have yet to be entered onto the police database, the home secretary John Reid admitted today - as the Tories hinted they would call for his resignation if any were subsequently have found to be working with children.Mr Reid was forced to make a Commons statement after a morning of emergency meetings with senior police officers and the Criminal Records Bureau over the latest fiasco to hit the Home Office. The home secretary promised that the 260 serious offenders that had been committed to the policy database already would be retrospectively checked by the Criminal Records Bureau with employers "hopefully by the end of this week" to check they had not been employed in sensitive positions. But earlier, at prime minister's questions, the Conservative leader, David Cameron, warned that if any criminals whose details the Home Office had received but not registered had gone on to work with children, Mr Reid "will not be able to run away from responsibility for it" - a clear hint that the opposition sees this as a potential resigning issue. Mr Reid blamed a mix of "patchy" information from abroad, information being sometimes of "extremely poor quality", plus "fragmented and piecemeal" collation of information by the UK authorities. He pointed out that no single offence had been forwarded by Spain, for example, despite the likelihood that UK citizens had been convicted of crimes there, or that some countries sent information simply stating a "John Smith" had been convicted of an offence. In a statement to MPs, he said police had identified the 540 "most serious" cases among a pool of more than 27,500 offenders. So far, details of 260 have been entered on the PNC, he said. But 280 cannot be put into the system until more details are obtained from the countries where the crimes took place, he added. He put no specific timetable on how long that would take, saying such a deadline would be "artificial" and could damage the existing system. He added that he hoped the entire 27,000 backlog would be cleared within three months, and that the 260 most serious already identified and entered on the police national computer would be checked with the CRB in "hopefully not months or weeks - I hope to have that [done] by the end of this week." When details of the Home Office gaffe emerged yesterday, the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) voiced concerns that some of the offenders may have escaped vetting measures designed to protect children and vulnerable adults. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said that under Labour, the Home Office had had "its worst three years in its 200-year history". He demanded that Mr Reid, now eight months into the job, "start shouldering responsibility for his department". Mr Reid added that an internal inquiry into the Home Office's handling of the criminal records notifications should be complete within six weeks - and he also appeared to threaten sackings within his department, saying he had demanded to know why he was not informed of such information system failures in his first week in the job. The permanent secretary at the Home Office is now investigating why he was not told about such deficiencies, he said. The home secretary began by telling MPs that the current system of voluntary exchange of information about foreign offences had begun in 1959, until a November 2005 EU decision was taken to make it mandatory. In May 2006 his predecessor, Charles Clarke, made Acpo the UK coordinating agency for such information. A pool of 27,529 documents were found to contain details of British nationals convicted abroad, including:  · 25 rapists and three people convicted of attempted rape;  · 29 paedophiles, plus another 17 other sex offenders; · Five murderers; · Nine convicted of attempted murder and 13 of manslaughter; ·· 29 robbers. According to an Acpo document, the majority of the serious foreign convictions of UK nationals were not on the PNC and the police had no DNA, fingerprints or photographs of the offenders. None of the 25 UK nationals convicted of rape had been put on the sex offenders register, it said. Mr Reid pointed out to MPs that only three countries in the EU - Britain, Ireland and Spain - had sex offenders registers in place.