James Hughes, the severely disabled man whose body was found in a suitcase in the garden of the family home, died after being neglected by his mother and social services, his father claimed today.An inquest recorded an open verdict on the death of Mr Hughes, who was 21 with the mental age of a toddler. But at the end of the three-day hearing his father, Paul Hughes, said: "I believe that my son was the victim of neglect and a series of circumstances over which I had no control. Had the appropriate guidelines been followed my beautiful son would still be here today. We need to ensure that vulnerable adults … are given the protection and regard they deserve to safeguard against a tragedy like this happening in the future."Experts at the inquest at Stourport, Worcestershire, said it was impossible to say what killed Mr Hughes, who lived with his mother, Heather Wardle. But it emerged that he weighed only 29kg (4.5 st) when he died, had not seen a doctor for three years though he had epilepsy, and was prescribed strong drugs. He had not been given his own social worker and his care had not been reviewed for three years – the law requires an annual review.Most crucially, in closing submissions his father's solicitor, Yvonne Hossack, said there had been a "critical delay" between November 2007, when a care centre manager said he was "horrified" at how "malnourished" Mr Hughes looked, and January, when it is believed he died. This concern was passed on to social services but Ms Wardle was not seen until April.Ms Hossack said: "If there had been a constant GP, a constant social worker, if there had been a multidisciplinary review each year then all the agencies would have had a forum to share concerns." She added: "There was neglect by the county council and neglect by the mother."The deputy coroner for Worcestershire, Margaret Barnard, rejected the idea that Mr Hughes died of neglect but agreed there was a "lost opportunity" after the concerns about him were raised.Born with chromosome 22 ring syndrome, a rare genetic condition, Mr Hughes could not speak and was incontinent, the inquest heard. He tried to eat almost everything he could grab and often kept the whole household up all night.Mr Hughes used to attend care centres at least four days a week, but stopped in November 2007. When anyone phoned to ask why he was not coming, Ms Wardle, 39, made an excuse. It later emerged that she was heavily in debt, her relationship with her partner was collapsing and she had talked about suicide.The tragedy emerged when Mr Hughes and Ms Wardle were reported missing. She was found hanged in woodland and police discovered his body in the case hidden in the garden in Redditch. In Mr Hughes' bedroom, police were hit by the stench of vomit, urine, diarrhoea and rotten food.Ms Wardle's inquest is taking place tomorrow .