A nine-year-old girl whose body was discovered in a lorry was not the victim of a sexual assault, police said yesterday.Stacey Lawrence, from the West Midlands, was found strangled at a lorry park on the A605 near Warmington, Northamptonshire, on Saturday.The body of her mother's long-term partner, Darren Walker, 40, also from the West Midlands, was found hanging in nearby woodland. Detectives said they were treating the case as a murder and suicide. They said the initial postmortem results indicated that she had not been sexually assaulted.It is understood that the nine-year-old had accompanied Walker as he made deliveries to Spar stores in Norfolk on Friday as a holiday treat. Police said the lorry left the depot in Willenhall at 4am on Friday and headed straight for Great Yarmouth in Norfolk.After making deliveries to Spar stores in the county, it was returning to the West Midlands when it stopped just outside Peterborough at about 3pm.It arrived in the lay-by in nearby Warmington, near the Cambridgeshire border, shortly after 3.35pm. The lorry was later found on Saturday, unlocked next to a busy rural road, with the curtains in the cab drawn.Detective Chief Inspector Tricia Kirk, of Northamptonshire police, said Stacey had regarded the trip as a treat and her mother had no concerns prior to her death."Our investigation is to try to find out what led to this tragic event taking place," Kirk said. "At the moment we are treating it as a murder-suicide. We believe the girl was murdered and the man then committed suicide. We are not aware of any medical condition and we are not aware of any family arguments."It is believed that Stacey's mother had been in a relationship with Walker for at least a year. Kirk said the child's mother was comfortable with her being in his company and there had been no issues or concerns raised by family members."This came as a big shock for the family," she said. "I can't imagine what they are going through. The mother is probably in a state of disbelief that her partner she cared for has done this."Northamptonshire police are checking with other UK forces to establish whether Walker was known to police. It is understood that he was originally from the West Bromwich area. He had been an employee at AF Blakemore and Son Ltd, which delivers goods to Spar stores across the Midlands.A statement released on behalf of Spar said: "We are deeply saddened by a tragic event which has been reported to us this weekend. We will, of course, be offering the police our full support in their inquiry."Detectives were alerted after the truck's owners reported the vehicle missing on Saturday afternoon. The Spar lorry was tracked down to the lorry park, using GPS technology that pinpointed its precise location.Officers tried to resuscitate the girl, but were unable to do so. Within minutes, they located Walker's body hanging from a cord in woodland. Both bodies were removed to a hospital for postmortems.