Funding to enable the first 460 police "community support officers" to start patrolling London from September provoked controversy yesterday after being announced by the home secretary, David Blunkett, on the eve of today's local elections.The new officers will be in uniform and have radios, but they will have only limited powers. They will not be able to arrest suspects or carry handcuffs, batons or sprays. They will provide a visible presence on the streets to reassure the public in targeted areas. Funding for the patrols was announced yesterday by the Home Office alongside cash to fund up to 700 extra Metropolitan police officers - but only after Mr Blunkett had signalled the details at Labour's last local elections press conference in Millbank. The move triggered complaints from Conservatives that Mr Blunkett was breaching the guidance issued to civil servants to prevent "public resources being used for party political purposes". Last night, David Davies, the Tory chairman, wrote to the cabinet secretary, Sir Richard Wilson, protesting about Mr Blunkett's "clear attempt to influence the outcome of the elections". Today's voting will "effectively be a referendum on the government's record on crime, given that 98% of seats being contested are experiencing some kind of rising crime", he said. Mr Blunkett insisted his action was within the rules because it stemmed from the £180m extra Treasury money for the criminal justice system announced in the unusually late budget - and was, apart from the key battleground of London, confined to national, not local, statistics. Downing Street later said officials had taken care not to allow the usual local details to be published to head off criticism. Mr Blunkett appears to have stayed inside the letter, if not the spirit, of the law. The new money will be supplemented by an extra £100m from the "criminal justice reserve" and by "re-prioritising £68m from existing Home Office resources". The last is believed to include £60m which is being taken from the prison service capital budget, used to fund repairs in dilapidated jails. The rest of the money is being found by reducing funding for previous initiatives to cut street crime, which have been overtaken by the present campaign. An extra £67m is to be spent on the attempt to curb the increase in street robbery. It will be used in the 10 worst street crime areas in England and Wales, with £36m being spent on police operations and community support officers, £7.6m on video identity parades, £10m on probation measures and anti-drug initiatives, and £13.8m on extra crown prosecutors and getting courts to deal with street robbery cases more quickly. In total   £60m will go to the Met and £40m to other forces, reflecting the greater anti-terrorism responsibilities of London police. The bulk of the extra Home Office spending, £171m, will go on an emergency programme of building 2,300 new prison places, including 600 for juveniles, to cope with the record jail population of more than 70,000.