The English can't claim to be the best in the world at much these days: Rugby union, certainly; selling arms, running oil companies, puking in Mediterranean resorts and knocking out conceptual art, probably - but after that the patriot struggles. Although few people know about it, the Forensic Science Service of England and Wales should be a source of national pride. No other law enforcement organisation has better understood the possibilities brought by the genetic revolution. Tributes come from all corners.When the Swedish police needed to know whose were the DNA traces left on the knife used by the assassin of Anna Lindh, they asked for the help of the Forensic Science Service laboratory in Birmingham. When the Russians wanted confirmation that bodies found in a shallow grave near Ekaterinberg were the remains of Tsar Nicholas II and his family, the English provided it.Back home, the service dealt with 150,000 cases last year. No celebrated trial is complete without its scientists giving evidence - one, Peter Lamb, was at the Old Bailey last week discussing fragments from latex gloves found near the bodies of the Soham schoolgirls. Among their many endearing features, the scientists are independent of the police and are just as interested in clearing the innocent as convicting the guilty. They wag their fingers to emphasise the point. In the US the apparently hopeless campaign to abolish the death penalty has been revived by the discovery through DNA testing that an embarrassingly large number of convicts were strangled, poisoned or electrocuted for crimes they didn't commit. Fortunately, British scientists aren't reduced to finding professional satisfaction in such hollow triumphs. The beneficiaries of their research are usually alive.To make its success more remarkable, the service is run by a Home Office which can't manage the prison, probation, police or immigration services. The successful anomaly is too much for David Blunkett and he is determined to destroy it. Like so much that goes wrong, his privatisation plans aren't a dastardly secret guarded by conspirators. If they are hidden, they are hidden in plain view. It's just that forensic scientists can't persuade the media to look at them. Consider the paradoxical position the scientists find themselves in. On the one hand, they are revered. Their words are taken down by reporters in thousands of trials. But when they warn that a maniacal government is about to wreck their service, they can't get a hearing. It's the old problem of a potential disaster not being news until it becomes a disaster; until, in other words, it's too late to do anything about it.Working on the principle that prevention is better than cure, it's better to make a fuss now rather than wait for the innocent to be convicted and the guilty to walk free.MPs from all sides are doing what the press should be doing. They point out that the managers of the Forensic Science Service had been praised by a National Audit Office, which isn't given to praising this Government; that it made a profit of £10 million last year, which was reinvested in public service rather than directed to the capacious pockets of shareholders; and that even Michael Howard ruled out privatisation when he was Home Secretary.Forensic scientists take you up an alarming escalator as they describe the likely consequence of what one MP called New Labour's rail privatisation. Detectives need accurate information and need it quickly. A profit-motivated Forensic Science Service won't be able to meet either requirement. At the moment, the service doesn't charge by the hour. Legal & General and the other investment companies circling it, whose knowledge of crime can be fairly said to be somewhere between 'next to nothing' and 'nothing', won't allow the police such generous terms. They will milk their new asset dry.The police will have find all kinds of ways to scrimp. If, for instance, four cigarette butts are found at the scene of the crime and detectives suspect that they might carry a DNA trace of the criminal, the most effective method of finding a quick result is to test them all at once, a process which takes about a month. But the cost-effective solution is for the police to tell scientists to stagger the examination by testing each butt in turn until they find useful evidence. Unfortunately, if they don't get lucky and don't find a DNA match until the results from the last fag end have arrived, four months will have gone by and villain may have scampered off.The scientists I spoke to called this the 'staging problem'. As disturbing are the 'selectivity' and 'screening' problems. Suppose a woman tells the police she has been raped in her bedroom. A vaginal swab to find traces of the alleged rapist's semen is cheap to do, but may not be conclusive. An exhaustive search for his semen on the woman's duvet is far more expensive. Detectives under pressure to save money will select the cheap and easy path. If, that is, they don't start screening evidence to keep the bills down. Imagine a case when there are no visible traces of blood or semen on a suspect's shirt, why boost Legal & General's profits by sending it in to see if a microscopic sample can be found? On the big murders - the Sohams of the future - I guess that no expense will be spared. But on the ordinary run of rapes, assaults, woundings and burglaries no one I spoke to believed that the same care will be taken in the cost-conscious future.As I listened to the patient explanations of how crimes will be left unsolved, I realised that the Government didn't understand what markets destroy. Rare talents don't survive. At present the state has specialists who are trained in the old-fashioned skill of using a microscope, as there are still times when a DNA sample can't be taken from, say, a hair. The fuddy-duddies aren't cost-efficient, but they're on hand for when there's nothing else to do but hand over a hair found at the scene of a crime and a hair from a suspect to someone who can swear in court that they are from the same man.As with old skills, so with the new. The reason the Russians and Swedes come to Britain is that the public sector has invested in research and development, a good habit which British capitalism has been unable to emulate for decades. New Labour is happy to risk strangling innovation by handing it over to a private consortium which must please its backers by producing short-term profits. The surest way to do that is to cut research.Forensic scientists used to get excited when they talked about the future. They hoped they would be able to distinguish menstrual blood from blood from an injury. (A woman says there are blood stains on a man's underpants because he raped her. He says the blood is on his clothes because she had a nose bleed, he helped her mop it up and then went to the loo.) They imagined being able to give the police a suspect's hair and eye colour as well as a DNA profile. In a few years, they said, they would arrive at the scene of a crime with detectives, match a sample via computer with the DNA database and tell the cops who the suspect is within minutes. 'If you can get round to a burglar's house at once, you've got a chance to catch him before he's fenced the stolen goods,' one said. When he and his colleagues consider the consequence of privatisation, the optimism drains from their voices.To make this law-and-order Government's conduct all the more criminal, it is toying with breaking up what is and should be a national service. Ninety per cent of police work is done by the Forensic Science Service. If it is privatised, it will either have to be a private monopoly - the worst type of business - or the Home Office will have to break it up, as the Tories broke up the railways, and establish rival companies. Competitors will have no incentive to co-operate to solve crimes, and every reason to ignore the present rule that no case can be turned away however unprofitable it is.As I spoke to the scientists, I had a premonition of how New Labour will lose power. In the public sector Tony Blair is alienating the respectable men and women from the centre ground, the people he says he is trying to please. Senior forensic scientists start on £20,000 and can reach £40,000 after years of work. They are animated by motives the political class either can't understand or despise. One told me: 'If a girl's been raped and I can find out who did it and stop him raping another girl, that's my job satisfaction. No one here is interested in making money. We're gobsmacked Labour should be treating us like this.'If Michael Howard were to stand up and announce that he would put a stop to a privatisation delirium which had gone too far, he would be astonished by how many votes he would get.