Britain's first black chief constable today asked the public to focus on his job, not his race, as he took over control of the Kent force.At a press conference in Maidstone, Mike Fuller said he hoped that everyone could now concentrate on improving policing."I accept and acknowledge that it is an historic appointment," the 44-year-old told the Press Association. "But I don't see or regard myself as a celebrity, and I will keep my private life private. The focus should be on the force. This will not be about me." Mr Fuller said he had a "great job", and added that his immediate priority would be listening to the concerns of local people. "There are some common themes we can work on already, in tackling anti-social behaviour and rural crime," he said. The married father of two said that he would apply many of the same intelligence-led techniques he used as a deputy assistant commissioner with the Metropolitan police to the policing of rural areas."We will target the people who are targeting rural areas. People need to feel safe," he added. Mr Fuller was a deputy assistant commissioner at Scotland Yard before being chosen as Kent's new chief constable in September. When news of his appointment was confirmed last year, he said that the appointment of a black chief constable was "long overdue", and that his success should provide an "example to others". Mr Fuller began his career as a cadet in the Metropolitan police before joining Special Branch two years later. He rose to become a detective chief inspector, and his career received a major boost with the success of anti-burglary campaign Operation Bumblebee.Following the publication of the Macpherson report into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, Mr Fuller joined the Met's racist and violent crime offences force. In May 2001, he was promoted to deputy assistant commissioner of the Met, the fourth-highest post in the force, and said he believed that the "glass ceiling" for black officers in the police was being broken.He was later put in charge of Operation Trident, the Met's crackdown on Yardie crime.