A schoolboy killer who knifed 14-year-old Luke Walmsley to death outside a classroom in front of a crowd of pupils was detained for life today.Alan Pennell, 16, stabbed the younger boy through the heart in a corridor at Birkbeck secondary school in North Somercotes, Lincolnshire. He was recommended to serve a minimum of 12 years by Mr Justice Goldring, a day after being found guilty of murdering the 14-year-old by a jury at Nottingham crown court yesterday. The judge lifted restrictions preventing Pennell from being named shortly after the sentencing. Luke's parents welcomed the verdict and called for more CCTV surveillance in schools to deter similar attacks.His mother Jayne Walmsley said: "There will always be a void in our hearts because Luke was taken away so suddenly from us in circumstances we still find hard to believe and impossible to come to terms with.""Luke was never afraid to stand up for what he believed in and he stood up to bullies. ""We know what happened to Luke happened because he did stand up to those bullies. Some children even take their own lives because they are being bullied but Luke was killed because he dared to stand up to the bullies in his school."The two-week trial heard that Luke was knifed once in the chest as he chatted about football after a lesson. Pennell disliked Luke and delivered a forceful and deliberate blow to his chest with a flick knife, the jury had been told. Luke collapsed moments later and was given first aid by teachers. The court heard that his attacker had armed himself with the knife and threatened another pupil with the weapon earlier that day. In the weeks leading up to the attack, he had told other students that he intended to stab Luke. Yvonne Cohen QC, prosecuting, said it was no secret the pair disliked each other but that it was unclear what had motivated the defendant to stab Luke. Luke was flown by air ambulance to a hospital in Grimsby where he underwent emergency surgery and was pronounced dead later that morning. The defendant initially tried to hide the weapon behind his back when challenged by a teacher but was persuaded to hand it over by another pupil. He admitted stabbing the teenager but denied intending to kill him when questioned by staff and police. He said he had only intended to scare Luke by bringing a knife to school and did not mean to harm his victim. In evidence, the 16-year-old said he was annoyed and upset after he heard Luke had been passing notes to his girlfriend. He also said he believed the younger pupil had been making threats to fight him and saying things about his mother in the weeks leading to his death. He admitted he had never got on well with Luke but said he had held the knife out to scare him and Luke walked straight into it. He said: "I didn't want to fight Luke. I thought if I showed the knife, it would prevent him from fighting. I was just going to say something to him just to scare him. I thought I would confront him. Just by saying something like 'back off me or [my girlfriend]' or something. He just walked straight into me. I didn't intend to harm him." But Dr Mark Rouse, a pathologist called by the defence, said the wound was not consistent with an impaling injury and must have been caused by a forceful blow. The court heard yesterday that Pennell had run into trouble with the police twice before, last year. He had received a reprimand on June 14 for an assault on a police constable which had not resulted in any injury. On August 3 he was given a warning by police for a common assault on a fellow pupil whom he punched three times in the face, leaving him with a swollen lip and loose tooth, the court was told. Sasha Wass QC, defending Pennell, told the court that his mother's death when he was young had had a major effect on him. She said that, following the murder, he had been asked by a psychiatrist what he would do with three wishes. He had replied: to bring his mother back, to turn back time to before the incident on November 4, and he could not think of another wish. She added: "There are no aggravating features over and above the wickedness of the offence. "He is somebody who has difficulty expressing his feelings and has very, very deep feelings about the acts that he performed on November 4 last year." His headteacher, Gary Loveridge, said in a statement read outside the school: "Since that terrible day in November we have all struggled to understand how this could have happened in our small rural school where violence is an absolute rarity and student behaviour is good. "I hope that young people in every school in the land can learn from this rare incident and realise that conflicts and arguments can never be solved by violence." Cheryle Berry, director of education for Lincolnshire county council, said there would a full independent review into the circumstances surrounding the tragedy. Chris Keates, acting general secretary of the NASUWT teaching union, said: "This is a terrible tragedy for both families. The life of a young person has ended in a violent death. Another young person is facing the consequences of his appalling actions. "Such incidents are fortunately rare in schools. Compared with the growing weapon-carrying culture among young people on the streets, schools remain relative havens of peace and security. "However it is essential that every effort is made to ensure they remain this way. "NASUWT has called for random airport-style security checks in schools. This would act as both deterrent and a way of monitoring the extent of the problem. Such an approach is entirely consistent with the government's strategy for random drug testing."