As part of their mopping-up operation after the riots, senior police officers regained control of the Commons home affairs select committee, scene of such fierce assaults on the police last month that two of Scotland Yard's top men were forced into early retirement by injuries sustained.They did so, not by deploying water cannon, baton charges or mass arrest of MPs (the Damian Green affair cured them of that), but by boring the parliamentarians into submission. Even the committee's combustible chairman, Keith Vaz, behaved himself. No sarcasm, no grandstanding; an eyewitness would never have recognised him in an identity parade.Vaz had clearly been shaken by the violence he unleashed in July. So boredom is a tactic that Sir Hugh Orde, Tim Godwin and Lynne Owens, the three top cops giving evidence on Tuesday, might sensibly deploy next time the Tottenham or Clapham underclass embark on some out-of-hours shopping followed by a spot of arson.Despite the summer recess at sleepy Westminster, the MPs had heroically convened to launch their topical new inquiry into urban riots, although Britain has not yet recovered from their last inquiry, the one into phone hacking at the News of the World. Such was its scornful ferocity that they contributed substantially to the resignation of Sir Paul Stephenson as commissioner at the Met. Also walking the plank was his would-be successor, John ("unconvincing") Yates, the man who had cleared the NoW in just eight hours. "If I ever do something really bad I want you to investigate me," one MP is supposed to have told him.It would be a stretch to say that the yawning gap thus created in the Met's chain of command explained the fatal dither between a Scotland Yard team shooting Mark Duggan two Thursdays ago and the Tottenham warm-up riot 48 hours later.No one actually asked about that important failure at Tuesday's session. But the gap did give two of Stephenson's potential heirs a chance to strut their stuff in case members of the informal appointment committee – David Cameron, Teresa May and Mayor Boris – just happened to be watching.The result was a manly display of lantern-jawed firmness and a refreshingly commendable willingness to grab any passing buck rather than blame someone else. Acting Met commissioner Godwin kept saying that, right or wrong, decisions made in those turbulent 72 hours of mayhem – not seven days, MPs, pu-leese – "were mine and my team's." He came across as modest and rather decent.Not to be outdone, Orde, the man who turned the old RUC into the non-sectarian Police Service of Northern Ireland and now runs Acpo, the top cop's trade union ("private club," snapped irrate Tory Lorraine Fullbrook), sought to soothe reported differences with the politicians and to reassure the watching public that Acpo had efficiently summoned officers from all 52 mainland forces to protect their threatened cities.It was an impressive narrative: 16,000 officers deployed (eventually) in London alone, nearly 1,700 people arrested in 22 of the capital's 32 boroughs, 660 crime scenes, 24/7 courts, Westfield and the Olympic site saved by hacking BlackBerry messages. Was it the worst riot he'd seen? asked trying-to-be-good Vaz. Not compared with Belfast, no, the candidate replied. But in Northern Ireland you could plan your holidays because riots come with the marching season on July 12. Quite unfairly, London's were unplanned.But Orde was clearly playing hard cop to Godwin's would-you-like-a-fag cop in this interrogation and chose to take offence when Fullbrook, Tory MP for riot-free South Ribble, got chippy. It was an impressive display of irritation, spoiled by his determination to be nice about Cameron hiring American super-cop, Bill Bratton, to advise him on policy. He called Bill a "friend."The only other weakness in the team's testimony was the way they said Londoners rallied to support the thin blue line after the riots, offering officers showers, cakes and meals ("no examples of people getting engaged?" quipped Vaz) in gratitude. If the MPs were wholly convinced by that bit, they kept it to themselves.