Crooks stealing your identity and plundering your bank accounts are, at last, on the run, says Financial Fraud Action UK, an industry body that collates financial crime figures. Fraud fell in 2011 and in the first half of 2012. But if the shocking story of Rod and Linda Twiss is anything to go by, there is still an awful long way to go. Their story raises worrying questions about the quality of controls at Halifax, whose parent group, Lloyds, operates more current accounts than any other bank in Britain.The couple, who live in Kent, tell me they are prudent and cautious with their money. He's retired, she's a finance manager for a local firm. They have a shredder, and take all the usual steps to protect themselves.On 29 December, Halifax rang with bad news. Someone had tried to change the address on their Platinum card to one in Birmingham. The couple confirmed it was not them, and, on the bank's advice, cut up their cards safe in the knowledge that Halifax would reissue the cards in a few days. A nuisance but not a calamity.Little did they realise the scale of the calamity that was indeed about to hit. It has shaken their confidence in Halifax to the core.Despite the bank being aware of a fraud attempt just days earlier, on 4 January a woman posing as Mrs Twiss went into a Halifax branch in Streatham, south London – never previously visited by Mrs Twiss – and ordered a new passbook for their Liquid Gold account, which the couple had not used for nearly a decade. What ID did the fraudster use to obtain the passbook? We still don't know, but clearly it evaded Halifax's controls.The fraudster then systematically cleaned out the couple's savings accounts, stealing £12,460. He or she transferred money from Mr and Mrs Twiss's Premier and Instant savings accounts into the Liquid Gold account. Then they popped into a branch of the Halifax every day for five days, withdrawing £2,500 in cash each time: first, Balham, south London, then Chiswick, back south to Penge, and then across to Croydon.At no point were Mr and Mrs Twiss contacted for confirmation, despite the size of the withdrawals. How often have we heard from readers prevented from opening or accessing their accounts because super-strict money laundering rules require multiple forms of ID? Yet, in this case, the fraudsters casually walked off with their loot.When, on 13 January, Linda discovered the theft, Halifax did at least immediately accept it was fraud and, within two days, restored their cash balances. But, astonishingly, the matter did not rest there.Remember the Platinum cards? Well, Halifax did reissue the cards – directly to the fraudster's address in Birmingham, handing him (or her) a £17,400 spending limit in the couple's name.The first our long-suffering couple knew was when Halifax's debt collectors demanded repayment. The couple patiently explained they had never received the cards, and obtained an apology from Halifax. But one week later the calls began again, this time from its call centre in India, for failing, supposedly, to pay the Platinum card. The couple, battered and harassed, have cut all connections with Halifax. When we intervened, the bank upped its payment for stress and inconvenience to £576. But how could it have let them down so badly?A Halifax spokesman said: "The person who fraudulently withdrew funds did answer the security questions correctly. Unfortunately, errors were made on our behalf with regard to issuing the new cards, and we are sorry for the problems this has caused. We take customer security very seriously, and we have strict controls to ensure any unusual or potentially fraudulent activity is flagged and responded to."Mr and Mrs Twiss greeted this with a hollow laugh. Next week, as official figures for fraud in 2012 are released, maybe the banks will proclaim another victory in the battle against the fraudsters. But are they losing the war?