The murder of three women working as prostitutes in Bradford has reminded us of the terror that gripped the streets of Ipswich four years ago. During Steve Wright's killing spree in the winter of 2006, many of the women I work with became acutely aware of their vulnerability and wanted to get out, there and then.But sex workers tend to have multiple problems, including addictions, poverty, poor physical and mental health, and childcare responsibilities – and since they are often victims of domestic violence and rape, their feelings of shame and self-blame can often be a barrier to summoning up the necessary willpower to exit the trade. And even when they begin a more structured phase of drug treatment with groups such as our Iceni Project, they suffer anxiety and trauma when coming into contact with people who may recognise them from their time in the sex industry.Some people I've talked to believe that if these women wanted to get out of the industry they could just walk away. They simply don't appreciate how hard it is. These women live in a climate where extortion, blackmail and fear of physical abuse from former or current partners are an everyday reality; they are often socially isolated, and are terrified that family members will learn of their involvement in prostitution; on top of this, their mental health issues include depression, anxiety and self-harm.In Ipswich, assisting women out of street sex work was a steep learning curve for all of us. We learned that no single organisation could respond to meet such needs, and that collaborative working arrangements were crucial.Prior to the events of 2006, services in Ipswich were aimed at minimising the harm and risk associated with street prostitution and drug use. These were vital in reducing the harm that the majority of women were exposed to; however, such services can never eliminate the inherent danger attached to such a risky activity.All the women Iceni has worked with were drug users, the vast majority being addicted to heroin and/or crack cocaine. Drug addiction is the consistent thread, and remains the driving force behind why so many women resort to prostitution. We can introduce new legal measures, and various groups can keep spitting vitriol about decriminalisation, legalisation or whatever their preferred option is; but unless we as a society learn to deal with drugs more effectively, we will never see an end to what is a desperate and dangerous activity that destroys lives.Without exception, all the women I have worked with expressed an intense hatred for what they did; many disliked the men they did it with; and most had a deep sense of self-loathing. I cannot recall one woman ever stating that she would be involved in prostitution if it wasn't for her addiction.I have been fortunate to witness many women exit street prostitution over the last three years, to live more healthy and fulfilling lives – but each time it was a gradual and long-term process, with high levels of support required. While it has taken much effort, not least from the women themselves, I would say these outcomes have come about because their drug addictions and other associated issues were being properly addressed.And for that reason, I would urge any individual who is working in the street sex industry to get in touch with their local drug treatment agencies, and even if they have tried in the past and perhaps fallen out with local services, they should still give it another go. If not, as the Bradford and Ipswich tragedies show, they could end up paying with their lives.