I spent the best part of 18 months working in the learning and skills department of HMP Latchmere House and HMP Wormwood Scrubs. Part of my role was working with prisoners one to one to encourage them to participate and engage in internal and external education programmes. I have since moved into a role with the police, thus moving from one side of the justice system to the other.Unfortunately, my old workplace came to my attention recently with the news that Latchmere House is to be closed next month. Even while working there the threat of closure hung over every prison during the comprehensive spending review, but because of the work I saw taking place at Latchmere I thought it would duck the executioner's axe. It would appear not.I started work for the Ministry of Justice as a genuine believer in much of Ken Clarke's proposals. The payment-by-results scheme, which allowed those with the passion and the drive to make a qualitative difference to prisons such at Latchmere and then paying them for positive outcomes, could only be a good thing, I surmised. Encouraging prisoners to get out of their cells and into workshops is good for prison staff and good for offenders.Latchmere could have been – and indeed was becoming – the flagship to demonstrate these ideas in action. It was a small and relatively cheap to run (despite its recent refurbishment) open prison with one of the lowest reoffending rates in the country. A performance review earlier this year had upgraded the prison from a level 3 performer to a level 4, thus making it one of the top-performing prisons in the country. However, it would appear sitting on prime real estate land in Richmond, south-west London, has condemned it to the chop.It is now to be closed with only two months' notice. This will have huge implications for the 200-plus prisoners there; many of whom will have raised thousands of pounds worth of charity money to take educational/vocational courses. This will now go to waste as the prisoners will be returned to closed conditions and will not be able to continue their courses. Who is going to reimburse the Salvation Army and Royal London Society (to name a few) for the financial stake they had in the prisoners, I wonder?Yes, you must punish criminals, this is a crucial deterrent, and, yes, you must make sure the police have the powers, discretion and support to catch those criminals. However, for every door you close I believe you have to crack a window. To "break the cycle" you have to offer a way out. Crime is on the rise and is set to continue to rise with the cuts to the justice sector. Therefore this is not a problem that can be swept under the carpet, and there simply is not the money to build large prisons.My experience of working with offenders taught me that fear of punishment alone is never enough to stop an offender going straight back to criminality on release. You have to introduce an element of choice. I do not mean this in purely the moral sense; obviously they have the choice to act rightly or wrongly. I mean equipping offenders with the necessary life skills and support to make a choice of stepping off the criminal path. I would suggest that when you are spending £40,000 each year on incarcerating them it is at least worth a shot.The coalition and the Conservative party should be wary before it takes Labour's accusations that it is "soft on crime" too closely to heart. It is possible (and I believe essential) to be both tough on crime and effective reformers. The "big society" and the payment-by-results model offer the best chance in years to truly bring the outrageous recidivism rates that this country has down. I have seen some of the amazing work the third sector can do in prisons: do not deny them their opportunity to make a difference by closing institutions such as Latchmere House.