Ian Brady, the Moors murderer, has been returned to Ashworth high security psychiatric hospital after undergoing medical tests in an NHS general hospital, officials have confirmed. However, he remains "physically unwell", so it is uncertain whether he will be fit enough to attend a tribunal scheduled for Monday.Brady, 74, murdered five children in the 1960s with Myra Hindley. He is believed to have had a seizure on Monday while speaking to his solicitor by telephone and was taken to Fazakerley hospital in Aintree, Liverpool. After spending two nights in hospital, amid tight security, he was released on Wednesday.A spokeswoman for Ashworth, where the serial killer has been detained for the past 27 years, said he had "recovered enough" to be discharged from the general hospital but remained "physically unwell".Brady is due to attend a mental health tribunal on Monday at Manchester's Civil Justice Centre, appearing via videolink from Ashworth hospital, regarding his application to be transferred to a Scottish prison and be allowed to die. But there is doubt about his court appearance as a result of his recent illness.He was admitted to the NHS hospital for tests on Monday afternoon after becoming "acutely physically unwell". He had been in a single room accompanied by two nurses from Ashworth high security psychiatric hospital and other staff from the hospital.Brady was jailed in 1966 for murdering three children, and since 1985 has been detained at Ashworth. There are concerns about his health as he has been on hunger strike since 1999 and has been tube-fed against his will. A heavy smoker, he also has spondylitis, a degenerative condition that affects his spine.As he is sectioned under the Mental Health Act, he is not allowed to take his own life.Winnie Johnson, the mother of Keith Bennett, one of Brady's victims, has indicated that she is not well enough to attend the mental health tribunal hearing. Her solicitor said it would be too traumatic for her to attend.Last year, she said she hoped to come "face to face" with the killer. Her solicitor, John Ainley, said she had made it perfectly clear over the years that she thought Brady should remain in a mental hospital for the remainder of his natural life, and not be transferred to a prison in England or Scotland.Pauline Reade, 16, disappeared on her way to a dance in July 1963, and John Kilbride, 12, was snatched four months later. Keith Bennett was abducted in June 1964 after he left home to visit his grandmother. His body has never been found, despite extensive searches of the moorland. On Boxing Day 1964, Lesley Ann Downey, 10, was lured away from a funfair, and the couple's final victim, Edward Evans, 17, was killed in October 1965. Both Hindley and Brady were taken back to the moor in 1987, when they finally admitted killing Keith Bennett and Pauline Reade, to assist police in finding the missing victims. But only Pauline's remains were found.Hindley died in prison in November 2002 at the age of 60.Alan West – Lesley Ann Downey's stepfather – told ITV: "I only wished in one way that he would end up the same way as Hindley did. Don't come out of the hospital. The only way out is in a box. I'll be happy."