The 2001 Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act states that a non-national can be detained indefinitely if the secretary of state suspects that person of being a terrorist and he or she is believed to be a risk to national security.Article 15 of the 1984 United Nations convention against torture says that states "shall ensure that any statement ... made as a result of torture shall not be invoked as evidence in any proceedings, except against a person accused of torture as evidence that the statement was made". How do these two precepts of law combine? The question is not purely academic. A number of people have been held in British prisons, and one in a high-security psychiatric hospital, since the 2001 act was passed. They do not know most of the evidence against them because it is kept secret in the interests of national security. Ten of the men have appealed against their detention, arguing that the evidence against them may have been extracted from prisoners in Guantánamo Bay under torture. On Wednesday, the court of appeal rejected their appeals. In doing so, the court legitimated the use of information acquired as a result of torture - so long as it was committed by non-UK officials abroad in proceedings connected with detention under the 2001 act. This is certain to put Britain on a collision course with the international human rights community, as well as doing nothing to redeem the reputation of a country already tarnished by the brush of Guantánamo and Abu Ghraib. The case is almost certain to go to the House of Lords. The prohibition of torture as a matter of international law is well established. But what are the consequences of this? The court of appeal chooses to draw heavily on the classic notion of "dualism" in order to keep the potential effect of the UN convention at arm's length, stressing that international treaty obligations do not have any direct effect but must be transformed into domestic law first, such as through legislation. This is quite true, but it is also true that those parts of international law which are considered to be principles of "customary international law" can have an immediate impact. The court declined to hear arguments on whether the prohibition on the use of information acquired through torture had acquired this status and it is likely that this issue will figure more prominently in future proceedings. Be that as it may, there were plenty of routes through which the court might have been able to conclude that the use of such evidence was impermissible. Indeed, Lord Justice Neuberger, one of the appeal court judges, did reach such a conclusion, believing that it would be incompatible with the right to a fair trial provided for in article six of the European convention of human rights and which by virtue of the 1998 Human Rights Act is certainly within the realm of domestic law. However, Lord Justice Laws, another of the judges, disagreed that there was any such incompatibility. He did consider whether it was an "abuse of process" to draw on information acquired through torture. He decided that it was not. Basing himself upon the moral high ground provided by the constitutional principle of the rule of law, he accepted that this "rules out reliance by the secretary of state, before the special immigration appeal commission or any other tribunal in this jurisdiction, upon any statement obtained by torture which the state has procured or connived at". However, he was "quite unable to see that any such principle prohibits the secretary of state from relying ... on evidence coming into his hands which has _ been obtained through torture by agencies of other states ... If he has neither procured the torture nor connived at it, he has not offended the constitutional principle". One suspects - and hopes - that the House of Lords will not be so myopic. The problem is simple. Torture is impermissible under international law, and any state official - of any country, and anywhere - who commits such an act is committing a criminal offence and is subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of other countries as well as those of the country in which the act occurred. Can it really be the case that the exigencies of the "war against terror" mean that the rule of law is well served by allowing any such material that happens to come the secretary of state's way to be used in this fashion? Is it not bizarre to take the view that use of information resulting from torture committed by a British public servant violates the rule of law, whereas the use of information received under torture by public servants of another state does not? It certainly violates the rule of international law. If it matters that the material is the product of torture, the nationality or employer of the torturer is irrelevant. Does the nationality of the torture victim matter, too? It is quite true that there was a certain lack of clarity regarding the scope of the international norm prohibiting the use of evidence obtained through torture. This judgment has magnified those uncertainties. It signalled a "blind eye" approach to its use and flies in the face of the many developments that have served to clamp down on the use of torture even in times of national emergency. The best that can be said is that the scope of the judgment is limited. But the signals it sends are depressing and it is to be hoped that this decision will not stand long. Torture is torture, and it really does not matter who does it or where it is done. If the courts do not believe that it is an abuse of process to use evidence acquired by such means, then one might hope that the government would solve the problem by incorporating article 15 of the UN convention into our law as a matter of urgency. But that seems rather unlikely in the near future. · Malcolm Evans is professor of public international law, at the University of Bristol and co-author of Combating Torture in Europe m.d.evans@bristol.ac.uk