A young offenders' institution where an Asian teenager was bludgeoned to death by his racist cellmate should be privatised after failing to show improvement, the chief inspector of prisons said today. Sir David Ramsbotham, who is to retire at the end of this month, said the activities of the Prison Officers' Association (POA) at Feltham young offenders' institution were "absolutely intolerable". He said he believes the trade union has prevented any chance of real change at the unit where 19-year-old Zahid Mubarek died in March last year, just hours before he was due to be released. Sir David is due to publish a damning inspection report on Feltham next week in which he will criticise filthy conditions and inadequate facilities at the west London institution. The unit known as Feltham B, which is still run by the prison service, "needs to be offered to the private sector," said Sir David. "The attitude of the POA in Feltham is perfectly appalling. "It's a bastion of all that is unsatisfactory about the POA attitude." The way the POA regards itself as an "alternative management" at the unit was "absolutely intolerable," he added. "Their attitude to change, has put Feltham back light years and held it back. They seem to pride themselves on that. "I'm amazed that after all the money and ministerial-led surveys and action plans there is no strategic plan for the development of Feltham. It's all hand-to-mouth." Sir David concluded: "If Feltham is not delivering the goods, we will get rid of this lot of people [the POA] who don't appear to be prepared to do it, and bring in a private sector company who will." Director general of the prison service Martin Narey appeared committed to bringing about change in young offenders' institutions, said Sir David, who was speaking as he launched his final annual report in London. At a separate event today, prisons minister Beverley Hughes said there has been a "dramatic improvement" in institutions for young people that are now run by the youth justice board, rather than by the prison service. The board commissions companies to run Feltham Hay, which is on a neighbouring site to the unit criticised by Sir David today, and which deals with under-18s. Ms Hughes said there was now a move to rethink the way the penal sector deals with young adult offenders. "Ministers are now looking very actively over the next two months at our overall policy on 18 to 20-year-olds," she said. "We want to give that age group some priority." However, chairman of the youth justice board, Lord Warner said it was unlikely that privatisation of young offenders' institutions would work. He suggested there was now a case for them to be brought out of the prison service and put under the control of a new management board, possibly his own organisation. "We need to do something pretty quickly because things are so bad," he said. "It would be easier to expand the board's role than to set up a new body. "If the government wants us to take on some other role we will then do so, but we are not on some crusading mission to be given this role. "Given the state of the young offenders' institutions and the very high proportion of young men on very short sentences, I can't see the private sector rushing to take this on without huge premium. "I can't see what's in it for them, apart from a lot of pain and anguish." Mr Mubarek, from Walthamstow, east London, was beaten to death by cellmate Robert Stewart, 20, in March last year. Stewart, who was later jailed for life for the killing, was on remand for sending racially-motivated malicious letters and had expressed admiration for the killers of Stephen Lawrence. Management systems at Feltham had failed to assess the risk of placing the two men in the same cell, inquiries later found.