Ten men were yesterday convicted of involvement in a "sadistic" dog fight described by the RSPCA as one of the largest and most savage bouts it had ever come across.District Judge Kal Qureshi found five men guilty of attending the fight and five others guilty of the same offence and more serious charges, including causing animals to fight, at the end of a three-week trial at Birmingham magistrates court.He described the dog fight, which took place in February last year at the back of a kitchen interiors shop in the Alum Rock area of Birmingham, as "a sadistic event ... [that] involved inflicting unimaginable pain without any pity for the animals". The crowd at the fight - 26 spectators in all - was so big that the arresting officers had to flag down a double-decker bus to transport the men to the police station.The judge issued fines ranging between £750 and £1,400 to the five men found guilty of attending the fight. The other five defendants were remanded on bail for sentence in October, along with two other men who admitted several offences prior to the trial.Ummar Ahmed, 26, of Birmingham, Zahir Ahmed, 31, of Perry Barr, Barkat Hussain, 42, and Waqqas Mughal, 18, both of Smethwick, Zahoor Hussain, 40, and Intikab Hussain, 31, both of Ward End, and Sohail Hussain, 27, of Saltley, were told they could be jailed. Fourteen other men were fined between £500 and £1,300 early this month after pleading guilty to attending the fight.Despite its elaborate organisation, the bout was discovered by accident. Police were alerted after a member of the public, who was puzzled by the number of people going into the shop and the shouts and squeals coming out of it, called Crimestoppers.PC Paul Foster, the first officer on the scene, told the court of hearing yelping and howling followed by waves of cheering from inside. The noises persuaded him to call for back up.When he and 30 other officers smashed their way into the room they found a small carpeted arena ringed by kitchen cabinets and encircled by cameras set up to record the action. Close by was veterinary equipment, a treadmill and sponges to soak up the blood.They also found two dogs. One of the animals, a black pit bull terrier named Elvis, staggered weakly towards the police as they approached. The other, a badly mauled brindle pit bull called Bullet, was discovered in a cupboard. Both were treated by RSPCA vets, but their injuries proved too severe. Bullet died within hours while Elvis had to be destroyed two days later.PC Foster described the sight of the wounded animals as perhaps one of the most distressing things he had seen in his job. Worse, however, was to come when videos of the fight were examined. The films showed the bout had lasted almost two hours, during which time the dogs tore at each other until one had lost most of the fur on its face."The video was horrific," one RSPCA officer told the Guardian. "It was as graphic and gory as you would expect a dog fight to be. Anyone with any sympathy or empathy for animals would be sickened." He said it was probably the longest documented dog fight, adding that it was a sad measure of the dogs' strength that they had sustained such a ferocious fight for an hour and three quarters.Eight weeks after the discovery of the Alum Rock Road ring, the RSPCA's undercover Special Operations Unit (SOU) launched Operation Lace, a series of raids on dogfighters in and around Birmingham. The operation led to the seizure of 51 dogs - including 45 pitbulls - and the recovery of dog fighting videos from the US and Pakistan, as well as veterinary kits, treadmills and breaking sticks, which are used to prise apart the jaws of a dog when they become locked on an opponent. Fourteen people were charged with various offences related to dog fighting and possessing banned dogs.The RSPCA says the resurgence of dog fighting is a "nationwide problem" involving several hundred people. The society has also noted the emergence of a new kind of dog fighting."The old-style dog fighters of the 1970s and 1980s would train their dogs as you would a prizefighter, using treadmills and hanging tyres to prepare them for a fight," said Chief Inspector Mike Butcher of the SOU. "The fights would be in a regulation-sized pit with fixed rules and a referee, and would be stopped when one of the dogs had clearly won ... betting didn't really play a major part in these fights, it was more about the prestige."Today, the fights have become more commercial and even bloodier, with young men and their tough-looking dogs meeting each other in parks and "rolling" their animals. "The emphasis [now] appears to be more on betting and fighting the dogs to the death," said Mr Butcher.Although the RSPCA has prosecuted more than 150 people for dog fighting related offences since 2000, it is concerned about the rise and rise of a "sport" that was banned 172 years ago."Whichever way it's done, dog fighting is an abhorrent, cruel activity which is barbaric and sickening," said Mr Butcher.