A 22-year-old man is to be charged with the murder of schoolgirl Christina Edkins, who was stabbed to death on a bus in the West Midlands last week, police have said.Christina, 16, was on her way to school in Halesowen during the morning rush hour on Thursday when she was attacked. A postmortem examination showed she died from a single stab wound to the chest.Police said on Tuesday that Walsall man Phillip Simelane was to be charged with murder. He was arrested five hours after the attack but was subsequently moved to a secure unit for a mental health assessment.Christina's parents said they were relieved at the news and paid tribute to their daughter, describing her as a "bubbly, beautiful and intelligent" teenager."Our world has been torn apart by the loss of our beautiful princess," said Jason and Kathleen Edkins. "It's hard to describe the pain we're all feeling. Her family and friends will remember her as an amazing individual with her whole life ahead of her, a life that was tragically cut short on that Thursday morning. Our lives will never be the same again."They said Christina was studying hard for exams and looking forward to her school prom before she was killed. "We'd bought Christina's prom dress the week before and recall the day she tried it on; she looked like a princess. She was our princess," they said.The attack took place at around 7.30am on the top deck of a crowded double-decker bus as Christina was on her way to Leasowes high school.An emergency doctor and paramedics from West Midlands ambulance service tried to resuscitate Christina but she was pronounced dead at the scene.West Midlands police detective superintendent Rich Baker said: "This was a horrific, random attack and one that's understandably shocked many people. I'm pleased to announce we now have authority to charge the suspect with murder."I'd like to thanks Christina's family for their continued support and patience during our inquiry. Everyone wants to see justice for Christina and her family and from day one we've been determined to help deliver that justice for them."