Police representatives have demanded the home secretary, David Blunkett, reverse a new law which will see officers serving on juries for the first time.In a little-noticed provision of last year's Criminal Justice Act, police in England and Wales lost their long-standing exemption from jury service on April 5, along with judges, politicians, vicars, doctors and midwives. Ministers said the change would reduce the number of jurors who were found to be ineligible after being called up to serve and would make clear that jury service was the civic duty of all members of society. There have long been complaints that under the old system those in responsible positions found it too easy to avoid service, leading to an over-representation of the unemployed in jury boxes. Glen Smyth, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, yesterday said the presence of police officers on juries would be challenged by defence lawyers. "I'm sure police officers would make excellent jurors, but once this becomes widely known, I'm sure defence lawyers will want to know if jurors have connections with the police service and will object to them if they do," he said. "With their knowledge and experience, they will be very good at assessing the evidence in a way that defence lawyers may not appreciate. Also, police officers don't forget faces, and chances are that you could end up serving in a case where you know the defendant." His organisation only became aware of the change when an officer received a call to attend court last month and was unable to secure an exemption, he said. A spokesman for the Department for Constitutional Affairs said that under the old rules, only 200,000 of the 480,000 people called up for jury duty each year were eligible to serve. "We have significantly increased the number of people who can do jury service," he said. "Jury service is an extremely important civic duty. The changes that have come into effect send a clear message that serving the community as a juror is the responsibility of everyone." People will now be excused from jury duty only in "exceptional circumstances" and those unable to serve on the dates they are called will have their stint deferred to a more convenient time. Proposals to expand the list of those eligible were first raised in the Auld report on the criminal justice system in 2001 and all those involved had been given an opportunity to comment on the idea during the drafting and passage of the act, said the spokesman.