For a project designed to fight recidivism among some of the worst young offenders in the United States, it has a somewhat unexpected title. Project Pooch is not the sort of name destined to make concerned citizens sleep easier in their beds at night. Moreover, the theory behind Positive Opportunities, Obvious Change with Hounds does not, on the surface at least, inspire utmost confidence. Give juvenile murderers, rapists and armed robbers a badly behaved dog to look after and see if it improves their behaviour. But, a conference was told yesterday, the project at Oregon's MacLaren youth correctional facility has had a 100% success rate in cutting reoffending. In the period studied, between 1993 and 1999, around 100 young offenders aged between 18 and 24 cared for wayward dogs. So far, not one is back behind bars. "I'm really pleased with the success, but I'm not altogether surprised," said Joan Dalton, who runs Project Pooch. "These were kids who had never had any responsibility and we were taking them and saying, 'hey, this is something you're in charge of, something you're responsible for'." Project Pooch takes in dogs from local dog shelters that have behavioural problems, such as aggressiveness or excessive barking. They are then paired off with young offenders, most of whom have been convicted of serious crimes such as murder and sexual assault. The young offenders have to look after the dogs seven days a week, feed them, walk them, and take them through obedience training, until they can be given to families who are looking for a dog. "I think the project works because the kids see the effect the bad behaviour of the dog has on them and it allows them to see the effect their bad behaviour has on others," said Mrs Dalton. "You could really see the change in the kids, and that has obviously carried through when they left the correctional facility." At the 10th International Conference on Human-Animal Interactions in Glasgow, Mrs Dalton said she hoped the project would be extended to other correctional institutions across the US. "But funding is a big problem," she added. It is not, however, merely young offenders who benefit from having a dog - everyone does. According to research unveiled at the conference, pet owners visit their doctors between 15% and 20% less than people who do not own animals. In a study carried out among 11,000 people in Germany, 2,000 people in Australia and 1,000 people in China, researchers discovered that even after things like gender and income were taken into account, pet owners visited their doctors 8% less. "This is the first time a study has been done where people have been repeatedly interviewed and it has really been shown conclusively that pet owners have better health than non-pet owners," said Bruce Headey, from the University of Melbourne. "I don't think you can give any single reason why pet owners live longer, but I think companionship has a lot to do with it." For people intending to prolong their life by buying a goldfish, however, there is a note of caution: the study only shows conclusively that owning a cat or a dog helps cut visits to the doctor. But anyone taking the trouble to look after a dog who does fall seriously ill may find another benefit to pet ownership. A study in the US on people who suffered heart attacks, revealed that pet owners are up to four times more likely to survive than non-pet owners. Erika Friedman, from the University of Maryland, said that in her study dog owners had a surprisingly high survival rate compared with non-pet owners. "There are a number of studies which show that in a moderately stressful situation pets can lower your stress responses," she said. "We think this carries over into everyday life and, for dog owners, their pet can help them stay alive after a heart attack." But it is not just dogs that relieve stress. In a more anecdotal UK survey carried out on 500 cat owners aged over 55 by the charity Cats Protection, most cat owners said their pet helped them overcome stress and loneliness. Perhaps more worryingly, some 75% of cat owners questioned said they preferred cats to humans. Dennis Turner, president of the conference, said the research unveiled yesterday revealed the dependency between pet owners and their pets. "The human-animal bond has indeed come of age," he said. Animal magic· Forget spending money on unused vitamin supplements and energy on unwanted gym visits, the secret to better health is pet - or specifically cat and dog - ownership. The average pet owner visits their doctor 20% less than non-pet owners. · In the event of a cardiac arrest, it probably pays to call the pet shop shortly after the emergency services. Dog owners are four times more likely to stay alive following a heart attack than those who live a life without man's best friend. · In a survey destined to do nothing to reverse cliches about who owns cats, cat owners aged over 55 said their pets alleviate loneliness and make them feel less stressed. So enamoured by their feline friends are the cat owners that 75% prefer their company to humans.