Fortunately a debate on police methods and effectiveness seems to be emerging (Analysis, March 22), but let us have it in the context of a falling crime rate and a moratorium on any extra spending on law and order.Between 1992 and 2001 the number of crimes known to the police fell by one-fifth (allowing for the new counting rules) - a fact verified by the authoritative British Crime Survey. This represents a considerable reduction in the police caseload against a very small contraction in the number of police officers - resulting overall in an improved ratio of police officers to crimes needing to be tackled. The number of street robberies is a very small part of the total number of crimes - under 2%. A rise in their number, therefore, cannot conceivably represent overall increased pressure on the police, nor should it pose further demands on prison space, unless we start imprisoning people for snatching mobile phones.The number of crimes fell by over a million in this period, while the number of robberies has risen by 40,000. Yet as the huge graph of total crimes goes down and the tiny graph of street robbery goes up, all eyes are focused upon the tiny graph. How does this come about? It is no accident that David Blunkett, entering office as home secretary intent on tackling the need for increased police efficiency, prison reduction and prisoner rehabilitation, should be confronted almost immediately by senior police officers announcing a crisis in the criminal justice system - anywhere else but in the police service - and by the vociferous police lobby putting the worst possible spin on the rise in street crime. What should have been a public discussion of the urgency of reform in the context of a crime drop dividend has become a consensus about the need for more police officers in a frame dominated by the tabloids describing a Britain out of control. Street crime is, of course, in the case of robbery, a serious and despicable crime, but snatching mobile telephones is more a function of their ease of theft than a palpable change in the moral state of the nation. If there is a crisis, it is a crisis of policing with, on average, a mere 10 crimes cleared up per police officer per year, and falling. Let us hope that the chancellor holds the possible savings on criminal justice in mind - it would be a travesty if health or education were to suffer because of the hysteria about law and order.Prof Jock YoungCentre for Criminology, Middlesex Universityj.young@mdx.ac.uk · I see the home secretary and the Metropolitan police commissioner emerged from a Downing Street summit on street crime happier men (Blunkett and police in show of solidarity, March 21). I worked at Feltham young offenders institution for seven years as a probation officer, and despite the arrival of several governors and the efforts of various therapeutic agencies, the need to address offending behaviour has always been given a low priority. There have been some positive steps taken with the relatively new regime on Feltham A (16-17-year-olds), but on Feltham B, where older inmates are imprisoned, there has been a shocking neglect towards addressing the serious and damaging behaviour that these young men have perpetrated on the streets. There are offending behaviour programmes being administered in the community that should be introduced at Feltham without delay. I would also like to see inmates who refuse to cooperate on such a programme finish their entire sentence period in prison, so that the message on the street will be: unless you are prepared to address your behaviour, you will spend longer incarcerated.Peter StewartLondon