The blast effect from a fired bullet causes enormous pressure waves. When it enters the body, it isn't just the bullet burrowing a hole, but the blast wave creating a cavity that destroys the organs inside. It can damage your lungs and heart, tear blood vessels, disrupt the bowels, break bones. And the bullet can ricochet around inside doing further damage.The hour immediately after injury is crucial for both saving life and minimising disability. My job entails trying to treat victims of this kind of penetrating trauma as soon as possible. We aim to get to the scene and deliver the kind of care you would get in an intensive care unit but in this pre-hospital arena.Part of my responsibility as an A&E consultant is for our helicopter and fast-response cars that cover the London area. We deal with trauma: road traffic accidents, falls, gun- and knife-penetrative trauma.We do a shooting about once or twice a week - only life-threatening ones. When the 999 call comes in to the control room in Waterloo they will root out the really serious ones and call them back to confirm the details; there are a lot of hoaxes and minor stabbings and shootings that we won't attend. If the person is very ill, they'll send a helicopter to the scene. There is always a team standing by on the helipad, made up of a doctor trained in emergency medicine, anaesthesia and surgical skills, a paramedic on secondment from the ambulance service and the pilots. They will swing into action and aim to be airborne within three minutes and at the patient's side anywhere in London within 12 minutes of the 999 call.We wear body armour for all assault, stabbing and gunshot missions and we don't go in unless there is a police presence. We don't want to land in the heat of the incident. A scene that has been declared safe can often become unsafe again.Most days the team are exposed to events that other doctors might only see once every six months. It allows the team to become extremely proficient. They are not fazed by what could seem to many people bizarre or shocking circumstances. We know when we go to a shooting exactly what we're going to do. It doesn't come as a surprise.The first thing we do is establish how much damage has been done internally. With gunshot wounds there is frequently an operation that is required to stop the bleeding and if the patient can't breathe because of damaged lungs or cracked ribs we can put them on a life support machine. Once they're stable we evacuate them to the appropriate hospital with the right facilities.Occasionally the injuries are extremely severe and the heart may have stopped. In those situations we have to operate on them at the scene. We can open the chest and stitch the heart if it's been damaged and remove blood from the heart cavity that might be stopping it from beating. That is the extreme edge of what we can do. We tend to see most of this knife and gun activity at night when we are on fast response in our cars (the helicopter only flies during the day). These events are very threatening situations, when you feel real danger. A team was out last week - and this is not uncommon - in a crack house treating a gunshot victim when they were threatened. Someone had been shot and there were people there on drugs who thought the only way to look after their mate was to deliver the ultimatum: 'If you let him die, doc, you're going to die.'A lot of people arrive at the ED themselves. If they've been shot they don't want the police involved. They come in and take over the resuscitation room. Obviously a gang event has gone on and they are very tense. You can't confront these people - you know they're high or whatever - and they wouldn't think twice about popping you.We have seen a slow increase in gun crime. Where it might have once been a particular hard core using weapons, knives and guns are now being used in far less serious disputes. Especially knives: they've become almost a replacement for fists. It's not happening in alleys at night, but shopping centres and playgrounds in the day. It's taking on a different demeanour and that is the most worrying thing. People like to think that it's clandestine and drug-related. It isn't: it's the squabbles of kids in the street.· Dr Gareth Davies, 38, is a consultant in Accident and Emergency and Pre-Hospital Care, at the Royal London Hospital