Every woman who reports a rape will be interviewed by an officer trained in the psychological effects of the crime, under a policy introduced by the head of Britain's first dedicated rape intelligence unit at Scotland Yard.Det Chief Supt Caroline Bates, commander of the squad set up last year, said compulsory psychological training was crucial for the 400-strong team.The unit, which has also introduced counter-terrorism techniques such as surveillance and mobile telephone tapping to rape investigations, has had several successes since it began last September. It has tracked down and charged six serial sex offenders, two of which were previously unsolved cases, while a further two of London's most wanted violent sex offenders have also been charged."I train my staff to understand the psychological effects of rape," Bates said. "[Victims] might not come forward right away. They have flashbacks. Their first version of events may change. Sometimes they are embarrassed. They have to tell their most intimate details to strangers."She said the nature of the crime made some victims reluctant to admit certain details straight away. "You can get disclosures later, for instance they may say 'I had a bit to drink' or 'I had sex with my partner earlier in the day.' Our job is to search for the truth."Bates described as "outrageous" the mindset of officers who believed the word of John Worboys, the black-cab driver and serial sex attacker, above numerous victims who reported his attacks. She said a victim-centred approach should encourage more women to come forward and get more cases to court."Our officers will believe the victims, however unbelievable their story may be. Their job is to keep an open mind and not to make judgments. Unfortunately that was not done in the Worboys case."Bates is also part of a new group which includes staff from the CPS, courts and victim support, which aims to attack what she calls the "attrition rate" – the wearing down of victims when their cases are repeatedly delayed, which means that only half of all rape cases ever get to court. "We need to make sure, between all the agencies, we support victims, get the evidence and get it heard in court. If we do that we are likely to improve the conviction rate as well."The unit also works closely with the sex offender investigation squad. Having the unit linked directly to sapphire command has meant that they can understand what is happening across London.A survey this week for Havens, a service for victims run by the Met and the Department of Health, appeared to suggest that public attitudes towards rape are hardening. It found most women believe some rape victims should take responsibility if they got into bed with a man, while a third blamed victims for dressing provocatively.