With law and order at the top of the agenda in the Queen's speech yesterday, it is no surprise that antisocial behaviour also merited several mentions. It's a clear public priority on which the government wants to prove its tough credentials. Despite a raft of new powers being introduced in the last few years, the government is keen to add to the armoury of measures available to those on the frontline to tackle problems of nuisance, harassment, intimidation and general 'yobbishness'.But the latest promise of further action comes from not from the Home Office, but rather from the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Its proposed bill sets out the extension of powers for councils to use on-the-spot fines for litter, fly-tipping, abandoned vehicles, fly-posting and night-time noise nuisance. It is part of a wider drive towards increasing the powers of local authorities and police to take control of crime and antisocial behaviour in communities and neighbourhoods. There is a desire to promote local solutions to local problems even if the drive to act is asserted at national level.If prizes were awarded for quantity of interventions then the government would certainly be in line for some silverware. The new powers join antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos), acceptable behaviour contracts, parenting contracts and orders, injunctions, dispersal powers and designated public place orders already used by the police, local authorities and social housing providers.The new measures are accused by some of being draconian. Certainly, we must interrogate how the powers are implemented to ensure they are used justly and proportionately. This does not always happen; new powers, such as Asbos, are sometimes used inconsistently and inappropriately.It is crucial too that they are not used to fast track juvenile offenders towards custody - we need to reduce rather than increase the prison population. Ensuring the accountability of those using the new powers to the communities they serve is vital. New powers must be matched by a commitment to clear democratic mechanisms of accountability to ensure that they are used fairly.Antisocial behaviour is a social justice issue - inaction is not an option. Antisocial behaviour seriously impacts on the quality of life and the wellbeing of communities, and poor people suffer the most. Those who suffer from youth nuisance, from poor quality local environments and from intimidation and harassment from problem neighbours are most likely to live in 'hard-pressed' areas. For these communities, there is some hope in the government's determination to pursue a campaign against antisocial behaviour and evidence that progress is being made. Two thirds of Asbos have not been breached. Evaluations of pilot programmes applying fines for a range of low-level antisocial behaviours show that they can be an effective tool to administer a short, sharp shock to offenders and free up police and court time. Parenting classes have been received positively by most who attend them. Acceptable behaviour contracts have been used fairly widely as a means to broker voluntary contracts of pro-social behaviour with young people and their families.Tackling antisocial behaviour is tough. It means changing behaviour and not just getting better at punishment. The government's campaign to tackle antisocial behaviour puts emphasis on numbers. For local authorities and the police the message is more Asbos, fines, injunctions, dispersal orders and acceptable behaviour contracts - and less tolerance of antisocial behaviour. Tackling the causes of antisocial behaviour and working on prevention should be as high on the agenda. The message to local service providers must also be about more family support, youth activities, drug and alcohol treatment services, investment in child and adolescent mental health services and, most importantly, less poverty. · Laura Edwards is a senior research fellow at the Institute for Public Policy Research