Two 14-year-old boys who were arrested after a 15-year-old died following a school fight were released on police bail last night.David Thomas Sandham was involved in a lunch-time altercation at Broadoak high school in Partington, Greater Manchester, on Tuesday. He is thought to have experienced some kind of a fit afterwards, and fallen to the ground. Staff telephoned for an ambulance and administered first aid, but David had a heart attack on the way to Trafford general hospital, where he died shortly after 1pm. Detectives said no weapons had been used in the fight and a postmortem had not been able to provide a conclusive cause of death. The police have ordered the two boys, who were arrested on suspicion of murder, to live outside Partington. They have not been charged with any offence. The incident was witnessed by a group of between five and eight pupils. The first of up to 60 students who will be interviewed about the death were being questioned yesterday. David's mother, Anne Morton, 36, said he did not have a history of heart problems. He did have mild asthma, but had not needed his inhaler for 18 months. She said in a statement: "David was a very cheeky boy who loved to tease us. He had a large circle of friends and he always had about half a dozen friends coming and going through the house. "He absolutely adored his brothers and sister - especially his baby brother. He was always using his pocket money to buy them presents." David had four brothers aged between two and 16, and a 17-year-old sister. Ms Morton said David and his father were keen Manchester City fans, and he had collected football memorabilia. "His favourite thing in the world was his signed football shirt. He was a very sensitive child and didn't care about things like designer trainers or clothes with labels." She thanked the community for its support. David's fellow students were told of his death during a specially convened assembly by the headteacher, Graham Downes. All the children took home a letter from the head explaining to parents what had happened. In the latest Ofsted report, completed four years ago, the inspectors said attainment levels at the school were below the national average but above average for pupils with similar backgrounds. They said that Mr Downes provided "a very strong, dynamic leadership and a very clear sense of direction for the school."