Humberside and Cambridgeshire police, the two forces criticised in the wake of the Soham murders, were today named in an official report as being among the worst performing constabularies in the country.A study released today by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) criticised these and three other forces - Cleveland, Nottinghamshire and West Yorkshire - for their below-average standards."In comparison with their peers, they still have a long way to go," said chief inspector Sir Keith Povey. Inspectors examined the forces according to 23 areas of policing and, for the first time, awarded a ranking of excellent, good, fair or poor in 16 of those activities, including traffic policing, reducing crimes such as burglary and robbery and reassuring the public. Humberside and Cleveland forces had the highest number of poor ratings - six each. Lincolnshire and North Yorkshire police were also singled out for their below-average performance. The best forces in England and Wales were named as Kent, Lancashire, Northumbria, Staffordshire and Suffolk, with Merseyside and West Midlands also commended. Inability to handle a high volume of phone calls was identified as one of the biggest problems across England and Wales, along with tackling cross-border and region-wide crimes such as drug dealing. Regarding call handling, Sir Keith said: "A number of forces are struggling in dealing with that aspect of activity, both 999 calls and non-urgent calls. That is such a big issue, as the majority of people contact the police via the telephone and there's certainly some work to be done there. "The response on 999 calls tends to be better. My gut feeling is that the frustration of not being able to get through [on ordinary police phone numbers] leads to a rise in 999 calls." The report revealed that forces were not required to aim for excellent grades across the board. "HMIC does not expect forces to aim for top level performance in all areas," the report said. "Chief officers and their police authorities will apply strategic judgment to determine priorities and allocate resources to those functions and processes where they seek to deliver excellent performance." Humberside was given a poor rating in six areas, fair in six, good in three and excellent in just one. Cambridgeshire was ranked poor in four areas, fair in nine, good in two and excellent in only one. Sir Keith said no force's performance was bad enough to merit the home secretary using new powers to sack chief constables and send in Home Office officials to run operations. "There's no force at the present time being identified that would attract that sort of intervention. If there was no improvement or a massive deterioration over a period of months that might attract some sort of response," he said. None of the 43 forces was rated as poor in the leadership and direction category, although eight - Cambridgeshire, Cleveland, Humberside, Lincolnshire, North Wales, Northamptonshire, Nottinghamshire and West Yorkshire - were rated fair. Sir Keith said the findings had not been used to place all forces in a single league table reflecting their overall performance. Rather, "we put together a grid of the 16 areas of activity in the 43 forces to have a clear picture of which is doing very well and which have the furthest to travel," the chief inspector said. "It gives forces a clear focus on the areas that we believe they need to concentrate on. Trying to create a rank order from one to 43 is a fairly fruitless exercise. He said HMIC hoped to develop the new system so that in future it could produce a single overall rating for all forces, for example a grade from excellent to poor. The Home Office's police standards unit (PSU) produces so-called "spidergrams" comparing forces, and Sir Keith said there was a "strong correlation" between today's findings and the PSU's work. PSU results published last October singled out many of the same forces: Cambridgeshire was below average in five out of five categories, Nottinghamshire in four, Humberside in three and West Yorkshire and Cleveland in two. Jan Berry, chairman of the Police Federation, said: "Where fair criticism is levelled, we must examine why this is the case and ensure that any necessary action is taken so as to be able to provide the best possible service."We should remember that it is quality of service that counts and not just quantity. Policing isn't about pleasing the Home Office number-crunchers and bureaucrats."HMIC Force Inspection Reports